Road to sustainability 2019 Sustainability Report Content Materiality Report 3.1 CSV Strategy System 030 3.2 Stakeholder Engagement 031 3.3 Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis 032 Introduction 3.4 Material Topic #1. Producing Eco-friendly Vehicles 034 3.5 Material Topic #2. Customer and Product Safety 036 1.1 CEO Message 003 3.6 Material Topic #3. Social Value Creation 038 1.2 Company Overview 004 1.3 Management Philosophy 006 1.4 Vision & Values 007 Sustainability Performance OUR SYSTEM OUR VALUE 4.1 Corporate Governance 041 4.4 Customer 045 4.2 Ethical and Compliance 4.5 Environment 059 Management 043 4.6 Collaboration 068 4.3 Risk Management 044 4.7 People 078 4.8 Community 089 homepage facebook 2018 Highlights Appendices This report has been published as an interactive PDF, allowing readers to move quickly and easily to pages youtube 2.1 New Milestones 009 5.1 Business Performance 104 in the report, and including shortcuts to related web pages. 2.2 New Forms of Mobility 014 5.2 Facts & Figures 106 Reference Page instagram 2.3 New Values 023 5.3 GRI Index 118 5.4 Independent Assurance Statement 122 Related Link twitter 5.5 About This Report 125 Video Clip 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 003 CEO Message Dear Readers, I sincerely appreciate all your steadfast support for Hyundai Motor Company over the years. Hyundai Motor Company (Hyundai) was able to further solidify its position as a global automaker amid In promoting collaboration, we are building a partnership of trust with our suppliers with a long-term a difficult environment in 2018 due to the ardent support of stakeholders and dedication of employees. perspective, while facilitating the development of the automobile industry and creation of jobs by Concurrently, we are mapping out transformative strategies for a better future. supporting their efforts to strengthen capabilities. Our plan for 2019 is to increase our contributions to the Future Growth Fund that Hyundai Motor Group is implementing for our company-wide tier 1 to 3 Uncertainty in the global economy remained high. Electric vehicles, digitalization and mobility services are suppliers. By funding suppliers experiencing liquidity problems, we seek to help them stabilize their bringing a paradigm shift in the automobile industry, demanding the industry to challenge itself to ever business and invest in new technologies, thereby bolstering competitiveness of the future automobile higher standards. Internally, we are laying the foundation in emerging markets for sustainable growth as industry. we restore profitability in the U.S., China and other major markets while responding to external changes. As for our people, we are committed to establishing an innovative corporate culture and improving Despite the challenges and difficulties at home and abroad, the Genesis G70 and Hyundai Kona won the employee safety. We are promptly responding to the ever-changing industry environment by hiring 2019 North American Car, Utility and Truck of the Year (NACTOY) awards, further solidifying our global talent through year-round recruitment, and setting up a system where employees can expand their position as a maker of top-quality products. In addition, we ranked top position in J.D. Power’s 2018 US competencies through regular training. We are also building a culture that promotes creativity and Initial Quality Study (IQS), and our engine was recognized as WardsAuto’s ‘World’s 10 Best Engines’ list embraces change as a driver of growth. Moreover, we were able to achieve zero fatal accidents at all our for the second consecutive year. Hyundai was also chosen as the Manufacturer of the Year by BBC’s business sites for two consecutive years in 2018, as a result of our world-wide safety and health-related Top Gear in the UK, and the Most Innovative Brand by Auto Zeitung Auto-Trophy in Germany. Moreover, measures. we launched the 8th generation Sonata built with advanced digital technologies and a third-generation platform, confirming our pledge toward customer satisfaction and technical rigor to deliver customized Lastly, for our community, we are developing and operating programs for creating shared value (CSV) mobility experience as well as to improve convenience and safety. that leverage our expertise and skills. In addition to IONIQ Forest, Robocar Poli traffic safety campaign and other ongoing activities, we launched ‘Driving Plus’ program in 2019 designed to promote safe Hyundai is also fulfilling its social responsibilities as a global corporate citizen. In particular, we are driving without fear and other activities developed to create new social values. Furthermore, we are resolving social issues with a spirit of challenge that transcends conventional thinking in areas we define contributing to sustainable development of local communities across the globe by cooperating with as five sustainability values − customer, environment, collaboration, people, and community. Each value various stakeholders in many projects, such as the Hyundai Green Zone project and preservation of the reflects the interests of all our stakeholders. Petra World Heritage Site in Jordan. In enhancing customer value, we bolstered our product line-up for the SUV market by unveiling the large Even this very moment, we are making utmost efforts to ‘realize the dreams of humankind by creating a President & CEO, SUV Palisade, and released the new Sonata sporting an array of smart mobility devices. Each and every new future through ingenious thinking and continuously challenging new frontiers’ − our management Hyundai Motor Company new car we launch reflects our focus on innovation and embraces customer needs. We are also leading philosophy which all of us at Hyundai pursues. Thanks to your steadfast trust and interest in Hyundai, we Won Hee Lee innovation in the Industry 4.0 era through collaboration with various stakeholders by establishing Hyundai have been able to achieve unprecedented growth and improve the business foundation for becoming a CRADLE, an open innovation center, in Silicon Valley, Tel Aviv, Berlin and other global bases. global automaker. With deep gratitude, we will pursue sustainable value with unparalleled commitment, strengthen our fundamental competitiveness, and proactively respond to the changing world. With regard to the environment, we announced our plan to develop electrification models ‒ hybrid, electric, and fuel cell electric vehicles (FCEVs) ‒ as well as our objectives through 2025, with the goal of Thank you for driving Hyundai forward to create a future that is remarkable as our past. shifting into clean mobility. Specifically, we revealed our plan to make a large-scale investment by 2030 in FCEVs, an area where we have world-leading technological competitiveness. We will take the lead in realizing a hydrogen society as a first mover through collaboration with various industries. 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 004 Company Overview 2018 Best-selling Models (Unit: Vehicle sold globally) Smart mobility solution provider Since its establishment in 1967, Hyundai has been continually challenging itself to take on new possibilities as a lifetime partner that provides its customers with new experiences and values. As a global brand that represents Korea, we will develop innovative technology to take a quantum leap forward, thereby leading changes in the automotive industry. Elantra (Avante) Company Profile 702,497 Corporate Information Global Production and Sales in 2018 Number of Employees as of 2018 Tucson Company Name Hyundai Motor Company (Unit: Vehicle) (Unit: Person) 577,662 CEOs Mong Koo Chung, Total 123,921 Euisun Chung, Won Hee Lee, Eon Tae Ha 5 4 No. of 123,921 persons Employees Overseas Production Korea Overseas 3 Korea Type of Business Manufacturing business (Production and sales of automobiles) 2,887,519 4,635,356 1,747,837 54,166 69,755 Accent 362,315 2 Date of December 29, 1 Establishment 1967 (IPO) (June 28, 1974) Total Assets KRW 180,655.8 billion Korea 721,078 Sales Revenue KRW 96,812.6 billion Sonata Production 4,635,356 units Sales 1 North America 11,332 315,507 Credit Ratings Korea Ratings: AAA 4,589,199 2 Europe 9,745 NICE Investors Service: AAA Overseas 3 China 18,132 Korea Investors Service: AAA 3,868,121 Moody’s: Baa1 4 India 9,323 S&P: BBB+ 5 Others 5,634 Santa Fe * As of the end of 2018; Based on K-IFRS consolidated financial statements * As of the end of 2018 282,682 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 005 Europe 43 44 45 47 51 37 31 42 34 40 49 48 36 32 33 38 52 39 8 21 41 35 46 9 22 24 25 58 59 50 62 10 13 14 Global Network 60 57 53 North America, 1112 26 27 Hyundai operates production plants, technology research institutes, and design centers in 55 56 Central & 28 29 30 23 major markets overseas. We sell vehicles across the globe, with around 6,200 sales networks in South America 16 18 approximately 200 countries. 15 28 17 Asia & Pacific * As of May, 2019 54 20 Asia & Pacific Middle East & Africa 1 Namyang Technology Research Center / Namyang Design Center 28 Hyundai Motor CV Africa & Middle East Regional Headquarter Middle East & 2 Korea Central Research Institute 3 Environmental Technology Center 29 Hyundai Motor Africa & Middle East Headquarters 30 Africa & Middle East Quality Center Africa 4 Namyang Technology Research Center Proving Ground 61 5 Hyundai Motor Ulsan Plant 19 6 Hyundai Motor Asan Plant Europe North America, Central & South America 7 Hyundai Motor Jeonju Plant 8 Hyundai Motor Group China (HMGC) 31 Hyundai Motor Europe Headquarters (HME HQ) 50 Hyundai Motor North America Headquarters 9 Beijing Hyundai Motor Company (BHMC) 32 Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Czech (HMMC) (HMNA HQ) 10 Hyundai Motor Technology & Engineering Center 33 Hyundai Motor Czech (HMCZ) 51 Hyundai Auto Canada (HAC) (China) 34 Hyundai Motorsport GmbH (HMSG) 52 Hyundai America Technical Center Inc. (HATCI) 11 Sichuan Hyundai Motor Company (CHMC) 35 Hyundai Motor Company Italy (HMCI) 53 Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Alabama (HMMA) 12 Sichuan Hyundai Product Development 36 Hyundai Motor Deutschland GmbH (HMD) 54 CV Central & South America Regional Headquarters Research Center 37 Hyundai Motor United Kingdom, Ltd. (HMUK) 55 Hyundai Motor de Mexico (HMM) 2 4 13 Hyundai Motor Japan R&D Center Inc. (HMJ R&D) 38 Hyundai Motor France (HMF) 56 HYundai Prccision MEXico (HYMEX) 1 3 14 Hyundai Motor Japan (HMJ) 39 Hyundai Motor Europe Technical Center GmbH 57 Hyundai Translead (HT) 6 15 Hyundai Motor India Headquarters (HMI HQ) (HMETC) / Hyundai Europe Design Center (HEDC) 58 Hyundai America Technical Center Inc. 7 5 16 Hyundai Motor India Engineering Pvt. Ltd. (HMIE) 40 Hyundai Motor Poland (HMP) (HATCI California Proving Ground) 17 Hyundai Thanh cong Commercial Vehicle (HTCV) 41 Hyundai Motor Espana, S.L. (HMES) 59 Hyundai Motor America (HMA) 18 Hyundai Thanh cong Hyundai Motor Vietnam (HTMV) 42 Hyundai Motor Netherlands b.v (HMNL) 60 Hyundai Design Center America 19 Hyundai Motor Company Australia (HMCA) 43 Hyundai Motor Commonwealth Independent States 61 Hyundai Motor Central & South America 20 Hyundai Motor Asia Pacific Headquarters (HMCIS) Headquarters 21 Hyundai Top Selection Used Car Co 44 Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Russia (HMMR) 62 Hyundai Motor Company Washington Office 22 Beiding Zingxianmotor Safeguard Service 45 Hyundai Truck and Bus Rus (HTBR) 23 Hyundai Kia Motors Taiwan Office 46 Hyundai Assan Otomotiv Sanayi (HAOS) 24 Hyundai Motor Tooling Shandong CO., LTD 47 Hyundai Motor Russia & CIS Headquarters 25 Hyundai Motor Beijing Office (HMR&CIS HQ) 26 Hyundai Motor Shanghai Purchasing Office 48 Hyundai Motor Brussels Office 27 Genesis Motor China (GMC) 49 Europe Quality Center 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 006 Management Philosophy The spirit and values that have driven Hyundai Motor Group are defined by three key phrases: ‘unlimited sense of responsibility’, Management Philosophy, ‘realization of possibilities’, and ‘respect for humankind’. Based on these values, Hyundai established a management philosophy to Vision, and Core Values “realize the dreams of humankind by creating a new future through ingenious thinking and continuously challenging new frontiers”. Management Philosophy Realize the dreams of humankind by creating a new future through ingenious thinking and continuously challenging new frontiers 3 Key phrases of management • Pursuing sustainable growth with a sense of responsibility philosophy towards employees, suppliers, and their families • Pursuing the highest quality, to be responsible for the safety and Unlimited sense of responsibility Realization of possibilities Respect for humankind Unlimited sense of responsibility happiness of customers • DNA that strives for unlimited growth and advancement 1 Vision Lifetime partner in automobiles and beyond • Entrepreneurship that enables us to break out of our comfort zone and to take risks Partner for lifetime Partner for everyday life Partner for happiness Realization of possibilities • Creating real value by turning small possibilities into real Provide brands, Provide services at all Redefine automobiles 2 achievements products, and services stages of the ownership as a space for comfort that cater to our customer process to ensure the and pleasure, and pursue at all stages of best customer innovation in eco-friendly their lives experience and IT technologies • Improving living conditions by providing products and services of the highest quality to the greatest number of people • Being proactive in tackling environmental issues Core Values Respect for humankind • Contributing to the global community by sharing our success 3 Customer Challenge Collaboration People Globality 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 007 Vision & Values Lifetime partner in automobiles Core Values We have selected five core values to practice our management philosophy and realize our vision − customer, challenge, collaboration, people, and globality. These core values were created by identifying the unique characteristics embedded and beyond in the mindset of our employees that have contributed to our success, and then adding to that a set of values that will act as guidelines for the future for everyone at the company. Vision We have set our core vision to become a ‘Lifetime partner in automobiles and beyond’, in which we are The five core values will guide not only our business operations but also the redefining the concept of automobiles that was previously mainly focused on mobility. We are providing decision-making and daily work lives of our people. They will also help us develop a new space for a better life by creating the best in mobility through customer-centered, eco-friendly, a strong sense of community among our employees, and provide a basis for innovative technology and comprehensive services. sustainable growth. Customer Providing the • Service innovation across all customer best customer contact points We promote a customer-driven corporate culture by providing the best quality experience • Ensuring perfect quality and impeccable service with all of our efforts aimed at satisfying our customers. • Improving brand value • Developing human-centered technology Challenge for the future We refuse to be complacent, embrace every opportunity for greater challenge, and are confident in achieving our goals with unwavering passion and ingenuity. Finding • Launching localized strategic models, new growth and improving sales channels opportunities • Expanding and strengthening the materials Collaboration and parts industries • Developing eco-friendly cars, We create synergy through a sense of “togetherness” that is fostered by mutual green technology, and new materials communication and cooperation within the company and with our business partners. Optimizing • Realizing ‘smart scale’ People global operation • Creating synergy between overseas We believe that the future of our organization lies in the hearts and capabilities business sites of individual members and will help them develop their potential by creating a • Social contributions and globality corporate culture that respects talent. Globality We respect the diversity of cultures and customs, aspire to be the world’s best at what we do, and strive to become a respected global corporate citizen. 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 008 2018 Highlights Change is the ever-present normal and business boundaries are being dissolved. The auto industry can no longer remain in the business of manufacturing alone. In 2018, Hyundai transformed itself into a smart mobility solutions provider. We will provide innovative solutions for urban living and improve quality of life. At the same time, we renewed our commitment to creating shared value (CSV) for all of our stakeholders. 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 009 New Milestones GLOBAL GROWTH OUR RESPONSE Brands that are growing fastest We strive to become are those that intuitively understand a brand connecting people their customers and make brave with quality time. iconic moves that delight and deliver in new ways. Interbrand Increase brand power by winning global awards Improve competitiveness by achieving zero fatal accidents Build a strong growth momentum by launching new cars Hyundai Value CSV perspectives for the performance achieved as a global brand Social Value Offer high-quality products and services to customers Build a safe and pleasant work environment Increase customer convenience and ensure customer proximity 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 010 #COMPLETE Michelle and Don didn’t hesitate when blessed with the unique Don and Michelle Beauchene, having raised their six children, were preparing for PRODUCT LINE-UP a leisurely life of ‘empty nesters’. Their plan opportunity to welcome these completely changed when they met Lily, children into their family and unite a foster child at the daycare center where them under one loving roof. Michelle worked. Soon after adopting Lily, the couple also adopted her little sister, We hope their new Palisade takes them after Lily’s biological mother gave birth to and the kids on many new adventures and a baby named Lucy. One day the couple helps them forge some great and lasting Presenting a new standard for SUV line-ups family memories. saw Jamie on TV who looked very much like Lily. Shortly after, they learned Jamie was Lily’s older sister and that Lily had a Despite a global economic slowdown and fierce competition in the automobile market, brother, Jeremiah. The couple decided to the recent growth of the SUV market is impressive. As automobiles are being redefined Dean Evans bring all four siblings together under one as a space for out-of-home activities than as a means of transportation, demand for SUVs Chief Marketing Officer, Hyundai Motor America roof. To this blessed family with 10 kids, that caters to consumers’ needs is growing. of which four are new family members, Hyundai Motors America (HMA) offered the first Palisade to be on the US road. The Palisade, a large SUV launched in December 2018 as an ultimate family car, sports a sophisticated design and offers a comfortable indoor space and a wide range of convenience features and connectivity technologies. Thanks to its appealing design, outstanding product quality, and competitive pricing, around 18,000 units of the Palisade were sold in the first quarter of 2019 alone, igniting a craze for large SUVs in Korea. Hyundai also plans to launch the Venue, a compact SUV, and the GV80, a large luxury SUV, in the second half of 2019. By building a complete line-up of SUVs, ranging from the Venue and Kona to the Tucson, Santa Fe, and Palisade, we are securing a lasting growth driver and offering customers more new lifestyle options. 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 011 WORLD’S #BEST IN QUALITY Opening new possibilities for luxury brands “A Star is born!” MotorTrend, world renowned magazine specializing automobiles, announced its selection of the G70 as the ‘2019 MotorTrend Car of the Year’, and adding the headline of “Korea’s upstart luxury brand boldly takes center stage”. For the first time in the magazine’s 70-year history since 1949, a Korean car received the accolade. The Genesis brand also continued its stellar performance, ranking first in the premium brand category of the 2018 US Initial Quality Study (IQS) conducted by J.D. Power and Associates, for the second consecutive year, and rated first in US Consumer Reports’ 2018 Brand Report Card. Since its launch in November 2015, the Genesis earned the status as a global premium brand on the strengths of Hyundai’s world-renown quality and technological standards. In design as well as in product quality, the Genesis competes with more established premium brands, demonstrating its competitiveness. As a breed apart from the traditional, the Genesis is paving a new path for luxury brands. Being recognized as a quality leader Significant Awards Received in 2018* for the second year in a row Korean Customer Satisfaction Korean Standard-Quality 2018 J.D. Power Vehicle Green Fleet Awards by J.D. Power affirms our ambition to Index Excellence Index Dependability Study lead as a desirable and trusted brand. 1st place at passenger car and 1st place at semi-medium, medium, 3rd place from among non-premium Electric Vehicle Manufacturer of We will continue striving to create RV categories RV and after-sales service categories brands the Year exceptional vehicles, always focusing on delivering the best we can to our customers. BBC’s Top Gear Auto Zeitung Auto-Trophy 2018 Genesis Brand at Genesis Brand at the 2018 J.D. the 2018 J.D. Power Power Automotive Performance, Initial Quality Study Execution and Layout Studyc Manufacturer of the Year Most Innovative Brand 1st place from among premium brands 1st place Manfred Fitzgerald Executive Vice President and Global Head of the Genesis Brand * Including the Genesis brand 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 012 LEADING #GLOBAL BRAND Repositioning ourselves as a brand connecting people with quality time In the Industry 4.0 era, where change and innovation occurs daily, even a global brand loses its value if it fails to stay tuned the market. Against this backdrop, Hyundai has been improving its brand value since 2005, or when it became one of the top 100 ‘Best Global Brands’ of Interbrand, a global brand consulting company. In 2018, we were ranked among the top 40 brands, for the fourth consecutive year, and our brand value reached a record USD 13.5 billion. The outstanding performance is attributed to our focus on developing technologies that would drive innovation in the automotive industry, and our efforts to deliver a unique brand experience by transforming ourselves from a car manufacturer into mobility service solution provider and creating the Hyundai Pavilion for visitors to participate in a sensory experience during the 2018 PyeongChang Winter Olympics. Under the vision of ‘progress towards humanity’, we will grow into a brand connecting people with quality time and most loved by customers. Hyundai goes beyond productcentered customer experiences to offer our own distinctive customer values across the entire area of motility with the goal of becoming a more innovative and creative brand. The Hyundai Pavilion is a space for experiencing future society that will be brought about by future mobility. The pavilion’s concave exterior walls are finished with black paint to visualize hydrogen, an infinite energy source, as a ‘Universe’, while the interior consists of an exhibition hall that features a water drop as an embodiment of a new seed of future mobility. The Hyundai Pavilion was open to everyone during the 2018 PyeongChang Winter Olympics, and visitors experienced tomorrow’s possibility, toady. It is in line with the Olympic spirit of fair and equal competition, and the potential of unlimited and equal hydrogen energy. 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 013 ACHIEVING #ZERO ACCIDENTS Opening new horizons in safety culture Hyundai’s innovation and progress begin with safety in production sites. We focused on strengthening safety leadership, fatality prevention, and safety management in 2018, with the goal of achieving zero fatal accidents at all our business sites throughout the world. We sought to preempt fatal accidents by continuously enforcing the ‘Nine Golden Rules of Safety’ and by conducting special safety inspections on high-risk processing and construction projects; and bolstering our safety management key performance indicators (KPIs) by adopting stronger government policies and global standards. As a result of these efforts, in 2018 we succeeded in achieving zero fatal accidents at all of our business sites in Korea and abroad, for the second consecutive year. In particular, our three overseas subsidiaries ‒ Hyundai Assan Otomotive Sanayi (HAOS), Hyundai Motor Brazil (HMB), and Sichuan Hyundai Motor Company (CHMC) ‒ achieved zero industrial accidents. Safety has firmly taken root at all our global business sites as an integral component of Hyundai’s corporate culture and competitiveness. Turkey is home to production bases of several global auto makers, including Hyundai, and there is a fierce competition among them. To stay ahead in the competition, we have chosen “right” growth, rather than rapid growth, and put safety at the center of that growth strategy. As a result, we have set a valuable record of zero accidents at our work site for two consecutive years. We will continue to uphold safety as our foremost value and conduct more thorough and rigorous safety management to maintain our record. Samil Unlu Safety & Environment Team Manager, HAOS 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 014 New Forms of Mobility GLOBAL CHANGE OUR RESPONSE As the sharing economy proliferates, We will innovate urban living its impact on global mobility and and the way people live by technological advances will continue successfully transforming to grow. Today’s business environment ourselves into a smart mobility demands a fundamentally different solution provider. way of creating and capturing value. Secure future growth drivers Gain a competitive edge in the FCEV market and secure technological advantage Increase product safety and convenience Grow through open innovation-based collaboration Hyundai Value CSV perspectives for the efforts to lead the future mobility market Social Value Provide future mobility access and opportunity Reduce air pollutant emissions and realize a new energy society Improve mobility options for the mobility-impaired people and prevent traffic accidents Support innovative start-ups 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 015 #GREEN Driven by hydrogen energy Hydrogen-fueled future on the horizon Rapid developments driven by the pursuit of indiscriminate economic growth has led to problems of environmental destruction. Greenhouse gas emissions and industrial wastes are increasingly damaging the Earth’s ecosystems while climate change has become a global issue. In response to these vexing problems, Hyundai believes hydrogen, an infinite natural energy that can replace finite fossil fuels, can play a key role in building a sustainable future. Hydrogen is the ultimate ecofriendly energy that neither becomes depleted nor emits pollutants. In particular, fuel cell electric vehicles (FCEVs) do not omit exhaust but purify the air of fine dusts and other pollutants. FCEVs are akin to trees, which absorb carbon dioxide and produce oxygen, in that the more they are on the road, the cleaner the air becomes. The ‘FCEV Vision 2030’, which Hyundai Motor Group announced in December 2018, is Hyundai’s roadmap for leading a hydrogen-based society. Accordingly, the Group will invest around KRW 8 trillion in R&D and facility expansion for developing a hydrogen-based economy. Our mass-production system with an annual production capacity of 500,000 FCEVs in Korea by 2030 is expected to create over 50,000 new jobs. As we move towards a hydrogen-based society, it is estimated that the global hydrogen-related industries will create USD 2.5 trillion in market FCEV Production Plan of Hyundai Motor Group value per annum by 20501). In today’s world, vibrant with various forms of life existing in harmony, the responsibility 2020 2022 2025 2030 of mankind is far from small. In creating a world that runs on an energy source 11,000 vehicles 40,000 vehicles 130,000 vehicles 500,000 vehicles + clean and equal to all, realizing the FCEV Vision 2030 will open a new historic 200,000 units of fuel cell system chapter of a hydrogen society. Global FCEV market size by 2030: 1) Approximately 2 million vehicles Source: McKinsey & Company ‘Roadmap to the Hydrogen Economy’ 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 016 FCEV Development History 1998 2000 2005 2010 2013 2018 Created a fuel cell Developed Hyundai’s first Succeeded in localizing the Began development of a Launched the world’s first FCEV Unveiled the next-generation development organization FCEV model based on the fuel cell system, and introduced FCEV model for model for mass-production, FCEV, the Nexo, at the Santa Fe model a 384-km mileage model mass-production the Tucson ix Fuel Cell 2018 CES 2007 2017 Ranked No. 1 in the overall Exhibited the FE FCEV FCEV category at the Michelin concept car at the Geneva Challenge Bibendum International Motor Show First mover leading the FCEV market Against the odds, Hyundai succeeded in becoming a first mover in the FCEV market. We have We are leading the commercialization of FCEVs, while writing a new chapter in continued our R&D efforts in hydrogen fuel cell since 1998, and as a result, in 2013 started to the history of FCEVs. By taking the lead in building convenient and safe hydrogen produce the Tucson ix, the world’s first mass production. Furthermore, in 2018 we launched the stations, we are realizing the environmental and economic value of hydrogen energy. Nexo, a next-generation FCEV integrated with eco-friendly materials and advanced technologies. Built with cutting-edge technologies based on the new hydrogen fuel cell, Nexo became the first FCEV to receive the highest grade in the European New Car Assessment Programme (NCAP). A Global player collaborating to realize Nexo also took center stage in the global market as a safe, efficient and eco-friendly vehicle. Furthermore, Nexo’s fuel cell electric powertrain was chosen as one of ‘World’s 10 Best Engines a hydrogen-based society in 2019’ by WardsAuto, a US-based automobile media outlet, reinforcing Hyundai’s technical Hyundai is expanding the scope of its global cooperation to realize a hydrogenprowess as a first mover in the FCEV sector. based society. As a measure to secure a leadership position in the FCEV market, Hyundai Motor Group entered an agreement with Audi AG of the Volkswagen We are also taking the lead in building infrastructure for FCEVs. Hydrogen stations, compared Group in June 2018 to cross-license FCEV patents, share major parts, and increase with gas stations, are in considerable shortage in Korea. The government plans to expand the joint developments. In April 2019, we signed a contract with H2Energy AG, a number of hydrogen stations to 310 by 2022 and we are contributing to reaching the goal. In hydrogen energy company in Switzerland, to supply 1,600 fuel cell electric heavyaddition to the ‘H Stations’ built in two highway rest areas1) on April 12, 2019, we plan to add duty trucks to the European market for seven years starting 2019. In October 2018, two more stations in highway rest areas2) and build four stations in metropolitan areas3) by the we signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) Air Liquide, France based year-end, which will bring the total number to eight hydrogen stations. global gas company, and Engie, a multinational energy company, to increase the supply of FCEVs and hydrogen stations, and achieve our goal to export 5,000 In addition to the H Stations, which we have built with our own capital, we have made FCEVs to France by 2025. an equity investment in Hydrogen Energy Network (HyNet), a special purpose company created to expand the infrastructure of hydrogen stations. HyNet will build 100 stations by In addition, Hyundai has been serving as the co-chair of the Hydrogen Council, a 2022 and oversee the operations of those stations for 10 years. We believe HyNet can serve global advisory body that defines the long-term vision on hydrogen, since 2017. In as a competitive and efficient business model of building and operating hydrogen stations. January 2019, Executive Vice Chairman Euisun Chung of Hyundai Motor Group was 1) Anseong, Yeoju Service Areas 2) Anseong, Yeoju, Haman, Hanam Service Areas appointed as co-chair of the Hydrogen Council. We will continue to cooperate and 3) National Assembly Building and Gangdong-gu in Seoul, Sasang-gu in Busan, Namdong-gu in Incheon compete with global companies to lead the transition to clean energy. 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 017 #GREEN Powered by solar energy Promoting an era of solar-powered automobiles The automotive industry is facing stricter environmental regulations across the globe. Countries are raising standards on automobile emissions and fuel efficiency. In Korea, auto makers are required to meet greenhouse gas emissions and fuel efficiency standards of 97.0 g/km and 24.3 km/l, respectively, by 2020. Customers are also changing. Reflecting growing concerns over and interest in environmental issues, eco-friendliness has become a global priority and factors influencing customers’ purchasing decisions. Ethical consumerism is gaining traction, especially among millennials, who are more eco-conscious. Eco-friendly technologies therefore must 1 2 3 be secured to ensure sustainable growth of companies and society as a whole. To this end, Hyundai succeeded in developing a solar charging system in 2018, turning an environmental risk into sustainable growth opportunity. Solar charging system is a way of charging batteries by using solar panels installed on the roof of vehicles. Although not used as the vehicle’s main power, solar power is used in charging batteries of eco-friendly vehicles or used as an auxiliary source of energy for internal combustion engine vehicles (ICEVs). Hyundai will begin mass-production of a first-generation silicon-type solar roof for our eco-friendly models, to be followed by a second-generation semi-transparent solar roof for FIRST-GENERATION SECOND-GENERATION THIRD-GENERATION ICEVs, and a third-generation vehicle body-type lightweight solar-lid system. Solar roof systems will offer customers with benefits of another dimension, including not Silicon-type solar roof system Semi-transparent solar roof system Solar-lid system only higher fuel efficiency and lower fuel consumption, but also driver convenience Designed for eco-friendly vehicles Designed for ICEVs Designed for eco-friendly vehicles and customer desire to be eco-conscious. To be featured in the new Sonata Hybrid Under development with the goal of being Advanced research stage scheduled to debut in July 2019 the world’s first to be mass-produced 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 018 Composition of solar charging system and what to expect MPPT Maximum power point tracking Electron mobility Hole mobility Flow of electricity BATTERY CONTROLLER SOLAR PANEL Increasing the state of charge MPPT + Energy transformation Power generation (SOC) of a battery Effects of improving fuel efficiencies The first-generation solar roof system can charge the car battery up to 58% a day in summer and 30% in winter. The solar panel-equipped car therefore not only has a better gas mileage but also helps reduce Hyundai’s solar-powered production facility CO2 emissions. Hyundai’s solar roof is a new economic value creator and embodies an eco-conscious auto Hyundai produces environmentally friendly vehicles in an eco-friendly way. We Solar energy to make Sonata Hybrid sparkle culture. It is yet another innovation made possible by signed a multi-party memorandum of understanding (MOU) with Ulsan Metropolitan Hyundai’s advanced technology. City, Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power, and Hyundai Commercial in August 2018, to The first vehicle to have the first-generation solar roof installed will be the Sonata carry out a large-scale photovoltaic power generation project. The photovoltaic Hybrid, scheduled to be released in July 2019. Sporting a new design and featuring power generation system will be built on a site spanning about 264,463 m2, which most of Hyundai’s innovative eco-friendly technologies, the new Sonata Hybrid is includes the finished vehicle lot, at the Hyundai’s Ulsan Plant. The system will be built expected to deliver a fuel efficiency that is 10% higher than that of previous model. with minimal impact on the environment as the solar panels are to be placed on a Moreover, the solar panel installed on the vehicle’s roof will contribute to further Increasing SOC roof over the vehicle lot. Once the two-stage construction project of building a 27 improving the fuel efficiency of the vehicle. The new Sonata Hybrid can drive up to through solar panel MW level photovoltaic power generation system is completed in 2020, the facility 1,300 km in a year, powered by the electricity generated by the solar roof. The solar will have the capacity to produce 35 million kwh of clean energy a year, an amount roof system, an outcome of Hyundai’s own technology, has unique marketability. sufficient to power 10,000 households for a year. Subsequent to the roof-type SOC at the end of Improving on-road We will develop secondand third-generation solar roof systems based on the driving: 50% fuel efficiency photovoltaic power generation system built at the Asan Plant with annual production experience gained from mass-production of the first-generation solar roof system, of 11.5 million kWh of electricity, we are building an identical system at our Ulsan demonstrating our leadership as a first mover in the solar-powered vehicle sector. Plant, continuing our commitment in eco-friendly manufacturing. 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 019 Changing daily lives with connectivity technologies Technologies that connect our living space and means of transportation are reshaping our lifestyles. Of these technologies, ‘Home-to-car’, which enables to control the indoor environment of a vehicle from home, and ‘Car-to-home,’ which enables to control household devices from a vehicle, are the first features of connected car that offers limitless possibilities of connectivity. In 2018, Hyundai integrated Home-to-car technologies in the new Tuscan model. The technology allows users to start the vehicle and set the internal temperature from homes using an artificial intelligence speaker. In March 2019, we applied our first voice-enabled virtual assistant, Car-to-home technology to our new Sonata. Advances in technology that seamlessly connects vehicles and homes are helping us to live a safer and more convenient life. Creating the future with global ICT companies Boundaries between industry sectors continue to blur in the Industry 4.0 era. For smarter growth, Hyundai is finding solutions in connectivity and cooperation. To transform automobiles into real extensions of our homes, in particular, it is essential that auto makers team up with global ICT companies with cutting-edge information and communications technology. In 2002, we began providing hyper-connected services in partnership with renowned telecommunication companies in Korea, the U.S., China, and Canada; and in 2019, we launched a connected car service in Europe in partnership with Vodafone, Europe’s largest telecommunication company. Technologies created through collaboration with innovators in various industries will create and deliver new value that exceeds customer expectations. 2019 Sustainability Report #CONNECT 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 020 Hyundai’s future mobility roadmap CONNECTED MOBILITY A blueprint for a hyper-connected society Expand the scope of global connected car services and establish an open platform Hyundai envisions a future where people enjoy the freedom of mobility. In realizing future mobility, free of boundaries and limitations, we are developing people-centered technologies and formulating a realistic vision backed by execution strategies. At the 2019 CES, held in Las Vegas, U.S., we presented a blueprint for our transition to a smart mobility solutions provider. We plan to expend our resources in three key domains ‒ electric vehicles (EVs), connected cars, and open innovation ‒ to advance our vision for future mobility. In regards to connected cars, we presented ‘transcend connectivity’ concept that embodies our vision to enable customers to expand and connect their lives. We plan to have all of our models equipped with connectivity solutions and secure 10 million global subscribers for our connected car services by 2023. Also included in our global strategy to become a leader in connected cars, which will serve as a hub in a hyper-connected society, is to be the first global automobile company to develop an open platform OPEN INNOVATION Build a hub for open innovation and based on data generated from connected cars. In addition, we plan to provide new driving experiences ELECTRIC VEHICLE artificial intelligence innovation created through open innovation and collaboration. Our drive to secure innovative technologies to stay Provide EV-based personalized ahead of the curve in the Industry 4.0 era and provide better mobility for our customers will be backed mobility experiences with unparalleled rigor. Human-centered Smart City 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 021 Entering the world’s Leading the eco-friendly trend of largest sharing economy market urban life in Europe The sharing economy, where goods can be enjoyed without the The IONIQ Electric, which has a one-time charge range of 280 km, is a carburden of ownership, is changing the landscape of the automotive sharing model that can be seen all across the Netherlands. Hyundai has industry. In September 2018, Hyundai built a ‘mobility business belt’ been running an electric car-sharing service using the IONIQ Electric connecting the U.S., Europe, Asia and the Pacific, thereby establishing since 2017 in and around Amsterdam, a city known for its vibrant a foundation for advancing into the global car-sharing market. To sharing economy. We are also offering a secure a foothold in the world’s largest sharing economy market, we mobile rapid charging service, which have formed a partnership with Migo, and by working with the USprovides European customers greater based company specializing in Mobility as a Service (MaaS), we plan to freedom in mobility. Our offerings accumulate capabilities and technologies to lead the mobility market. and other services are allowing us to build a stronger brand image in the advanced European market. #SHARE Delivering distinctive value to consumers in Australia Hyundai entered the Australian sharing economy market in July 2018 by Leading the sharing economy ecosystem in Southeast Asia In 2018, Hyundai made a large-scale strategic investment in Grab, the investing in Car Next Door, a company that creates markets with its unique largest car-hailing service company in Southeast Asia. We estimate ideas. Going forward, we plan to develop car-sharing business using IoT great growth potential of Grab as well as of the Southeast Asian car technologies. Specifically, we will combine Car Next Door’s P2P-based sharing market. We began with a pilot service in January 2019, planning business models and a ‘Hyundai Auto Link’ application, which is currently to increase the number of Kona EVs on the streets of Singapore to 200 under development. The convergence will create a connected sharing by the end of the first half of 2019. We also plan to expand the environment where Hyundai customers service to other Southeast Asian countries and secure a can easily engage in car-sharing using competitive advantage by forging partnerships their smartphones, thus offering a with local service providers. distinctive customer experience. 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 022 Presenting unlimited possibilities for the future of mobility What does the future of mobility look like? In defining the future that we envision and to demonstrate new possibilities, Hyundai unveiled the Elevate Concept at the 2019 Consumer Electronics Show (CES). Equipped with the latest in robotics and electric vehicle (EV) technologies, the Elevate has four wheels #CHANGE mounted on robotic legs that can walk and move around. This futuristic vehicle was developed in collaboration between Hyundai CRADLE, our open innovation center in Silicon Valley, and SundbergFerar, a US-based design consulting firm. The four-legged Elevate will expand the concept of mobility beyond limits of conventional automobiles and open new horizons for future mobility. Hyundai Elevate Walking Car Concept Changing the landscape of future logistics through technology In August 2018, Hyundai succeeded in the autonomous driving of a large tractor truck on a major highway for the first time in Korea. Carrying a trailer full of auto parts produced by Hyundai GLOVIS for exports, a Hyundai Xcient travelled 40 km on the highway between Uiwang and Incheon. Equipped with Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) standard Level 31) autonomous driving system, the truck completely self-navigated highway traffic for an hour. A human driver was on board as a minimum safety measure. The benefits of autonomous driving are applicable not only to passenger cars. Self-driving trucks, in particular, can deliver cargo on time more often, thereby helping the logistics industry become more competitive, reducing large truck-related traffic accidents, and improving air pollution problems. In innovating traditional industries, Hyundai is, once again, taking the lead. Successful Autonomous Truck Highway Journey 1)  Level 3 of the six SAE-standard autonomous driving levels ‒ Conditional Automation which meant that the car, rather than the driver, takes over actively monitoring the environment when the system is engaged 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 023 New Values GLOBAL GROWTH OUR RESPONSE The Sustainable Development Goals Hyundai supports UN’s efforts (SDGs) are a universal call to action in building a sustainable future. to end poverty, protect the planet We are expanding our efforts to and ensure that all people enjoy positively impact communities peace and prosperity. around the world. United Nations Development Programme Enhance brand as a model corporate citizen Leverage capabilities as a global automaker Secure outstanding talents for future and expand potential customers Hyundai Value CSV perspectives for social contribution activates to pursue sustainable development Social Value Support healthy development of local communities Contribute to solving social problems and creating a sustainable business ecosystem Foster and support future talents 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 024 Innovation to #Change I am embracing social changes following the lift of the ban on female driving. With great anticipation, I look forward to various roles women will be Micro site for the #whatsnext campaign playing in our society. Link to UN SDGs For a safe start of female drivers in Saudi Arabia In 2018, we realigned our strategy for creating shared value (CSV) so that it would encompass both social traditional Abaya is caught in the car door. We also opened a digital showroom in the capital Riyadh contributions and business operations. Our three core values include innovation, communication and where customers can experience Hyundai brand with the help of digital technologies, and built a growth. Refining our CSV strategy underpins our commitment in solving social issues. Accordingly, we are female customer-only lounge at some dealers where female customers are greeted and served by committed to creating shared value that would bring a positive change in the local communities where designated sales staff. Also included are ‘Safety Day with Hyundai’, a traffic safety education program, we operate. We were able to partake in the milestone moment that allowed Saudi women to drive. and ‘Kona Color Drive’, an online design contest, to help female drivers improve their automobile knowledge and increase their interest in the Hyundai brand. Bayan Linjawi At 0:00 on June 24, 2018, the ban on female drivers were lifted in Saudi Arabia. In response to this Blogger and Influencer, Brand PR Ambassador of Hyundai Motor Company historic event, Hyundai launched ‘#whatsnext’, a hashtag campaign congratulating Saudi women Greater understanding of automobiles and safe driving by Saudi women empowers them to participate on gaining the freedom of mobility. With the formation of a ‘Saudi Female Customer Care T/F’, we in their society, which translates into customers who are better informed and experiencing our offerings. introduced new safety and convenience options such as a feature that alerts the driver when her Hyundai serves to be a reliable partner to the millions of Saudi women soon to be behind the wheel. Welcome to the driver’s seat 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 025 * The ZER01NE is designed based on the concept of ‘village’. Rather than an office full of cubicles, it is an ecosystem of creativity where creators and startups are drawn together like magnates and naturally create something of mutual interest. Website of ZER01NE Communication to Link to UN SDGs #Connect Playground for creators and start-ups to grow together We launched our Open Innovation project in January 2017, with the aim of working together with creative by collaboration results, took on the upcycling challenge at the ‘Creator Space’ to build something out of minds and resources outside the company. We also opened a string of global innovation bases: the over 10 thousand salvaged auto parts, showcasing their imagination and creativity. ‘Hyundai CRADLE ‒ Silicon Valley’ in the U.S. in November 2017, followed by the ‘ZER01NE’ and the ‘Hyundai Collaboration at the ZER01NE CRADLE ‒ Tel Aviv’ launched in Korea and Israel in March and October 2018, respectively. By doing so, we There are infinite words that can fill in the parenthesis in the ZER01NE Day slogan, ‘Create your ( ), You can are expanding Hyundai Motor Group’s global open innovation network, strengthening collaboration and be the creator!’. Anybody can fill in the slogan and become a creator by drawing on his or her experience takes place in various forms. joint investments with promising startups. Our open innovation initiatives are allowing us to secure future and capabilities. Connecting people’s ideas and discovering new possibilities in the process of realizing For example, we, a next-generation material specialist, are working together with pottery artists who are trying competitive advantage. the ideas ‒ this is the ecosystem of creativity and innovation that Hyundai Motor Company envisions. to find ways to upgrade material technology from traditional techniques. Thanks to the ZER01NE, we are The ZER01NE, Hyundai Motor Group’s open innovation base in Korea, is a space where three players ‒ now able to collaborate with experts in various fields and creators with novel ideas, startups with seeds of new technology for new business, and Hyundai Motor try new concepts that were unthinkable before. Group ‒ join forces and grow together through communication and collaboration. Creators and startups Hyung-il Choi from various fields at the ZER01NE collaborate with one another for new ideas and look for viable ways to CEO of M.O.P 1) grow together through joint project experimentations. ‘ZER01NE Day’, held in October, served as a venue to introduce creative projects and ZER01NE startups to the public. At the ‘Creator Studio,’ creators and the visitors freely exchange ideas about project outcomes. Some visitors, having learned of and inspired 1) ZER01NE DAY 2018 A startup developing materials for 3D printing 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 026 Website of Looking for Three-Leafed Clovers Link to UN SDGs Growth to #Share A journey of growth on its path to happiness Sudden auto accidents are not only mental and physical issues for people involved, but also a grief for In the past 14 years, we have met with a total of 1,600 their families. Happiness seems too far away even to conjure up for suffering family members of auto teenagers suffering from auto accident-related trauma. accident victims, especially teenagers who are young and may find it difficult to overcome their grief. Though we could not take away their pain, we were able to However, everybody can achieve happiness in their daily life. Dreaming of one’s own future is happiness grow together by identifying with their grief and serving as and this can sometimes help heal the pain. For this very reason, we designed a campaign to help a companion during trying times. Hyundai will continue to I was bad at expressing my feelings. One day when Hyun-hee was waving and walking teenagers from families of auto accident victims find happiness. stand by them so that dreamers soon enjoy the fruit of their Also, I had nobody to talk to. Knowing that towards me, I noticed how bright her face looked. I am in the same team with Ae-ri, I was able to I told myself that I made the right decision by taking toil and their stories can inspire others. We hope to help gradually share my inner conflicts and part in the Looking for Three-Leafed Clovers program. Hyundai has been carrying out ‘Looking for Three-Leafed Clovers’ program since 2005. Three leafed them as they write their own journey of self-discovery and concerns. I am glad that I am close to I would like us to continue to encourage each other clovers symbolize love and happiness. In 2018, we selected 80 teenagers who have family members of overcoming challenges. realizing my dream, but and achieve our dreams together. auto accident victims and matched them with 80 college student mentors. In matching mentors and what makes me happier is that Together, I believe mentees, we carefully considered the mentees’ future aspirations and subjects they planned pursue in I have met a good friend. we can overcome any difficulties. college. During the six month mentoring camp, which began in July, the mentors and mentees visited Hyundai worksites, took part in family events, and joined other activities, including career exploration Hyun-hee Kim, Mentee Ae-ri, Mentor aimed at helping mentees find a career path of their dream. 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 027 Link to UN SDGs 11 years of helping the world move forward through sharing “ Happy Move is referred as a lifetime international activity among college students.” “ One of Happy Move’s attractions is its value and the bond among its members. Especially, the bond continues even after we start our career.” ‘Happy Move Global Youth Volunteers’ is Korea’s largest youth volunteer group run by Hyundai Motor Group. For over 10 years, some 10,500 college students served in 113 regions in 22 countries1) as members of Happy Move. In Happy Move program, volunteers together have been involved in diverse activities related to construction, the environment, education and culture. Happy Move was updated to ‘Happy Move 2.0’ in 2018. To go beyond the limit of one-off basis overseas volunteer activities, we have made a list of villages in underdeveloped regions of developing countries, where our volunteers go repeatedly for over three years. Moreover, Happy Move villages can receive support from Hyundai Motor Group’s subsidiaries operating in the respective regions during the period in which no volunteers are dispatched. Happy Move volunteers help local residents become self-reliant. Happy Move adopts a holistic approach to self-development where volunteers attend workshops together with local college students and share ideas on ways to address issues the village and society face. In 2018, Happy Move’s 21st group of student volunteers proposed to build a mural in a village in Uzbekistan as a way to regenerate a village where many ethnic Korean resided. The proposal was passed onto the 22nd group of Happy Move student volunteers. The 21st and 22nd groups shared ideas, knowhow, and voices of local people in creating the mural that symbolized friendship and engagement between the two countries. We all look forward to future activities of the Happy Move Global Youth Volunteers, who are the emerging leaders of the world. 1) As of February 2019 Happy Move Global Youth Volunteers is a gathering of warm-hearted emerging leaders. The campaign attracts people with similar mindset and values as emphasis is placed on sincerity toward sharing and the spirit of volunteering in t he selection process. A strong sense of fellowship among team Website of Happy Move Global Youth Volunteers members creates a link, which, in turn, extends a positive influence throughout our society. Sometimes, this sense of fellowship develops into love and results in a marriage, just like what happened to us. Yoo-jeong Kim (10th Group) and Seung-hyun Lee (11th group) 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 028 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th China, India, Turkey, Thailand, Czech Republic, Slovakia, China, India Brazil, China, India China, India, Brazil China, Philippines, Egypt, Ethiopia, Thailand, Brazil, Laos, Indonesia, Brazil, Vietnam, Tanzania, China, Hungary Turkey, India, China India, Brazil India, China India, China India, Brazil And #Green We empower them to be self-reliant. We restore their true colors. A small yet enduring change made possible by 11 years of dedication. Greener tomorrow is made possible for we are together. 10th 11th 12th 13th 14th 16th Ghana, Malawi, India, China Malaysia, India, Indonesia, China India, Indonesia, Philippines, China Philippines, Laos, China, India Cambodia, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, China, Vietnam, India India, China 10 years of effort to combat the desertification in Inner Mongolia, 17th 18th 19th 20th 21st 22nd China (Hyundai Green Zone) Indonesia, India, China Laos, Vietnam, India, China Sri Lanka, India, Cambodia, China, Vietnam, India, Indonesia China, India, Uzbekistan China, India, Uzbekistan, Vietnam Myanmar 2019 Sustainability Report * The 15th Group of Happy Move Global Youth Volunteers was cancelled due to safety issues caused by the 2015 Middle East Respiratory Syndrome outbreak in South Korea 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 029 Materiality Report In addition to moving forward to generate economic value, Hyundai is mindful of the future of our society, and thus strives to create social values together with our stakeholders. We will create more value by leveraging technologies and assets we have accumulated over the years in partnership with stakeholders. 2019 Sustainability Report 030 1. INTRODUCTION CSV Strategy System 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS CREATING SHARED VALUE In accordance with the strategy for creating shared value (CSV) that 3. Hyundai established in 2018, we seek to achieve our CSV mission of Vision Lifetime partner in MATERIALITY REPORT ‘scaling social impact and building a sustainable business ecosystem automobiles and beyond by creating shared value.’ Our CSV includes not only social contribution 3.1 CSV Strategy System but also new value creation through combination of business and 3.2 Stakeholder Engagement strategic CSR activities with an aim of fulfilling our corporate social Mission 3.3 Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis responsibilities and beyond. Scaling social impact and building 3.4 Material Topic #1. Producing Eco-friendly Vehicles a sustainable business ecosystem by creating shared value 3.5 Material Topic #2. CSV Strategy System Customer and Product Safety 3.6 Material Topic #3. As public interests have been increasing in sustainability, so are calls Value Social Value Creation for corporations to play a greater role in creating sustainable social Innovation Communication Growth developments. This societal demand has prompted rating agencies to consider non-financial factors, including environment, social, and 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE governance (ESG), in the process of credit evaluations. Therefore, it has become imperative for companies to not only develop sustainable 5. APPENDICES competitiveness in their operations, but to establish a respectable Develop ideas on value Take actions based on Build a future society where base from which to promote social values. creation through a creative communication and collaboration we and communities and innovative approach with stakeholders grow together in harmony Hyundai carries out business operations based on our CSV strategy, through which we generate social values and make a positive impact Strategy on society. To this end, we continue to build a sustainable business ecosystem with a particular focus on five areas ‒ eco-friendly, mobility Create social value Contribute to solve social Support community innovation, traffic safety, future generation, and community. thorough business model problems by using business development based on and innovation capabilities social responsibility Area Eco-friendly Mobility innovation Traffic safety Future generation Community 2019 Sustainability Report 031 1. INTRODUCTION Stakeholder Engagement 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Stakeholder Communication Hyundai places the highest priority on stakeholder trust and strives to strengthen communication across all areas of its business activities. We have categorized stakeholders into six major groups − customers and dealers, 3. employees, government, shareholders and investors, suppliers, and local communities − and continue to identify and reflect their requirements, with the goal of building relationships based on trust. To this end, we have MATERIALITY REPORT created this report to focus on major sustainability issues that our stakeholders are interested in. This report reflects material topics identified through the materiality analysis, and provides a detailed, transparent information on our sustainability performance which we have achieved based on our CSV strategy system and five major sustainability values. 3.1 CSV Strategy System 3.2 Stakeholder Engagement Customers and Dealers Employees Suppliers Local Communities Government Shareholders and Investors 3.3 Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis 3.4 Material Topic #1. Producing Eco-friendly Vehicles 3.5 Material Topic #2. Customer and Product Safety Dealers deliver Hyundai’s products Employees handle product development, Suppliers provide parts or materials Local communities refer to residents in The government enacts laws and regulations Shareholders and investors provide 3.6 Material Topic #3. and services to customers, while customers production, sales as well as all to Hyundai, enabling the company areas located close to our business sites as that are related to the automobile industry or finance and capital to the company, Social Value Creation decide on making a purchase based activities that support the above. to produce quality products. Their quality well as all global citizens who are influenced decides on regulation levels on corporations’ so that Hyundai can maintain growth on delivered product and Their competencies mean the competitiveness directly impacts by the company’s activities. Hyundai business operation, so that it can influence engines while implementing diverse service information. company’s competencies. Hyundai’s quality. strives for their sustainable development. Hyundai’s business activities. strategies or running its business. 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Communication channels by key stakeholder groups • Motor show and new car launching ceremony • Labor-Management Council • Win-win growth and fair trade agreement • Social contribution programs • Public hearings • Annual general meeting • Test driving • Employee satisfaction surveys • Seminar and training for suppliers • Communication with local communities • Policy-making discussions and • Company briefing 5. APPENDICES • Before Service • Meetings and events • Energy-Saving Technology Exchange nearby the company’s business sites briefings • IR meetings • Customer satisfaction survey • Grievance handling system Meeting • Recruitment • Corporate Governance & • Car club • Occupational Safety and Health • R&D Tech-Day • Family inviting events Communication Committee • On-line (Social media) Committee • R&D Symposium • Website • Website • Work-related education and training • R&D Motor Show • My Car Story 2.0 • Foundation of Korea Automotive Parts • Sports sponsorship Industry Promotion • Dealer seminars • Procurement portal • Dealer conventions • Dealer events • Agent conventions Issues of interest by key stakeholder groups • Producing eco-friendly vehicles • Developing human resources • Win-win growth • Job creation and retention • Anti-corruption and ethical management • Corporate governance • Improving fuel efficiency • Protecting human rights in the workplace • Value chain sustainability • Social contributions • Establishment of infrastructure • Financial performance • Customer and product safety • Employee compensation • Raw and subsidiary materials • Reducing waste water and wastes • Reducing air pollution • Strategy for sustainable growth • Customer communication • Labor-management relations management • Water resource management • Technological innovation • Production quality management • Health and safety in the workplace • Protecting biodiversity • Risk management • Brand reputation • Greenhouse gas and energy management • Managing hazardous substances • Minimizing hazardous substances in products in the workplace Our Value Our System Customer People Collaboration Community Compliance Corporate governance Environment Ethical management Risk management 2019 Sustainability Report 032 1. INTRODUCTION Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Materiality Analysis Process Forming a pool of topics Hyundai developed report themes and content in accordance with STEP We analyzed sustainability management trends by analyzing global economic, social, and environmental issues as well as international 3. the principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which is a global 01 standards, and benchmarked sustainability reports in the same industry. We also carried out media research and internal status reviews to form a pool of 31 material sustainability topics that influence our stakeholders. MATERIALITY REPORT sustainability report guideline, and then carried out a materiality analysis, consisting of four steps, in order to identify material topics. 3.1 CSV Strategy System We formed a pool of material sustainability topics and identified their Determining the priority of issues 3.2 Stakeholder Engagement priority. Lastly, we selected the topics that were identified as material STEP We analyzed documented materials and quantified the results of analysis for each category, in order to determine the priority of the issues in 02 3.3 Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis topics as important report themes and provided a detailed information, the major sustainability management issue pool. Based on importance deduced from our analysis, we chose priority issues in consideration thereby responding to matters that our stakeholders are interested in. of degree of relevance with Hyundai’s business operations and degree of influence on stakeholders’ decision-making. 3.4 Material Topic #1. Producing Eco-friendly Vehicles Analysis of business relevance 3.5 Material Topic #2. Customer and Product Safety Internal status analysis Benchmarking of other companies Analysis of reports by in the same industry external experts 3.6 Material Topic #3. Analyze publicly disclosed materials, Social Value Creation including CSV strategy, newsletters, and the Analyze recent reporting issues of other companies Analyze securities firms’ analyst reports Corporate Governance & Communication Committee that are competing in the global finished car industry and columns by experts Analysis of social impacts 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Analysis of international standards Media research Past reports Analyze major sustainability initiatives in Korea Analyze 7,655 articles of major media outlets Analyze reported issues and content of reports that 5. APPENDICES and overseas, including GRI, DJSI, SASB, in Korea that were published in 2018 were published in the last five years and UN SDGs, as well as ESG evaluation Stakeholder survey for material topics STEP We conducted surveys to our employees and sustainability management experts outside the company on the pool of material sustainability 03 topics to identify the level of importance. For each topic, we asked respondents to assess how those topics could impact our efforts in generating financial value, or specially, in four major aspects – strategy, revenue, cost and risk. By doing so, we sought to ascertain the priority topics from the perspective of stakeholders. Overview of stakeholder survey • Period: Feb. 21, 2019 Feb. 28, 2019 • Details: Select material topics related to Hyundai’s sustainability management • Method: Online survey Determine the priority of the material topics • Target: Hyundai employees, sustainability experts Evaluate the impact of the material topics by strategy, revenue, outside the company cost, and risk Materiality analysis results STEP In relation to the topics that were identified through the materiality analysis, major activities and outcomes are reported in detail throughout 04 this report. For the three issues that were chosen as material topics, we have adopted them as key report themes and provided in-depth information, including the background of the issues, degree of stakeholder impact, and key outcome and goals, thereby disclosing our efforts and activities in sustainability management. 2019 Sustainability Report 033 1. INTRODUCTION Materiality Analysis Results 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Materiality Analysis Results Social impacts Producing eco-friendly vehicles Customer communication Reducing air pollution Water resources 3. Material Issues Customer and product safety Technological innovation Energy management management Entering the global market MATERIALITY REPORT Social value creation Win-win growth Protecting human rights in the workplace Employee compensation Developing human resources 3.1 CSV Strategy System Raw and subsidiary materials Risk management Improving fuel efficiency management 3.2 Stakeholder Engagement Protecting biodiversity Corporate governance Establishment of 3.3 Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis Managing hazardous Reducing waste water and infrastructure 3.4 Material Topic #1. substances in the wastes Labor-management relations workplace Producing Eco-friendly Vehicles Production quality Value chain sustainability Minimizing hazardous 3.5 Material Topic #2. management substances in products Customer and Product Safety Brand reputation Job creation and retention 3.6 Material Topic #3. Financial performance Social Value Creation Relevant Issues Health and safety in the workplace Reducing greenhouse gas Anti-corruption and 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE ethical management 5. APPENDICES Emerging Issues Business relevance Selection of material topics NO Material Issues Material Topics GRI Topics UN SDGs1) Page Material Topic #1. Goal 7 Goal 13 1 Producing Eco-friendly Vehicles Emissions (GRI 305) P. 34-35 Producing Eco-friendly Vehicles Target 7.1 Target 13.1 Material Topic #2. Goal 3 Goal 11 2 Customer and Product Safety Customer health and safety (GRI 416) P. 36-37 Customer and Product Safety Target 3.6 Target 11.2 Material Topic #3. Goal 8 Goal 17 3 Social Value Creation Indirect economic impacts (GRI 203) P. 38-39 Social Value Creation Target 8.3 Target 17.17 1) The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) consist of global agenda items that aim to mitigate wide-ranging risk factors that pose threats to sustainable development during the period between 2016 and 2030. The SDGs present 17 goals and 169 targets that all nations in the world are required to reach through joint endeavors. 2019 Sustainability Report 034 1. INTRODUCTION Material Topic #1. Producing Eco-friendly Vehicles 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS We are leading the Topic Navigator Stakeholder’s Impact Assessment Link to UN SDGs way towards clean Strategy Goal 7. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable 3. and modern energy for all MATERIALITY REPORT mobility through our 7.1 By 2030, ensure universal access to affordable, reliable and modern energy services 3.1 CSV Strategy System 3.2 Stakeholder Engagement commitment to sustaining Risk Profit Goal 13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts 3.3 Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis environmental values. 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in 3.4 Material Topic #1. all countries Producing Eco-friendly Vehicles 3.5 Material Topic #2. Cost Customer and Product Safety 3.6 Material Topic #3. Social Value Creation TOPIC BACKGROUND 2018 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE With concerns growing worldwide regarding the future of the environment, both global regulations and Surpassed 1 million units in cumulative The Kona EV and the Nexo fuel cell The Kona EV recorded the stakeholder voices are becoming more assertive in relation to the impact of the automotive industry on the global sales of eco-friendly vehicles system were chosen as one of longest mileage of 417 kilometers (Jul. 2009.7 Dec. 2018) World’s 10 Best Engines by during an EV evaluation by environment. In particular, as the international community calls for accelerated efforts to resolve the climate WardsAuto the British WHAT CAR? 5. APPENDICES change issue, the automotive industry ‒ a major user of finite energy sources − is recognizing the need to (Dec. 2018) (Oct. 2018) reduce its energy usage and transition towards energy sources of the future. Eco-friendliness is now increasingly seen as an area of technological competitiveness for vehicles and the global automotive industry is engaged in fierce competition to lead the market for electric vehicles (EVs). Global brands are therefore announcing strategies in this area, and making major investments into new businesses. As a result, global demand for eco-friendly cars is estimated to grow to 20 million units by 2025. OUR APPROACH Hyundai Motor Company is aiming to strike the right balance between economic growth and eco-friendly OUR COMMITMENT values. Hyundai Motor Group also has set the goal of having at least 44 eco-friendly vehicle models by 2025, and annual sales of 1.67 million eco-friendly vehicles by 2025. In particular, we aim to lead the global Areas Goals Target date market for electric vehicles by developing a complete range of electrification models, including HEVs, EVs, Developing • More than 44 eco-friendly vehicle models of and FCEVs. We plan to invest around KRW 8 trillion by 2030 into hydrogen fuel cell technology. We are also eco-friendly Hyundai Motor Group by 2025 By 2025 improving our technological competitiveness in FCEVs, and working to make them more popular. We enjoyed vehicles • Hyunda i Motor Group’s annual sales of 1.67 million units a number of significant achievements in 2018, including expanding our line-up of eco-friendly vehicles, using next-generation systems, surpassing 1 million units in cumulative global sales of eco-friendly vehicles, and the success of the Kona EV in achieving the longest range of its class. We are thus moving closer to realizing a Developing • Annual production of 500,000 units of FCEVs and By 2030 truly sustainable and eco-friendly society. FCEVs 700,000 units of the hydrogen fuel cell system by 2030 2019 Sustainability Report 035 Hyundai’s Eco-friendly Vehicle Development and Mass-production 1. INTRODUCTION Hyundai has long been a first mover in eco-friendly vehicles, having begun R&D in 1997, and then beginning mass-production in 2009. Cumulative global sales of eco-friendly vehicles reached 1 million units in 2018. The use of next-generation systems and technological innovations which improved performance have encouraged more customers to drive eco-friendly vehicles. We will continue to lead the market in creating the environmental 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS values that customers and society now require by unveiling eco-friendly vehicles that offer technologies of the future. 3. • 2011: Developed an exclusive HEV system (TMED system) • Developed a semi-midsize model dedicated to eco-friendly vehicles in 2016 • Expand eco-friendly vehicle line-up • 2013: Became the world’s first to mass-produce an FCEV (Tucson FCEV) • Implemented three eco-friendly vehicles on the same platform • Apply next-generation system Mar. 2018 Apr. 2018 MATERIALITY REPORT • 2015: Built a mass-production system for four eco-friendly vehicle models • IONIQ HEV and EV were rated as the most energy efficient eco-friendly • Surpassed 1 million units in cumulative Nexo FCEV Kona EV vehicle by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) global sales of eco-friendly vehicles 3.1 CSV Strategy System Mass-production World’s best Development of 3.2 Stakeholder Engagement system performance next-generation eco-friendly cars 3.3 Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis (2011 2015) (2016 2017) (2018 -) May 2011 Feb. 2013 Jul. 2015 2016/2017 3.4 Material Topic #1. Sonata HEV Tucson FCEV Sonata PHEV IONIQ Producing Eco-friendly Vehicles HEV/EV/PHEV 3.5 Material Topic #2. Customer and Product Safety 3.6 Material Topic #3. Social Value Creation 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Hyundai Motor Group’s cumulative global sales of eco-friendly vehicles Eco-friendly vehicle sales by type 5. APPENDICES 15 101.1 (Unit: 10,000 vehicles) Sales volume No. of models (Unit: 10,000 vehicles) Total 13 83.8 12 101.1 HEV 71.6 8 7 7 46.0 PHEV 5.3 5 33.1 4 26.1 10.9 18.0 EV 11.8 4.4 0.2 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 20181) FCEV * Overseas sales based on shipment; sales from January 2011 to December 2018 1) 532,000 units have been sold by Hyundai Motor Company from among 1,011,000 units of accumulated sales as of 2018 2019 Sustainability Report 036 1. INTRODUCTION Material Topic #2. Customer and Product Safety 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS We ensure safety and Topic Navigator Stakeholder’s Impact Assessment Link to UN SDGs quality management Strategy Goal 3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for 3. all at all ages MATERIALITY REPORT with our customers 3.6 By 2020, halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents 3.1 CSV Strategy System 3.2 Stakeholder Engagement at the center. Risk Profit Goal 11. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable 11.2 By 2030, provide access to safe, affordable, accessible 3.3 Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis and sustainable transport systems for all, improving 3.4 Material Topic #1. road safety, notably by expanding public transport, with special attention to the needs of those in vulnerable Producing Eco-friendly Vehicles situations, women, children, persons with disabilities and 3.5 Material Topic #2. older persons Cost Customer and Product Safety 3.6 Material Topic #3. Social Value Creation TOPIC BACKGROUND 2018 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Automobiles provide mobility, and give comfort to and enrich the lives of many people. On the other hand, 7 models achieved the highest grade in The Nexo won the highest rating The Nexo won the highest rating in however, they pose as a risk factor in that a safety accident can cause considerable damage to human life the 2018 Collision Test Evaluations from and was named Best Vehicle at 3 categories at the 2018 KNCAP the US Insurance Institute for Highway the 2018 Euro NCAP and property. For this reason, auto manufacturers continue their endless efforts to improve product quality Safety, the most of any auto manufacturer 5. APPENDICES in order to offer safe products. (Including the Genesis brand) The recent evolution of automotive technologies and the emergence of new risk factors as well as the digital convergence in the automotive industry have led to calls for higher level of vehicle safety. Customer requirements are also changing rapidly. It is imperative for auto manufacturers to ensure quality and to develop technologies to protect the lives of drivers, passengers, and pedestrians. OUR APPROACH Hyundai’s philosophy for quality is ‘zero-defect vehicles with no breakdowns’, and our customer-focused quality management centers on this target. The Global Safety Office, set up in 2016, has a central role OUR COMMITMENT in implementing preemptive activities regarding quality, beginning with vehicle development. We have strengthened our systems for post-sales early detection, early improvement, and early measurement, to Areas Goals Target date prevent any minor issues with safety from becoming more significant. These proactive quality services are Appling now an integral part of our commitment to customer satisfaction. We also focus on active safety technology • Launch the first model to which the 3rd generation 3rd generation By 2019 by applying the state-of-the-art advanced driver assistance system (ADAS) which detects objects around the platform is applied in 2019 platform car, alert the driver of hazardous conditions or potential danger. Thanks to this commitment to quality, in 2018 seven Hyundai models were chosen as Top Safety Picks+ New car in collision tests in the U.S., the highest number of models among global car manufacturers. In 2019, we assessment • Receive the highest rating at the 2019 Euro NCAP By 2019 completed the development of a 3rd generation platform, and applied it to the 8th generation Sonata. We program continue to offer vehicles with the highest levels of quality and state-of-the-art safety features through the on-going development and application of new safety technologies. 2019 Sustainability Report 037 Hyundai Motor Company’s Quality Improvement Systems 1. INTRODUCTION Hyundai set up Proactive & Creative Global Safety Quality Management System and is constantly undertaking a range of high-level quality Lot tracking system management activities in order to ensure that our quality meets and exceeds that required by the market and our customers. We are further Hyundai’s lot tracking system is a safety system that utilizes lot 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS improving our position as a highly sought-after brand by innovating in the quality management chain across the entire process of vehicle numbers to identify the causes of any problems with a product during development and production and also support. manufacturing. The system enables us to manage the risk of defects in products which have used parts from the same lot. Driven by our 3. Global Leading Company complete focus on customer safety, we systematically manage all MATERIALITY REPORT Premier global brand potential issues with products, beginning with parts, in order to prevent problems from occurring. This system is currently deployed in Korea 3.1 CSV Strategy System Sales Global sales competitiveness and will be expanded to all overseas business sites in the near future. 3.2 Stakeholder Engagement 3.3 Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis BBB (Best Buy Brand) Achieve the BBB 3.4 Material Topic #1. World’s first automated inspection of ADAS electronic systems Producing Eco-friendly Vehicles In November 2018, Hyundai developed the world’s first single Quality Marketing Enhance customer awareness on quality 3.5 Material Topic #2. automated robot inspection process for assessing the quality of six Customer and Product Safety electronic ADAS, in order to ensure the reliability of products that use 3.6 Material Topic #3. Global Quality Winner Win global quality awards the latest in cutting-edge technologies. Previously in 2015, we had Social Value Creation developed an inspection system to assess quality in five autonomous Mind–set Innovation Customer-centered quality innovation driving electronic systems, including forward and rear collisionavoidance intervention, blind-spot collision warning and smart cruise 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE control. Subsequent to continuous R&D efforts, the system has been 3rd generation platform upgraded and expanded to a fully automatic system using robotics 5. APPENDICES A car platform is a compatibility package for major parts which enables multiple models to be manufactured on a single structure. It is an important that enables simultaneous and parallel inspections, and corrections foundation in determining a vehicle’s fundamentals, including design, driving performance, safety, and interior space. Our 1st generation if required. We plan to widen the application of this system at our integrated platform was developed in 2008, followed by the 2nd generation integrated platform in 2015. This 2nd generation integrated platform production sites and also at our service centers. In doing so, we will won recognition for delivering the highest level of collision safety in the automobile industry. Following extensive R&D, we have completed the enhance customer confidence in our product quality and safety, while development of the 3rd generation integrated platform in March 2019. This 3rd generation platform has been applied to the 8th generation Sonata, improving customer convenience. enabling us to offer customers excellence in design, safety, and convenience. CASE _ Proven safety of the Nexo Design-friendly Platform Safety-First Platform Energy-efficient Platform Fun to Drive Platform Launched in 2018, the Hyundai Nexo complies with all Korean and international hydrogen tank safety certification laws, from design to production. Furthermore, • Engine room, seat, underfloor, luggage • Design optimization to rearrange body • Improve power and fuel efficiency by • Active driving performance that provides room, etc. are arranged lower → More structure → Average strength increase installing Smartstream powertrain and immediate response to the driver’s additional internal tests by the company on some 200 items demonstrate that interior space of 10%, average weight reduction of at by using engine room flow control intention and stability in various driving the hydrogen fuel tank in the Nexo offers a level of safety and durability that is • The overall height is lowered and least 55 kg technology environments significantly higher than the standards legally required. the cowl point is moved to the rear • The multi-load path structure for • Improve power and fuel efficiency by compared to the previous platform → collision energy dispersion positioning underbody lower and making As a result, the Nexo has received recognition for offering customers the best More dynamic ratio in design it flat to reduce air resistance levels of safety. It won the highest rating at Euro NCAP in December 2018. It also • More use of ultra-high strength steel sheets and hot stamping → Maximized received the highest rating in three categories ‒ midsize SUV, eco-friendly vehicle, strength of the passenger space and child protection ‒ by the Korean New Car Assessment Program (KNCAP). 2018 Ratings by KNCAP Moved to No. 1 in the Midsize SUV Category (95.8 point) the rear Collision safety Pedestrian safety Accident prevention safety Arranged lower 99.7% 83.6% 86.5% Various driving environments 2019 Sustainability Report 038 1. INTRODUCTION Material Topic #3. Social Value Creation 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS We will build a Topic Navigator Stakeholder’s Impact Assessment Link to UN SDGs sustainable future as Strategy Goal 7. Strengthen the means of implementation and 3. revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development MATERIALITY REPORT a trustworthy partner. 17.17 Encourage and promote effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing strategies of partnerships 3.1 CSV Strategy System Risk Profit 3.2 Stakeholder Engagement Goal 8.  romote sustained, inclusive and sustainable P 3.3 Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all 3.4 Material Topic #1. 8.3 Promote development-oriented policies that support Producing Eco-friendly Vehicles productive activities, decent job creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, and encourage the formalization 3.5 Material Topic #2. Cost and growth of micro-, smalland medium-sized Customer and Product Safety enterprises, including through access to financial services 3.6 Material Topic #3. Social Value Creation TOPIC BACKGROUND 2018 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Technological innovation and industrial development in the 21st century have improved quality of life for Traffic Safety Campaign with IONIQ Forest: Planted a total of H-Social Creator: Fostered a total of many but have also brought about unexpected inequality. The economic value created by companies Robocar Poli: Accumulated number of 15,250 trees 110 social innovators participants exceeded 350,000 (2016 2018) (2015 2018) through products and services is closely connected to individual and social prosperity. However, with greater (2012 2018) 5. APPENDICES economic uncertainties, including a prolonged low-growth trend in the global economy and increasing trade tensions, there is ever-stronger demand for corporate social responsibility. In September 2015, all the member countries of the United Nations adopted the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for sustainable development of the international community. The member countries pledged to implement the agendas set forth by the UN SDGs by 2030. These 17 goals cover a wide range of social issues, including polarization, inequality, and environmental pollution. From the 17 goals, 169 detailed targets were set. In order to achieve these goals, countries, companies and civic society are all embracing receptiveness and global cooperation. OUR COMMITMENT OUR APPROACH Areas Goals Target date Hyundai understands that automobiles are not merely a means of transportation but a lifetime partner. We are • Improve the environment of the tourist spot to therefore striving to create social values by contributing to the resolution of the universal issues facing humanity Preservation offer greater convenience to visitors and local communities. We also pay continuous attention to social issues. We are expanding our CSV activities of Petra World (some 1 million visitors will be benefitted per year) By 2020 by leveraging our corporate expertise, including ‘Driving Plus’ ‒ a new social contribution program launched in Heritage Site • Build an eco-friendly tourism infrastructure, such as two February 2019, to help drivers who have been involved in traffic accidents to overcome trauma. electric buses and charging facilities™ In the meanwhile, Hyundai has recognized the social costs and benefits that are generated through our business Building IONIQ • Plant 30,000 trees in a metropolitan landfill site in operations but not reflected in current financial statements, and strives to analyze them from a quantitative By 2021 Forest Incheon perspective. To this end, we developed a case study on measuring social values and impacts of our eight ecofriendly vehicles. Going forward, we will upgrade the measurement methods to calculate comprehensive impacts of our business operations in the medium to long term, and make continuous efforts to maximize positive impacts. 2019 Sustainability Report 039 Case study in measuring social value − 1. INTRODUCTION Reducing social costs with eco-friendly vehicles Social interest in eco-friendly vehicles has been rising amid the threat CO2 emissions by Hyundai’s eco-friendly model 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS of climate change and air pollution. As an eco-friendly automaker that pursues ‘clean mobility’, Hyundai has a full eco-friendly line-up, EV and FCEV models PHEV models HEV models ranging from hybrid vehicles to plug-in vehicles, electric vehicles, and 3. hydrogen fuel cell electric vehicles. Accordingly, we quantitatively MATERIALITY REPORT measured the positive social impact of producing and selling ecofriendly vehicles. 3.1 CSV Strategy System IONIQ Electric Kona Electric Nexo IONIQ Plug-in Sonata Plug-in IONIQ Hybrid Sonata Hybrid Grandeur Hybrid 3.2 Stakeholder Engagement (15” wheel) (16” wheel) 3.3 Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis Scope of Measurement 3.4 Material Topic #1. CO2 It is essential to understand data from all aspects of the life cycle emissions 3) 0g/km 0g/km 0g/km 17g/km 25g/km 69g/km 78g/km 97g/km Producing Eco-friendly Vehicles assessment (LCA) to assess the social impact of a product. Among the 3.5 Material Topic #2. aspects of development, procurement, production, sales and service, NOx Customer and Product Safety use, and end-of-life, Hyundai focused on the environmental impact that emissions 4) 0.000g/km 0.000g/km 0.000g/km 0.004g/km 0.001g/km 0.002g/km 0.003g/km 0.002g/km 3.6 Material Topic #3. occurs in the ‘use’ stage. We measured social costs with a particular Social Value Creation focus on GHG emissions and air pollutant emissions, such as Nitrogen PM 0.0000g/km 0.0000g/km 0.0000g/km 0.0006g/km 0.0002g/km 0.0002g/km 0.0003g/km 0.0002g/km emissions 5) Oxide and fine dust, that may be released during the operation of 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE vehicles. Measurement Methods Measurement Results Measurement method 5. APPENDICES We applied limited data in consideration of the diversity in actual The total sales volume of eco-friendly vehicles recorded approximately Methods for measuring the driving environments across various regions where we sell cars as 146,000 units in 2018. Assuming that the sales volume of gasoline or reduction in social costs of using Monetary value Social cost eco-friendly vehicles well as the difficulty in setting a common measurement criteria for air diesel models of each of the eight eco-friendly models is equal, and pollutant emissions. consider the annual mileage based on pollutant emissions, it is estimated CO2 emissions Social cost of using Annual Annual that around KRW 19.8 billion was reduced in annual social costs. In other eco-friendly NOx emissions vehicle sales eco-cost vehicles mileage6) volume7) We also chose gasoline or diesel models1) of the same class as a words, the social cost of using eco-friendly vehicles is approximately PM emissions sold for the year comparison group, in order to measure the relative social value with KRW 14.3 billion, while the social cost of using gasoline or diesel models Social cost of using gasoline or Social cost of using air pollutant emissions of the eight eco-friendly models produced by of the same class is around 34.1 billion, which represents a reduction of diesel-powered vehicles eco-friendly vehicles Hyundai. In addition, we applied the potential impacts by using the negative social impacts by 58.1%. concept of costs (eco-cost2)), which is required for the reduction of environmental pollution from carbon emissions in the results. Although Hyundai is fully aware of the negative environmental impact caused by KRW 34.1 billion 58.1% (Reduced KRW 19.8 billion) KRW 14.3 billion there are some limitations in the scope and method of measurement, we the use of automobiles. In order to create a sustainable environment will make continued efforts to measure the actual and comprehensive for the future generations, we will be more proactive in our research social impact of eco-friendly vehicles. and development efforts to provide our customers with eco-friendly automotive technologies that reduce environmental impacts. 1) 3) 6) Gasoline or diesel models of the same class: Order of eco-friendly vehicle models presented above CO2 emissions: Government-recognized standard mileage and grade information pursuant to Article Vehicle mileage: Apply the daily average mileage of passenger cars in Korea according to the Korean − Elantra (Avante) 1.6 Gasoline (15” wheel), Kona 1.6 Gasoline Turbo, Santa Fe 2.0 Diesel 2WD (18” 15 of the Energy Use Rationalization Act Transportation Safety Authority’s ‘Automobile Mileage Statistics (2018)’ to all, irrespective of which wheel), Elantra 1.6 Gasoline (15” wheel), Sonata (DN8) 2.0 Gasoline (16” wheel), Elantra 1.6 Gasoline 4) NOx emissions: Use the Ministry of Environment’s CVS-75 test results that are measured pursuant to region the vehicle was sold (15” wheel), Sonata (DN8) 2.0 Gasoline (16” wheel), and Azera (Grandeur) 2.4 Gasoline models Article 50 of the Clean Air Conservation Act. In case of PHEV models, the calculation is based on the 7) Sales volume: This is the sales volume of Hyundai’s eight eco-friendly models sold in 2018, which 2) eco-cost is an environmental database developed by the Delft University of Technology in the CD mode was calculated based on engines that were applied to the vehicles, without considering detailed Netherlands, with sponsorship from the EU. It calculates the costs incurred when treating pollutants, 5) PM emissions: Use the Ministry of Environment’s CVS-75 test results that are measured pursuant to specification, such as tire size. Apply annual vehicle mileage based on the 2018 sales volume and then discloses the environmental cost per unit for each type of pollutant, product, and raw Article 50 of the Clean Air Conservation Act. In case of PHEV models, the calculation is based on the without considering purchase date material every year CD mode. Fine dust of all sizes is included, such as PM10 and PM2.5 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 040 Sustainability Performance Hyundai is opening a new chapter of a ‘car-to-life’ era in which automobiles become the center of our daily life. As a global auto maker as well as corporate citizen, we are bringing about meaningful changes based on five values of sustainable management ‒ customer, environment, cooperation, people, and community. Presented in this report are the will and performance of Hyundai making progress toward a sustainable future together with stakeholders. 2019 Sustainability Report 041 1. INTRODUCTION Corporate Governance 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Independence of the BOD Composition and the BOD The BOD is composed of 11 directors (5 internal and 6 outside directors) in consideration of the efficiency of managing meetings and decision making. The BOD is composed of outside directors with the proven independence 3. MATERIALITY REPORT The outside directors form the majority of the BOD, and they have expertise in management, accounting, law, and automotive industry. Regarding the required to check and balance the company’s operations. All members composition of the BOD, there is no discrimination based on gender, race, religion, politics, or culture, and the Board members are selected through a of our BOD must not only comply with the qualification requirements comprehensive review of independence, professionalism, and diversity. specified in the relevant laws and regulations but also possess exemplary 4. Classification Name Position/Major Career Date of Initial Appointment Note professional ethics, values and integrity in order to represent stakeholders’ interests. Outside directors must have deep expertise and experience in SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE management, accounting, laws, and other specialized fields. They have Mong Koo Chung Chairman & CEO Feb. 26, 1999 Chairman of the Board no major conflicts of interest with the company and are thus in a position OUR SYSTEM Euisun Chung Executive Vice Chairman & CEO Mar. 12, 2010 Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee to make independent decisions. In order to prevent any future conflicts 4.1 Corporate Governance Internal of interest pursuant to the Enforcement Decree of the Commercial Act, Won Hee Lee President & CEO Mar. 11, 2016 Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee directors Hyundai prohibits its outside directors from performing any transactions 4.2 Ethical and Compliance Management Albert Biermann President, Director of R&D Division Mar. 22, 2019 in its line of business or becoming a partner with unlimited liability or a 4.3 Risk Management Eon Tae Ha Vice President & CEO, President of HMC Ulsan Plant Mar. 16, 2018 director in another company in the same industry, without the BOD’s prior OUR VALUE approval. Concurrent holding of the office of outside directors and an Advisor of Kim & Chang Law Group (Present); Corporate Governance & Communication Committee (Chairman), Dong Kyu Lee Mar. 13, 2015 auditor is limited to two instances. Secretary General of Korea Fair Trade Commission (Former) Audit Committee 5. APPENDICES Chairman of e-Chon Tax Accounting Corp (Present); Audit Committee (Chairman), Criteria for determining independency of non-executive directors Byung Kook Lee Mar. 13, 2015 Commissioner of Seoul Regional Tax Office (Former) Corporate Governance & Communication Committee (Disqualification of independence) Counsel, DR & AJU law Firm (Present); Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee (Chairman), • Directors, executive directors and employees who are engaged in the regular business Outside Eun Soo Choi Mar. 17, 2017 President of Deajeon High Court and Patent Court (Former) Audit Committee, Corporate Governance & Communication Committee of the relevant company; or directors, auditors, executive directors and employees who directors have engaged in the regular business of the relevant company within the latest two years Vice Chairman, UBS Wealth Management (Present); Audit Committee, Chi-Won Yoon Mar. 22, 2019 • The largest shareholder, his or her spouse, lineal ascendants and lineal descendants CEO of UBS Group Asia Pacific (Former) Corporate Governance & Communication Committee • Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of the corporation, in cases Eugene M. Ohr Partner of Capital International Inc. (Former) Mar. 22, 2019 Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee where the largest shareholder is a corporation • Spouse, lineal ascendants and lineal descendants of directors, auditors and executive Sang-Seung Yi Professor of Economics, Seoul National University (Present) Mar. 22, 2019 Audit Committee, Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee directors • Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of a parent company or a subsidiary company of the relevant company • Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of a corporation which has Operation of the BOD a significant interest in the relevant company, such as business transactional relationship • Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of another company where The BOD meets on a quarterly basis, but it may be convened as and when a BOD resolution is required. The BOD resolves matters set forth in the relevant directors, executive directors and employees of the relevant company serve as directors laws and the Articles of Incorporation and other important matters related to the company’s business performance. It also undertakes thorough evaluation and executive directors and supervision activities. In particular, the outside directors are given opportunities to participate in management through various practical monitoring and checking functions. The BOD is convened by the chair or another director appointed by the Board. With the exception of cases otherwise prescribed in the relevant laws and regulations, a BOD resolution is passed by a majority vote by a majority of the entire membership. Expertise of the BOD BOD activities in 2018 BOD participation in 2018 It is vital to secure outstanding talents, equipped with specialized knowledge and experiences, in ensuring expertise and efficiency of outside directors. Number of Number of agenda items Number of agenda items Average participation Participation rate of Participation rate of BOD meetings for resolution for report rate internal directors outside directors Our six current outside directors have expertise in management, accounting, and law. To help them understand our management situation and our line of 11 30 13 78.6% 54.0% 98.2% business as early as possible, we hold regular seminars and arrange a visit to our production plants and technical centers in Korea and overseas, thereby helping them better perform their duties. 2019 Sustainability Report 042 1. INTRODUCTION Evaluation and Compensation of the BOD A BOD evaluation is conducted by the outside directors at the end of each Audit Committee ACTIVITIES TO IMPROVE GOVERNANCE The Corporate Governance & 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS year, the results of which are reflected in the BOD operations in order to Although the Commercial Act requires at least two-thirds of an audit committee Communication Committee is promoting various governance improvement boost efficiency. The internal directors’ remuneration is determined based on to be composed of outside directors, all five members of the Audit Committee activities with the goal of improving shareholder value. It shares the results of 3. MATERIALITY REPORT our executive compensation criteria, including the company’s management at Hyundai are outside directors. We also ensure that the Committee has at and future plans for governance improvements with our major shareholders performance (finance, sales, securing of future growth engines), the least one accounting and finance specialist, and that more than two-thirds of in Korea and overseas, including the National Pension Service, Capital directors’ contributions, jobs, positions, and personnel development, within all the auditors are independent and have no business relationships with the Group, and APG. It also looks for such growth directions as improvements 4. the remuneration limit set by the annual general meeting (AGM). The outside directors’ remuneration is set based on internal criteria that consider their company, thereby enhancing the transparency of the Committee. in our environmental, social and governance (ESG) standards through consultation with various proxy advisory and other governance advisors. We SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE job responsibilities, levels of competitors’ compensation and directors’ Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee also hold regular seminars on various governance issues, such as responsible independence within the remuneration limit determined by the AGM. In accordance with a law stipulating that outside directors account for a investment, in an effort to raise our directors’ governance insights and OUR SYSTEM majority of the outside director candidate nomination committee, we have expertise. We will continue our effort to improve shareholder value by having Director Compensation in 2018 (Unit: KRW million) made our Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee consist of more dialogues with shareholders and expanding our expertise. 4.1 Corporate Governance Classification Internal Outside BOD Employee five members – two internal directors and three outside directors. The 4.2 Ethical and Compliance Management director director Committee has the right to recommend outside directors. When designating 4.3 Risk Management Average compensation 2,990 102 1,386 92 new outside directors, we submit a ‘Confirmation of Qualification for Protecting shareholder rights per person Outside Director’ to Korea Exchange that ensures the independence of new OUR VALUE * Detailed information is available in our 2018 Business Report disclosed on the Financial Supervisory directors and other legal compliance. Hyundai focuses on protecting shareholder rights in order to build a Service’s electronic disclosure system shareholder-centric corporate culture. To provide our shareholders with Corporate Governance & Communication Committee enough time to review agenda items, we notify them of an AGM three weeks 5. APPENDICES In April 2015, Hyundai launched the Corporate Governance & Communication in advance, rather than the two weeks required by the Commercial Act. We BOD Sub-Committees Committee consisting entirely of outside directors to enhance its corporate also notify shareholders, who own less than 1% of the company's shares, transparency and protect shareholders’ rights. The committee meetings are about the holding of an AGM. In addition, we disclose our audit report two The sub-committees under the BOD are the Audit Committee, the Outside held prior to BOD meetings for the purpose of boosting the transparency weeks prior to an AGM, and make a direct report at an AGM about our Director Candidate Nomination Committee, and the Corporate Governance of internal transactions and promoting ethical management practices as decisions concerning the appointment of external auditors for transparent & Communication Committee. Roles and responsibilities are broken down well as protecting shareholders’ rights. The Committee carries out various and prompt disclosure of information. among the sub-committees to promote professional decision-making. activities expand shareholder rights by enhancing the transparency of BOD In particular, the Audit Committee and the Corporate Governance & operations. The committee members attend domestic investor discussions In approving financial statements and making decisions on dividend payout, Communication Committee consist only of outside directors. and non-deal roadshows (NDRs) for overseas investors, in order to serve we have our shareholders decide at an AGM, instead of delegating the as a communication channel between the BOD and shareholders while responsibility to the BOD. We also boost our transparency by disclosing BOD sub-committees improving shareholder value. all matters related to the BOD meetings and executive compensation in Classification Roles and responsibilities our business reports. Furthermore, shareholder information, such as stock • Evaluate the adequacy of overall internal control system The Committee, in particular, introduced a shareholder recommendation issuance, treasury stock, stock distribution, and dividends paid in the past operations system in 2018, through which an outside director in charge of protecting three years, is available on our website. • Carry out auditing on the company’s operations and Audit Committee finances, such as approval on agenda items to be submitted shareholder rights was appointed at the AGM held in March 2019. We (5 outside directors) Corporate Governance & Communication Committee Report to the AGM will ensure that the Corporate Governance & Communication Committee • Communicate with external auditors about financial continues to play a key role in establishing an independent corporate statement audit plans and results governance structure through active communication with our shareholders. Outside Director Candidate • Recommend candidates for outside directors Nomination Committee • Evaluate candidates in accordance with the Outside Director (2 internal directors, 3 outside directors) Candidate Nomination Committee Regulation Vision of Corporate Governance & Communication Committee • Manage trading between related parties stipulated in the ‘Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act’ Make continuous effort improve corporate governance by ensuring independency, expertise, and diversity of the BOD • Major policies related to ethical management and social Corporate Governance & contributions Communication Committee (4 outside directors) • Discuss the company’s management direction by Independency Expertise Diversity collecting shareholder and stakeholder opinions on major management matters related to protecting shareholder rights and interests Achieve corporate governance to global standard 2019 Sustainability Report 043 1. INTRODUCTION Ethical and Compliance Management 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Ethical Management Compliance Management Hyundai seeks to create an environment where our employees can Hyundai adopted a compliance management system in 2012 as a Compliance self-assessment 3. MATERIALITY REPORT make ethical decisions in the event of a moral dilemma by implementing measure to prevent any legal risks that may arise in our business activities. We conduct a compliance self-assessment with individual departmental an effective corporate ethics policy. To this end, we have set various This system aims to improve the efficiency of our compliance support checklists for all the relevant legal requirements. Following the selfethical rules, including the Ethics Charter, and established the Corporate organizations, strengthen the compliance capacity of our business assessment, each department is provided with guidance papers by which 4. Governance & Communication Committee. We have also established the Cyber Audit Office and implemented the Compliance Program as part of our divisions, and minimize the risk of legal violations by spreading a culture of compliance. To this end, we undertake various activities to support they derive and support their own self-improvement activities. In 2018, the focus of the assessment was placed on anti-corruption, ban on improper SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE efforts to build a system needed to implement an ethical code of conduct. In compliance. solicitation and graft, customer data protection and trade secret protection. order to keep our ethical management system up to date, we immediately We prepared a separate self-assessment for our branches, so that all our OUR SYSTEM reflect any changes in the regulations and laws that might affect our Strategic system and plan to support compliance management branches can conduct self-assessment based on the branch-specific 4.1 Corporate Governance operations. Based on such ethical management system, we will continue to checklist. In 2019, we are expanding the scope of assessment and checklist Strengthen compliance management system 4.2 Ethical and Compliance Management enhance our transparency and accountability with the goal of becoming a to include intellectual property rights and the EU General Data Protection 4.3 Risk Management model company in the global market. Regulation (GDPR) among others. Enhance compliance • Strengthen the Compliance Officer system and support organization its operations OUR VALUE Ethical management system Result of compliance self-assessment in 2018 Increase compliance • Expand the compliance self-assessment Ethical management AntiAntiCustomer data Trade capabilities of • Develop and distribute guidelines for compliance corruption bribery protection secret Branch 5. APPENDICES Corporate front-line offices • Provide compliance trainings Ethics Governance & Cyber Date Apr. Sep. May Oct. Jun. Aug. Nov. Compliance Charter Communication Audit Office Committee • Distribute compliance newsletters 647 642 254 237 36 271 470 Build a • Distribute a monthly legal report Target teams teams teams teams teams teams branches compliance culture • Operate a compliance support center • Receive compliance pledge from employees Rate 90% 86% 86% 84% 86% 93% 93% Maximizing Creating Contributing to Improving profitability added value society competitiveness Developing compliance guidelines Ethics Charter Establish a culture of compliance at the corporate level We publish and distribute compliance guidelines on relevant laws and Hyundai enacted the Ethics Charter, the Employees’ Code of Conduct, and regulations, and corresponding measures with the goal of preventing any the Guidelines for Ethical Business Conduct in 2001, thereby establishing legal risks from materializing. As of end of 2018, we published and distributed standards for our employees to make ethical decisions in the workplace. Minimize risks of non-compliance with laws a total of 39 compliance guidelines in nine major areas of legal practice The Ethics Charter provides the basic principles of Hyundai’s ethical in Korea. We have also published and distributed the Global Compliance management practices and activities, while the Employees’ Code of Handbook to our overseas manufacturing and sales subsidiaries. Conduct is a code of practice enacted to realize the spirit of the Ethics Compliance Officer Charter. The Guidelines for Ethical Business Conduct stipulate the specific Hyundai has established a compliance officer system whereby a Providing compliance trainings procedures and contents that apply to all of Hyundai employees to put compliance officer takes responsibility for controlling compliance at Hyundai provides general compliance training, intensive compliance ethics in practice. each department with the aim of ensuring companywide compliance training, and online compliance training programs to its employees to help with all applicable laws. In 2017, we designated all department heads as raise their awareness of compliance. New recruits and newly promoted Cyber Audit Office compliance officers of their respective departments, and tasked them employees receive general training on the necessity of compliance Hyundai operates the Cyber Audit Office in order to establish and realize with ensuring that all their subordinates are aware of any changes in the management and the risks of compliance violations in the automotive transparent management. The Office receives reports on, and manages, corporate legal environment so as to perform their duties in compliance industry, while employees at the relevant team receive intensive compliance unfair trade, bribery, misfeasance, solicitation, improper practices, and with relevant laws. training in accordance with their job descriptions and the relevant legal violations of the Employees’ Code of Conduct via the online channel. issues. As for the online training programs offered in 2018, a training to guard against general copyright infringement and an anti-corruption training was Ethical management website of Hyundai Motor Company Participating in UNGC provided to the employees in Korea and overseas, respectively. 2019 Sustainability Report 044 1. INTRODUCTION Risk Management 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Global Risk Management System Tax Strategy Auto industry regulations are rapidly changing, and responding to this trend has become an important priority for Hyundai. Accordingly, since 2014, we Hyundai is fully aware of that tax compliance and tax risk management are 3. MATERIALITY REPORT instituted an organization managing all business-associated risks under the auspices of the Business Strategy Planning Division and risk management teams crucial to serving our customer’s interests, maximizing shareholder return, at all of our overseas business sites. These risk management units are structured to promptly respond to any risks occurring in the sphere of their respective and contributing to government finances, and that it is also a prerequisite business operations. In addition, Hyundai monitors all risk factors in all of our business operations and regions on a daily basis; and for each of those that can for sustainable management. We are therefore striving to comply with our 4. develop into a clear threat, we set up a contingency plan by evaluating its potential impact on our business using a variety of scenarios. A particular focus was placed on identifying reasons for, and backgrounds of, the major risk factors in question. duties as a faithful taxpayer in response to the fair taxation principles of tax authorities, while establishing a cooperative relationship with the office SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE based on mutual trust. OUR SYSTEM Management of potential risks 4.1 Corporate Governance Hyundai is aware of potential risks associated with our automobile and related operations and making efforts to proactively respond to such risks. Tax risk management 4.2 Ethical and Compliance Management The core of our tax risk management is ‘strict compliance with the law’. 4.3 Risk Management We maintain transparent relationship with the tax authorities, and provide them with all the evidence for verification they request. As a global OUR VALUE company, we recognize the differences between the tax laws of each Changes in the international trading Stricter regulation on emissions and country and strive to prevent tax risks in advance. We do not own any environment amid growing protectionism fuel efficiency subsidiary specifically established for the purpose of tax avoidance, nor 5. APPENDICES Risk Context Risk Context do we transfer our revenues to any of our overseas subsidiaries located in tax haven countries. We also recognize the double-taxation risks arising Since the 2008 global financial crisis, unemployment has been soaring and the The EU is to raise its CO2 emission target to 95g/km starting in 2020. Meeting the middle class collapsing in many countries, intensifying social polarization and thereby new emissions standard will be critical to sustainable growth of the automotive from competition between tax authorities in our transfer pricing, and fueling anti-globalization movements and nationalistic sentiments worldwide. industry. In particular, sales of diesel-powered cars have plummeted due to the consequently conduct transactions within ‘the normal price range’ as a rule Accordingly, countries now tend to downplay the practicality of multilateral adoption of more stringent regulations regarding the production of diesel engines in order to address this issue. negotiation and instead opt for protectionism. and the use of diesel automobiles in the city, as part of the global effort to reduce CO2 emissions. Emissions standards has been strengthened to such an extent that Contributing to local community with taxes More notable is the emergence of such tariff barriers as anti-dumping duties even hybrid vehicles, generally known as transitional eco-cars, find them hard to and safeguard measures and such non-tariff as reinforcement of rule of origin meet. This has further pressured global auto makers to come up with better ways to We make significant contributions to the economic development of local and allegations of currency manipulation. Furthermore, adoption of an anticommunities as a major taxpayer, investor and job creator in many parts cut CO2 emissions. immigration or anti-refugee policy has been on the rise to keep migrants at bay, and of the world. We make sure that all our subsidiaries around the globe pay implementation of a protectionist policy for the sole benefit of domestic industries Meanwhile, measurable CO2 emissions will increase by 20% to 30% as the New has been increasing as well. As the automotive industry has long been dependent European Driving Cycle (NEDC) is replaced by the Worldwide Harmonized Light corporation tax on their revenues as well as any other taxes designed to on the global value chain strategy that centers on the division of labor by region, it is Vehicle Test Procedure (WLTP), the existing standard for determining the levels of increase the revenues of the tax authorities, such as value-added tax VAT increasingly difficulty for the industry to maintain the strategy in the face of a growing pollutants and CO2 emissions. and withholding tax. protectionism. HMC’s Approach HMC’s Approach Hyundai is pursuing a variety of measures to address the changes in the business Hyundai intends to focus on the mass-production and sales of eco-friendly vehicles environment resulting from the spread of protectionism. First, we plan to shift our as a way to respond to the tightening of emissions and fuel efficiency standards. growth focus from globalization to localization. To respond more quickly to various This requires us to devise new strategies for models, mass-production, branding and policy changes, we are strengthening our system of analyzing operation risks vulnerable business development. For product strategy, we are expanding our lineup of ecoto changes in the international trading environment and shifting our decision-making friendly cars and further accelerate our drive to develop electric models. For more base from headquarters to business sites. To this end, we are transferring the decisionefficient mass-production, we are accelerating the process of innovating production making authority to the management of each business site and ensuring they bolster lines. For branding, we are elevating the position of our brand in line with our their local workforce. Moreover, we are raising the level of localization at our overseas increasing share of the environmentally-friendly vehicle market. For viable business business sites in the areas of raw material and parts procurement by further localizing models, we are generating practical plans to expand our use of renewable energy their R&D, production and procurement. Furthermore, for areas hit by a higher tariff, we and participation in a consortium of companies building charging stations. We will are considering adopting the complete knockdown (CKD) method in the short term, spare no effort to successfully launch eco-friendly vehicles in the global market while and secure the capacity to operate a string of small-scale plants and thus improve sharpening our competitive edge in the SUV to environmentally-friendly vehicle efficiencies in the operation of production bases in the medium to long term. markets in Europe. 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 045 CUSTOMER All roads lead to the customers Hyundai pledges to deliver new value to its customers, as well as a driving experience that exceeds their expectations. We offer the world’s best quality in automobiles and create vehicles that exceeds all limitations by improving safety and convenience while deploying the latest in mobility technology. From product development to production, sales, and services, we will always think about our customers. 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 046 Our ways of satisfying customers Stakeholder Interview The question “What if a car had legs and could walk?” started us on a path that led to the Elevate concept vehicle. There are many examples We offer distinctive value to our customers. of legged robots – two, four, six, and eight legs – which have been developed by robotics engineers. Knowing that there are limitations of wheels-only vehicles and recognizing that legged motion enables a Hyundai delivers unique value to its customers by responding effectively to rapid changes in the car to break free from those limitations, we were motivated to explore automobile market. Our customer-centered business strategy focuses on five key areas ‒ Mobility the combination of wheels and robotics legs. as a Service (MaaS), smart city, energy, robot, and artificial intelligence (AI). In particular, we are During the development process, we looked for inspiration by looking expanding our business and strengthening foundations in related areas, including mobility, AI-based back in history and science fictions and for startups to collaborate autonomous driving, and connected cars. We are also working on providing customers with a unique with. We found many robotics startups that are advancing the and distinctive brand experience. These efforts have led to us receiving multiple awards in Korea and capabilities to make robots more functional and intelligent. We were overseas for brand communications. able to experience the development of technologies such as sensors, actuators, batteries, and other needed to make a robot. In addition, Hyundai is enhancing customer value and building better customer relations through There are technical challenges yet to overcome for Elevate to be commercialized. One is actuators for the robotic legs so that they are improved services based on communications. We have established the voice of customer (VOC) and strong enough to lift not only the vehicle’s weight but also passengers H-Ombudsman channels to listen to customer opinions more effectively. We also conduct customer and cargo while handling off-road travel. Another challenge is satisfaction surveys every year so that we can assess and improve our customer management. designing a control system for the walking motions in different type Moreover, we offer a service system that enables customers, who have purchased our cars, to receive of terrain and situations. And the last but maybe the most important the best post-sales service, with new services being continuously added. We have also implemented factor is providing a great user experience for the passengers such as comfortable ride and user-friendly operations. strict standards for the protection of customer rights, including the protection of personal information and provision of comprehensive and accurate product information. I expect to learn a lot about what it takes to build a vehicle that is both robot and car and the actual requirements from potential customers. I hope this project can demonstrate that curiosity combined with determination and creativity can lead to totally new mobility products that are useful and valuable. John Suh Hyundai CRADLE ‒ Silicon Valley 2019 Sustainability Report 047 1. INTRODUCTION Driving Future Value 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Deploying Technologies of the Future Hyundai responds to the rapidly-changing environment and strives to develop new growth drivers by identifying future sources of revenue through an internal organization dedicated to this task. The value chain in the automotive industry 3. MATERIALITY REPORT is expanding from development, production, and sales to include such areas as financial leases and vehicle rentals. We are strengthening our ability to respond to such changes in the industry and formulating strategies to expand new businesses. We are also continuing to develop and invest in future technologies, including mobility services, autonomous driving, connected cars and open innovation. These investments are centered on the five core areas of our business ‒ MaaS, smart city, energy, robotics, and AI ‒ and are focused on the goal of delivering new value to our customers. 4. 5 core areas to better respond to the future SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE OUR SYSTEM OUR VALUE 4.4 Customer • Driving Future Value • Enhancing Customer Satisfaction 4.5 Environment 4.6 Collaboration 4.7 People 4.8 Community MaaS Smart city Energy Robotics AI We provide We provide eco-friendly We plan to provide We engage in the autonomous driving We will not only create services 5. APPENDICES smart mobility solutions, autonomous vehicle-based smart solutions for the production, and AI as a Service robotics business which that provide new values but helping people truly transportation services, and storage, and management of are expected to grow in the future and will also enhance manufacturing enjoy the freedom contribute to creating a energy through serve as a foundation for innovation processes by enlarging in mobility. human-centered city. electrification. of automotive logistics. AI capabilities. • Smart mobility solution business • Robo-taxi business • New business in fuel cell • Industrial wearable robots • Autonomous vehicle • Smart city business • New business in energy storage system • Service robots • AI Voice Agent (ESS) • Core algorithm for mobility service #mobility #autonomous driving #connected car #open innovation 2019 Sustainability Report 048 1. INTRODUCTION #mobility 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Collaboration with Ola, 3. MATERIALITY REPORT the largest car hailing company in India In March 2019, Hyundai invested in Ola, the largest car hailing company in Innovative EV car hailing project 4. India, as part of our plans to strengthen our position in the mobility market in India. Ola provides services in 125 cities around the world and has more than SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 1.3 million registered vehicles. Ola will cooperate with Hyundai in three major Hyundai has made a strategic investment in Grab, the largest car hailing areas of mobility to strengthen its leadership in India’s sharing economy. company in Southeast Asia, and plans to launch an innovative mobility OUR SYSTEM service based solely on EVs in 2019. We plan to begin with a pilot project Through this cooperation, Hyundai will optimize its car hailing vehicles and Collaboration with in Singapore and anticipate high levels of satisfaction from both drivers OUR VALUE customize them according to specific customer requirements. We will also ‘last mile’ delivery companies and passengers due the fact that Grab drivers can use Hyundai EVs to offer 4.4 Customer develop an integrated vehicle management system in order to respond to the their car hailing services for financial gain. Also, there are no exhaust gases • Driving Future Value fast-growing mobility market. In addition, the Indian government is strongly Hyundai is investing in Korean and overseas ‘last mile’ specialist delivery as well as much lower fuel costs compared to internal combustion engine • Enhancing Customer Satisfaction promoting eco-friendly cars. We will therefore implement a car hailing companies, recognizing of the growth potential in the last mile delivery vehicles. During the pilot project period, we will analyze the charging project based on EVs by creating an EV ecosystem specially designed for service sector. We have invested KRW 22.5 billion in Mesh Korea, a startinfrastructure, mileage, and driver and passenger satisfaction levels in 4.5 Environment India, including building an EV charging infrastructure and developing related up that provides both a logistics platform for deliveries by two-wheeled order to confirm the potential of the EV car hailing service. Subsequent 4.6 Collaboration customer services. We will also collaborate with Ola in the development of a vehicles and a long-distance shipping technology solution. We are now to our evaluation, we will expand our services in Southeast Asia including 4.7 People wide range of forward-looking new mobility services in India. integrating our autonomous driving and connected car technologies Indonesia, Vietnam and Malaysia. Grab has also established a partnership 4.8 Community with Mesh Korea’s logistics network. We are also planning to provide with Singapore Power, an electricity provider in Singapore, to build innovative services that incorporate smart car technology. Overseas, 1,000 chargers by 2020. Accordingly, it built 30 quick chargers in 2018, Investment in Revv, a car sharing company in India Hyundai has invested in Immotor, a Chinese start-up offering battery and Hyundai will also work on building up partnerships and extensive sharing for last mile mobility, particularly electric two-wheeled vehicles. ecosystem with related stakeholders like EV charging infrastructure 5. APPENDICES Hyundai is making global investments to build a foundation for the smart Immotor connects the delivery driver’s movements, battery levels, and providers to accelerate the commercialization of EVs in Southeast Asia. mobility business. In 2018, we made a strategic investment in Revv, a proximity to charging stations with IoT and smart battery technology to car sharing company offering services in 11 major cities in India. The provide the most effective charging services. Hyundai will use Immotor’s investment enables Hyundai to create new mobility businesses that are technologies to develop a new business curated for China. With last mile Investment in a US-based connected with Revv’s car sharing services and to develop the skills and delivery integrating with the IoT, autonomous driving, and cutting-edge multi-aggregation mobility service company technologies needed to lead the mobility market of the future. It is also robotics technology, Hyundai plans to explore this sector as a new engine allowing more Indian consumers to experience the Hyundai brand, which for growth. Hyundai has invested in Migo, a mobility service specialist in the U.S., as in turn is expected to have a positive effect on future sales and enhancing part of our plan to make inroads into the US sharing economy. In 2017, our brand image in India. Hyundai will continue to respond preemptively Migo became the first company in the U.S. to unveil a new concept called to changes in its business environment by making significant strategic mobility multi-aggregation. This uses a smartphone application to connect investments into global mobility companies. customers with the optimal car sharing service for their requirements. Migo now provides information on taxi and car sharing companies in 75 major cities in the U.S. Companies covered include Yellow Cab Co., Curb, and Car2Go. Migo also offers information on bike sharing services such as Lime and Spin, and public transportation. This strategic investment in Migo will give Hyundai vital know-how (From left to right) concerning the mobility business in the U.S. Migo’s platform will also give Young Key Koo, Managing Director and CEO of us information about customer preferences regarding car sharing services, Hyundai Motor India; and Anupam Agarwal and and we can then use this information to develop our competitive position Karan Jain, Co-Founders of Revv in the mobility markets of the future. 2019 Sustainability Report 049 1. INTRODUCTION #mobility+connected car 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Development of a connectivity service in partnership with an Australian car sharing company 3. MATERIALITY REPORT In March 2018, Hyundai invested in Car Next Door, a leading car sharing company based in Australia, that is operating in five major cities including Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, and Newcastle. Car Next Door uses a P2P business model, with individual car owners renting their vehicles to other individuals on an hourly basis. 4. Hyundai has developed the Hyundai Auto Link application that connects a customer’s vehicle to a smartphone, allowing doors to be opened and closed, SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE and the engine to be started. This phone connectivity makes P2P vehicle sharing more convenient by removing the need for the physical delivery of the OUR SYSTEM car key from the owner to the renter. We launched this service in 2019 through our collaboration with Car Next Door, and plan to expand the service to all Hyundai models, starting with the i30 and Kona, which are particularly popular in Australia, thereby accelerating mobility innovation. OUR VALUE 4.4 Customer #autonomous driving • Driving Future Value • Enhancing Customer Satisfaction 4.5 Environment 4.6 Collaboration 4.7 People 4.8 Community Collaboration with Aurora Innovation, Participation in the a leader in autonomous vehicle technology in the U.S. Apollo project with Baidu in China 5. APPENDICES Side View Camera In January 2018, Hyundai forged a strategic partnership with Aurora Hyundai is expanding its role as a leader in automotive technology in China, Innovation, a start-up specializing in autonomous driving. Aurora was which is rapidly becoming the world’s largest automobile market. We established in 2016 by experts in autonomous driving vehicles and mainly have been collaborating with Baidu, a specialist in AI, since 2015 as part of focuses on the development of autonomous driving software solutions. our efforts to set up a wider ecosystem of global alliances and develop a Through this partnership, Hyundai is aiming to run pilot operations competitive edge in the fast-changing automotive technology sector. Our for autonomous driving in smart cities by 2021, and achieve the full collaboration with Baidu covers a wide range of mobility services including commercialization of autonomous driving vehicles by 2030. The target for navigation system, voice recognition, and AI. In 2018, we participated in the Front View Camera Front Ultrasonic Front Radar 2021 is an autonomous driving vehicle with level 4 capabilities, including Apollo project relating to Baidu’s autonomous driving cooperation system and autonomous driving in urban environments ‒ high automation. we plan to further expand our collaboration with Baidu including autonomous driving technology. In order to realize this plan and ensure the complete safety of autonomous driving, we are conducting test driving on actual roads in smart cities in Korea and abroad, using our next-generation Nexo FCEV to make autonomous driving more eco-friendly. We seek to create the optimal system for completely autonomous driving through cooperation across all areas of technology, including hardware and software. Side View Camera 2019 Sustainability Report 050 1. INTRODUCTION #connected car 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Automatic wireless navigation system updates Project to equip cars with the Kakao I 3. MATERIALITY REPORT for the Genesis G90 voice recognition service Hyundai Motor Group (HMG) launched an over-the-air (OTA) software Hyundai began cooperating with Kakao, a specialist in IT services in 2017, 4. updates service for the navigation system installed in the Genesis G90. to develop a connectivity system using voice recognition technology. Previously, customers required a separate portable storage device to The new Sonata, released in March 2019, is equipped with ‘Kakao I,’ an AI SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE conduct updates manually, but the G90 can now download updates platform that offers a range of vehicle and voice control functions. Kakao wirelessly, and automatically install them. We plan to make this OTA I makes the driving environment safer and more convenient, enabling OUR SYSTEM function available in all major new vehicles from HMG, including future customers to control the air conditioning and other systems through Genesis models. voice commands. Customers can also receive information relating to their OUR VALUE daily lives, including weather, news and exchange rates, using AI-based 4.4 Customer voice recognition. Hyundai plans to substantially widen the scope of its • Driving Future Value connected car services through continued cooperation with Kakao and • Enhancing Customer Satisfaction also to increase the number of vehicles that offer these technologies. By innovating technologies of connected cars, we are providing customers 4.5 Environment with a new experience of freedom, even inside their vehicles. 4.6 Collaboration 4.7 People 4.8 Community 5. APPENDICES Launching a connected car service in Europe In 2018, Hyundai signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with Kia Motors and Vodafone to provide connected car services in the European market. Vodafone is a major global telecommunications company, with over 120 million customers and mobile communications networks in 51 countries around the world, mainly in Europe, and is thus a valuable partner for cooperation in connected cars. We plan to apply our BlueLink connected car service to the Venue, a new compact SUV that will be launched in second half of 2019. Service will begin in eight major European countries, including the UK, Germany, France, and Spain, and then expand to cover 32 countries across Europe. BlueLink provides regional information services, including the location of parking lots, theft alerts, voice recognition, vehicle location and status checks. By establishing (Left) Ji-yoon Kim, Managing Director of an alliance with Nuance, the US-based technological leader in voice ICT Division at Hyundai Motor Group; and recognition, we plan to offer services in as many European languages as (Right) Yen Yen Tan, President of Asia Pacific possible, including English, French, and German. at Vodafone 2019 Sustainability Report 051 1. INTRODUCTION #open innovation 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Hyundai CRADLE & ZER01NE ‒ global innovation bases Bases for open innovation 3. MATERIALITY REPORT Hyundai has been committed to the discovery, investment in and HYUNDAI CRADLE ‒ Berlin ZER01NE HYUNDAI CRADLE ‒ Silicon Valley promotion of start-ups since 2000, when we established ‘Venture Plaza’, • Opened in April 2019 • Opened in March 2018 • Opened in September 2011 an organization dedicated to venture investment and new business • Concept development for smart city and • Creating synergy in • Identifying emerging innovations and 4. development. We then expanded our venture business by establishing an mobility services fostering creative talent • Expanding platform for market sensing • Securing strategic intelligence SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE innovation base in Silicon Valley in 2011 in order to be an early mover in open innovation innovative technology and overseas start-up investments. In 2015, we were OUR SYSTEM selected by the Korean Ministry of SMEs and Startups to be an operator of the Tech Incubator Program for Startups, a government program to OUR VALUE promote start-ups. We launched the Strategic Technology Headquarters 4.4 Customer in 2017, to look for new growth engines for Hyundai Motor Group, run our Germany • Driving Future Value new businesses, and promote open innovation by making active use of Israel • Enhancing Customer Satisfaction ideas from outside of the company. Furthermore, following the opening of China Seoul, Korea U.S. HYUNDAI CRADLE ‒ Silicon Valley and the ZER01NE in Korea, we opened 4.5 Environment HYUNDAI CRADLE ‒ Tel Aviv in October 2018 and HYUNDAI CRADLE 4.6 Collaboration ‒ Berlin in April 2019. We plan to establish an open innovation center in 4.7 People Beijing by the end of 2019, which will bring our major innovation bases in 4.8 Community five global markets. These five major global innovation bases will discover, invest in, and promote promising start-ups, and collaborate with them to ensure our future technological leadership. 5. APPENDICES HYUNDAI CRADLE ‒ Tel Aviv HYUNDAI CRADLE ‒ Beijing • Opened in October 2018 • Scheduled to open by the end of 2019 • Securing core technologies in security and AI Unveiling the Elevate concept car Hyundai In-house Startup Program (H-Startup) At the international Consumer Electronics Show (CES) held in January Hyundai has been nurturing in-house startups since 2000 to generate new ‘ZER01NE’, an open innovation center 2019, Hyundai presented a new possibility for the future of mobility by ideas about innovative products and services. The program has produced unveiling the ‘Elevate’ walking concept car. The Elevate is the result of 53 in-house startups by May 2019, and 12 of them have successfully spuna collaboration between HYUNDAI CRADLE and Sundberg-Ferar, a USoff from Hyundai. (six new in-house startups and three spin-off companies based design consulting company. It is a new concept in mobility, able to in May 2019) travel both on general roads and, by moving the four robot legs attached to its wheels, in regions and in situations that would be impossible to While in the early stage of H-Startup (2000-2010) in-house startups have access using existing means of transportation. If commercialized, it could mainly focused on auto part-related business, recently in-house startups contribute substantially to search & rescue and to mobility for the disabled. are targeting a wide range of future oriented business fields including We continue to seek creative technologies through our open innovation mobility, blockchain, IoT, and eco-friendly materials. Since 2018, we centers, redefining concepts of mobility and discovering new possibilities expanded the scope and scale of program by including employees of for the mobility of the future. Hyundai Motor Group affiliates as target participants. The program renewal will foster development of innovative technologies and entrepreneurship Hyundai Elevate Concept of HMG employees. 2019 Sustainability Report 052 1. INTRODUCTION Brand Communications 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Hyundai has set its brand direction as ‘Connecting People with Quality Time.’ In order to deliver the accurate meaning of our brand direction to our customers, we will go beyond excellence of our products and services, such as quality, 3. MATERIALITY REPORT driving performance, durability, perceived value, and fuel efficiency. We aim for higher level of customer satisfaction by appealing to consumer’s emotions. 4. Our topics now include clean mobility, connected mobility, freedom in mobility, and other high level of themes related to future mobility. Going SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE forward, we will engage in brand communication activities with a particular focus on delivering emotional and real value of Hyundai to our customers. OUR SYSTEM OUR VALUE Brand Campaign Hyundai Motorsport takes victory 4.4 Customer Hyundai plans to conduct two brand campaigns ‒ ‘Culture Station’ and in the WRC in Argentina 2019 • Driving Future Value ‘Reinventing your every time’ ‒ to effectively communicate ‘Quality Time’, Hydrogen Electric House Season 2 • Enhancing Customer Satisfaction which is our new brand purpose. ‘Culture Station’ is a project that transforms shut-down gas stations into a place where people can have quality time to 4.5 Environment announce changes from old energy to new energy. 4.6 Collaboration Genesis Gangnam Hydrogen Electric House Season 2 4.7 People The second brand campaign, ‘Reinventing your every time’, is a project that Hyundai opened the Genesis Gangnam showroom to be a space in which Hyundai opened the Hydrogen Electric House Season 2 to encourage an 4.8 Community deals with issues that the millennial generations are facing. Through a total customers can get as close as possible to the Genesis brand. It enables eco-friendly society in which hydrogen is used to move cars, and these 24 videos in different time slots, we show that the daily lives of the millennials customers to look at all the Genesis models, and experience every aspect cars drive the world onwards. Season 2 enables visitors to experience a can change into ‘quality time’ through our future mobility technology. We of the Genesis, ranging from customized test drives to professional advice future created by FCEV technologies and eco-friendly hydrogen energy. 5. APPENDICES plan to break away from the previous advertisement production method, on purchasing. The dedicated experts at Genesis Gangnam provide oneIt also enables them to see how close we are to a hydrogen society by and instead adopt a method film academy students and consumers use their on-one product information services to customers, who can enjoy the showcasing how FCEVs can be more than just a means of transportation, smartphones to film their natural, daily quality time experiences and engage brand experience without feeling pressured to make a purchase. and can actually be used as an energy source. In particular, Season 2 in a two-way, interactive communication with our customers. demonstrates the Nexo’s air purification function, showing how FCEVs High-performance N brand produce only clean water and electricity without discharging harmful Hyundai Motorstudio Hyundai created the high-performance N brand based on the experience exhaust gases, and how the Nexo actually draws in and filters fine Since the opening of Hyundai Motorstudio Seoul in 2014, Hyundai Motor and expertise in motor sports accumulated over many years of dust. In addition, we are working with local governments to expand the Company has added Hyundai Motorstudio Hanam, Digital and Goyang in participation in the World Rally Championship (WRC). The N brand goes infrastructure for FCEVs and hydrogen charging. Korea, and Hyundai Motorstudio Moscow and Beijing in Russia and China, beyond performance measured in numbers to pursue the kind of deep respectively. Guru, our vehicle experts, answer visitors’ questions and offer emotional enjoyment that makes a driver’s heart flutter. Embedded in Official sponsorship of FIFA a broad range of automotive experiences and communications at every the DNA of our N brand are corner rascal, everyday sports car, and race Hyundai became an official sponsor of the International Federation Hyundai Motorstudio serving as an intermediary. track capability. The i30 N was launched in 2017, and this was followed of Association Football (FIFA) in 1999, and, since then, we have been by the unveiling of the Veloster N in 2018, which has been well received an active sponsor and supporter of many major football tournaments, by customers in Europe and Korea. In addition to launching more N including the World Cup. As an official sponsor, we have been able to brand vehicles, we will expand the N line into general vehicles, including raise Hyundai brand awareness at many tournaments organized by FIFA, through the use of N performance parts that will allow customers to including every World Cup from 2002, the FIFA Women’s World Cup, the personalize their vehicles. FIFA Confederations Cup, and the FIFA U-20 World Cup. In 2019, we will be at four tournaments, including the 2019 FIFA Women’s World Cup in France. Hyundai will run a wide range of marketing programs to enhance its brand at these events, including providing official vehicles, setting up prominent stadium advertising boards, offering test drives, and Hyundai Motorstudio undertaking joint digital marketing programs in partnership with FIFA. 2019 Sustainability Report 053 1. INTRODUCTION Enhancing Customer Satisfaction 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Customer Communications Everything we do at Hyundai is connected to our customers. We pay close attention to the opinions of both existing and potential customers, and every department within the company cooperates seamlessly to resolve any issues that may arise. 3. MATERIALITY REPORT We communicate with our customers through a wide range of channels, including the ‘H-Ombudsman’, which goes beyond just listening to voice of customers and enables the direct application of customer opinions to our business, thereby enhancing customer value. 4. Promoting VOC-based customer communications Customer satisfaction survey External evaluation regarding customer satisfaction SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Hyundai has created a department dedicated to customer communications. Hyundai conducts the Hyundai Customer Satisfaction Index (HCSI) every National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) The department is tasked with identifying complaints and inconveniences, year in order to identify customer requirements and to assess their levels 1st place at six segments1) OUR SYSTEM and collecting as many customer opinions as possible. This department of satisfaction, both in absolute terms and relative to our competitors. We quickly delivers customer communications to the relevant departments, measure the quality of the customer experience, and identify where we Korean Standard-Quality Excellence Index (KS-QEI) OUR VALUE which any necessary measures for improvement are put into place. We then can make improvements. In 2018, there was a total 4,500 surveys that were 1st place at all segments 4.4 Customer check that those measures are immediately reflected in product quality and allocated proportionally to sales, with 3,900 surveys relating to cars in Korea, • Driving Future Value customer service. and 600 to cars produced overseas. In parallel, we also held a focus group Korean Customer Satisfaction Index (KCSI) interview, so that we could identify specific areas for improvement. The 1st place at all segments • Enhancing Customer Satisfaction major areas covered in the survey were the specific model owned by the 4.5 Environment customer and questions regarding price, sales service, maintenance, overall 1) Compact, semi-medium, medium, semi-large, large, RV 4.6 Collaboration corporate image, and the level of customer loyalty. 4.7 People 4.8 Community Receive customer feedback Review internal process Conduct communication Make improvements We keep up with market trends by identifying the requirements and interests of customers who are planning to purchase our products. 5. APPENDICES We also make improvements by listening carefully to any complaints from customers who have already purchased Hyundai cars. Domestic Communication Team Publications and PR materials Positive customer Product and service feedback awards Integrated Domestic VOC Team Marketing Opinions of potential Complains of existing Group Exhibition and test driving customers customers Product quality Service upgrade upgrade Service Quality PR Planning Information Team Group SNS and media channels 2019 Sustainability Report 054 1. INTRODUCTION H-Ombudsman H-Ombudsman is Hyundai’s customer communications program launched in 2016. The program is designed with the aim to listen intently to our customers 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS and reflect their opinions in how we operate. Through H-Ombudsman, Hyundai is able to listen carefully to customer opinions on a range of topics, including products, marketing, and creating shared value (CSV). We are then able to reflect those opinions in our corporate and product development, meaning that customer opinions have a direct and immediate impact on actual products. We look for outstanding ideas in three specific areas ‒ product innovation, customer 3. MATERIALITY REPORT value, and social benefits ‒ and then reflect these ideas in actual product development, customer service and marketing, and corporate social responsibility. There were a number of new H-Ombudsman activities in 2018, which included the ‘H-Ombudsman Talk’, through which Ombudsmen, mentors, and Hyundai can make unfiltered comments about relevant issues; the ‘H-Ombudsman Heritage’, a program for strengthening loyalty of the previous H-Ombudsmen participants; 4. an online sketch created by social media influencers; and online viral marketing. In May 2019, H-Ombudsman will evolve into an open communications platform for customers, called ‘H-ear’, which will become the ear of Hyundai, listening to our customers. It also encourages anyone to participate in the H-ear lab to share SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE their thoughts and ideas on automobile and related services. 2015 2016 2017 2018 OUR SYSTEM OUR VALUE 4.4 Customer H-Ombudsman Year 3 – Presentation on • Driving Future Value improvements and proposals • Enhancing Customer Satisfaction 4.5 Environment Speak to customers Listen to customers Change with customers Make with customers Results of adopting ideas presented by the 2018 H-Ombudsman 4.6 Collaboration * Previously called as ‘Maeum Dream’ in 2015; and change the program name to ‘H-Ombudsman’ in 2016 4.7 People 1. Enhance Hyundai’s brand image by rearranging contact and 4.8 Community untact services Mix the manned and unmanned response methods (Customer Value Innovation Part. Team 6) Areas of Relevant team: Space Marketing Team 5. APPENDICES suggestion Result of evaluation: Established a plan to operate a customer service Product innovation Customer value innovation Social innovation robot at the Hyundai Motorstudio Goyang as a part of untact services, and Dong-sun Chang, Gilyoung Song, Jeong Tae Kim, outsourced the development project (scheduled to be launched in 2019) Mentors Senior Researcher of Future Mobility Senior Executive Vice President CEO of Merry Year Social Company Development Team at Hyundai Motor Company of Daumsoft (MYSC) 2. Customized safety and convenience services for pregnant women Participants 30 persons (5 persons x 6 teams) 40 persons (5 persons x 8 teams) 30 persons (5 persons x 6 teams) and the mobility impaired A seatbelt for pregnant women ([Outside the Closet] Team of Social Ways of Services, marketing, and Discovery of outstanding ideas related to Hyundai’s Innovation Part) Product development being accepted promotions for customers CSR/CSV activities to resolve social issues Relevant team: Passenger Safety System Design Team Result of evaluation: Reviewed the possibility to apply a seatbelt for • Truck sharing service in farming areas • Program of using the Hyundai’s base • Rest area for the elderly living in shanty towns pregnant women to the pre-mom package (DAIICHI Belt) • Customized and personalized convenience with a specific theme in Summer by using the Hydrogen House and functions • Untact marketing to minimize stress at the Nexo customer contact points • Blind exhibition through collaboration between the disabled and non-disabled artists Ideas accepted in 2018 Seatbelt for pregnant women developed by DAIICHI 2019 Sustainability Report 055 1. INTRODUCTION Improving Customer Services Hyundai always strives to provide customers with the very best in services. Service system Flexible Warranty Service 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS We use our nationwide service infrastructure to ensure that customers can Thanks to our extensive network of service bases, Hyundai provides its Launched in 2018, the flexible warranty service enables customers to choose use their vehicles safely, and we are continuing to improve convenience customers with a wide range of services. In 2018, we introduced our new a warranty period to suit their particular lifestyle. The three types currently 3. MATERIALITY REPORT and efficiency for our customers. ‘flexible warranty service’, and the ‘Genesis Butler Service’, a one-on-one available are mileage, basic, and extended mileage. This program is offered service manager program for Genesis customers, thereby strengthening to all customers purchasing any Hyundai passenger car model launched after Roles of Hyundai services our unique customer service value. January 1, 2018, and the type of program selected can be changed at any 4. Service system Details time within the warranty period. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Vehicle processing • Make a visit to a location designated by customers and Warranty period chosen by customers Selection can be changed Before Service provide vehicle maintenance and counseling services Contract OUR SYSTEM for safe driving A warranty period is chosen It can be changed at any time • Maintenance and repair when purchasing a car within the warranty period OUR VALUE Blue Basic • Provide free inspections eight times in eight years for Information • Support Bluehands Inspection members of Bluemembers 4.4 Customer search Service • Product quality feedback • Driving Future Value • Provide emergency dispatch service when vehicles or • Customer communications Emergency • Enhancing Customer Satisfaction engines sold by Hyundai do not either start or operate Dispatch Service • Positive brand experiences properly 4.5 Environment Repurchase • Provide exclusive services by an expert, ranging from Mileage type Basic type Extended period type 4.6 Collaboration customer response, consultation, vehicle repair and One-Stop Service 4.7 People End-of-life process management as well as explanations to customers 80,000 km for 2 years 40,000 km for 60,000 km for 3 year after-sales service (-1 year, +20,000 km) (+1 year, -20,000 km) 4.8 Community (same as before) → high-mileage customers → Low-mileage customers • Pick up vehicles at a time and location designated by Home-to-Home customers and deliver the vehicles to desired locations after Service repair for customers who find it difficult to visit 5. APPENDICES a repair center Genesis Butler Service Service bases Our service bases provide maintenance and other services, and also serve Excessive We launched the exclusive Genesis Butler service in 2018, both for new • Offer a maximum 300% compensation for excessive as a window for communications with our customers. Our nationwide Maintenance and existing Genesis customers. Customers receive information on vehicle repair cost bills and provide detailed information on repairs Prevention management and maintenance, and they also receive a range of other unique, network of 1,400 bases consists of directly-operated service centers and beforehand to increase customer trust Program Bluehands, the official auto repair & service franchise of Hyundai. high-level services. These include advisory services for all car-related questions, • The beginning of smart management of my car, exclusive support when a car is brought in for repair, booking services for My Car Story Training in service a customized vehicle management smartphone application customers in the event of a trouble code, as well as detailed information on Training at Hyundai is aimed at improving the service skills of staff G90 Customer • The Genesis G90’s unique and distinctive service where the arrival of any consumables required within the warranty period. at service centers in Korea, Bluehands employees, and our overseas Satisfaction a visit is made at a time and location designated by subsidiaries and agents. Specific training is provided on new cars, ecoInspection customers, two weeks after vehicle processing friendly cars, and the Genesis. There is also targeted training on all aspects • Make a visit to a location that customers desire and Visiting Charging of manufacturing and service, including ADAS, networks, safety, NVH, provide free EV charging for 7 kWH that allows a driving Service distance of 44 km engine diagnosis, car body, and painting, as a way to foster service experts who preemptively take measures for new future technologies. • Provide a rental car service when a defect arises during the Rental Car warranty period for the duration in which the vehicle cannot Service be run so as to reduce customer grievance and improve convenience Flexible Warranty • Enable customers to choose a warranty period to suit their Service particular lifestyle Genesis Butler • Exclusive Genesis Butler service, both for new and existing Service Genesis customers Genesis Butler Service 2019 Sustainability Report Singapore Click&Drive 056 1. INTRODUCTION 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS 3. MATERIALITY REPORT 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE OUR SYSTEM Service Innovation Conference OUR VALUE 4.4 Customer • Driving Future Value • Enhancing Customer Satisfaction Bluehands Global Service Support Online sales platform Bluehands is Hyundai’s official service supplier, and our extensive network Hyundai’s service slogan, ‘Right Here, Right Care’, reflects our commitment Hyundai has built an online sales platform which seamlessly connects 4.5 Environment enables us to provide efficient services at locations close to our customers. to world-leading service quality. We have established a worldwide service the online and offline sales experience, making purchasing much more 4.6 Collaboration Bluehands makes improvements to enhance customer safety and organization, strategies, and methods to ensure that manufacturing and convenient. Online sales staff provide one-on-one concierge services 4.7 People convenience, and strives to reduces repair time. service quality are the same in Korea and overseas. Following the launch which enable the entire purchasing process to be handled online, from 4.8 Community of the Customer Experience Division, we have strengthened our agent and searching for a car to checking inventory, negotiating the purchase, dealer management systems to enhance customer experiences through applying for finance and insurance, and making an online payment. Bluemembers global services support, and we also offer digital services and specialist Customers can thus purchase a Hyundai vehicle at any time and from 5. APPENDICES The Bluemembers membership service is open to all Hyundai vehicle services for each model as a way to respond to changes in the automotive any location, while sales staff can both generate new sales opportunities owners. It enables our customers to obtain more enjoyment from their industry including eco-friendly vehicles. and provide a higher quality, more efficient customer experience. Online vehicles, and use our services with great convenience. sales services were launched in Singapore and Australia in 2018, and we In 2018, we further improved our global service operations in order to will expand the service to other regions in 2019, beginning with India and support international sales and drive continued growth. We improved to Europe and the Middle East. Blue Link service quality in Korea, and rolled out Workshop Automation across the Blue Link is Hyundai’s connected car service. It offers customers a wide globe, enabling us to collect service information in the field and then use range of functions and services, including remote vehicle control, safety this information to improve quality. The Workshop Automation system and security, vehicle maintenance, and route information. has computerized and automated the processing of all tasks handled inside workshops, from when the vehicle is first received to when it is returned to customers. In 2018, we hosted our first ‘Service Innovation Autolink Conference’, inviting service directors from our overseas subsidiaries The Autolink application-based service was introduced in 2017. We offer to Korea to participate in open and wide-ranging discussions on the the same services as Blue Link to our overseas customers. Services include strategies and future direction of our global services. In addition, certain the ‘gas discount service’ which provides route information to nearby gas overseas bases have become regional headquarters, allowing each stations. In addition, the driver’s driving patterns can be analyzed through region to implement service strategies specific to the characteristics and the use of big data and the driver can then be offered a ‘insurance discount requirements of that region. Since the cultural and social environments service,’ through which we have been making inroads into car sharing and in each country where we operate are different, there is a need to car hailing services. develop and spread distinctive sales support programs by region. We independently monitor customer responses to our global services. We also check our performance in indices relating to initial quality, durability and reliability, as well as the results of customer satisfaction surveys. 2019 Sustainability Report 057 1. INTRODUCTION Protecting the Rights of Customers Marketing Communications & Product Labeling 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Hyundai protects its customers’ rights, and provides up-to-date, detailed and accurate product information. Regulations on the protection of personal Hyundai ensures that its customer marketing is completely free of any information are becoming stricter to reduce the risk of privacy-related incidents. We have therefore established a committee to prevent risks and ensure the infringements of stakeholder privacy, never includes double standards, protection of personal information. In addition, we are committed to guaranteeing customers’ rights by providing accurate and detailed information. In the and never attempts to influence vulnerable groups, including children. We 3. MATERIALITY REPORT event of any accidental violation of this policy, we disclose information and transparently by issuing a report, press release, or other forms of public disclosure. review our marketing communications in countries around the world to ensure that they conform to all local legal, ethical and cultural standards, and we also take full account of local opinions. Protecting customers’ personal information 4. Hyundai runs a Personal Information Protection Committee, a company-wide decision-making body that establishes, executes, inspects, and improves plans By doing so, we ensure customers have the complete information they SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE for protecting customers’ personal information. It is chaired by the Chief Privacy Officer (CPO), who is also the Domestic Sales Director. The CPO is responsible need when purchasing or using our products, while fulfilling all labeling for overseeing the personal information management process. The Committee meets twice a year, and a working-level sub-committee meets four times a obligations in every market in which we operate. OUR SYSTEM year, although ad hoc meetings are held when required to respond to issues relating to the protection of personal information. In addition, we built and operate Country Product labeling obligation management and information protection systems that are designed to secure safety of customer information processing systems, such as the personal OUR VALUE information protection system (PIS), homepage integrated personal information protection system (HTPS), integrated monitoring of personal information Product information: ID labeling (year of production, vehicle weight, 4.4 Customer processing systems (PIM), image storage system, autonomous personal information search system, and security assurance management system (SAMs). vehicle identification number, types of car, model name, tire, etc.) • Driving Future Value Korea Fuel efficiency (environmental) information: Fuel efficiency • Enhancing Customer Satisfaction Organization chart of the Personal Information Protection Committee Major duties related to personal information protection labeling; and exhaust gas-related sign 4.5 Environment Chairperson • Hold the Personal Information Protection Committee’s general Product safety information: Airbag warning labeling, etc. 4.6 Collaboration Chief Privacy Officer (CPO)1) meeting and working-level staff meeting to establish a work Committee 4.7 People Domestic Sales Division Director plan for each sector, evaluate annual activities, identify areas Product information: ID labeling; VIN (Vehicle Identification activities of improvement, and establish a plan for work improvement Number, W/screen); and anti-theft labeling 4.8 Community according to major law amendments Assistant Execution Assistant CPO in charge of CPO in charge Administrator Administrator legal affairs of IT China Fuel efficiency (environmental) information: Fuel efficiency labeling Domestic Sales Strategy CRM Team Compliance Team IT Security • Examine the implementation status of the measure to Group Director Manager Manager Technology Team Manager ensure stability of the corporate-wide personal information Product safety information: COC labeling; child restraint system 5. APPENDICES processing system on a regular basis (CRS) warning labeling Assessment • Conduct on-site assessments of major business sites and 2) 2) bases (regional headquarters, branch, service center, vehicle Product information: ID labeling (vehicle weight, WVTA certification Category CPO Working-level Member number, etc.); and E-mark for various item certification (lamp, safety processing center, test drive center) CRM Team Manager, belt, horn, tire, mirror, glass, etc.) Sales and Domestic Sales Strategy Integrated VOC Team Manager, • Provide compulsory training to staffs handling personal Membership Information Group Director Customer Experience Strategy Fuel efficiency (environmental) information: Refrigerant labeling; Education information by task and position Team Manager EU diesel engine car smoke labeling (corrected absorption coefficient and training • Provide training to major personal information-handling Service Customer Service Operation Service Planning Team value indication); battery recycling labeling; and fuel labeling staffs through online training Information Director Manager Product safety information: Airbag warning labeling; temporary Commercial Vehicle Customer Commercial Commercia spare tire (if provided) speed alert labeling; brake fluid labeling; Value Management Team • Provide off-the-job training to personal information Customer Information Marketing Director Management and ISOFIX CRS anchor labeling Manager processing service providers (first half of every year) of external Blue Link Membership Connectivity Connectivity 1 Team service • Perform on-site assessments on personal information Product information: Manufacturer’s suggested retail price (MSRP) Information Director Manager providers processing service providers (second half of every year) labeling (Fuel efficiency, NCAP information, etc.) North Employee HR Operation HR Operation Team Information Director Manager • In case of amendments to relevant laws and changes in America Fuel efficiency (environmental) information: VECI labeling relevant organization policies and guidelines, execute (U.S., (certified exhaust gas data); and refrigerant labeling Information General Affairs Security Management Team Protection Director Manager immediate improvements and application to Hyundai’s Canada) Improvement policies, work processes, systems, and forms Product safety information: Tire air pressure information labeling; * As of November 2018 safety certification labeling; and airbag warning labeling • Identify improvement points through regular internal reviews, 1) Chief Privacy Officer (CPO) is in charge of overseeing the organization’s personal information followed by making work improvements and reaffirming protection management and operations, as well as relevant policy and decision-making execution 2) CPO: Executive in the respective area | Working-level Member: Head of each department 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 058 Hyundai’s Customer Value Hyundai makes diverse efforts to adopt itself to the fast-evolving automotive industry and technology environment, First in all six categories for four consecutive years in the NCSI and thus delivers new value to customers. Moreover, we are preparing for the future of mobility where people’s daily Hyundai became the first automotive company to take top spot for four consecutive years in all lives are seamlessly integrated with automobiles through tireless pursuit of technology and sincere communication categories of the National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) ‒ compact passenger car, semiwith customer. We will develop state-of-the-art technology in the midto long run, while being fully aware of all medium passenger car, medium passenger car, semi-large passenger car, large passenger car, customer experiences related to products and services, thereby delivering values that are distinctively Hyundai. and RV. In the RV category, in particular, it was our thirteenth consecutive achievement. The NCSI is a highly-regarded index that undertakes a comprehensive evaluation of customer satisfaction, including levels of customer anticipation, perceived value, and customer loyalty. We received customer recognition for our innovative communications programs and outstanding quality, thus Major Performance & Plan solidifying our reputation as the No. 1 automotive company in Korea. 2018 Performance 2019 Plan Mid-to Long-term Plan • Applied the state-of-the-art Advanced Driver • Apply Highway Driving Assist II (HAD II) • Mass-produce autonomous vehicles with level The Manufacturer of the Year at the 2018 BBC’s Top Gear Awards Assistance System (ADAS) to mass-produced system to the new Genesis SUV in the second 3 capabilities, such as highway driving, by 2021 vehicles half of 2019 • Mass-produce autonomous vehicles with level In November 2018, Hyundai was chosen as the Manufacturer of the Year by BBC’s Top Gear ‒ Blind-Spot View Monitor (BVM), Navigation4 capabilities, such as urban driving, for fleet magazine, one of the best-known media outlets in the automobile industry, thereby being based Smart Cruise Control (NSCC, curved business by 2023 recognized for our continuing success and growth and a diverse product line-up. The Top Gear road), Lane Following Assist (LFA), Parking • Mass-produce autonomous vehicles with level is one of Britain’s four major car magazines that published its first issue in 1993, and it provides Collision-Avoidance Assist (PCA), Remote Driving 4 capabilities by 2030 information on general consumers’ comparative evaluation of new cars versus competitor Smart Parking Assist (RSPA) Future models, test drives, and vehicle purchase. Our brand composition that we have been steadily Value • Established the company’s electric vehicle • Establish ‘Style Set Free’ strategy based on • Introduce a private electric vehicles platform building, which ranges from the i30N high-performance model to eco-friendly cars such as the (EV) strategy and provide a curated future fully customized mobility experience named ‘E-GMP (Electric-Global Modular IONIQ and the Kona Electric, received high recognition by Top Gear. lifestyle to customers Platform)’ which will be able to satisfy the needs of its unique customers • Based on E-GMAP, implement ‘Style Set Free’ strategy and expand producing autonomous Launched Genesis Gangnam, a stand-alone brand showroom vehicles and electric vehicles Hyundai opened ‘Genesis Gangnam’ in January 2018, its first stand-alone showroom for the • Received suggestions for improvements • Launch the H-ear website, an open customer • Establish a corporate-wide policy and Genesis brand, offering an in-depth experience of the entire Genesis line-up. Genesis Gangnam from 95 customers who participated in communication channel strategies through two-way communication is a two-story, 1,293.6 m2 building where visitors are greeted by a process director who provides H-Ombudsman, and review measures to apply with customers, and position in as a platform detailed information on the whole purchase experience. Customers are also given one-on-one Enhancing based on which products and services are • Expanded the scope of the Custom Fit to help and information by professional curators who offer customized products and test drive Customer developed include the Veloster and i30 N Line experiences in order to deliver the full value of the Genesis brand to our customers. Satisfaction • Won the Brand of the Year title at Red Dot • Receive awards from various institutions • Enhance brand awareness and Awards in October 2018 competitiveness 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 059 ENVIRONMENT Green innovation for the future Hyundai is committed to sustaining the natural environment for future generations. The development of eco-friendly cars and our efforts to reduce CO2 emissions will protect the Earth from pollution, and will serve as a driver of truly sustainable development. We will continue to contribute to a better future for all humankind through our total commitment to eco-friendly values. 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 060 Greenlight for the sustainable future Stakeholder Interview Building an additional photovoltaic power generation facility requires a large amount of space, which potentially triggers environmental issues, Eco-friendliness is a vital part of our production process. including damage to forests. As a result, the best way to install the facility is to merge it into existing infrastructure. A solar roof integrates a solar system into the roof of a vehicle, and uses photovoltaic electric power to Hyundai strives to respond to ever-stricter environmental regulations around the world and the support the main power of the vehicle. The installation of a 200W solar rapid growth of the market for eco-friendly vehicles. We are therefore minimizing the environmental panel enables the production and storage of 200Wh of energy per hour impact of our cars by expediting the production and development of eco-friendly vehicles and by at 1 Sun standard (assuming the sun is at summer noon, producing 1,000 improving the fuel efficiency of our internal combustion engines. We are also reducing the amount W/m2 intensity of radiation). Solar panels can recharge the batteries of hazardous substances used in automotive parts, using more eco-friendly materials, and recycling of both eco-friendly vehicles and internal combustion engine vehicles (ICEVs), resulting in improved fuel efficiency and reduced CO2 emissions. waste resources. Even after the panels are installed, we continue to strive towards better customer satisfaction and quality in our products. We also focus on Due to the characteristics of the automotive industry, automobile manufacturers use a great amount ensuring that the durability of vehicles with solar roofs is the same as the of energy and discharge high levels of greenhouse gas (GHG). With environmental regulations durability of others. being enforced around the world, Hyundai is committed to ensuring that our eco-friendly Hyundai will soon become the first automotive company in the world production satisfies all global standards. We have established the Global Energy and Greenhouse Gas to unveil a second-generation semi-transparent solar roof system. We have already undertaken the pilot development needed to complete Management Center, and we are making a number of changes in our business, including using more verification of technical issues within the vehicle unit, and we are now solar energy and improving our hydrogen infrastructure. setting up the production processes and the value chain required for mass-production. We expect to launch the system in four to five years. In addition, we are conducting pilot research on the third-generation solar-lid system, and we are now confirming its feasibility which will be followed by the mass-production. The automobiles of the future will make full use of a wide range of technologies related to energy, including solar systems. Vehicles will no longer passively consume energy, but instead will become power plants that actively produce energy. Car owners will thus become energy prosumers rather than energy consumers. Sang Hak Kim Part Leader, Environment & Energy Research Team, Hyundai Motor Company 2019 Sustainability Report 061 1. INTRODUCTION Eco-friendliness of Products 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Eco-friendly Vehicles Hyundai has been leading the ICEV market as a global automaker, and Next-generation weight reduction technology Development of solar charging system 3. MATERIALITY REPORT continues to improve the eco-friendliness of ICEVs while developing Weight reduction is vital in the automotive industry for a vehicle’s weight Hyundai unveiled its new solar charging technology in October 2018, and producing eco-friendly vehicles such as EVs and FCEVs. We are has a significant impact on engine performance and fuel efficiency. With installing solar panels on vehicle roofs to charge batteries. This system reducing the environmental impact of our vehicles by using a wide range the recent development of eco-friendly vehicles and greater use of new offers auxiliary power to charge the batteries of eco-friendly vehicles or 4. of technologies and systems throughout the entire life-cycle of a vehicle, from product development to manufacturing, use, and end-of-life. materials, there is now an increasing focus on reducing weight by using cutting-edge materials such as high-formability advanced high strength boost the power of ICEVs, rather than acting as the main power source. We are conducting research on three types of system ‒ a first-generation SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE steel (third generation sheets), aluminum, and carbon fiber reinforced silicon-type solar roof, a second-generation semi-transparent solar roof, plastic (CFRP). and a third-generation lightweight car body solar-lid system. OUR SYSTEM Improving fuel efficiency OUR VALUE Hyundai continues to improve fuel efficiency and apply new technologies Against this backdrop, Hyundai focuses on researching measures to We plan to use the first-generation solar roof system in the new Sonata in response to toughening global fuel efficiency regulations and to combine advanced materials, including the development of joining Hybrid to be launched in July 2019, and we are also striving to become the 4.4 Customer ensure our competitiveness in fuel efficiency. Major markets, including techniques that can be used for mass-production. We have applied first automotive company in the world to commercialize solar systems for 4.5 Environment the U.S., Europe, and China, may make their regulations even stricter advanced high strength steel to 53% of the IONIQ car body, and use ICEVs. Energy from the solar system will improve driver convenience and • Eco-friendliness of Products after new fuel efficiency regulations go into effect in 2020, which will be aluminum in major parts such as the hood, tailgate, and chassis; this have a positive impact on the environment by improving fuel efficiency • Responding to Climate Change followed by higher fuel-economy standards and mandatory test mode has resulted in a reduction in the weight of the car and outstanding and reducing GHG emissions. In addition, Hyundai will earn carbon • Minimizing Environmental Impacts beginning in 2025. In response, Hyundai is expediting the changes in fuel efficiency of 22.4 km per liter. Hyundai will continue to use new credits and respond effectively to global environmental regulations. We specifications needed to optimize fuel efficiency, and developing related materials in its vehicles, and reduce their weight in order to enhance ecowill continue to innovate so that automobiles no longer simply consume 4.6 Collaboration key technologies. friendliness. energy, but can function as a moving power plant, actively producing 4.7 People energy. 4.8 Community 5. APPENDICES Hyundai’s direction to improve fuel efficiency Developing next-generation powertrains Improving fuel efficiency and Improving fuel efficiency on real roads (Smartstream) applying new technologies (Off-cycle technology) First-generation (left) and second-generation (right) • Fuel efficiency enhancement by redesigning • Improving tire rolling resistance and • Applying eco technologies to reduce roof panels engine structure aerodynamics; and making tires lightweight power load Optimizing the combustion chamber and piston shape Developing electrification technologies, LED light bulbs, high efficiency Change of intake port shape such as 48V mild hybridinjection technology alternator, solar panel, etc. Reducing mechanical friction on engine moving system • Implement high fuel efficiency by applying key technology Integrated Thermal Management System (ITMS) Continuously Variable Valve Duration (CVVD) Dual Port Fuel Injection (DPFI) Performance evaluation of the second-generation roof panel 2019 Sustainability Report 062 1. INTRODUCTION Reducing the use of hazardous substances Recycling waste resources Regulations relating to the use of hazardous substances continue to Hyundai is building a resource-circulation recycling system to enable us to reuse many of the parts in our automobiles. Our eco-friendly end-of-life 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS get stricter. Hyundai therefore operates a detailed regulation response vehicle processing network is creating a positive resource cycle, collecting recyclable parts from end-of-life vehicles and then putting them through an system that covers the entire process, from the monitoring of regulations eco-friendly recycling process so that they can be used in the production of new vehicles. This system is currently limited to iron and non-ferrous metals, to their application in vehicle development and mass-production. but we plan to increase its scope to include non-recyclable items, including plastics, rubber, glass, and seats, so that we can reuse as many materials 3. MATERIALITY REPORT Moreover, we ensure that our suppliers are able to respond effectively to from end-of-life vehicles as possible. In plastics, for example, we are mixing pellets produced through recycling with new materials and then applying all relevant regulations. the mixture to functional parts such as wheel guards, undercovers, and shrouds. For seats, we have developed a technology which makes them into materials for parts such as sound absorption and luggage partitions. We will continue to expand the scope of our parts recycling technologies in order to 4. In addition, Hyundai has adopted the International Material Data System (IMDS), operated jointly by global auto manufacturers since 2004, to fulfill our social responsibility to build an eco-friendly and resource-efficient economy. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE systematically manage information on the chemicals contained in our Resource-circulation recycling system Auto parts made from recycled materials products. Information collected from the IMDS is linked to our own OUR SYSTEM Material Analysis Management System (MAMS) to ensure that there is no Waste plastics Waste seat inflow of hazardous substances into our products. OUR VALUE 4.4 Customer In order to offer the safest possible products to customers, we are constantly looking to use alternative substances instead of substances Wheel 4.5 Environment that may be harmful to the human body, irrespective of whether there End-of-life Waste parts and guards • Eco-friendliness of Products materials are regulations requiring us to do so. • Responding to Climate Change • Minimizing Environmental Impacts Sound Application of eco-friendly materials absorption 4.6 Collaboration Most of the countless non-metal parts used in automobiles are based 4.7 People on petrochemicals. Hyundai recognizes the environmental impact of the Recycled parts 4.8 Community automotive materials, and is aiming to expand its use of bio-materials that originate from micro-organisms and plants. Use Recycle Undercovers Most interior materials in the Nexo, our next-generation FCEV launched 5. APPENDICES in 2018, are UL-certified bio materials, including plant-based artificial leather, bioplastics and fabrics, and plant-based paints. We will continue Luggage to expand the use of eco-friendly materials, so that we can offer our partitions Recycled materials customers better air quality inside their vehicles, greater durability, improved safety, a better driving environment, and more value. Production Shrouds One-stop service for eco-friendly end-of-life vehicle processing 01 02 03 04 05 End-of-life inquiry Review vehicle registration Submit vehicle Vehicle registration cancellation Vehicle dismantling Notification on process to recycle Reimbursement and and recycling Eco-friendly bio-materials vehicle and valuation of vehicle confirmation receiptc used in the Nexo 2019 Sustainability Report 063 1. INTRODUCTION Responding to Climate Change Photovoltaic power generation facility installed in the proving ground of the Ulsan Plant 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Managing Energy and Reducing GHG Emissions Hyundai is reducing its GHG emissions as part of the extensive efforts being 3. MATERIALITY REPORT made by the international community to counter climate change. In addition to developing eco-friendly vehicles, we are reducing energy usage at all of our business sites, especially production plants, including building high4. efficiency facilities and making process improvements. In addition, the GHG strategy organization consisting of the energy managers from all of our SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE business sites, is helping us to build sustainable and eco-friendly plants. OUR SYSTEM In 2018, Hyundai built on our existing energy saving measures, including the OUR VALUE manufacturing of a photovoltaic power generation system and the use of a co-generation system, by establishing a midto long-term strategy to reduce 4.4 Customer Hydrogen Fuel Cell Demonstration Center H Station, a hydrogen charging station, at the Anseong Service Area GHG emissions and to use more renewable energy. 4.5 Environment • Eco-friendliness of Products Establishing the GEMS • Responding to Climate Change Hyundai promotes the efficient use of energy through the Global Energy & The photovoltaic power generation system will be set up on a site of around of building an eco-friendly hydrogen ecosystem and developing a new • Minimizing Environmental Impacts GHG Management System (GEMS), allowing real-time energy monitoring 270,000m2 within the Ulsan Plant. The site will continue to serve its original energy business model. of all of our business sites both in Korea and overseas. We analyze energy purpose while the photovoltaic panels are being installed on the roof, to 4.6 Collaboration Expanding the hydrogen infrastructure indicators in real time, including energy usage, GHG emissions, and energy ensure that the construction does not cause any environmental damage. 4.7 People costs. We share the technical abilities of energy-efficient sites, and create The first phase, involving installation in the proving ground, is expected to be Hyundai is planning to expand the hydrogen charging infrastructure 4.8 Community targeted measures for improvements in energy consumption and GHG completed in September 2019. Once second phase construction is finished by opening charging stations at four locations across Korea in 2019, emissions for each business site. Hyundai will continue to improve its ecoin 2020, the construction of a 27 MW system will be completed, and we beginning with the National Assembly building in May, which will be friendly energy and emissions systems at all of its business sites. expect it to produce 35 million kWH of electricity annually, an equivalent of followed by Gangdong-gu in Seoul, Sasang-gu in Busan, and Namdong5. APPENDICES electricity used by 10,000 households in a year. gu in Incheon by September. We also opened the first hydrogen charging Reducing Scope 3 GHG emissions station on a highway in Korea in April 2019, the first step towards building Hyundai controls its Scope 1 emissions ‒ direct emissions from owned This photovoltaic power project at our Ulsan Plant is the first in Korea to a hydrogen charging network. Moreover, Hyundai is the second largest or controlled sources ‒ and Scope 2 emissions ‒ indirect emissions from involve joint development between a public and a private company, and, shareholder in the Hydrogen energy Network (HyNet), a special purpose the generation of purchased energy. In addition, we manage our Scope 3 after its completion, we will review whether to implement additional projects company that is working in partnership with the energy industry to emissions ‒ indirect emissions from our value chain, including employee in the future. Hyundai will continue to respond actively to the Korean expand the hydrogen infrastructure by building 310 hydrogen charging commuting, the transportation and distribution of products, and the full government’s policies on renewable energy, reduce its GHG emissions, and stations by 2022. range of both upstream and downstream emissions. It also covers indirect develop eco-friendly production plants. emissions by companies in which we invest. In 2018, there was a year-on-year Hyundai has been a member of the Board of Directors at H2KOREA since improvement of 27.6% in our Scope 3 GHG emissions, mainly attributable to Developing hydrogen fuel cells August 2016, a hydrogen convergence group that brings together the increased demand for the IONIQ Electric and Kona EV. We measure, manage In December 2018, Hyundai signed an agreement with Ulsan Metropolitan public and the private sector to advance the hydrogen industry. Hyundai and strive to reduce all of our direct and indirect GHG emissions, and we also City to expand the hydrogen infrastructure through the Hydrogen Fuel is also a founding member and co-chair of the Hydrogen Council, a continue to disclose our environmental efforts to all our stakeholders. Cell Demonstration Center at the Ulsan Technopark, a project to envisage group of CEOs from international hydrogen-related companies. Hyundai the hydrogen society of the future by demonstrating a 500 kW power is strongly supporting international public-private cooperation within Increasing generation of photovoltaic power generation fuel cell, developed by using Hyundai’s outstanding fuel cell the hydrogen industry and is taking the lead in expanding the hydrogen Hyundai reached an agreement with Ulsan Metropolitan City and Korea technology for FCEVs. Our plan for 2019 is to carry out a pilot project economy. Hydro & Nuclear Power in August 2018, to build a large-scale photovoltaic in cooperation with regional energy companies through which we will power generation system at our Ulsan Plant. We had built the photovoltaic build a 1 MW fuel cell system that can supply electricity to more than Hyundai will continue to work on resolving environmental issues through power generation facility on the roof of our Asan Plant in 2013, and we plan 1,000 households. We are also looking into participating in a pilot project the use of hydrogen energy, including by developing technologies that to install a major photovoltaic power generation system on existing sites at relating to a hydrogen fuel cell for buildings, while also planning to install will make FCEVs even more eco-friendly, and by building an infrastructure our Ulsan Plant, including in the proving ground and the export vehicle yard. a hydrogen fuel cell power plant at our production plant, with the goal in support of FCEVs and other hydrogen vehicles. 2019 Sustainability Report 064 1. INTRODUCTION Energy Management and Reduction of GHG Emissions at Major Business Sites 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS As the international community is demanding eco-friendliness while governments around the world are enforcing ever-tighter environmental regulations, Hyundai strives to improve its energy efficiency and reduce its GHG emissions. We identify how we can reduce the use of energy at each business site and in each working process, and set out plans on an annual basis to put effective countermeasures into place. 3. MATERIALITY REPORT Ulsan Plant Asan Plant Namyang Technology Research Center Jeonju Plant 4. Hyundai’s Ulsan Plant became the first automotive plant in Korea to build a co-generation system to Hyundai’s Asan Plant has reduced its energy usage in a number of ways, including by installing high-efficiency The Namyang Technology Research Center produces a certain amount of GHGs during its research activities, Hyundai’s Jeonju Plant has reduced its GHG emissions by utilizing construction methods which minimize SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE replace its diesel emergency generators. The system facilities and optimizing its processes. The photovoltaic including car design, pilot production and performance energy usage in its production facilities, and by replacing uses a gas turbine that burns LNG to supply the electric power generation facility has been in operation since testing. It therefore uses high-efficiency facilities and older facilities with new, high-efficiency facilities. OUR SYSTEM power and steam needed at the plant. The entire power 2013, and produces an annual 13,000 MWh of electricity. operational systems to minimize its GHG emissions. generation process is automated through a Factory We are continuing to expand eco-friendly management In 2018, the Jeonju Plant reduced its GHG emissions by OUR VALUE Energy Management System (FEMS) and is designed at all of our business sites, including identifying more Lighting fixtures in older buildings at the Technology 2,445 tons by applying insulating paints to its paint shop 4.4 Customer to allow unmanned operations. areas in which we can use alternative energy. Research Center were replaced with LED lights and an oven, standardizing its facility operating hours, installing 4.5 Environment automatic lights-out system has been installed. This has high-efficiency air compressors, changing 1,500 • Eco-friendliness of Products This co-generation system produces 11 million kWh of The major focus of our environmental activities in 2018 resulted in a 3.32 million kWh annual reduction in the fluorescent lights to LEDs, and setting up 28 power• Responding to Climate Change electricity annually, and has enabled savings of around was the building of an energy management system use of energy and an annual reduction of 1,547 tons of saving circuits in its engine processing equipment. In • Minimizing Environmental Impacts KRW 900 million every year during the peak demand at our Asan Plant. This system examines our energy GHG emissions. Waste heat from incineration is used for particular, we reduced 508 tons of CO2 emissions from periods in winter and summer. We have also installed usage and GHG emissions in real time, so that we heating, which reduces GHG emissions by 2,377 tons, paint shop operations by replacing 25 older motors with 4.6 Collaboration an external steam program, which uses the heat can eliminate energy wastage during non-production and 720,000 kWh of electricity was produced using high-efficiency motors. 4.7 People generated during waste incineration for some of our hours. Other activities aimed at reducing energy usage photovoltaic power generation facilities, reducing GHG 4.8 Community other work processes, thus reducing our impact on the included replacing older motors with high-efficiency emissions by 336 tons. environment. motors, and installing inverters and LED lights. These have resulted in an annual reduction in GHG emissions The Technology Research Center is also enhancing 5. APPENDICES of 3,700 tons, and an annual reduction in the cost of its energy efficiency by repairing and replacing older energy of KRW 960 million. facilities and equipment used in its experiments, and by improving operational efficiency. An energy management system is used for the real-time monitoring and control of energy usage, and also for the empirical analysis of our reduction of GHG emissions. Classification Paint shop oven temperature management VOC burning temperature management Hot air circulation temperature management Co-generation facility at the Ulsan Plant Energy management system at the Asan Plant Photovoltaic power generation facilities at the Namyang Technology Research Center 2019 Sustainability Report 065 1. INTRODUCTION Minimizing Environmental Impacts 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Reducing the Environmental Impact of Business Sites Hyundai is constantly striving to reduce the environmental impact of all Managing water resources Minimizing waste materials 3. MATERIALITY REPORT of its business activities. In managing environmental pollutants at our With water posing a social issue worldwide, water resource management Hyundai has been making facility investments and expanding the business sites, especially production plants, our internal control criteria at our business sites has become of vital importance in looking after our number of items that we are able to recycle with the goal of reducing are stricter than the regulatory requirements of every country in which local communities. Hyundai has established water management policies waste while increasing recycling. For example, sludge conditioning 4. we operate. We also have established an integrated environmental facility control system. In addition, we make sure that our employees are fully and goals for reducing water usage at each business site, backed by detailed implementation strategies. and improvements in the dehydrators at our Ulsan Plant have reduced the amount of sludge being generated by some 287 tons. Our plan for SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE aware of the importance of the environment through corporate-wide 2019 is to reuse sludge as an auxiliary fuel for thermal power plants, campaigns aimed at preventing accidents and monitoring environmental Our Ulsan Plant sets strict criteria to prevent leaks of water pollutants and to increase recycling by improving our ability to separate out solid OUR SYSTEM risks. Furthermore, we actively respond to the environmental and social and utilizes a remote monitoring system for the automated monitoring of incinerated matter. OUR VALUE demands of our internal and external stakeholders, thus building an potential problems. In addition, a detailed management plan concerning environmental ecosystem at our business sites that will be effective over potential sources of pollutants ensures that there is zero oil leakage Strengthening management of hazardous chemical materials 4.4 Customer the long-term. into streams. In addition to reducing water pollutants, we also strive to Hyundai is committed to preventing harm to people and the environment 4.5 Environment reduce the amount of wastewater itself. The Asan Plant uses a zero liquid from leaks of hazardous chemical materials at our business sites. We • Eco-friendliness of Products discharge system in order to reuse all of the wastewater produced at the are therefore replacing highly hazardous materials, and strengthening • Responding to Climate Change Minimizing air pollutants plant and in local residential areas. our facility inspections. In 2018, we replaced the hydrochloric acid used • Minimizing Environmental Impacts Hyundai continues to make facility investments and process improvements in our paint shops and the sulfuric acid in our material plants, thereby to reduce the amount of pollutants generated by our automobile production. We will continue to extend our pollutant management activities. We are resulting in a reduction of 109 tons in our use of hazardous chemical 4.6 Collaboration In 2018, we installed an additional painting regenerative thermal oxidizer also running programs aimed at minimizing environmental damage, materials. We will continue our replacement activities in 2019. We will 4.7 People (RTO) and invested in improving material dust collectors, resulting in a 4% including making safety and the environment a vital part of the mindset also offer extensive employee training relating to hazardous materials by 4.8 Community reduction in emissions intensity of volatile organic compounds, and a 9% of all of our employees, and conducting training on how to respond to using user-created content, so that we can build an even safer system for reduction in dust emissions intensity. In 2019, we are making an active effort major leaks. the management of hazardous chemical materials. to resolve fine dust problems by making facility investments including the 5. APPENDICES installation of paint shop evaporation equipment. RTO facilities at painting shop 42 line of Ulsan Plant Installation of fiber disc filters at the Asan Plant Sludge dehydrators at the Ulsan Plant 2019 Sustainability Report 066 1. INTRODUCTION Roadmap for the Eco-friendly Site Management 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Hyundai identifies the major activities of each of its business sites and their resulting impact on the environment. We then deploy targeted efforts to reduce the environmental impact. This will further improve the eco-friendliness of all of our business sites over the midto long-term. 3. MATERIALITY REPORT Plans to reduce environmental impacts at each business site Repetitive, short-term (3-5 years) Mid-term (5-10 years) Long-term (10 years and more) 4. HQ • Make efforts to reduce GHG in connection with reducing fine dust ‒ Raise employee awareness, communicate through various channels, etc. • Make the new HQ building (Global Business Center) eco-friendly in terms of • Expand the scope of environmental management to include dealerships construction and operation and service centers in order to contribute to building an eco-friendly society SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE ‒ Apply eco-friendly factors when building the GBC ‒ Apply eco-friendly air-conditioning and heating, and adopt high-efficiency • Continually implement and strengthen activities to reduce energy use in daily life ‒ Use eco-friendly fuel and install power generation facilities facilities OUR SYSTEM ‒ Make continued corporate-wide efforts and strengthen campaigns to (hydrogen/photovoltaic) • Expand the installation of new and renewable power generation (hydrogen/ reduce energy use • Adopt an energy storage system (ESS) mainly at business sites on photovoltaic) at company buildings OUR VALUE ‒ Carry out energy-saving activities through the restart campaign of Jeju Island, the mecca of eco-friendly vehicles 4.4 Customer Go Together 4.5 Environment • Monitor the GHG emissions of suppliers • Eco-friendliness of Products • Operate a GHG Council consisting of representatives of business sites • Responding to Climate Change • Operate wastewater treatment facilities at vehicle processing centers • Minimizing Environmental Impacts to improve water quality after washing cars 4.6 Collaboration Plant • Begin the shift into eco-friendly energy sources • Apply and expand new energy reduction/management technologies of • Build eco-friendly smart factories 4.7 People ‒ Install large-scale photovoltaic power generation in the Ulsan Plant the future ‒ Expand self-assessment and IoT-based management of energy 4.8 Community by 2020 ‒ Adopt hydrogen fuel cell power generation to the company’s processes ‒ Apply optimal energy operation efficiency techniques, including outage‒ Build a co-generation plant that produces electricity and heat (steam) ‒ Expand the application of ESS free production plants in connection with co-generation power plants together ‒ Adopt energy management techniques using IoT • Move forward with “producing eco-friendly vehicles at eco-friendly plants” • Increase energy reuse in processes • Conduct eco-friendly activities in connection with resource recycling ‒ Replace production lines to be eco-friendly 5. APPENDICES ‒ Apply plant steam through waste heat from Hyundai Heavy Industries’ ‒ Adopt power generation using waste generated in the plants ‒ Increase new & renewable energy power generation incinerators ‒ Secure waste heat suppliers, including nearby industrial complex, ‒ Build power plants by recycling waste EV batteries ‒ Operate pressure differential power generation using steam and adopt power generation using waste heat • Strengthen roles as an energy consumer through diversification of energy • Minimize energy loss that occurs while operating production facilities adoption sources ‒ Replace old pipes, lines and facilities, and apply high-efficiency ‒ Review the operating of internal power plants through direct gas import equipment ‒ Review the contributing to the RE100 society through direct new and ‒ Conduct campaigns and communication continuously to raise renewable energy import employee awareness ‒ Carry out energy-saving activities through the restart campaign of Go Together • Carry out diverse activities and obtain certifications as an outstanding company in energy saving Technical Center • Strengthen management of energy loss factors • Build eco-friendly research facilities • Expand use of eco-friendly energy at R&D facilities ‒ Operate air-conditioning and heating, and strengthen related campaigns ‒ Expand the installation of photovoltaic power generation on building roofs ‒ Expand the adoption of hydrogen fuel cell power generation • Adopt external waste heat steam, and reduce fuel use ‒ Build a smart grid ‒ Review the adopting of photovoltaic power generation in connection R&D • Expand eco-friendly research facilities in connection with R&D for for eco-friendly vehicles ESS • Make efforts to reduce GHG in connection with fine dust reduction ‒ Raise employee awareness, communicate through various channels, etc. eco-friendly vehicles ‒ Review the adopting of ESS that uses waste batteries from EVs ‒ Review the adopting of hydrogen fuel cell power generation (small scale) 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 067 Hyundai’s Environmental Responsibility Hyundai not only responds to global environmental regulations with eco-friendly technologies, but also is fully aware Winner in three categories at the British ‘Next Green Car’ Awards of the automotive industry’s impact on eco-systems on the Earth. That is why we always strive to fulfill our social The Next Green Car Awards are given to the best eco-friendly vehicles launched in the UK. responsibilities by improving the gas mileage of our products, continuing to reduce carbon footprints, proactively These awards examine a wide range of vehicles and manufacturers for car of the year, and make recycling by-products, and conducting other eco-friendly actions. We will continue to put our best efforts to improve their selections based on a number of criteria, including environmental performance and cost. the eco-friendliness of automobiles, one of the main issues that the industry has to resolve in the mediumto long run, Hyundai’s Kona EV received the 2018 Next Green Car Awards in two categories ‒ Car of the Year and to further reduce the environmental impact associated with our business operations. and Family Car of the Year. Hyundai also won the Manufacturer of the Year award, in recognition of our outstanding expertise in the development of EVs. It is the first time for a manufacturer, rather than a car, to receive the award. Major Performance & Plan 2018 Performance 2019 Plan Mid-to Long-term Plan • Discovered a new company for the resource• Discover more companies within the • Continue to improve resource-circulation Carbon Management Honors Club’s Award by CDP circulation recycling system, reducing resource-circulation recycling network to capabilities for end-of-life vehicles in line Ecotransportation logistics costs and promoting improve resource-circulation recycling rate with the adoption of extended producer The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a global project founded in 2003. It evaluates the friendliness stable operations responsibility (EPR) programs activities of companies in some 90 countries around the world in reducing GHG emissions. of Products • Conducted an evaluation for selecting an Approximately 6,800 companies were assessed by the CDP in 2018, and 139 of them were given outstanding company within the network to the top ‘Leadership A’ grade. Hyundai not only earned a Leadership A grade in 2018 but received level up overall standards the ‘Carbon Management Honors Club’ award. • Achieved the goal of emission allowances • Operate a corporate-wide GHG response • Reduce GHG emissions in a phased manner, allocated by the government according to committee, and strengthen activities to and expand the CDM project at overseas emissions trading scheme (ETS) reduce GHG emissions business sites Responding • Reduce GHG emissions by 26% compared to to Climate the figure in 2017 by 2030 Change Tenth win in the WardsAuto 10 Best Engines Award • Continued to operate existing photovoltaic • Complete the phase I of the construction of a • Build a 27 MW-level photovoltaic power power generation facilities built in our Ulsan photovoltaic power generation complex in the generation complex in the Ulsan Plant by 2021 Hyundai has been named among the 10 Best Engines Winners by WardsAuto, a total of ten Plant and Asan Plant proving ground of our Ulsan Plant times over the last 11 years, beginning with the Tau engine in 2009. The Tau engine was awarded for three consecutive years from 2009 through to 2011, and that success was followed by our winning of the pure internal combustion engine category on six occasions, for the Kappa 1.4 Turbo Engine and the Lambda 3.3 Turbo Engine. Hyundai has also been named for four times in the eco-friendly model category, for the Sonata Plug-in Hybrid, the Kona Electric, and the Nexo FCEV, thereby meeting fuel efficiency and environmental standards as well as customer requirement for vehicle performance. 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 068 COLLABORATION Shared challenges, shared growth Hyundai believes that its own competitiveness relies on the competitiveness of its suppliers. Given the massive changes taking place in the automotive industry, a better future can only come about through strong partnerships with our suppliers. Hyundai is therefore creating a virtuous cycle of joint growth within the automotive industry by providing suppliers with comprehensive support. 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 069 Driven by a shared vision Stakeholder Interview The Hyundai & Kia Automotive Suppliers Association was established to build strong and cooperative relationships between Hyundai We grow in partnership with our suppliers, and its suppliers, and to promote the exchange of information between them. With the automotive industry now seeing extensive driven by the same goal – the highest levels of quality. technological convergence and substantial changes, it is vital to innovate, even for all of 30,000 parts of Hyundai products. However, Hyundai knows that growing in partnership with its suppliers leads to better quality for its customers. rising global protectionism, increases in minimum wage, reduced working hours, and other changes in the Korean labor market are We are therefore committed to transparent and fair trade with our suppliers. We have in place having a substantial impact, not only on small and medium-size rigorous fair trade compliance programs and risk assessments to increase the transparency of our suppliers but also on the industry as a whole. The changes are making supply process, which are building the foundations for joint growth. supply chain competitiveness more important than ever. Against this backdrop, Hyundai is expanding the scope of its joint Hyundai’s suppliers grow alongside us, and we offer a wide range of programs enabling them to growth to include tier 2 and tier 3 suppliers, and also increasing the develop a global level of competitiveness and to achieve continued growth. In partnership with our amount of support it gives to its suppliers, so that we can maintain suppliers, we build an ecosystem for joint growth that ensures both Hyundai and our suppliers to offer a healthy ecosystem across the entire automotive industry. Hyundai established the Foundation of Korea Automotive Parts Industry customers the highest standards in quality. Promotion to improve the qualitative and technological competitiveness of parts suppliers over the midto long-term. Hyundai is also helping suppliers by providing direct financial support, such as compensation for wage increases and low interest rate loans for tier 2 and tier 3 suppliers experiencing financial difficulties due to increases in the minimum wage. The Supplier Association will further widen the channels of communication between Hyundai and its suppliers. We hope to create mutual understanding based on consideration and respect for others, and we are looking for ways to move forward in partnership, especially at a time of substantial change in our industry. Soo Young Um General Manager, Hyundai & Kia Automotive Suppliers Association 2019 Sustainability Report 070 1. INTRODUCTION Compliance Program 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Establishing Fair Trade Order Hyundai operates a Compliance Program (CP) to promote joint development based on mutual trust and cooperation with all of its stakeholders. We first CEO’s commitment to compliance 3. MATERIALITY REPORT set up the CP in 2002 to ensure that we comply with fair trade laws. Overall management of the CP is the responsibility of the independent Compliance Fair and transparent management at Hyundai begins with CEO’s strong Officer, whose authorization and responsibility are delegated from the CEO. He is also supported by various organizations within Hyundai. The results of commitment to fair trade. In the first and second half of every year, our the CP are reported to the Board of Directors. CEO publicly announces his pledge to practice fair trade compliance. The 4. We recognize that fair trade and competition are essential for a company to grow. Hyundai continues to implement fair trade and comply with all strong commitment to fair trade of the top management is communicated to all of our staff, and compliance guidelines are implemented throughout SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE regulations in order to build strong relationships with all of our stakeholders, including staff, suppliers, governments, and local communities. our business accordingly. OUR SYSTEM Providing CP education OUR VALUE Implementing Compliance Program Hyundai provides training on fair trade to new executives and employees when they join the company, to ensure that they are fully aware of the 4.4 Customer Fair and transparent management at Hyundai derives from our CEO’s commitment to fair trade, as set out in the declarations made in the first and importance of the Fair Trade Act. In addition, staff whose work is closely 4.5 Environment second half of every year. This strong commitment to fair trade is communicated to all of our staff, and compliance guidelines are implemented related to fair trade receive additional compliance training every year. We 4.6 Collaboration throughout our business. In addition, Hyundai is establishing a fair trade mindset by providing extensive, company-wide training on fair trade, and by also publish monthly newsletters on fair trade, so that our employees are • Compliance Program publishing regular newsletters on this issue. Results from the CP and next year’s CP plans are reported to the BOD every year, to ensure that compliance properly kept abreast on fair trade, and a fair trade mindset is established • Supporting Suppliers’ Growth with fair trade is instituted at every business site. throughout the company. • Supply Chain Management CP implementation process 4.7 People 4.8 Community 5. APPENDICES Planning Boosting employees’ Report of results awareness • CEO announces his commitment • Provide employees with education • Report CP results and plans to to practice fair trade compliance on Fair Trade Act, including field the BOD (January/July) training and online training • Operate the CP Councilc • Distribute newsletters on fair trade CP education 2019 Sustainability Report 071 1. INTRODUCTION Supporting Suppliers’ Growth 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Supporting the Growth of Suppliers Hyundai’s suppliers consist of tier 1 suppliers, who supply parts directly to us, tier 2 suppliers, who supply to the tier 1 suppliers, and general suppliers, who supply general products. Our Joint Growth Team spearheads the 3. MATERIALITY REPORT implementation of policies that are put in place to achieve win-win cooperation with our suppliers. Hyundai believes that improving our suppliers’ capabilities improves the competitiveness of the Korean automotive parts industry. We are therefore supporting our suppliers in terms of production technologies and R&D, over the long term. We will continue to provide positive support to suppliers to improve their businesses, so that we can enhance our own quality and the competitiveness of the automobile industry in Korea. 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Effects of joint growth through long-term cooperation Average trade period Major performance of suppliers (2018 vs. 2001) OUR SYSTEM OUR VALUE 4.4 Customer Difference: 19 years + 4.5 Environment Average life span of domestic 4.6 Collaboration small and medium-sized 12.6 manufacturers: years Financial Corporate Joint entry • Compliance Program improvement size growth into overseas • Supporting Suppliers’ Growth markets • Supply Chain Management Average trade period with Hyundai Motor Company and/or Kia Motors: 32 years 4.7 People Increase Corporate size growth of large companies Expansion of joint entry into 4.8 Community in sales and medium-sized firms overseas markets 5. APPENDICES (Unit: Company) No. of suppliers by trade period 3.8 times 3.4 times Around 800 companies 1 2 1. Under 10 years 6 (2%) Increase in sales of suppliers Total market capitalization of 5 2. 10-20 years 40 (14%) (sales of more than KRW 100 billion) listed suppliers 3. 20-30 years 79 (27%) 2.4 9.3 4. 30-40 years 95 (33%) 3 5. More than 40 years 68 (24%) times times 4 Suppliers with trade period of more than 10 years: 98% * Target of analysis: Tier 1 part suppliers (excluding Hyundai affiliates and non-specialist firms on which the company depends under 10%) 2019 Sustainability Report 072 1. INTRODUCTION Win-win Growth Strategy for Suppliers 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Hyundai’s strategy for joint growth with its suppliers is to cultivate their global competitiveness, reinforce the basis for sustainable growth, and establish a culture of joint growth. In cultivating global competitiveness of our suppliers, we plan to foster quality competitiveness, develop R&D capability, and enhance productivity. To reinforce the basis for sustainable growth, Hyundai is helping suppliers in strengthening foundation for sustainable management, building infrastructure for growth, and expanding global sales channels. In order to establish a culture of joint growth, Hyundai will strengthen the collaborative network between suppliers and the company, expand its support for tier 3. MATERIALITY REPORT 2 and tier 3 suppliers, and create a culture of joint growth. These efforts will build a virtuous cycle of win-win growth for Hyundai and its suppliers based on a strong partnership. Joint growth strategy and programs 4. Cultivating Global Competitiveness Reinforcing the Basis for Sustainable Growth Establishing a Culture of Joint Growth SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Fostering quality competitiveness Strengthening foundation for sustainable management Strengthening the collaborative network OUR SYSTEM • Foundation of Korea Automotive Parts Industry Promotion • Cash payment for product delivery prices • Operating a collaborative council by tier 1 suppliers • 5-star system • Adjusting the price of raw materials • Operating a Win-win Portal OUR VALUE • Operation of a quality/technology school • Financial support programs • Sharing information on raw materials price 4.4 Customer • Education on quality by work type • Making early payment for product delivery prices on holidays 4.5 Environment • Improvements toward confidence in durability • Joint purchase 4.6 Collaboration • Compliance Program • Supporting Suppliers’ Growth • Supply Chain Management 4.7 People Developing R&D capability Building infrastructure for growth Expanding supports for tier 2 and 3 suppliers 4.8 Community • R&D Support Group for Suppliers • Consortium to develop human resources • Fostering product quality technologies of tier 2 and 3 suppliers • Guest engineers • Seminars for future CEOs • Providing funds to tier 2 and 3 suppliers • Exhibitions and seminars for new technologies • Helping suppliers recruit outstanding talents • Operating a joint growth system for tier 1 and 2 suppliers • R&D Supplier Tech Day • Providing education to suppliers’ employees • Operating a win-win payment system 5. APPENDICES • Benchmarking advanced technology • R&D Motor Show • Protecting patents and technologies Enhancing productivity Expanding global sales channels Creating a culture of joint growth • Industrial innovation campaign • Joint entry into overseas markets • Joint growth agreements • Building smart plants • Support for suppliers’ export expansion • Transparent Purchase Practice Center • Resident technology guidance • Support for export marketing of tier 2 and 3 suppliers • Support for ethical management at suppliers • Resident management consulting • Awarding to best practice joint growth case • Socially responsible management • Welfare programs for suppliers 2019 Sustainability Report 073 1. INTRODUCTION Cultivating Global Competitiveness 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Quality at Hyundai depends on the quality of parts used in our finished cars, which means that quality and technical excellence of the parts which come from our suppliers are directly linked to customer trust. We are therefore supporting our suppliers’ efforts to improve quality, make technological developments, and enhance productivity, in order to ensure that we can minimize defects within our finished products. 3. MATERIALITY REPORT Fostering quality competitiveness Developing R&D capacity Enhancing productivity Foundation of Korea Automotive Parts Industry Promotion R&D Support Group for Suppliers Industrial innovation campaign 4. In partnership with Kia Motors and Hyundai Mobis, Hyundai has established Hyundai became the first Korean automobile company to establish an R&D A group comprised of large companies, tier 1 suppliers, and experts SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE the Foundation of Korea Automotive Parts Industry Promotion in 2002. Support Group for Suppliers. The R&D Support Group shares technology carries out an industrial innovation campaign by overhauling Hyundai invests around KRW 6 billion every year to support making between Hyundai and its suppliers, and pursues improvements in quality. technologies, working environment, and production process, in order to OUR SYSTEM improvements in quality, technology, and management at its suppliers. This helps suppliers build their R&D capacity, enabling them to produce manage the quality of mass-produced parts. Our Quality and Technology Volunteer Group and Supplier Support Group high-quality products through independent improvements in technology. OUR VALUE Building smart plants work with our suppliers to make improvements in quality and technology. Some 270 tier 1 suppliers are currently part of the R&D Support Group, 4.4 Customer through which Hyundai and its suppliers are growing together. Hyundai uses information and communications technology to operate 4.5 Environment 5-star system (product quality, technology and delivery) a range of tracking systems in our manufacturing processes. This We evaluate suppliers’ quality competitiveness, technological Guest engineers minimizes defects in parts and products, and enables us to trace and 4.6 Collaboration development capability, and delivery competitiveness using a quantitative Engineers from our suppliers are invited to work at Hyundai’s technical identify problems, and, if necessary, to temporarily stop the entire car • Compliance Program method, and provide incentives to outstanding suppliers accordingly, center for a certain period through the guest engineer program. They production where the defective parts are found. • Supporting Suppliers’ Growth as a measure to help suppliers enhance their competitiveness in quality, take part in designing parts for new cars, and thus learn Hyundai’s • Supply Chain Management technology, and delivery. technologies. Upon completion of the program, guest engineers return Hyundai has supported some 450 companies since 2016, and will 4.7 People to their employers and perform crucial roles in improving the supplier’s increase this number to 800 starting in 2019, so that our tier 2 and tier Quality and technology school technological prowess. 3 suppliers enhance their competitiveness by building smart plants. 4.8 Community Hyundai established a quality and technology school to train experts Hyundai will provide consulting to help our suppliers apply for smart in quality, thus helping to improve our suppliers’ quality management Sharing patented technology factory and also make facility investments, which will enable them to 5. APPENDICES systems. We also offer direct, targeted education to our suppliers in order Sharing technology with our suppliers is vital in improving and digitalize their data processing, reduce lead times, failure rates and to maintain the quality and consistency of our mass-produced parts. commercializing product technologies. Hyundai therefore shares its disposal costs, improve rates of delivery, and increase sales revenues, In addition, we have overhauled the processes for resolving important patented technologies with suppliers free of charge, and executes thereby improving overall business efficacy. issues experienced in the field by our suppliers, and we also update them technology transfers when necessary. We share a list of available patents on improvements in durability developed at our technical centers. with suppliers every month; suppliers then apply for a patent transfer, Number of suppliers benefitted from the program to build smart plants and Hyundai in turn shares the patented technologies after reviewing the applications. Improving product quality Plan to expand more than competitiveness 1.8 times for tier 2 and 800 of suppliers tier 3 suppliers 450 companies companies Quality and technology school Trainings customized to suppliers • Around 5,500 persons completed • 24 customized training courses 3 years since 2016 3 years from 2019 the program to foster quality/ for different business types of technology experts suppliers 2019 Sustainability Report 074 1. INTRODUCTION Reinforcing the Basis for Sustainable Growth 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Hyundai supports our suppliers in improving their quality and technology. In addition, we strive to maintain a structure in which demand for parts is stable and steady, so that our suppliers do not experience business difficulty, and build an infrastructure for growth to boost technological development. We also help our suppliers to expand their global sales channels, helping them grow into stable and global companies. 3. MATERIALITY REPORT Strengthening foundation for sustainable management Expanding global sales channels Cash payment for product delivery prices Early payment for products on holidays Joint entry into overseas markets 4. Since May 2006, Hyundai has paid its small and medium-sized suppliers When more funds are required ahead of national holidays, such as Lunar As Hyundai expands its overseas production volume, we help to increase SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE in cash for the entire price of their supply of subcontracted parts and New Year and Chuseok, we assist suppliers by paying for products earlier. the exports not only of tier 1 suppliers, with whom we have a direct general materials. For parts for domestic use, we make weekly cash This program has been in place for tier 1 suppliers, but we encourage tier business relationship, but also the exports of tier 2 and tier 3 suppliers. OUR SYSTEM payments to small and medium-sized suppliers with sales of under 1 suppliers to subsequently support tier 2 and tier 3 suppliers, and the Partnerships that have been developed in Korea are now expanding to KRW 500 billion. For large companies and medium-sized suppliers with results of those checks are used to evaluate tier 1 suppliers. Hyundai will overseas, backed up by a range of programs so that Hyundai’s global OUR VALUE sales of more than KRW 500 billion, we make weekly payments using expand this program to include direct support of tier 2 and tier 3 suppliers. operations can offer greater opportunities to our suppliers. 4.4 Customer electronic bills. For export parts, we make monthly cash payments. 4.5 Environment Amount of early payment for products on holidays • Ensure stable sales volume (Unit: KRW billion) • Provide opportunities to find local 4.6 Collaboration sales channels • Compliance Program Parts for domestic use Lunar New Year in 2018 522.2 • Help suppliers establish viable • Supporting Suppliers’ Growth Small and Large companies and operations in local markets • Supply Chain Management medium-sized suppliers medium-sized suppliers Chuseok in 2018 531.4 (sales of under KRW 500 billion) (sales of more than KRW 500 billion) Hyundai Motor Suppliers 4.7 People Lunar New Year in 2019 471.3 Company • Supply high-quality parts on time 4.8 Community Weekly cash payment Weekly payments using electronic bills • Contribute to the early stabilization of overseas plants Building infrastructure for growth 5. APPENDICES Consortium to develop human resources Parts for exports Support for export marketing of tier 2 and tier 3 suppliers Since 2004, Hyundai has been part of a consortium to develop human Large companies and SMEs resources in partnership with the Ministry of Employment and Labor Hyundai actively supports export marketing of its tier 2 and tier 3 (MOEL) and suppliers. We provide personnel, facilities and financial suppliers. We support their participation in automotive parts exhibitions Monthly cash payment support for the education of suppliers, and we offer professional held in Korea and overseas, and operate a program that matches suppliers technical training and cyber training courses. with overseas buyers. We will support some 90 companies every year for the next three years to 2021, a total of around 270 companies. Adjusting the price of raw materials Consortium to In Korea, we provide financial support to suppliers on fees related to setting Prices for raw materials can change frequently and substantially, develop human up booths at the Korea Automotive Industry Exhibition (KOAA SHOW), and resources depending on a number of factors, including global economic conditions. organize one-on-one meetings with overseas buyers. For overseas marketing, Price increases can potentially lead to suppliers not being able to supply we provide support to cover various expenses, including participation fees for enough parts. In order to prevent this from occurring, Hyundai absorbs exhibitions and related costs such as airfare and accommodation. the burden of price increases in raw materials for its suppliers. In case of plastics, aluminum, steel sheet, copper, noble metals, and lead whose Professional Cyber price is adjusted according to subcontract, price-volume agreement, and technical training training market price change, we pay for them by referring to the factors based on which the adjustment for each material has been made. Personnel, facilities and financial support Exhibition held in Shanghai 2019 Sustainability Report 075 1. INTRODUCTION Establishing a Culture of Joint Growth 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Hyundai believes that joint growth is essential in improving its own corporate competitiveness. We have therefore strengthened our collaboration networks not just with tier 1 suppliers, but also the tier 2 and tier 3 suppliers. We are also providing them with quality and technology support, to ensure that we create transparent and fair trade through a culture of joint growth. 3. MATERIALITY REPORT Strengthening the collaborative network Expanding support for tier 2 and tier 3 suppliers Creating a culture of joint growth Operating a collaborative council by tier 1 suppliers Fostering product quality technologies Joint growth agreements 4. The collaborative council by tier 1 suppliers is a dialogue channel for Maintaining and improving the quality and technology of the tier 2 Hyundai has signed annual ‘joint growth agreements’ with its suppliers SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Hyundai to share its policies and other information with its suppliers, to and tier 3 suppliers that supply tier 1 suppliers is another key factor since 2008, as part of our commitment to joint growth. In 2018, resolve any difficulties experienced by tier 2 and tier 3 suppliers, and to in improving the quality of finished Hyundai cars. Hyundai therefore we signed the tenth agreement which includes such areas as price OUR SYSTEM collate any requests that may arise during the production process. These dispatches our specialists to suppliers, free of charge, to share our adjustments in relation to the cost of raw materials, financial support councils enable us to share our policies on purchasing and quality with expertise on quality, technology and productivity in automobiles, and to programs, executing four action agendas for subcontract, and increasing OUR VALUE our suppliers, and to establish a culture of fair and transparent trade. help suppliers increase their global competitiveness. support for tier 2 and tier 3 suppliers. 4.4 Customer 4.5 Environment Transparent Purchase Practice Center 4.6 Collaboration Providing suppliers guidelines on ethical conduct is important for both Hyundai and our suppliers, so that we can work together to produce • Compliance Program finished cars in a fair and transparent way. We have therefore set up the • Supporting Suppliers’ Growth Transparent Purchase Practice Center on our corporate website. The • Supply Chain Management supplier suggestion box for transparent and ethical practices enables 4.7 People Quality and Technology Volunteer Group Hyundai to listen to their difficulties, and collect opinions on how we can 4.8 Community improve as a purchasing company. In addition, there is a voice box for tier • Composition Specialists by work type 2 and tier 3 suppliers as part of our complete commitment to fair trade • Period Work at the suppliers for 5-7 months to and transparency throughout the supply chain. provide guidance free of charge 5. APPENDICES • Area of guidance Injection, rubber, painting, electric and • Action agenda for advisable conclusion of contracts electronic, cutting, heat treatment, press, • Action agenda for new supplier registration and welding, metal plating, cast iron casting, management 4 action agendas aluminum casting, forging, etc. • Action agenda for management of an internal for subcontract subcontract deliberation committee • Action agenda for advisable document issuance and preservation • Purpose of operating the suggestion box and report box Transparent and • How to make a suggestion and report (internet/ARS) ethical practice • Operation method (maintain anonymity and suggestion box confidentiality) Tier 1 suppliers’ collaborative council Supplier Support Group • Checking the outcome of measures • Composition Consultants with professional experiences in automobile industry as senior executives Awarding to best practice joint growth case • Period Work at the suppliers for 3-12 months to Since 2009, Hyundai has evaluated the efforts made by tier 1 and tier 2 provide consultation regarding overall management free of charge suppliers to generate joint growth, including better payment conditions, and gives awards to suppliers who have shown outstanding win• Area of consultation R&D, production, production technology, quality, business management, overseas win efforts. We have awarded prizes to a total of 32 suppliers for their marketing, planning, etc. excellence in joint growth initiatives as of 2018. 2019 Sustainability Report 076 1. INTRODUCTION Supply Chain Management 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Establishing a sustainable supply chain Hyundai instituted policies and procedures to ensure the sustainability Supply chain management 3. MATERIALITY REPORT of our supply chain, guarantee stable sources of supply, and respond to Hyundai evaluates and monitors both new and existing suppliers for quality, delivery, technology, safety management, eco-friendly parts, and winrisks caused by problems with suppliers. We work with many suppliers win cooperation. We encourage suppliers to improve by reflecting the results of our annual supply chain evaluations in competitive bidding processes. in our business operations, and operate a transparent and competitive In 2020, tier 1 suppliers will additionally be evaluated for the level of their win-win cooperation with tier 2 suppliers, as well as existing factors such as 4. value chain. We strive to minimize risks within the supply chain through a comprehensive analysis of both economic risks and non-economic payment conditions, fairness of contracts, observance of laws and regulations, and win-win cooperation with Hyundai. In the event of violations of the Suppliers’ Code of Ethics, such as problems with quality, violations of ethical regulations, collusion, or any act that hinders joint growth, Hyundai can place SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE factors such as quality, delivery, technology, safety, eco-friendliness, and restrictions on the supplier concerned through our internal council, including bid restrictions. If suppliers fail in relation to safety standards, we take much win-win cooperation. stricter measures, including enforcing immediate corrective measures and requiring suppliers to obtain related certifications such as OHSAS 18001. OUR SYSTEM Supply chain evaluation Measures to improve supply chain sustainability OUR VALUE Supply chain management policy 4.4 Customer Evaluation Annual Hyundai set out the Procurement Division Charter and Code of Ethics Classification Evaluation criteria Classification Index duration evaluation ratio 4.5 Environment and the Suppliers’ Code of Ethics in 2009, with the goal of building a • Quality management system Percentage of tier 1 suppliers from among those 4.6 Collaboration transparent and fair trade environment, and supporting sustainability subject to sustainability risk evaluation 100% • Incoming defects ratio Prior • Compliance Program management at our suppliers. The Suppliers’ Code of Ethics consists of: Quality 1 year • Claim cost reimbursement ratio evaluation Percentage of high-risk tier 1 suppliers as a result • Supporting Suppliers’ Growth 1. Transparent management; 2. Win-win cooperation; 3. Environmental 19% • Quality management of sustainability risk evaluation • Supply Chain Management management; 4. Quality management; 5. Information security; and 6. Social responsibility. It also defines the social responsibilities of our • Operational failures of production lines Percentage of critical suppliers from among those 4.7 People 100% suppliers. Full details of the Suppliers’ Code of Ethics are available on Delivery • Delivery rate for after-sales services 1 year subject to supply chain monitoring Monitoring 4.8 Community the Transparent Purchase Practice Center website. In addition, the • Delivery rate for knockdown parts Percentage of high-risk suppliers from among 16% Value Advanced Automotive Trade Zone (VAATZ) purchasing scheme those subject to supply chain monitoring • Basic capability systematically manages all of our purchasing processes, including supplier Percentage of suppliers with an established Technology • Execution capability 1 year Corrective 5. APPENDICES registration and evaluation and the management of purchasing contracts. • Future capability corrective action plan from among sustainability 100% measures high-risk suppliers Transparent Purchase Practice Center Website • Payment conditions Win-win • Fairness of contracts 1 year Mid-to long-term ESG risk management criteria for critical suppliers cooperation • Efforts to observe laws Supply chain status • Support for win-win collaboration Goal for 2022 Hyundai comprehensively examines important factors in categorizing • Safety management manual suppliers as critical suppliers. These include the potential inability to • Safety management organization and Health and safety (OHSAS 18001) / Safety replace parts from a specific supplier (especially key parts and items personnel 1 year Environmental management system (ISO 14001) management related to safety and security), whether the supplier possesses key • Safety management training technologies, and the possibility of advancing in partnership with a • Safety accidents 100% certified supplier into business sites overseas. Critical suppliers are those which • Preventing harmful substances supply key parts for a finished car manufacturer, such as module, Management of IMDS registration Eco-friendly • Providing chemical information (IMDS) powertrain, and electronics. As of 2018, about 100 of Hyundai’s total 1 year 3,500 suppliers were categorized as critical suppliers. We also manage parts • • Establishing an internal eco-friendly system Environmental management 100% managed suppliers below tier 1 in cases where there are high barriers to changing suppliers due to the characteristics and technology of specific parts. Compliance • Transparent management Establishment of a management system for Such management includes examining the volume of trade, and with the (Anti-solicita tion and bribery prohibition) suppliers’ ESG risks evaluations, monitoring, and corrective measures to improve supply 1 year Suppliers’ Code • Observance of trade contracts Written evaluation, Promote ESG risk chain sustainability. of Conduct • Prohibition of discrimination management system with all suppliers 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 077 Hyundai’s’ Win-win Collaboration Fair trade based on a healthy partnership is a core value for Hyundai as we pursue win-win growth in partnership with 2018 Declaration of commitment to fair trade our suppliers. We are helping suppliers achieve sustainable growth over the mid-to long-term through three main Twice a year, our CEO reminds all Hyundai staff of the company’s total commitment to fair trade. strategies – cultivating global competitiveness, reinforcing the basis for sustainable growth, and establishing a joint This declaration regarding compliance with fair trade was shared in January and July 2018, and growth system. We are thus creating a virtuous cycle whereby we support growth in our value chain, and then share all of our work reflects our strict guidelines related to fair trade. the value generated with our suppliers. Major Performance & Plan 2018 Performance 2019 Plan Mid-to Long-term Plan • Helped suppliers hire talents • Help suppliers hire talents Winner of the joint growth index for five consecutive years 6 job fairs, participated by 281 companies Expand the job fair to be held at the Group level participated not only by finished car In 2018, Hyundai was once again chosen as the Best Honorary Company in the joint growth subsidiaries and their suppliers but also by • Cultivate global competitiveness index run by the Commission on Shared Growth for Large and Small Companies. It was the fifth other Group subsidiaries and their suppliers Foster quality competitiveness; consecutive year for Hyundai to be awarded with such honor. The Commission evaluates some Develop R&D capability; • Provided support for suppliers to build smart • Provide support for suppliers to build smart Enhance productivity 180 Korean companies to determine companies that have the most significant ripple effects, plant plant measured in terms of sales, pursuant to Article 20 of the Act on the Promotion of Collaborative Supporting • Reinforce the basis for sustainable growth Supported a cumulative total of around 450 Expand to include tier 2 and tier 3 suppliers, Strengthen foundation for sustainable Cooperation Between Large Enterprises and Small-Medium Enterprises. The best companies are Suppliers’ companies from 2016 through 2018 and support a cumulative total of around management; Build infrastructure for growth; awarded with government incentives. Growth 800 companies from 2019 through 2021 Expand global sales channels * Major areas for evaluation: Fair contracts, efforts to prevent all violations of laws, support for win-win cooperation, cooperative business relationships, etc. • Provided export marketing support for • Provide export marketing support for suppliers • Establish a culture of joint growth suppliers Choose around 90 companies every year, Strengthen the collaborative network; Helped suppliers participate in automotive and support a cumulative total of around Expand supports for tier 2 and 3 suppliers; Hosted the 7th Supplier Job Fair parts exhibitions held in Korea and overseas 270 companies by 2021 Create a culture of joint growth The Hyundai Motor Company & Kia Motors Supplier Job Fair was launched in 2012 to help Offered an overseas buyer matching program suppliers recruit outstanding talent. The seventh fair, which took place in 2018, was exclusively for tier 2 and tier 3 suppliers, so that Hyundai could actively help smallto mid-sized parts companies that are experiencing difficulty in recruitment. Some 281 suppliers participated in the job fair, which took place in six regions across the nation, including Seoul, Ansan, Ulsan, Gwangju, Daegu, and Changwon. 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 078 PEOPLE Talents that realize core values For the last 50 years, Hyundai has been privileged to work with openminded, responsible and exceptional talent who are constantly at work to create new value and realize new possibilities. Going forward, we will realize our vision of serving as a ‘lifetime partner in automobiles and beyond’ by working together with people who are committed to sustainable growth through challenge, creativity, passion, collaboration, and a global mindset. 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 079 Valuing talent who moves the world forward Stakeholder Interview As industries converge ever-faster and markets change ever more sharply, Hyundai continues to implement its strategies for becoming We cultivate diversity and inclusion in our workplace. a future mobility company. It is vital to recruit talented individuals with outstanding skills, so that we can provide our products and services The automotive industry is undergoing many profound changes in today’s Industry 4.0 era, in quickly, and in a customer-focused way. As a result, after recognizing there were limitations with our previous semi-annual recruitment system, particular the convergence of information and communication technologies and deployment of ecowe have changed our recruiting structure to a year-round open system. friendly energy. To respond to today’s and future market changes, we recruit outstanding personnel who are able to identify market trends and develop advanced technologies. Moreover, we seek to hire We also undertake worksite-oriented recruitment planning and screening. Experts at our worksites develop the evaluation questions used in individuals with exceptional professional skills, and support them so that they can succeed in meeting screening and interviews, focusing on issues that are of most concern at their self-development goals. the worksites. Interview methodology is also constantly being assessed to ensure that we are recruiting the best people. In addition, worksites are Hyundai is also building a cooperative relationship between labor and management to ensure able to undertake their own direct recruitment whenever necessary. employee rights are fully protected. To this end, we continue to expand the channels of For applicants, this increases employment opportunities and enables communication between labor and management, and strive to find reasonable, constructive them to enjoy life more as college students. From the company’s perspective, year-round recruitment allows us to provide detailed solutions. In addition, we are continually setting health and safety-related goals and making information about jobs at Hyundai, so that we get more and better improvements in this area with the goal of building a safe and healthy work environment. applicants, which in turn leads to higher job satisfaction and lower staff turnover. Ongoing open recruitment also eliminates some of the problems that occurred in our previous system, including postponement of graduation, excessive competition, and the requirement to invest substantial time and costs. We also expect the new system to create a virtuous cycle in recruitment between applicants, colleges, and companies – as college life is enriched by a reduction in resources expended in preparing for employment, and as curriculum reforms prepare students to perform better in jobs in the real economy, companies will be able to hire outstanding personnel who are already prepared to perform their work duties to the highest standards. Sung Mo Koo Manager of HR Management Team 2, Hyundai Motor Company 2019 Sustainability Report 080 1. INTRODUCTION Recruiting and Supporting Global Talents 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Hiring Outstanding Global Talents With the breakdown of boundaries between the automotive and the Researcher scholarships and contracted college departments 3. MATERIALITY REPORT electronics industries, Hyundai is becoming a mobility company. We are Our researcher scholarships and contracted college departments are helping to develop the outstanding personnel who will drive technological therefore focusing on hiring people who can contribute towards ecodevelopment in the automotive sector and support our future competitiveness. Launched in 2003, the annual researcher scholarships are awarded to friendly, autonomous, and connected cars. In the first half of 2018, we outstanding students enrolled in undergraduate, master’s or doctoral degrees programs in natural sciences, engineering, or design. We also provide 4. began to recruit new employees in software, and there was also yearround recruitment on five occasions in R&D, plant, new business strategy, additional support and mentoring for their academic activities. Began in 2015, the contracted college department system is fostering outstanding talent in four vital areas of research ‒ ICT, integrated system control, energy systems, and electrification ‒ by forming a convergence education model SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE and others. We will continue to hire a wide range of talent, both new in partnership with major Korean universities. We provide scholarship students with education programs that are closely connected to the needs of recruits and experienced professionals, to ensure growth in the future our worksites, so that students can concentrate fully on their research and become high achievers once they join Hyundai. We will continue to offer OUR SYSTEM strategic areas and to make certain that we have the best people at every researcher scholarships and our support to college departments so that we can nurture the personnel needed to perform pivotal roles in next generation OUR VALUE level of the company. of automotive technologies. 4.4 Customer Research Areas 4.5 Environment Expanding year-round recruitment ICT Integrated system control Energy system Core parts for electrification 4.6 Collaboration Hyundai is changing its recruitment systems in order to respond effectively 4.7 People in the Industry 4.0 era. We are expanding year-round recruitment of • AI, Big data, Connectivity • Autonomous driving, • Battery, Fuel cell • Powertrain (Common) • Recruiting and Supporting Global Talents individuals with the specific skills needed at our worksites and to attract (Contracted college department) Powertrain controls (Common) (Contracted college departments) more specialists. Also, in line with a year-round recruitment process • Convergence technology, Robotics • Future energy technology • Guaranteeing Workers’ Rights and Communication that is driven by worksites, we plan to adopt an optimized recruitment (Researcher scholarships) (Researcher scholarships) system according to job requirements. We are also working on the timely 4.8 Community recruitment of outstanding personnel by building a detailed HR database and organizing a number of recruitment programs. 5. APPENDICES Areas of year-round recruiting in the second half of 2018 Recruitment process for new employees Vehicle design; Vehicle assessment; Development R&D Division of materials, powertrain, and commercial vehicles and Technology management Strategy & Year-round Development of deep learning and platform software Technology Division recruitment Application Application Interview Interview with Job placement People & Business Oprn. (Different cover letter review (Aptitude test) executives Support Division, HR support and IT security items for each job duty) Corporate Human Resource Division Ulsan Plant, Asan Plant, Plant maintenance technology and plant operations Jeonju Plant Finance & Large-scale Cost accounting open Accounting Division recruitment Application Application HMAT Interview Interview for Job placement (Same cover letter review (Hyundai Motor Group job placement items) Aptitude Test) Attract talents with job-specific expertise 2019 Sustainability Report 081 1. INTRODUCTION H-Career Fair Global Top Talent Forum Outstanding R&D Talent Career Fair We held the H-Career Fair and shared information on our job application In August 2018, Hyundai hosted the Global Top Talent Forum in San Diego, We held a career fair for outstanding talents in natural sciences and 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS process and the company’s recruitment direction. It was also a venue U.S. as part of our initiative to attract outstanding overseas personnel with engineering to bolster our future technological competitiveness. where we shared our future vision related to new businesses and new masters and/or doctoral degrees in natural sciences or engineering. Participants at the event included researchers in diverse areas, including future technologies. There were around 200 participants on site. We There were seven sessions at the Forum, covering AI and software robotics and AI, electrification, eco-friendly cars, and cutting-edge 3. MATERIALITY REPORT provided online live broadcasting to deliver recruitment information to platforms, autonomous driving, connected cars, future mobility, ecomaterials. We held consultation sessions on tasks and shared our future a total of around 66 thousand individuals. Also, we organized a wide friendly vehicles, cutting-edge lightweight materials, and basic vehicle vision. A total 848 people participated in the career fair, of which 623 array of programs to provide practical support to applicants, including performance. All participants were given a presentation fee, and the persons took part in the sessions. Also, outstanding participants of 4. the ‘Recruitment Talk Concert’, ‘Task Talk Concert’, and ‘Mentoring by Hyundai Employees’. best speaker at each session received additional benefits, such as prize money, an offer to join the Hyundai Motor Group, or the opportunity be the sessions received recognition as passing the document screening process. We thus provided excellent talent with an opportunity to realize SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE a recipient of our researcher scholarship. The main theme of the 2018 their dreams at Hyundai. forum centered around topics related to software, as convergence across OUR SYSTEM Recruitment Talk Concert diverse fields is vital to our future competitiveness. We will continue Securing to recruit outstanding people who can identify the issues of the future outstanding OUR VALUE • A Q&A session on recruitment process with within our industry, and develop key technologies in response. talents in staff of the Talent Recruitment Team 4.4 Customer R&D 4.5 Environment Task Talk Concert 4.6 Collaboration 4.7 People • Discussion on tasks with Hyundai employees, including future vision • Recruiting and Supporting Global Talents • Guaranteeing Workers’ Rights and Communication Recruitment Talk Concert for Experienced Professionals IT and ICT Convergence 4.8 Community • A session on recruitment process for experienced technology professionals and life after joining Hyundai 5. APPENDICES Science and Mentoring by Hyundai Employees engineering • An in-depth Q&A session with Hyundai employees capability working at a desired field by candidates Special Lectures Securing future competitiveness • Special lectures by worksite personnel 2018 Global Top Talent Forum Career fair for outstanding talents 2019 Sustainability Report 082 1. INTRODUCTION Nurturing Talents 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Based on the belief that employees’ growth leads to the company’s Mid-to long-term talent development strategy growth, Hyundai is enhancing our future competitiveness and sustainable growth by instituting personnel policies that are driven by 3. MATERIALITY REPORT the requirements of our work sites, and by building a learning culture. Internalization of work site-driven and self-led learning culture We have established long-term strategies for nurturing talents in Vision leadership, job expertise, and learning culture, and we are changing 4. training programs to focus on self-led customized learning that enables individuals to choose their own path in becoming leaders and experts. In SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE addition to strengthening leadership for sustainable growth and building the learning infrastructure, our self-led learning systems will enable staff Strategy OUR SYSTEM to learn whenever, wherever, and ways selected by them. Strengthen leadership from Strengthen job expertise Build a year-round learning a sustainable growth perspective at each area infrastructure led by work site OUR VALUE 4.4 Customer Strengthening leadership from a sustainability perspective • Improve leadership training system • Standardize the company-wide talent • Plan a new talent development system 4.5 Environment Hyundai’s leadership program is designed to go beyond growth of • Develop solutions for leaders development system • Develop a year-round learning system individual leaders. The program aims to instill organization impact from (basic, advanced, year-round, track, etc.) • Establish a talent development system (open learning platform) 4.6 Collaboration the sustainable growth perspective. We are expanding initiatives to • Build a leadership support center by job function 4.7 People nurture leadership that are adept in responding to internal and external • Develop an academy • Recruiting and Supporting Global Talents environment changes. We pursue qualitative innovation of our leadership • Guaranteeing Workers’ Rights and program through timely content and delivery innovation. Communication 4.8 Community Improving job expertise at each area New training system Leadership program We are improving job capacity across all areas of the company in order We fully support the professional growth of all of our individual employees, FOSTERING TOP LEADERS Hyundai has adopted new training programs enhance job expertise of our employees. Employees develop the capacity and we are preparing to adopt a self-led learning system that will for our top leaders, including the CEO and directors, in order for them 5. APPENDICES needed to perform their work and can improve their skill sets in various help our employees enhance their employability. In particular, we are to understand their respective roles and recognize the importance ways, according to the individual’s requirements and preferences through focusing on developing the skills needed to perform work duties through of preparing for the future. We strengthened programs related to various solutions. To this end, our training department and each work education targeted around individual’s specific requirements. This open strategizing plans for the future to intellectually challenge group leaders, area are working together to develop an academy for each area, and will learning platform and learning solutions, based on data generated by while we offered individually-tailored programs to newly promoted offer extensive learning content, including internal and external training, our employees, enable our staff to access knowledge and information executives, increasing their capacity in building leadership. e-books, MOOC, and study meetings, thereby enhancing job expertise of anywhere and at any time. We believe the new training system will serve our employees. as a foundation for developing our employees into experts. DEVELOPING CHOSEN TALENTS We actively select individuals with global business insights to form a pool for the top managers of the future. Building a worksite-led learning infrastructure We are continually developing top leaders who are able to respond Hyundai is establishing a talent development system according to the quickly and effectively to changes in the internal and external business requirements of each job area in order to support the internalization of environment. work site-driven and self-led learning culture. We provide opportunities for staff to develop both general job capacity and specialized job capacity needed in their own work area. Our employees are thus enabled to expand their areas of expertise and develop creative problem-solving skills. Training on press Field training on painting robot (basic) 2019 Sustainability Report 083 1. INTRODUCTION Fostering R&D talent Career development and job posting systems Strategic development of outstanding R&D talent is a vital for Hyundai in Hyundai enables self-directed achievement of career development goals through diverse experiences. We help employees develop extensive job 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS improving its future competitiveness and finding the drivers of sustainable expertise by providing opportunities to experience jobs they are interested in, in addition to the experiences and knowledge that they accumulated growth. We are therefore developing the technological capabilities of in their respective professional field. In this way, we are expanding employee expertise and also contributing to strengthening understanding and all of our researcher, and providing dedicated training for key leaders. communication among different areas. 3. MATERIALITY REPORT In addition, we are enhancing our R&D capabilities by building constant learning systems focused on the requirements of our work sites. To Career development system Job posting system this end, we are building self-directed constant learning infrastructure, 4. including system, and provide optimized learning solutions. Hyundai regularly assesses needs for department/job transfers to identify employees’ interests and job satisfaction and assign When a specific role is required, Hyundai posts the opportunity in-house first to take advantage of internal talents and offer them to appropriate jobs and motivate them to perform better. our employees chances to challenge themselves with different SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Mid-to long-term R&D talent development Employees wishing to develop their career can freely apply for lines of work. Employees check job description and required Improving capabilities of the entire R&D researcher desired jobs and departments on a yearly basis. qualifications on a posting and submit their application. OUR SYSTEM • Improve specialized technical capabilities • Strengthen organizational capacity and develop OUR VALUE an innovative mindset 4.4 Customer 4.5 Environment Developing core leaders in R&D Select job transfer candidates after considering their personal goals and job experiences 4.6 Collaboration • Strategically foster technical leaders • Strengthen organizational leaders 4.7 People • Recruiting and Supporting Global Talents Determine candidates’ aptitude, competencies, and career plans through interviews Building a R&D self-directed constant learning infrastructure • Guaranteeing Workers’ Rights and Communication • Develop and provide constant learning solutions • Establish an optimum talent development support system 4.8 Community Finalize selection process and implement a departmental transfer based on the review of candidates’ characteristics and career plans, among others FOSTERING OVERSEAS R&D TALENT It is essential to establish customized 5. APPENDICES overseas HR strategies in fast-changing, global markets. We are therefore strengthening the leadership and job capacity at our overseas subsidiaries and research institutes. At the Hyundai Motor Technology & Engineering Center (China) and the Hyundai Motor India Engineering Pvt. Ltd, we are Duty type and position system of Hyundai Motor Company actively hiring local personnel and training them in design and car testing. We have also hired local staff at the Hyundai America Technical Center and the Hyundai Motor Europe Technical Center in order to strengthen our Chief Technician Director General Manager Chief Mechanic position in areas such as eco-friendly vehicles, car IT, and ADAS. Senior Engineer Senior Technician General Manager Deputy General Manager A/S Senior Mechanic Technician Deputy General Manager Manager A/S Mechanic Junior Technician Manager Hyundai America Technical Center Hyundai Motor Europe Technical Center Assistant Manager A/S Junior Mechanic Engineer Senior Operator Assistant Manager Associate Operator Associate A/S Mechanic Support Managerial R&D Production Sales A/S Hyundai Motor Technology & Hyundai Motor India Engineering Pvt. Ltd Engineering Center (China) 2019 Sustainability Report 084 1. INTRODUCTION Organizational Culture Supporting work-life balance 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Hyundai is building a creative and agile organizational culture through Hyundai offers various welfare programs to improve the quality of life for its organizational culture innovation platform ‒ Culture Change Program our staff. We provide financial support for travel expenses and operate (CCP). In particular, we are focusing on the goals of establishing a daycare centers to help employees who are managing the cost burden of 3. MATERIALITY REPORT horizontal communication culture, building vertical trust in organization, child rearing. Other welfare programs also help our employees enjoy their and promoting creativity by building an active and autonomous work daily lives and vacation time. atmosphere. In addition, we are operating a wide range of programs to 4. ensure the right work-life balance for our staff. R&D Female Vision Conference • Employees can choose when they come to and SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE leave work, other than regular working hours (10 am to Organizational culture survey R&D Female Vision Conference 4 pm) based on the condition that the weekly average OUR SYSTEM We conducted an organizational culture survey in September 2018 Our female employees work in vital roles across the company, including Flexible work of 40 hours is met system to identify the level of corporate culture by organizational unit. The R&D, engineering, and maintenance. Hyundai strives to build a corporate OUR VALUE assessment consisted of 76 questions, divided into seven categories culture in which our R&D female employees benefit from a culture of 4.4 Customer ‒ business, people, work, leadership, organizational effectiveness, HR mutual respect and active support to find a direction rather than an • Operating on-site childcare centers since 2013 for 4.5 Environment system, and infrastructure. About 79.5% of general and research staff answer to their roles within the organization. In 2018, we hosted the R&D married female employees and single-parent households participated in the assessment. We will continue to carry out assessments Female Vision Conference, consisting of workshops, lectures, and a talk • Located at 5 locations ‒ headquarters, Ulsan Plant, 4.6 Collaboration On-site in the future to improve our organizational culture. show on the theme of “Modern women, asking about a path and finding Asan Plant, Jeonju Plant, and Namyang Technology 4.7 People childcare a path”. We will continue to offer a wide range of programs so that our Research Center center • Recruiting and Supporting Global Talents Categories for the organizational culture survey female staff can plan their careers and strike the right balance between • Guaranteeing Workers’ Rights and their work and personal lives. Communication • Overseas traveling for long-term employees: R&D Idea Festival Cover traveling expenses for long-term employees and People 4.8 Community their families Hyundai has hosted the R&D Idea Festival every year since 2010, to create Employee travel support • Child Happiness Travel: Provide hotel lodging to Work a vibrant atmosphere for technological development and to establish an programs employees for a certain period before and after pregnancy Business R&D culture of mutual cooperation. Researchers’ ideas on future mobility 5. APPENDICES are made into actual objects and then demonstrated to participants. • Offer customized exercise prescription for employees, swimming lesson program, etc. NAMU ‒ the grand award winner in the 2018 Infrastructure Leadership R&D Idea Festival ‒ implementing freedom in • Located at headquarters and major business sites for mobility by developing stair climbing wheels Gymnasium greater convenience for employees and their families HR Organizational system effectiveness Retirement pension Hyundai has put into place a retirement pension system to help our employees fund and plan for their lives after retirement. Hyundai uses Change management program third-party administration services as a way to protect retirement Following the initial implementation of the organizational culture survey in pensions, and the company also provides education for pension 2017, Hyundai has in place a change management program that is led by a subscribers about retirement planning, including all necessary senior member at each worksite. There are both common and specialized information on personal pension products, thereby helping our targeted programs, including programs covering collaboration, leadership, employees build a foundation to enjoy life after retirement. creativity, and communications. There was a total of 371 culture change programs (CCPs) and 188 specialized programs for 81 organizations at Hyundai in 2018. Participants of the 2018 R&D Idea Festival 2019 Sustainability Report 085 1. INTRODUCTION Guaranteeing Workers’ Rights and Communication 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Safety Report Center Employee Safety and Health The Safety Report Center has been integrated into our safety systems in Hyundai abides by all labor laws and regulations of all countries where order to ensure company-wide recognition of the importance of safety, 3. MATERIALITY REPORT our business sites are located, so that our employees can be assured to share issues around safety, and to encourage accident prevention, of their fundamental rights, such as the right to organize and collective with rewards given to employees submitting excellent safety reports. The bargaining. In addition, we regularly communicate with our employees Safety Report Center enables us to implement swift actions on safety 4. at home and abroad, and spare no effort to identify their grievances and demands and take actions on them preemptively. improvements to prevent major accident. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Operation process of the Safety Report Center To protect the safety and health of our employees, we announced our OUR SYSTEM Discover a risk factor (all business sites and employees) fatal accident zero safety and health management policy, and strive Safety check by using an NFC tag OUR VALUE to make improvements every year. In 2018, we achieved “ZERO” fatal • Discover a risk factor at a business site accidents for two consecutive years, and our efforts to prevent safety • Run the Safety Report Center mobile application and take pictures 4.4 Customer accidents came to fruition. 4.5 Environment 4.6 Collaboration Improving safety leadership Using IoT technology for safety inspections 4.7 People Report to the Safety Report Center • Recruiting and Supporting Global Talents Hyundai is working towards achieving “ZERO” fatal accidents by strengthening Hyundai has built a mobile safety inspection system using NFC tags in safety leadership at our business sites driven by top management. Major order to achieve zero fatal accidents. We also use the big data based • Guaranteeing Workers’ Rights and • Provide information on the location of discovering the risk factor Communication safety leadership activities, such as safety meetings and inspections, on the result of the safety inspection, which will be used for improving and relevant content enhance the implementation of safety policies, and quickly remove workplace safety. And it can further reduce the risk of fatal accidents. 4.8 Community risk factors at business sites, thereby maximizing accident prevention This system was first introduced in 2018, and will be fully established effects. In addition, our company-wide safety meetings and overseas at work sites company-wide, thereby enhancing credibility of safety video conferences enable us to operate same safety policies in Korea inspections. Confirm receipt of report and notify results 5. APPENDICES and overseas. We also widely promote outstanding examples of business site safety, to ensure that safety management continues to improve Safety alert systems for logistics equipment • Confirm receipt of report (determine whether to accept report, throughout the company. Hyundai has installed safety alert devices in hazardous areas where categorize report into safety or non-safety matters) logistics equipment is operated in order to prevent accidents from • Enter the results of safety measures taken and provide feedback Preventing fatal accidents to the informant collisions and jamming. Smart alert devices send out visual and audible Hyundai analyzed all serious accidents occurred at its Korean and alerts in major danger zones, enabling workers to undertake logistics overseas business sites, and has derived key safety rules to prevent work more safely. accidents, based on which we established the Nine Safety Golden Rules. Operating H-SAT As a result, we have achieved zero fatal accidents for two consecutive The Hyundai-Safety Assessment Tool (H-SAT) was developed in order years. In addition, the Turkey Plant and the Brazil Plant had zero to measure the safety, health and environmental (SHE) performance occupational accidents throughout 2018. This was the second year in Approach at each plant in a quantitative way, and to improve weak part of SHE a row for zero accidents at the Turkey Plant. The Turkey Plant is the first management. The comprehensive H-SAT evaluation gives points Hyundai plant to achieve this. We will continue to improve our safety according to the quality of safety, health, firefighting, and environmental Send safety alert management, giving top priority to the lives of our workers, and we will protection. Pilot operations have been completed, and we will use the make all our business sites safer through institutional improvements in H-SAT as a framework for developing SHE policies and strategies, and for meeting our key performance indicators. Logistics equipment Hazardous area improving SHE levels. (Transmitter) (Receiver) 2019 Sustainability Report 086 1. INTRODUCTION Safety management activities at overseas business sites in 2018 HMMR • Prevented accidents through focused management 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS of hazardous areas ‒ A_B_C Zone • Conducted a fire drill tailored to working conditions HMMA HMMC 3. MATERIALITY REPORT • Carried out a pilot operation of a wearable vest • Expanded the safety leader system to implement (upper body type) to prevent musculoskeletal disorder safety management in close connection with and reduce physical load on production staff (April) worksites 4. • Carried out a pilot operation of wearable chair (lower body type) to prevent musculoskeletal disorder • Installed and used drowsiness prevention devices for vehicle drivers to prevent traffic accidents SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE and reduce physical load on production staff (July) OUR SYSTEM OUR VALUE 4.4 Customer 4.5 Environment 4.6 Collaboration 4.7 People • Recruiting and Supporting Global Talents BHMC • Guaranteeing Workers’ Rights and • Operated a safety level index management system for Communication major A-grade risk processes 4.8 Community • Carried out activities in the Month of Safe Production (June-July), such as safety promotion, emergency training, safety inspection, and contest 5. APPENDICES HMB • Strengthened accident prevention activities through the Intensive EHS Program • Conducted focused inspections and a fire drill to prevent fire accidents during the dry season (July-September) HAOS • Strengthened accident prevention activities through concentrated safety inspections at scrap treatment sites • Organized the Safety Week campaign to enhance the safety mindset HMI • Made improvements to safety protection devices (laser scanner) to prevent jamming accidents at car body plants • Improved road and facility, and conducted campaign to prevent traffic accidents 2019 Sustainability Report 087 1. INTRODUCTION Communicating with Employees 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Hyundai guarantees the labor union’s rights to free union, collective action, and collective bargaining. The company also shares information and promotes effective communications between labor and management by holding briefing sessions to fully inform employees about the status of the company and changes in our business activities. 3. MATERIALITY REPORT Communications with the labor union Labor union (employee) communication at overseas business sites H-Mate communications application Hyundai fully observes the Korean Constitution and all laws on employee BHMC and CHMC in China have Chinese Trade Unions; HMI in India and The H-Mate application promotes communication between our rights, including the right to organize labor unions and the rights to HMMC in the Czech Republic have labor unions; and HMB in Brazil joined employees, and helps to build good labor-management relationships. 4. collective action and collective bargaining. We also run the Collective the local federation of trade unions in the early stage of its existence As of February 2019, some 23,400 employees have subscribed, and an SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Bargaining Council and the Labor-Management Council, pursuant to according to the local labor laws. The subsidiaries with labor unions average of 4,400 people per day access the application to use it for a relevant laws. In addition, the Work Change Promotion Committee not only conduct collective bargaining with labor unions according to wide range of activities. Services include: company news; work notices; OUR SYSTEM discusses changes in working hours, the Wage System Improvement local labor laws but also hold regular and irregular meetings with union the ‘I am Curious’ Q&A functions for questions related to Hyundai; the Committee discusses regular wages and the minimum wage, and the representatives to make improvements in working conditions and ‘Let’s Come Together’ function to recruit club members; and the ‘Let’s OUR VALUE Job Stability Committee is preparing for the era of the Fourth Industrial employee benefits. Hyundai carries out collective bargaining with labor Apply’ survey function. These services are helping to bring our employees 4.4 Customer Revolution. unions in a way most employees can concur with its conclusions through together by increasing communications between them. 4.5 Environment reasonable and constructive proposals and discussions between labor Social contribution activities jointly by labor and management and management. HMMA in the U.S., HMMR in Russia, and HAOS in 4.6 Collaboration Labor and management of Hyundai conduct social contribution activities Turkey have no labor unions. 4.7 People for local communities and residents near the company’s business sites • Recruiting and Supporting Global Talents in Korea. We organized various social contribution activities in 2018, Hyundai’s overseas subsidiaries actively communicate with their • Guaranteeing Workers’ Rights and including the preparations for the establishment of Ulsan Kids Auto Park employees in various channels regardless of whether they have labor Communication in addition to our regular social contribution activities. Our employees unions or not. The Headquarters conducts surveys and interviews with 4.8 Community participate in community service activities through the Technician Hyundai employees around the world on a biennial basis to continue Volunteer Group, and volunteer groups of each business division improving employees’ satisfaction with the company. Each overseas and clubs. Hyundai labor and management will seek diverse ways, subsidiary preemptively resolves employees’ complaints and meets including raising social contribution funds, to fulfill our corporate social their demands through roundtable meetings with executives, grievance 5. APPENDICES responsibility, pursue win-win cooperation with local communities, and counseling rooms, and top management’s on-site communication. We contribute to regional development. also offer our field managers various training programs, so that they can enhance their competencies and solve workers’ grievances at the work site as they spend most of their time together with on-site workers. Wage, collective bargaining agreements Joint leadership workshop, HMCSA HQ 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 088 Hyundai’s Respect for People Our people are the basis of Hyundai’s sustainable growth. That is why we have established an impartial year-round Integrated organizational culture survey recruitment system and various HR training programs with the goal of attracting talents and enabling them to fulfill Hyundai carries out an annual worldwide assessment of our organizational culture in order their potential. We are also committed to building an excellent workplace and ensuring the right work-life balance. We to determine the level of our organizational culture from an integrated perspective and to therefore go well beyond simply guaranteeing rights, and operate a number of support systems and communication identify measures for improvement. We assess areas of our corporate culture such as business, channels. We will continue to build a work environment that our employees can enjoy the highest levels of health and people, and work, as well as organizational effectiveness, leadership, HR system, and the IT job satisfaction from a mid-to long-term perspective. infrastructure. The 2018 assessment showed year-on-year improvements, demonstrating the results of our commitment to improving our organizational culture. Major Performance & Plan 2018 Performance 2019 Plan Mid-to Long-term Plan • Chose 15 H-Recruiters at work sites, • Establish a pipeline for recruiting by • Actively secure future technology, and Employee Town Hall Meeting targeting tasks related to the future vision, expanding the H-Recruiter to be 50 persons organization and human resources related to and conducted a pilot program for at the corporate level new businesses Hyundai is striving to expand the scope of our thinking through an agile corporate culture. We six months • Establish a work site-driven agile HR therefore set up a Town Hall Meeting in 2019 as a communication channel between employees operation system, and improve personnel and the company. Any employee can take part in the Town Hall Meeting, either by visiting the • Conducted a pilot year-round recruitment to • Expand the work site-driven year-round management system to encourage employee first floor of the headquarters building, or through online chatting. They can voice their opinions hire new employees at five major divisions in recruitment system to the corporate level engagement Recruiting and freely, and ask any questions about major company policies and other issues. We will continue the second half of the year Supporting to host these Town Hall Meetings to promote horizontal communications with our people and to Global Talents • Re-established directions for human • Identify the status of work site-driven • Launch a new HRD system after 2020 collect new ideas and opinions on policy issues. resources development (HRD), and defined constant learning systems, and derive • Operate an open learning platform, strategic tasks improvement measures and continue change management • Overhauled the HRD system and • Build an infrastructure for constant learning standard guide at the corporate level, and develop a driver Jeonju Plant ‒ a winner of the 2018 Nationwide Circle Contest for change Hyundai’s Jeonju Plant presented ideas under the theme of risk reduction by improving risk Guaranteeing • Achieved zero fatal accidents by inspecting • Achieve zero fatal accidents, serious fire, • Guarantee employee safety and health by factors in axle process at the 2018 Nationwide Circle Contest organized by the Ministry of Trade, Workers’ disaster prevention activities and traffic fatalities building safe, accident-free business sites Industry and Energy, and received the bronze award in the environment and safety category. Rights and Communication HMB wins the ‘2018 Brazil Health and Safety Award’ Hyundai Motor Brazil (HMB) received the 2018 Brazil Health and Safety Award, organized by Revista Proteção ‒ a prestigious magazine in the area of industrial health and safety. 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 089 COMMUNITY Adding value to our community Hyundai’s efforts to resolve social issues together with stakeholders are not limited to local communities where we conduct business. We help resolve major common social issues facing communities across the world by promoting cooperation with various stakeholders and leveraging our expertise. 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 090 As a lifetime partner for a better tomorrow Stakeholder Interview Hyundai is playing an active role in bringing actual and tangible benefits to local communities and visitors while preserving Petra We are adding to the value of in good condition for future generations. By providing free Wi-Fi, visitors are having smooth access to the internet so that they can Hyundai by growing in harmony with local communities. get additional information and share their experiences with their friends, family via social networks. A communication network ensures As a global leading company, Hyundai seeks to move forward together with members of better safety at the site, enabling crowd management in emergency situations. During floods last year, the authorities were able to communities where we have offices worldwide. We are striving to enhance the quality of the lives inform and urged everyone within the archaeological park to leave of local community members by going beyond production and service provision, and engaging in a the site immediately. Interpretive signage provides visitors detailed wide array of social contribution activities addressing local community needs. information, enhancing enjoyment and their understanding. Further support includes materials such as brochures and a 3D model of the Rather than one-off contributions, we conduct social contribution activities in accordance with five World Heritage Site. areas ‒ eco-friendly, mobility innovation, traffic safety, future generation, and community. Through Prior to Hyundai’s support, we allowed access to and around the these activities, we aim to deliver Hyundai values to local communities while also contributing to site only by walking or using animal transport. By providing clean and ecofriendly shuttle busses, more tourists are able to enjoy the achieve the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). These and other efforts of ours will full experience of Petra, while minimizing the environmental impact. have a positive influence on those who are marginalized in local communities and future generations. All the works were planned in careful consultation with the Petra Authority, which in turn has received all approvals from UNESCO and other authorities dedicated to preserving World Heritage sites. Our projects at Petra directly affect city services, tourists, and local communities. Since we started, the number of visitors to the city of Petra has almost doubled – and expected to grow. Hyundai is helping to bring greater economic benefits to the local community. We are helping to ensure that a growing number of visitors to the ancient city of Petra are managed in a responsible and sustainable way, creating a better environment for visitors and for locals. Mohammad Badwan Hyundai Motor M.East & Africa Customer Experience 2019 Sustainability Report 091 1. INTRODUCTION Areas of CSV Activities 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Hyundai conducts social contribution activities for creating shared value (CSV) in accordance with the five major areas – eco-friendly, mobility innovation, traffic safety, future generation, and community – in which we have established our CSV strategy system. We manage our mid-to long-term CSV portfolio according to the objectives of each area, and continue our efforts in bringing a positive impact on society in a more efficient way. In addition, our CSV activities for each area are related to the Hyundai Motor Group’s major social contribution areas, called ‘6 Moves’ – Safe Move, Easy Move, Green Move, Happy Move, Dream Move, and Next Move. By doing so, we are creating 3. MATERIALITY REPORT and expanding social values with a wide range of stakeholders. 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Areas of Eco-friendly Community OUR SYSTEM Develop eco-friendly products, CSV Provide support and engage in IONIQ Forest recycle resources, and other Activities collaborative activities based on the Project to improve residential OUR VALUE activities to reduce needs of local communities, environment in Chile Beautiful Hands environmental pollution including NGOs and our 4.4 Customer Project to support drinking water in Hyundai Green Zone Project partner companies 4.5 Environment Philippines 4.6 Collaboration Preservation of Petra World Heritage Site Staff Volunteer Corps 4.6 People Hyundai Dream Center 4.8 Community • Areas of CSV Activities Happy House • Global CSV Activities Mobility innovation Future generation H-Self Sharing Planner Provide solutions to individuals Provide opportunities for the • Supporting Arts and Culture Sponsorship of the Korean Archery Association and sectors that do not have growth of future generation – access to mobility and children, teens, and youth – isolated regions and support them 5. APPENDICES Cha-Car-Cha-Car Playground Traffic safety Looking for Three-Leafed Clovers Support for a social enterprise, Easy Move Inc. Develop new safety technologies H-Social Creator and activities to prevent traffic Happy Dream Car, Happy Dream Bus accident and support traffic Vision Drive accident victims and Hope Engine Science Class their families H-Junior Orchestra Future Automobile School Brilliant Kids Motor Show Traffic Safety Campaign with Robocar Poli Traffic Accident Zero for Children Campaign Driving Plus CSV strategy system (P. 30) The Next Move among the Hyundai Motor Group’s 6 Moves refers to the area where we leverage our business expertise to create social value, and includes Hyundai Motor Company’s CSV initiatives 6 Moves of Hyundai Motor Group 2019 Sustainability Report 092 1. INTRODUCTION Eco-friendly Develop eco-friendly products, recycle resources, and other activities to reduce environmental pollution 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Goal 15.  rotect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial P Goal 14. Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine Goal 13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, resources for sustainable development its impacts 3. MATERIALITY REPORT and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Goal 15.2 Goal 14.1 Goal 13.1 4. IONIQ Forest Beautiful Hands SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Since 2016, Hyundai has been carrying out the IONIQ Forest project Hyundai contributes to reviving old, dilapidated urban areas in Seoul by together with Tree Planet and SUDOKWON Landfill Site Management creating mural paintings and improving public parks. This project has been OUR SYSTEM Corp. The project involves planting trees to reduce fine dust at the carried out twice a year since 2014. In 2018, we created mural paintings on Incheon metropolitan landfill site. The IONIQ Forest project aims to a pier in the south part of the Mapo Bridge in Han River Park, Yeouido-dong, OUR VALUE create ‘fine dust-preventing forests’ by planting over 30,000 trees by Yeongdeungpo-gu, to raise the awareness of citizens about endangered IONIQ Forest documentary video – Forest 4.4 Customer 2020 together with forest-building experts, IONIQ customers, and birds and environmental protection. Around 120 employees of the Hyundai 4.5 Environment participants of the IONIQ Longest Run. Customer Service Sub-Division and undergraduate PR Ambassadors from all 4.6 Collaboration across the nation made the old space new. They painted endangered birds In 2018, 1,000 trees were planted in April by tree-planting volunteers. In that live in estuaries in Korea to communicate the message of environmental 4.6 People addition, volunteers and 200 customers who participated in the IONIQ protection. In particular, emerging artists took part in creating the mural 4.8 Community Longest Run together planted 2,000 zelkova and pine trees in November. design, which made the mural painting go beyond urban environment • Areas of CSV Activities Including an additional 5,000 trees planted by forest experts, a total improvement and merit significance as a public artwork. • Global CSV Activities of 8,000 trees were planted during the year. As of April 2019, a total of 9th Activities of ‘Beautiful Hands’ • Supporting Arts and Culture 15,250 trees have been planted through the IONIQ Forest project. Furthermore, IONIQ Forest project has established its own website and also produced documentary videos of the project’s progress as a way Hyundai Green Zone Project 5. APPENDICES to communicate via various channels, how eco-friendly initiatives are The Hyundai Green Zone Project is a global ecological restoration project transforming the landfill site into a forest of life. that Hyundai Motor Group has been carrying out since 2008. The 1st Hyundai Green Zone Project was carried out from 2008 through 2013, and Ecological Value of IONIQ Forests covered 50 million square meters in Chakanor, Apakachi, Inner Mongolia, which is a leading source of fine dust in China. We successfully improved an alkaline salt desert into grasslands with abundant grass. Since 2014, we Annual amount of CO2 absorbed Annual amount of fine dust absorbed have been engaging in activities to restore 40,000 square meters of the 138,775 544,425 Baoshaodainao Nur, Zhenglan Qi and Haginor regions into an ecology kg/year g/year that is suitable for the climate environment of Inner Mongolia. Also, the Hyundai Motor Group’s Happy Move Global Youth Volunteers, colleges students in Beijing, employees and their family members of Hyundai and BHMC, a joint venture, and other participants are continuing volunteer activities to prevent desertification. Hyundai Motor Group has conducting a wide array of social contribution activities, in addition to the Hyundai Green Zone Project which we have been carrying out for over 10 years. In recognition of such efforts, Hyundai ranked first in the automotive industry in the ‘China Corporate * As of December 2018; based on 15,250 trees – a total number of trees which have been planted through the IONIQ Forest project Social Responsibility Index’ evaluation conducted by the China Academy ** Basis of calculation: On average, a 30-year old tree absorbs 9.1kg of CO2 per year; On average, a 40-year old tree absorbs 35.7g of fine dust per year; Anticipated effects after 30 years of Social Sciences in November 2018. 2019 Sustainability Report 093 1. INTRODUCTION Mobility innovation Provide solutions to individuals and sectors that do not have access to mobility and isolated regions 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Goal 11. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, Goal 10. Reduce inequality within and among countries Goal 9. Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and resilient and sustainable sustainable industrialization and foster innovation 3. MATERIALITY REPORT Goal 11.2 Goal 10.2 Goal 9.1 4. Happy Dream Car Happy Dream Bus Easy Move Inc. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE To provide mobility to such mobility-challenged people as the elderly Since 2015, Hyundai has been operating the Happy Dream Bus project Hyundai supports Easy Move Inc. which established in 2010 as a social and the disabled, Hyundai carries out the Happy Dream Car project by to help the mobility-impaired individuals go more places, providing enterprise. This corporation was funded by Hyundai in order to provide OUR SYSTEM providing cars to welfare organizations and NGOs in areas where our them with opportunities to enjoy more diverse experiences in a bigger vehicle, mobility and assistance equipment for the disabled and the business is based, including Ulsan, Asan, Jeonju, and Namyang. world. In particular, our Jeonju Plant has been donating funds for bus elderly. Easy Move is using exclusive technology to produce mobility OUR VALUE rental and traveling on 190 occasions to 131 organizations for four years assistance equipment, backed by the support from Hyundai. And it 4.4 Customer In particular, our Ulsan Plant has been steadily providing Happy Dream since 2015. We will continue to impartially select and support various develops such products as electric wheelchairs that provide increased 4.5 Environment Cars over the past 14 years, bringing the total number to 170 cars as organizations to include all of the underprivileged. By doing so, we will go convenience than previous products. Hyundai makes an effort to provide 4.6 Collaboration of the end of 2018. The Asan Plant and Jeonju Plant are also regularly beyond guaranteeing mobility rights of the less fortunate and contribute better mobility to our communities who are experiencing transport donating car purchase funds. The Namyang Technology Research Center to their happy lives and make more efforts to become a reliable means of inconvenience through products of Easy Move. 4.6 People has developed an application for welfare organization users to apply transportation at all times to our communities. 4.8 Community for and use Happy Dream Cars. The project does more than providing Cha-Car-Cha-Car Playground • Areas of CSV Activities transportation: it delivers lunch boxes, provides an emergency relief Hyundai opened the Cha-Car-Cha-Car Playground in 2015 and operated • Global CSV Activities service, takes part in cultural and welfare activities in nearby areas, it through 2018. The Playground is a car-themed amusement park in • Supporting Arts and Culture thereby helping the underprivileged feel less marginalized. Seoul Grand Park that was established to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the launch of our Sonata brand in 2015. The Mini Sonata at the Support by business site Playground was created using our independent technologies, and is 5. APPENDICES (Unit: Vehicle; Accumulated figures) designed in a way that enables even children with visual impairment to Business site Since Happy Dream Car Happy Dream Bus enjoy driving. There is also the Giant Sonata, a structure that children Ulsan Plant 2005 170 247 enjoy to play on, and such rest areas as the Animal Story Trail. Asan Plant 2009 13 The Cha-Car-Cha-Car Playground was the outcome of Hyundai’s efforts Jeonju Plant 2015 3 190 to have both the disabled and non-disabled enjoy the Playground and Namyang Technology to establish a space that provides an opportunity to experience various 2011 14 40 Research Center technologies that offer greater transport convenience. Total 200 477 Happy Dream Car, Happy Dream Bus Support (As of 2018 year-end) Happy Dream Cars Happy Dream Buses 200 477 2019 Sustainability Report 094 1. INTRODUCTION Traffic safety Develop new safety technologies and activities to prevent traffic accident and support traffic accident victims and their families 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Goal 3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all Goal 11. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, Goal 4. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and at all ages resilient and sustainable promote lifelong learning opportunities for all 3. MATERIALITY REPORT Goal 3.6 Goal 11.2 Goal 4.7 4. Driving Plus Traffic Safety Campaign with Robocar Poli H-Restore SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE In February 2019, Hyundai launched a virtual driving-related social We are running a child traffic accident prevention campaign featuring Hyundai is carrying out the H-Restore project by converging our contribution program aimed at helping inexperienced drivers overcome the popular cartoon character Robocar Poli. The traffic safety animation maintenance capability with social contribution activities. For customers OUR SYSTEM their fear of driving and develop a sense confidence in their driving. series is aired in 82 countries across the globe. We also run various who own old Hyundai vehicles and who are experiencing financial ‘Driving Plus’, developed for drivers who have a fear of driving or find education programs in which parents and their children together can difficulty, we restore the vehicle exterior and provide maintenance OUR VALUE driving difficult, uses a one-ton truck equipped with a mobile simulator participate. Traffic Safety Class was participated by about 10,000 services, thus providing a helping hand to customers in the local 4.4 Customer to train drivers on how to drive defensively in various traffic situations, people in three cities in Korea in 2018. Our domestic and overseas sales community who are experiencing difficulty with vehicle maintenance. In 4.5 Environment and at the same time, introduce them to Hyundai’s safety technologies. branches have in place Hyundai Poli Traffic Safety Playground (30,000 2018, 13 professional mechanics of Hyundai participated as members 4.6 Collaboration Driving Plus brings the truck to drivers or groups who have applied for visitors a year in Korea) and ‘Poli Kids Zone’ (six locations in China and of the H-Restore Dream Team. After receiving applications containing the program. We plan to provide continuous training to drivers who have Taiwan). We will continue to improve content and operation methods so customers’ stories, we chose a 2007 Elantra (Avante) HD and 2003 Santa 4.6 People been involved traffic accidents to help them overcome their trauma. that the future leaders of our societies can dream of a safer future with a Fe SM and carried out metal plate painting and maintenance. Through 4.8 Community Through the Driving Plus program, we seek to help novice drivers better awareness of traffic safety. these activities, we encourage our employees to use their talent for social • Areas of CSV Activities improve their driving skills and thus prevent traffic accidents as well contributions, while increasing the value of our customers’ vehicle. Hyundai Poli Traffic Safety Playground • Global CSV Activities as help accident-shocked drivers regain their confidence in driving. By • Supporting Arts and Culture doing so, we are spreading a happy driving culture throughout society. H-Restore – the Porter Traffic Accident Zero for Children Campaign 5. APPENDICES Visiting ‘Driving Plus’ Program 1 Visiting ‘Driving Plus’ Program 2 Hyundai is running the Traffic Accident Zero for Children Campaign aimed at preventing traffic accidents while children are route to and from school H-Restore – the Azera (Grandeur) by providing safer school vehicles. This campaign began in 2016, when Hyundai, the Citizens Coalition for Safety, and a technology cooperation partner together donated to childcare centers with commuter vehicles installed with an array of safety technologies. We are continuing the campaign to reduce traffic accidents involving children on the way to and from school. In 2018, we donated 14 commuter vehicles installed with new safety technologies, including the Sleeping Child Check System, and helped 50 organizations install safety features, achieving the annual goal of making an annual 1 million km of school roads safer (a total of 2 million km from 2016 to 2018). Through this campaign, we are engaging in other diverse efforts, such as distributing a campaign video (cumulative views: 200,000) to improve citizens’ understanding of traffic laws concerning children on the way to and from school, and generating ideas to improve the safety and convenience of commuter vehicles for children. Traffic Accident Zero for Children Campaign Sample screen of educational material – occurrence of traffic accident 2019 Sustainability Report 095 1. INTRODUCTION Future generation Provide opportunities for the growth of future generation – children, teens, and youth – and support them 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Goal 4. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and Goal 8. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic Goal 10. Reduce inequality within and among countries promote lifelong learning opportunities for all growth, full and productive employment and decent work 3. MATERIALITY REPORT for all Goal 4.a Goal 8.3 Goal 10.2 4. Looking for Three-Leafed Clovers Vision Drive SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE The Looking for Three-Leaf Clovers is a program in which college students Hyundai’s Namyang Technology Research Center is carrying out the Vision in career education opportunities, this program is offered with priority to provide one-on-one career mentoring to children from families that Drive project, which uses the professional knowledge of outstanding students from rural areas (mountain village and fishing village schools) OUR SYSTEM have been affected by traffic accidents. In 2018, the program was R&D personnel to provide education opportunities to teenagers in and those from special schools for the disabled. Starting in 2019, we are offered to 80 teenagers from families afflicted by traffic accidents. local communities. In September 2018, R&D employees visited nearby expanding the scope to include eight Asian countries that are the subject OUR VALUE Launched in 2005, this program was initially a donation project and later schools as a volunteer teacher to share their knowledge and experience of multicultural families, including Vietnam and Thailand, in addition 4.4 Customer developed into career mentoring by undergraduates. Support has been in various research areas related to automobile, engineering, and design. to Korea, in connection with the Ministry of Education. By doing so, we 4.5 Environment provided to a cumulative number of around 1,620 teenagers. Through In addition, around 1,300 students were invited from a nearby middle will contribute to global teenagers’ exploration of changes in the future 4.6 Collaboration this program, children afflicted by a traffic accident have been given school to take a tour of Motorstudio Goyang and attend a lecture. automotive industry and career paths. an opportunity to explore their career options and received emotional Through Vision Drive activities, we educate students on professional 4.6 People H-Junior Orchestra support, while college students performed roles as mentors and sponsors areas, such as automotive research and manufacturing processes, to 4.8 Community to the teenagers, thus experiencing the joy of sharing their talents. increase their understanding of the automotive industry and provide Hyundai’s Namyang Technology Research Center runs an orchestra • Areas of CSV Activities We will continue to make efforts to provide growth opportunities to information on future career paths. program for marginalized children lacking in education opportunity. • Global CSV Activities teenagers traumatized by traffic accidents, and faithfully carry out social The H-Junior Orchestra program recruits around 70 children, provides • Supporting Arts and Culture responsibilities related to traffic safety. Hope Engine Science Class them with musical instruments, including violin, cello, flute, and clarinet, To encourage local children to take a bigger interest in engineering, provides a weekly performance education, and holds an annual concert. Looking for Three-Leafed Clovers Website Hyundai carried out the Hope Engine Science Class program. From Annual concerts were held in January in 2018, and in June in 2019. By 5. APPENDICES March through December 2018, employees at Hyundai’s Asan Plant and providing cultural and art activitiesç in which underprivileged children H-Social Creator a local volunteer group of undergraduates visited six elementary schools cannot easily engage, we actively seek to support their creative and Since 2015, Hyundai has been organizing the H-Social Creator, an in the Asan area and six local children’s centers in the Cheonan area once artistic development. innovation program developed to help college students resolve social issues a month to donate their talents using an advanced science kit. Through related to the environment, traffic safety, and culture and art. The program Hope Engine Science Class, we aim to help children better understand Brilliant Kids Motor Show caters to undergraduate students (annually, 30 persons; cumulatively, 110 scientific principles, and discover and foster gifted children in science Hyundai hosted the 3rd Brilliant Kids Motor Show at the Gwacheon persons) interested in CSR and social issues, and supports development through a creative approach. We will continue to offer diverse learning National Science Museum and Busan National Science Museum. The of CSV ideas that lead to social innovation, through a basic workshop, opportunities to empower children to discover, develop and grow their Kids Motor Show is an exhibition that selects children’s drawings of cars, design camp, and employee mentoring. It duration of the program is six talent to tackle future challenges, and promote technology and science which are based on their dreams, and turns them into real models, which months, starting in June each year, and since 2017, the program has been among future generation. are then displayed for the audience to directly experience. This year, organized with ‘H-Ombudsman’. The focus for 2018 was on strengthening seven drawings were chosen after carefully handling the approximately the feasibility of ideas and on solving various social issues by applying the Future Automobile School 20,000 entries that were submitted. By installing kiosks that enabled Hackathon method during the design camp. We also created a promotional Hyundai operates the Future Automobile School for teenagers. customers to interact with the works, we established an arena where we video in the form of a short drama titled, ‘Youth, and the Beginning’, and Launched in 2016, the Future Automobile School is a special career were able to take a step closer to the audience. We also exhibited how distributed it through diverse social media channels. We have discovered six education program under the free semester system for middle school our eco-friendly vehicle, the NEXO, works at the Gwacheon National CSV ideas every year (cumulative 24) by encouraging participation among students in Korea. It offers theory, experience, and practical training Science Museum to promote interest in and understanding of ecoyoung social innovators with original ideas. We will continue to support to increase understanding about the automobile industry, which in friendly mobility among children as well as their parents. their growth and share our thoughts about creating a positive social impact. turn enables students to explore automobile-related jobs. In 2018, we strengthened content on hydrogen energy and future cities to enhance Brilliant Kids Motor Show Website H-Social Creator Short Drama titled ‘Youth, and the Beginning’ understanding of the future automotive industry. To remove inequality H-Social Creator ‒ Social Innovation Program by College Students 2019 Sustainability Report 096 1. INTRODUCTION Community Provide support and engage in collaborative activities based on the needs of local communities, including NGOs and our partner companies 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Goal 1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere Goal 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Goal 17. Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development 3. MATERIALITY REPORT Goal 1.5 Goal 12.b Goal 17.17 4. Support for preserving the Petra World Heritage Site Staff Volunteer Corps H-Local Partner SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Petra is an ancient historical site that has been a UNESCO World Heritage Hyundai supports 131 staff volunteer corps, one for each of its business H-Local Partner is a program through which Hyundai employees and Site since 1985. One of ‘New Seven Wonders of the World’, Petra is sites, as a way to promote volunteer activity among employees. Among citizens form a volunteer council and provide support for marginalized OUR SYSTEM attracting a keen interest from many people around the world. Together these corps, of note is the weekday volunteer corps of 970 technical staff individuals who are in the blind spot of welfare systems. Together with local with the local government agency in charge of the site, Hyundai has at the Ulsan Plant carrying out talent donations for the marginalized. residents of eight neighborhoods that have sisterhood ties with our business OUR VALUE devised a three-year action plan running through 2020 from 2018, and The Asan Plant also organizes a volunteer group comprised of employee site volunteer corps, we regularly carry out volunteer activities for the low4.4 Customer is implementing it to preserve the Petra region, which attracts around 1 wives conducting social contribution activities for senior citizens in income class beyond the reach of government assistance. In 2018, around 4.5 Environment million tourists a year, and to promote the local economy. the local community. Hyundai employees are giving a helping hand to 900 members carried out a wide variety of activities closely connected to 4.6 Collaboration underprivileged neighbors by planning and executing volunteer activities local communities, such as delivering food on more than 20 occasions, In 2018, the first year of the plan, we made such improvements to render that reflect the characteristics of their business site. In 2018, around 17,900 providing taxi support for seniors, providing breakfasts to children, offering 4.6 People the site more tourist-friendly by setting up free Wi-Fi service, better employees participated in the volunteer activities and recorded a combined support for local schools’ graduation ceremonies, providing support for 4.8 Community sign posts, outdoor ad installations, an information app and map, and 59,500 hours. We will continue to engage in activities that leverage events for seniors, and improving the residential environment. We will • Areas of CSV Activities a scale model of the site created by 3D printing. In the second year, we employee talents for people who need a helping hand. continue to help employees and local communities plan diverse activities • Global CSV Activities plan to develop a tour route using eco-friendly electric buses, and in for the underprivileged and contribute to facilitating exchange among local • Supporting Arts and Culture the third year, promote the economy by developing infrastructure and Hyundai Dream Center residents. improve amenities of the local community. We recognize the importance Hyundai operates the Hyundai Dream Center, a vocational program to help of cultural heritages we hand down to our future generations and will young people in developing nations develop technical skills. Hyundai Dream H‒Self Sharing Planner 5. APPENDICES cooperate with all stakeholders to preserve their value. Center is a project that we carry out in cooperation with Plan International H-Self Sharing Planner program is designed to encourage staff to voluntarily Korea, and a venue through which we provide our advanced automobile plan and execute their volunteer activities. Volunteer targets and periods Three-year Action Plan for Preserving the Petra World Heritage Site maintenance skills to developing countries. The first Hyundai Dream Center were set for previous volunteer activities, making it difficult for employee was opened in Ghana in 2013, followed by those in Indonesia, Cambodia, ideas to be reflected. In contrast, the H-Self Sharing Planner enables self2018 2019 2020 and Vietnam. The Hyundai Dream Center in the Philippines, opened in 2018, directed volunteer activities since volunteer activities are based on voluntary provides technical education to around 90 youths annually. Recently, 78 planning by staff. In 2018, the creative planning of staff led to volunteer Bring improvements Develop a tour route, Promote the outstanding students found a job at local Hyundai dealers. We opened our 6th activities on 800 occasions in a total of 10 areas. These included carrying out at the site through and operate eco-friendly regional economy, Hyundai Dream Center in Peru in April 2019, accepting 63 local young people various leisure activities with local children, such as confectionery, bakery, free Wi-Fi service, electric buses and develop (43 male, 20 female) from low-income families having difficulties in finding and art, and volunteer activities that supported elementary school students’ better sign posts, an capabilities a quality job, and plan to provide a quality education on various subjects for ‘car maker’ hobby activities. information app, etc. six semesters totaling three years. Through Hyundai Dream Center, we will support youths in developing nations in honing their talent and skills. Sponsorship of the Korean Archery Association Hyundai has been sponsoring the Korean Archery Association since 1985. Happy House Our research institute’s technological knowhow was used to develop a Our Happy House project provides daily necessities to the low-income class shooting machine that filters defective arrows. Precision analytical technique who are in the blind spot of the welfare system and helps improve their was applied to identify irregularities in parts. By doing so, we are supporting residential environment. Together with the Hwaseong City Social Welfare archers honing their skills and helping them improve their performance. Go Petra App Log-in screen for Information map for Council, Hyundai’s Namyang Technology Research Center recruited In addition, we are promoting the sport by sponsoring leading archery available in five free Wi-Fi service tourists available in beneficiaries residing in Hwaseong City, and identified the needs of tournaments, including the Archery World Cup and the World Archery languages 10 languages beneficiaries and, accordingly, repaired heating boilers and water leaks. We Championships. will continue to take interest in the lives of the underprivileged and provide full support for a better life. 2019 Sustainability Report 097 Global CSV Activities Areas of CSV Activities 1. INTRODUCTION Eco-friendly Mobility innovation Traffic safety Future generation Community 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Responsible global corporate citizen Hyundai’s global operations were reorganized by region in 2018 and we are making fundamental improvements in line with this change. We are also changing our CSV focus from country to region-centered. Our plan for 2019 is to establish 3. MATERIALITY REPORT a midto long-term CSV strategy direction and support system for each region, and thus establish the foundation for a systematic global CSV activity system to faithfully perform our roles and responsibilities as a global corporate citizen. 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Key Activities in North America Key Activities in Europe OUR SYSTEM Hope on Wheels ECO Parking OUR VALUE Hyundai Motor America (HMA) has been organizing Hyundai Motor Espana, S.L. (HMES) took an innovative 4.4 Customer the Hope on Wheels campaign with Hyundai dealers approach in response to a growing call for reduction of 4.5 Environment since 1998. This campaign supports pediatric cancer plastics in the ocean by introducing the ECO Parking research and aims for a future where no children will machines. HMES installed a machine in coastal parking 4.6 Collaboration be suffering from cancer. It has expanded across the lots to take plastic waste as a payment for parking. 4.6 People U.S., with HMA and all of our local dealers participating The scheme induces road travelers to empty plastic 4.8 Community in the campaign. In 2019, we plan to donate USD cans in their vehicle or to pick up plastic trash nearby, • Areas of CSV Activities 160,000 under the theme, “Minutes are Precious”. encouraging people to participate in activities to protect • Global CSV Activities the environment. Through the ECO Parking, we plan to • Supporting Arts and Culture increase the possibilities of recycling plastics and promote the importance of protecting marine ecosystems. 5. APPENDICES HMMA • Organize a fund-raising campaign by employees: United Ways of HAOS • Support educational activities for underprivileged students and Major Activities by Hyundai Motor Alabama Major Activities by Hyundai Assan Otomotiv Sanayi provide scholarship Subsidiary Manufacturing Alabama Subsidiary • Support local art fairs and exhibitions: Alabama Shakespeare Festival, • Sponsor the Police Forces Support Foundation in Turkey (family Montgomery Museum of Arts, etc. members of police officers who were injured or died in the line of duty) • Protect biodiversity: Montgomery Area Zoological Society HMCI • IONIQ customer-participated eco-friendly donation activities Hyundai Motor Company Italy HMA • Support pediatric cancer research, and help treatment of pediatric HMCZ • Provide financial support for underprivileged children, and support Hyundai Motor America cancer: Hyundai Hope on Wheels Grants Program Hyundai Motor Czech volunteer organization with vehicles: SOS Children Villages • Sponsor human rights organizations and related events: NAACP, CBCF, CHCI, TELACU, Women’s Empowerment Expo, etc. HMF • Sponsor an organization for social integration through sports Hyundai Motor France education: Sport dans la Ville • Host a multinational festival: Hyundai Cultural Heritage Celebration HMMC • Run local community development and eco-friendly programs: HAC • ‘Granting Wishes’ campaign for pediatric patients with an incurable Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Hyundai Endowment Fund, HMMC Grants Hyundai Auto Canada illness, participated by dealers: Children’s Wish Czech • Donations participated by HAC and its dealers: Boys and Girls Clubs of • Sponsor the hydrogen-powered RC national championship for middle Canada, HACC Gives Back school students (Horizon Grand Prix) HMSK • Sponsor the parents association to fight cancer: Cancer Organisation Hyundai Motor Slovakia HMUK • Sponsor a fund-raising campaign in partnership with Cancer Research Hyundai Motor UK: Stand Up To Cancer United Kingdom, Ltd. 2019 Sustainability Report 098 Areas of CSV Activities 1. INTRODUCTION Eco-friendly Mobility innovation Traffic safety Future generation Community 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Key Activities in India Key Activities in Russia Dream Village Project Safe Road Traffic Safety Program 3. MATERIALITY REPORT Hyundai Motor India (HMI)’s Dream Village project is aimed at improving the village Hyundai Motor Commonwealth Independent States (HMCIS) is providing a traffic safety environment in India and helping local residents increase their participations in the education to customers and members of local communities. The education is held in various economy. In 2018, improvements were made to the environment and infrastructure of the cities, including Moscow, Saint Petersburg, and Leningrad. Separately, a contest is organized 4. Kattrambakkam Village in India, and support was provided in the area of employment, stock raising, health, and education for a better life of local residents. to develop creative traffic safety education methods. Also, through the ‘Safe Road’ program, information is shared with preschool children and parents on safe conducts on the road. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE OUR SYSTEM OUR VALUE 4.4 Customer 4.5 Environment 4.6 Collaboration 4.6 People 4.8 Community • Areas of CSV Activities • Global CSV Activities • Supporting Arts and Culture 5. APPENDICES HMI • Operate a traffic safety campaign in partnership with local police HMCIS • Invite Hyundai customers and employees’ families for a traffic safety Major Activities by Hyundai Motor India (traffic cameras, traffic safety for pedestrians, distribution of Major Activities by Hyundai Motor Commonwealth program: Hyundai Safe Road Traffic Safety Subsidiary educational books, etc.) Subsidiary Independent States • Organize a cultural experience program participated by young • Help Kattrambakkam Village increase its self-reliance through generation: Great Music for Young Generation local business, health, educational, and environmental infrastructure • Support natural disaster relief efforts for restoration from damage HMMR • Support professional job trainings (equipment, employee caused during the Indian monsoon season Hyundai Motor Manufacturing volunteering, scholarship) Russia • Employee volunteering and donations in cities outside the area where HMMR is located: Hyundai Dream Way HMCIS • Organize a campaign to raise awareness of traffic safety in Russia Regional Headquarters Kazakhstan, Serbia, and Ukraine: H-Road Traffic Safety Campaign Hyundai Motor Commonwealth Independent States 2019 Sustainability Report 099 Areas of CSV Activities 1. INTRODUCTION Eco-friendly Mobility innovation Traffic safety Future generation Community 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Key Activities in Latin America Key Activities in Africa & Middle East Dental Trailer Road Safety Campaign in Saudi Arabia 3. MATERIALITY REPORT Hyundai Motor Brazil (HMB) has developed a portable trailer called “Sorriso Cidadang (citizen Hyundai Motor Africa & Middle East Headquarters is carrying out a road safety campaign smile)” and is providing free dental service to the marginalized in the local community, together with local Saudi dealers at universities and local communities. The Hyundai Safety including seniors and children. HMB launched this project in June 2014. In cooperation with Campaign has been held since 2017, educating local drivers on defensive driving and 4. the Piracicaba Metalworkers Union, HMB is visiting public schools and social organizations in the Piracicaba region. HMB plans to contribute to improving the health of residents in the safety laws. It also distributes printouts on observing traffic regulations and conducts an ad campaign to help the community establish a safe driving culture. In particular, we provided SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE local community by continually providing free dental service. experience-based traffic safety education to female drivers in 2018. The number of female drivers in Saudi Arabian is expected to increase as the ban on female drivers was lifted. OUR SYSTEM Hyundai is helping them have a better understanding on safe driving. OUR VALUE 4.4 Customer 4.5 Environment 4.6 Collaboration 4.6 People 4.8 Community • Areas of CSV Activities • Global CSV Activities • Supporting Arts and Culture 5. APPENDICES HMB • Sponsor the biggest multinational festival in Piracicaba, every year Hyundai Motor Africa & • Saudi Arabia: Traffic safety experiential education for female drivers Major Activities by Hyundai Motor Brazil since 2010 Major Activities by Middle East Headquarters • Egypt: Traffic safety campaign Subsidiary Subsidiary • Sponsor the Olga Kos Institute Race to improve social understanding on the World Down Syndrome Day (March 21) • South Africa: Support for the establishment of local libraries and education • Sponsor a complementary training (technical training) for • Nigeria: Support and education program for children in poverty low-income students aged 16 to 24 in partnership with Social Opportunity Institute • Morocco: Program to raise awareness of traffic safety and environment • Kuwait: Program to support the socially disadvantaged CV Central & South America • Ecuador: Hygiene, health and medical support programs Regional Headquarters • Palestine: Install photovoltaic facilities to families of children in poverty • Chile: Project to improve living environment and support children’s education in Valparaíso • Jordan: Preservation of the Petra World Heritage Site 2019 Sustainability Report 100 Areas of CSV Activities 1. INTRODUCTION Eco-friendly Mobility innovation Traffic safety Future generation Community 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Key Activities in Asia-Pacific Key Activities in China Ronald McDonald House Charities Australia Hyundai Green Zone (Anti-desertification project in Inner Mongolia) 3. MATERIALITY REPORT Hyundai Motor Company Australia (HMCA) sponsors the Ronald McDonald House Charities Beijing Hyundai Motor Company (BHMC) and Hyundai Motor Group China (HMGC) have Australia (RMHC) program to help Australian children with serious illnesses and their been implementing the Green Zone project since 2008 to prevent the desertification of families. In 2018, a special book project was carried out to realize an imaginary car designed Chakanor, the main source of fine dust in China. In 2018, they carried out the second 4. by a child. Harry Hyundai, the main character of the book created for “Hyundai Help for Kids”, will visit Ronald McDonald Houses and roadshows all across Australia in 2019 to Hyundai Green Zone China project creating grasslands in dry lake beds in Baoshaodainao Nur, Zhenglan Qi. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE delight children and their families. OUR SYSTEM OUR VALUE 4.4 Customer 4.5 Environment 4.6 Collaboration 4.6 People 4.8 Community • Areas of CSV Activities • Global CSV Activities • Supporting Arts and Culture 5. APPENDICES HMCA • Support Royal Institute for Deaf and Blind Children (RIDBC) that BHMC Major Activities by Major Activities by • Volunteer activities for environmental protection Hyundai Motor Company supports Australians who have hearing or vision impairment, and Beijing Hyundai Motor Company Subsidiary Australia people who support them (Education for family members, treatment, Subsidiary hearing and cochlear implant services) • Nurture technical talent at local stores in collaboration with • Sponsor NGOs to fight against children’s disease (Life Education an automotive college Australia, KRI, Steven Walters Children’s Cancer Foundation, etc.) • Sponsor the Make-A-Wish Grants (Granting wishes campaign for • Visiting Traffic Safety Campaign for children (Experience-based HMGC pediatric patients with incurable illnesses) Hyundai Motor Group China education, raising awareness on traffic safety, improving response • Sponsor the Bear Cottage ‒ the world’s only hospice center for to crisis situations) children in New South Wales • Dream Class (Provide books, educational equipment, sports goods, • Vietnam: Help children from low income families discover their etc. to elementary schools in deprived areas; offer dream lectures in Hyundai Motor Asia Pacific Headquarters dreams (Dreams come true) connection with employee volunteers) • Tong Xin Yi (Address major social issues of protecting children • Philippines: Project to support drinking water by using rainwater left behind when their parents move to cities to work, juvenile (Establish a facility which purifies rainwater, and provide hygiene delinquency preventions, and support for extracurricular facilities and education to local communities) activities) • Nepal: Mobility support project for the disabled and the elderly (Offer mobility assistance for travelers with special needs) 2019 Sustainability Report 101 1. INTRODUCTION Supporting Arts and Culture 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Global Partnership for Arts and Culture Hyundai connects automobiles and art, promoting change in perspective. By implementing domestic and overseas culture and art support programs, Hyundai seeks to create opportunities for everyone to enjoy art and create a new 3. MATERIALITY REPORT culture, just like its vision of going beyond automobiles and becoming a partner to its customers. By supporting artists pursuing new possibilities, we seek to deliver new values and experience to the general public. 4. National Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art Tate Modern Los Angeles County Museum of Art SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Hyundai carries out the MMCA Hyundai Motor Series project. This project Tate Modern in London attracts more than 5 million visitors from all Hyundai started 10-year partnership with the Los Angeles County OUR SYSTEM aims to expand the horizons of Korean art together with the National across the world every year. As part of Hyundai’s 10-year partnership Museum of Art (LACMA) in 2015, and has since been spearheading The Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art (MMCA) of Korea. We support announced in 2015 with Tate Modern, the Hyundai Commission invites Hyundai Project at LACMA, inspiring people in various ways through OUR VALUE contemporary Korean artists hold large-scale solo exhibitions and international artists every year to the museum’s Turbine Hall with a largeconvergence of technology and art. By sponsoring Art + Technology 4.4 Customer relevant seminars and publications, thereby establishing the foundation scale space for new site-specific work. In 2018, the Hyundai Commission exhibitions and the Art + Technology Lab, LACMA holds innovative 4.5 Environment for Korean art to further extend its global reach. In 2018, the fifth presented artworks created by Tania Bruguera, a world-leading artist exhibitions of works of globally renowned artists integrating art with exhibition was held with artist, Choi Jeong Hwa, under the title, ‘MMCA from Cuba. The heat-sensitive material applied to the Turbine Hall science technology. Another initiative is Korean Art Scholarship through 4.6 Collaboration Hyundai Motor Series 2018: CHOIJEONGHWA ‒ Blooming Matrix’, at revealed images made by visitors when they touched, lay or rolled on the research. In 2018, through our fourth exhibition of The Hyundai Project 4.6 People MMCA Seoul. One of his new works titled ‘Dandelion’, an 8.4m public floor. By featuring artworks created by the participation of visitors, the titled ‘3D: Double Vision’, which showed 3D works of the past 175 years, 4.8 Community artwork, captured visitors’ interest and admiration. exhibition employed a unique perspective in interpreting issues facing ranging from three-dimensional image works of the Victorian era to 21st • Areas of CSV Activities modern societies today such as immigration and population movements. Century VR works. • Global CSV Activities • Supporting Arts and Culture 5. APPENDICES MMCA Hyundai Motor Series 2018: CHOIJEONGHWA ‒ Blooming Matrix Hyundai Commission: Tania Bruguera © Ben Fisher Joseph Jastrow, Experiments in Visual Perception, c. 1905, Stereographs from Glass Negatives, Keystone-Mast Collection, California Museum of Photography, University of California, Riverside, Photo courtesy California Museum of Photography, University of California, Riverside 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 102 Hyundai’s Local Community We are promoting social values in local communities together with stakeholders, with a particular focus on five major A winner of Child Safety Award ‒ CSV areas ‒ eco-friendly, mobility innovation, traffic safety, future generation, and community. Also, we are expanding Traffic Accident Zero for Children Campaign the scope of our local community service to include overseas communities where we do our business, seeking to In November 2018, Hyundai received the Minister Award in the special award category at the grow together and establish win-win relations with them. As the role of vehicles are fast evolving from a means 8th Child Safety Awards organized jointly by the Ministry of the Interior and Safety and the Naeil of transportation to a partner in various moments of everyday life, we are further advancing our CSV activities by Newspaper. Hyundai is the first company to win the special category award created in 2018 for leveraging our competencies. private organization and individuals. We will continue to promote social interests in child safety through the Traffic Accident Zero for Children Campaign and provide technical support to school bus operators to prevent accidents. Major Performance & Plan 2018 Performance 2019 Plan Mid-to Long-term Plan • Operated the Robocar Poli Playground, and • Operate the Robocar Poli Playground, • Achieve 150,000 in cumulative number of 2018 Exhibitions based on partnership with museums the cumulative number of visitors exceeded and the cumulative number of visitors is visitors by 2022 60,000 expected to exceed 90,000 • Contribute to midto long-term sales increases Based on our global partnerships with international museums, Hyundai unveiled new exhibitions by operating social contribution facilities within in 2018 ‒ MMCA Hyundai Motor Series 2018: CHOIJEONGHWA ‒ Blooming Matrix at the MMCA; Hyundai branches Hyundai Commission: Tania Bruguera at Tate Modern; and 3D: Double Vision, covering all 3D • Prepared for the launch of Driving Plus by • Improve mobility in Korea by developing • Fully establish the new traffic safety program visual works of the 175 years, at LACMA. Hyundai created opportunities of delivering inspiration creating a mobile simulator, and developing car separation-type simulation, and review by improving simulation effectiveness and and perception-changing experiences to our global audience. educational program by type and experiential overseas expansion of the solutions increasing the number of participants Hyundai Commission: Tania Bruguera © Ben Fisher content for safety technology • Opened the 1st Korea-Vietnam Joint Care • Continue support and cooperation for • Open the 2nd Center in early 2020 Areas of Center (Can Tho City, Vietnam, January 2018) operation of the 1st Center • Provide support to 4,000 persons (number of CSV Activities • More than 2,000 persons, including soon-to• Look into a site for the 2nd Korea-Vietnam beneficiaries of two Centers) be-marriage immigrants, women who have Joint Care Center, and provide support for the • Develop into a base for resolving relevant Discovering and sponsoring rising media artists and curators returned to Vietnam, and Korean-Vietnamese opening of a temporary office by the end of year social issues children, received education and counseling Hyundai’s VH Award and Hyundai Blue Prize are platforms upon which artists and curators are able to realize their talents to their full capability. VH Award is designed to promote emerging • Opened the 5th Hyundai Dream Center (April • Opened the 6th Hyundai Dream Center • Diversify technical training to include new media artist of Korea while Hyundai Blue Prize sponsors rising curators in China to curate 2018, Philippines) (April 2019, Peru) commercial vehicles and electric vehicles their own shows with the general public. ‒ 72 persons found employment at Hyundai ‒ Choose 63 youths from low-income families • Expand our talent pool to include sales and dealer shops from among 89 graduates of for vocational education support for 3 years production staff, in addition to maintenance the first and second group ‒ Offer job at agents to outstanding talents staff ‒ Contribute to enhancing women’s rights and interests 2019 Sustainability Report 1. Introduction 2. 2018 Highlights 3. Materiality Report 4. Sustainability Performance 5. Appendices 103 Appendices 2019 Sustainability Report 104 1. INTRODUCTION Business Performance 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Performance Overview Global Sales Russia (Russia, CIS) China (Unit: Vehicle) In 2018, the business environment remained challenging throughout 196,297 790,177 3. MATERIALITY REPORT the year due to a continued economic stagnation world-wide. A growing anti-globalization sentiment as well as protectionism in many parts of North America Korea the world posed as barriers to the midto long-term growth strategy of Africa & Middle East 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE automotive makers that have business operations across the world. (U.S., Canada, Mexico) 303,537 721,078 872,026 Amid such macroeconomic trends, Hyundai missed its overall sales target 5. for 2018 mainly due to sluggish sales in North America, Europe, Africa and the Middle East. Nevertheless, we achieved a number of qualitative results APPENDICES that will boost sales and profit for years to come, thanks to concerted Europe effort by all our global members to become fundamentally competitive (Western, Eastern, Turkey) 5.1 Business Performance and thus thrive under any circumstances. In particular, sales of our IONIQ 588,928 5.2 Facts & Figures and other eco-friendly vehicles were exceptional in 2018, surpassing the 5.3 GRI Index previous year’s sales volume by 21% to a combined total of 282,000 units, India demonstrating Hyundai’s growing global recognition as a leader of future 5.4 Independent Assurance Statement mobility. As for the Genesis, our luxury brand, surpassed the 200,000 550,002 5.5 About This Report Central & South America Overseas commercial Asia-Pacific mark in global sales volume in October 2018, less than three years (Other countries in (Brazil, Other Latin American countries) vehicles, etc. from its launch in November 2015, thereby receiving positive reviews Asia-Pacific region, Australia) and solidifying its position in the luxury brand segment. We intend to 319,625 44,087 203,442 strengthen the competitiveness of our Genesis line-up, which is expected Business Review to contribute significantly to improving our profitability and brand value. Market Condition and Business Review in Korea In 2018, Hyundai’s sales volumes in Korea grew 13.5% year-on-year to record In Korea, our market share rebounded thanks to the line-up we built up to Market Condition 721,000 units on the strength of strong sales of the new Kona and Santa Fe. better reflect customers’ diverse needs, combined with a wide range of In 2018, domestic sales volume of small SUVs, medium SUVs and premium As of end of 2018, our market share, excluding imports, stood at 46.5%. services and communication efforts we put forward for customer satisfaction. mid-sized cars increased 10.0%, 51.6% and 123.7%, respectively, while We also revitalized our performance in Russia and Brazil, increasing our that of medium and semi-large cars fell 10.1% and 8.4%, respectively. Facing intensifying competition, Hyundai remained focused on customer production capacity and actively conducting other market expansion efforts. The Korean auto market as a whole grew 8.8% over the previous year as satisfaction through product and service improvement and competitive the number of vehicles excluding imports sold during the year reached pricing. Keenly aware of consumers’ increasingly diverse lifestyles, we Global Sales in 2018 (Unit: Vehicle) Total 4,589,199 1,552,000 vehicles. followed up the success of our top-selling models with the introduction of the i40 Saloon and Tucson gasoline models, as well as the Veloster N Korea 721,078 that delivers a maximum driving pleasure. In 2018, we launched the Nexo Passenger vehicles 691,827 fuel cell electric vehicle (FCEV) to strengthen our line-up of eco-friendly Commercial vehicles 29,251 cars. We also cut the prices of popular midand large-sized as well as four Overseas 3,868,121 high-performance models in a bid to increase consumers’ access to our North America (U.S., Canada, Mexico) 872,026 products. In addition, we reorganized and expanded our service brand, India 550,002 Bluemembers, as part of our effort to innovate our customer service. Europe (Western, Eastern, Turkey) 588,928 Russia (Russia, CIS) 196,297 Meanwhile, to make our operations more sustainable, we sought to Sales in Korea Central & South America (Brazil, Other Latin American countries) 319,625 promote environmental and social values by developing eco-friendly cars, Africa & Middle East Asia-Pacific (Other countries in Asia-Pacific region, Australia) 303,537 203,442 721,000 units reducing our carbon footprints, and growing together with suppliers. We also continued to contribute to society, including by supporting 37 China 790,177 social welfare programs, selected among those suggested by the general Market Share in Korea: 46.5% Overseas commercial vehicles, etc. 44,087 public, in diverse ways. 2019 Sustainability Report 105 1. INTRODUCTION Market Condition and Business Review by Region 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS US Market Asian Markets European (Western) Market Market Condition Market Condition Market Condition 3. MATERIALITY REPORT In the US market, sales volume of recreational vehicles grew 7.4% yearIn China, sales volume of SUVs, the largest segment, fell 4.2% in 2018, while The European market entered a stagnation in 2018, ending the year on-year due to the popularity of small SUVs and pickup trucks, while the other segments declined about 5.0%, and as a result, the market as a with 16,020,000 units sold, a figure similar to sales in 2017. The sluggish passenger cars fell 13.4% due to a sluggish demand in all classes. The whole sold 4.7% fewer units than in 2017 to a sales volume of 23,016,000 growth reflects the tightening of CO2 remissions standards, including the 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE market as a whole increased 0.2% to 17,264,000 units. units. In India, annual sales volume increased by 5.1% ear-on-year to adoption of the Worldwide Harmonised Light Vehicles Test (WLTP), which 3,371,000 units. The market leader Maruti Suzuki sold 1,731,000 units, created a backlog of some auto makers waiting for certification, and a 8.0% more; and the local automakers Mahindra and Tata sold 226,000 and demand still trying to recover from the global financial crisis. 5. 214,000 units, respectively, 1.5% and 26.3% more, than in 2017. APPENDICES 5.1 Business Performance 5.2 Facts & Figures 5.3 GRI Index Sales in the U.S. Sales in China Sales in India Sales in Europe (Western) 5.4 Independent Assurance Statement 5.5 About This Report 678,000 units 790,000 units 550,000 units 545,000 units Market Share in the U.S.: 3.9% Market Share in China: 3.4% Market Share in India: 16.3% Market Share in Europe: 3.4% Business Review Business Review Business Review In 2018, Hyundai sold 678,000 units, 1.1% fewer than in 2017, ending the In 2018, our sales volume in China rose 0.7% year-on-year to 790,000 Our 2018 sales volume in European markets rose 3.6% year-on-year to year at a 3.9% market share. The number of the Tucson sold increased units, accounting for 3.4% of the market. As a result of our efforts to 545,000 units, accounting for 3.4% in market share, due mainly to robust 24.0%, while that of the Accent and the Sonata declined 50.7% and boost customer satisfaction in the Chinese market, Beijing Hyundai sales of the Ionic Electric and the new Kona. However, in order to secure 20.2%, respectively. Motor Company (BHMC) ranked first in the 2018 China Initial Quality profitability going forward, we plan to focus on qualitative growth, building Study (IQS), second in the 2018 China Sales Satisfaction Index (SSI), and our inner strengths rather than offering excessive dealer incentives and However, as a result of our continued efforts for quality improvement third in the 2018 China Customer Service Index (CSI), all conducted by boosting external growth. and customer satisfaction, Hyundai was ranked third, for the second J.D. Power. consecutive year, in the general brand category of the 2018 US Vehicle Even in the conservative European market, we are solidifying our position Dependability Study (VDS) conducted by J.D. Power, a US-based BHMC also ranked first for two years in a row, 2017 and 2018, in the China based on superior technology and design. We also made significant marketing information services company. The consistent performance Corporate Social Responsibility Index, thanks to our social contribution progress in our efforts to expand FCEVs in Europe. In August 2018, we can be attributed to the growth of the brand value based on the superior activities including sponsoring of the Chinese national football team and signed an MOU with H2Energy for supplying 1,000 large FCEV trucks to quality and marketability of Hyundai products. We were also recognized the Beijing International Marathon. We also established a fund dedicated the Swiss-based hydrogen solution provider, followed by another with by the global brand consultancy Interbrand as one of the fastest growing to providing financial support for children’s traffic safety education a French company in October 2018 on jointly expanding the supply of automobile brands, ranking 35th in 2016 and 2017, and 36th in 2018 in programs and children of traffic accident victims. These activities also FCEVs and hydrogen filling stations. In 2018, our Nexo and Kona both won Interbrand’s Best Global Brands reports. help Hyundai increase our brand awareness to Chinese customers. Red Dot awards, earning a coveted recognition for excellence in design from the world’s leading design powerhouse. Receiving the recognition Our Genesis brand, which entered the US market in August 2016, ranked In India, our sales volume increased 4.3% year-on-year to 550,000 units was a continuation of the proud tradition first set by the new Genesis No.1 in both the overall brand and the premium brand categories of J.D. in 2018, accounting for 16.3% of the entire market. Most notably, our and the i10 in 2014, then, the i20 and Sonata in 2015, and the IONIQ in Power’s 2018 US Initial Quality Study (IQS). The Genesis was also named new Verna won the prestigious ‘Indian Car of the Year (ICOTY)’ award, 2016. In addition, the superior quality of the i30N, launched in early 2018, the best luxury brand in the 2018 Vehicle Satisfaction Awards (VSA) following in the tracks of the Grand i10 (2014), the Elite i20 (2015), and contributed to the new model reaching its annual sales target in the first announced by Auto Pacific, a US product-consulting firm, an endorsement the Creta (2016-2018). six months of 2018. We will continue to introduce high-performance N of excellence that merit attention in the world’s largest auto market. models developed to maximize the customers’ joy of driving. 2019 Sustainability Report 106 1. INTRODUCTION Facts & Figures 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS CORPORATE Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Note PROFILE Assets KRW billion 178,835.9 178,199.5 180,655.8 Consolidated figures basis 3. MATERIALITY REPORT (Production and Sales) General Information Sales KRW billion 93,649.0 96,376.1 96,812.6 Consolidated figures basis 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Production Vehicle 4,865,500 4,506,996 4,635,356 Elantra (Avante) Vehicle 875,275 669,663 702,497 As of the end of 2018 5. Global Best-selling Models Tucson Accent Vehicle Vehicle 735,242 514,748 644,598 438,793 577,662 362,315 As of the end of 2018 As of the end of 2018 APPENDICES Sonata Vehicle 354,838 430,752 315,507 As of the end of 2018 5.1 Business Performance Santa Fe Vehicle 354,838 373,032 282,682 As of the end of 2018 5.2 Facts & Figures 5.3 GRI Index Korea Vehicle 1,679,905 1,651,718 1,747,837 5.4 Independent Assurance Statement U.S. Vehicle 379,020 328,400 322,500 5.5 About This Report China Vehicle 1,142,000 800,000 794,000 India Vehicle 665,017 678,017 713,108 Czech Republic Vehicle 358,400 356,700 340,300 Turkey Vehicle 230,010 227,000 203,000 Russia Vehicle 207,000 233,500 246,500 Brazil Vehicle 161,756 182,773 192,855 Global Production China (Commercial) Vehicle 37,881 27,941 12,195 Transformed from consignment (commercial) to Vietnam Vehicle 16,617 56,028 venture investment in 2017 Consignment (Commercial) Vehicle 4,511 4,330 5,200 Transformed from consignment (commercial) to Vietnam (Commercial) Vehicle 1,653 venture investment in 2018 Transformed from consignment (commercial) to Russia (Commercial) Vehicle 180 venture investment in 2018 Total Vehicle 4,865,500 4,506,996 4,635,356 Korea Vehicle 658,642 688,939 721,078 Global Sales Overseas Vehicle 4,201,407 3,817,336 3,868,121 Total Vehicle 4,860,049 4,506,275 4,589,199 2019 Sustainability Report 107 1. INTRODUCTION CORPORATE Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Note PROFILE 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS As of the last business day; and the past calendar (Employees and year’s figure changed due to an adjustment to Korea Person 66,890 68,876 69,755 Supply Chain) the collection criteria for the number of directly employed staff 3. MATERIALITY REPORT Number of The number of permanent and temporary workers Employees Overseas Person 50,499 53,341 54,166 as of year-end 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Ratio of employees working overseas % 43.0 43.6 43.7 Total Person 117,389 122,217 123,921 5. Korea Person 66,890 68,876 69,755 APPENDICES North America Person 9,886 10,942 11,332 5.1 Business Performance Europe Person 6,625 9,955 9,745 5.2 Facts & Figures Number of China Person 19,447 19,100 18,132 5.3 GRI Index Employees by Region 5.4 Independent Assurance Statement India Person 9,284 9,318 9,323 5.5 About This Report Others Person 5,257 4,026 5,634 Total Person 117,389 122,217 123,921 Management Person 369 466 442 Research fellow Person 19 22 22 Research Person 10,037 10,565 10,889 Number of Office work Person 11,756 12,659 12,512 Employees by Duty Technical/Production/Maintenance Person 35,439 35,669 35,983 in Korea Sales Person 6,185 6,190 6,095 Advisor, specially appointed staff for special duties, Others Person 3,085 3,305 3,812 temporary staff, etc. Total Person 66,890 68,876 69,755 Korea Person 66,890 68,876 69,755 Male Person 63,454 65,471 66,178 Number of Female Person 3,436 3,405 3,577 Employees by Gender Overseas Person 51,430 53,341 54,166 Male Person 45,989 47,737 48,271 Female Person 5,441 5,604 5,895 2019 Sustainability Report 108 1. INTRODUCTION ANNUAL Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Note PERFORMANCE 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Total assets KRW billion 178,836 178,199 180,656 Statements of financial position Total liabilities KRW billion 106,491 103,442 106,760 3. MATERIALITY REPORT (Consolidated) Total equity KRW billion 72,345 74,757 73,896 Total assets KRW billion 69,851 70,131 69,743 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Statements of financial position Total liabilities KRW billion 17,271 15,906 17,167 (Separate) 5. Total equity KRW billion 52,580 54,224 52,576 Sales KRW billion 93,649 96,376 96,813 APPENDICES Operating profit KRW billion 5,194 4,575 2,422 5.1 Business Performance Statements of 5.2 Facts & Figures Net profit KRW billion 5,720 4,546 1,645 Includes minority interest of consolidated net income income 5.3 GRI Index (Consolidated) Based on Bloomberg (sum of operating profit, 5.4 Independent Assurance Statement depreciation of tangible assets, depreciation of Financial EBITDA KRW billion 8,552 8,104 6,184 real estate held for investment, and depreciation of 5.5 About This Report Highlights intangible assets) Total assets KRW billion 41,714 41,605 43,160 Total liabilities KRW billion 2,699 2,163 -59 Statements of Total equity KRW billion 4,102 2,551 415 income (Separate) Based on Bloomberg (sum of operating profit, depreciation of tangible assets, depreciation of EBITDA KRW billion 4,913 4,467 2,447 real estate held for investment, and depreciation of intangible assets) Operating profit margin % 5.5 4.7 2.5 Profitability ratio (Consolidated) Net profit margin % 6.1 4.7 1.7 Operating profit margin % 6.5 5.2 -0.1 Profitability ratio (Separate) Net profit margin % 9.8 6.1 1.0 2019 Sustainability Report 109 1. INTRODUCTION OUR SYSTEM Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Note 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Number of training sessions in Korea Person 83 34 26 Sum of online trainings (3) and collective trainings (23) Sum of participants of online trainings (23,236) and Number of participants in Korea Person 27,470 25,089 24,959 collective trainings (1,723) Compliance Management 3. MATERIALITY REPORT Sum of online training for expatriates (1) and Education Number of training sessions overseas Case 1 1 4 collective training for overseas compliance (3) Sum of participants of online training for expatriates (728) 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Number of participants overseas Person 610 800 988 and collective training for overseas compliance (260) Legal sanction against the violation of Violations related to unfair competition, such as Case 0 0 0 fair trade collusion and monopoly 5. Marketing activities in Korea Case 0 0 0 Incidents of non-compliance with laws and regulations APPENDICES and voluntary codes concerning advertising, sales Marketing activities overseas Case 0 0 0 promotion, and sponsorship; based on a business report Non-compliance with 5.1 Business Performance Regulations and Voluntary Incidents of non-compliance with laws and regulations Codes and number of administrative actions regarding 5.2 Facts & Figures Protection of product information Case 1 0 0 information provided to customers to inform them of 5.3 GRI Index vehicle performance and function, such as fuel efficiency 5.4 Independent Assurance Statement Penalty and fine for non-compliance with Overseas manufacturing plants have been added to KRW million 5.9 73.4 17.0 5.5 About This Report environmental regulations the reporting scope since 2016 Dividends (Shareholders and investors) KRW billion 1,080 1,080 1,066 Interest expenses Refer to ‘financial income and financial expense’ KRW billion 272 333 307 (Shareholders and investors) in the notes to the consolidated financial statement Refer to ‘classification of expenses by nature’ Salaries (Employees) KRW billion 8,878 8,921 8,894 in the notes to the consolidated financial statement Distribution of Refer to ‘classification of expenses by nature Economic Value Raw materials costs (Suppliers) KRW billion 52,102 53,039 56,845 (raw material and product usage amount)’ in the notes (Consolidated figures basis) to the consolidated financial statement Refer to ‘income tax’ in the notes to the consolidated Income tax (Government) KRW billion 1,587 -108 885 financial statement Refer to ‘other income/expense’ in the notes Donation (Local communities) KRW billion 76 69 85 to the consolidated financial statement Total KRW billion 63,995 63,334 68,083 Dividends (Shareholders and investors) KRW billion 1,080 1,080 1,066 Interest expenses Refer to ‘financial income and financial expense’ KRW billion 129 191 156 (Shareholders and investors) in the notes to the financial statement Refer to ‘classification of expenses by nature Salaries (Employees) KRW billion 6,265 6,266 6,127 in the notes to the financial statement Distribution of Refer to ‘classification of expenses by nature Economic Value Raw materials costs (Suppliers) KRW billion 25,001 25,828 29,025 (raw material and product usage amount)’ in the notes (Separate figures basis) to the financial statement Income tax (Government) KRW billion 841 526 295 Refer to ‘income tax’ in the notes to the financial statement Refer to ‘other income/expense’ in the notes Donation (Local communities) KRW billion 50 48 64 to the financial statement Total KRW billion 33,366 33,938 36,733 2019 Sustainability Report 110 1. INTRODUCTION OUR VALUE Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Note 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS U.S. Vehicle 5th place in 2019 (124 points): Based on Dependability Study Ranking (Score) 9th (158) 3rd (133) 3rd (124) non-premium brand Quality index (Hyundai) 3. MATERIALITY REPORT (Based on the survey conducted U.S. Initial Quality Study Ranking (Score) 2nd (92) 4th (88) 2nd (74) Based on non-premium brand by J.D. Power and (Hyundai) Associates) 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE U.S. Initial Quality Study Based on premium brand (first survey of Genesis as Ranking (Score) 1st (77) 1st (68) (Genesis) premium brand in 2017) 5. Customer External evaluation — National Customer Satisfaction Index Ranking 1st place at all 1st place at all 1st place at all Compact, semi-medium, medium, semi-large, APPENDICES segments segments segments large, RV (NCSI) 5.1 Business Performance External evaluation — Customer 1st place at all 1st place at all 1st place at all 5.2 Facts & Figures Korean Standard-Quality Excellence Ranking Semi-medium, medium, RV, after-sales service satisfaction survey segments segments segments Index (KS-QEI) 5.3 GRI Index 5.4 Independent Assurance Statement External evaluation — 1st place at all 1st place at all 1st place at all 5.5 About This Report Korean Customer Satisfaction Index Ranking Passenger vehicle, RV segments segments segments (KCSI) 2019 Sustainability Report 111 1. INTRODUCTION Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Note 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS LNG MWh 3,821,131 3,839,712 3,975,889 Electricity MWh 3,596,858 3,610,742 3,721,273 Based on Hyundai’s domestic business sites and 3. MATERIALITY REPORT overseas manufacturing plants (using energy Diesel, Kerosene, Gasoline MWh 178,493 180,747 153,458 Energy conversion coefficient provided by the comprehensive consumption national GHG management system) Liquefied fuel MWh 1,585 1,673 1,751 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Gaseous fuel MWh 1,480 894 1,929 5. Total MWh 7,599,547 7,633,769 7,854,301 Energy consumption in producing Total of ‘Energy consumption’ ÷ APPENDICES Energy intensity one vehicle MWh/Vehicle 1.562 1.694 1.694 Total of ‘Global production’ 5.1 Business Performance Based on emissions of CO2, CH4, N2O; starting in Scope 1 tCO2e 822,273 846,371 831,180 5.2 Facts & Figures 2016, Scope 3 emissions are measured for the last 3 years 5.3 GRI Index Detailed information on Scope 3 has been disclosed 5.4 Independent Assurance Statement Scope 2 tCO2e 2,032,654 1,872,132 1,920,126 through CDP 5.5 About This Report Greenhouse gas emissions Among CDP items, upstream transportation & logistics, upstream lease assets and franchise Environment Scope 3 tCO2e 7,209,437 7,166,053 5,659,892 are excluded Of the Scope 3 items, the emissions related to “investment” are calculated only for companies with Total tCO2e 10,064,364 9,884,556 8,411,198 a stake of 25% or more in Hyundai Greenhouse gas Greenhouse gas Total of ‘Greenhouse gas emissions’ ÷ tCO2e/Vehicle 2.069 2.193 1.815 emission intensity emissions in producing one vehicle Total of ‘Global production’ Scope 1 tCO2e 24,882 24,098 -15,191 Year-on-year Scope 2 tCO2e 132,711 -160,522 47,994 change of greenhouse gas Scope 3 tCO2e -471,336 -43,384 -1,506,161 emissions Total change tCO2e -313,743 -179,808 -1,473,358 Steel (amounts used) Ton 1,249,939 1,148,388 1,173,455 Steel (scrap) Ton 458,982 477,680 453,788 Raw materials Aluminum (amounts used) Ton 109,122 117,252 108,399 Aluminum (scrap) Ton 30,593 30,132 27,841 2019 Sustainability Report 112 1. INTRODUCTION Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Note 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Withdrawal Ton 21,630,902 21,835,714 22,184,515 Water Consumption Ton 16,927,711 17,761,786 17,865,478 consumption 3. MATERIALITY REPORT Discharge Ton 9,736,760 9,254,825 9,836,345 Total Ton 621 1,062 1,296 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Consumption of refrigerant Korea Ton 4 3 9 (HFC, R135a, etc.) 5. Overseas Ton 617 1,059 1,287 Total Ton 10,367 8,398 7,719 APPENDICES VOC emissions Korea Ton 7,241 6,292 6,707 5.1 Business Performance Environment 5.2 Facts & Figures Overseas Ton 3,126 2,106 1,012 5.3 GRI Index Total Ton 1,172 1,256 1,065 5.4 Independent Assurance Statement CO (by type) Ton 275 384 276 5.5 About This Report SOx (by type) Ton 37 28 17 Air emissions NOx (by type) Ton 460 399 327 PM (by type) Ton 400 445 444 Korea (by region) Ton 342 392 419 Overseas (by region) Ton 830 864 646 2019 Sustainability Report 113 1. INTRODUCTION Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Note 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Total kg 683,350 649,860 652,757 COD (by type) kg 173,092 174,193 198,383 3. MATERIALITY REPORT BOD (by type) kg 20,418 24,124 22,743 SS (by type) kg 26,420 29,393 42,399 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Water pollutants n-H (by type) kg 166 515 364 5. Others (by type) kg 463,254 421,635 388,867 Korea (by region) kg 33,355 34,726 33,300 APPENDICES Overseas (by region) kg 649,995 615,134 619,456 5.1 Business Performance 5.2 Facts & Figures Total Ton 665,768 857,146 573,123 5.3 GRI Index General waste (by type) Ton 619,751 810,992 528,116 5.4 Independent Assurance Statement Designated waste 5.5 About This Report Weight of waste Ton 46,017 46,154 45,007 (by type) Environment Korea (by region) Ton 332,225 542,106 307,729 Overseas (by region) Ton 333,543 315,040 265,395 Total Ton 559,091 784,219 573,021 Landfill Ton 27,275 34,404 29,266 Weight of waste Incineration Ton 33,765 34,633 40,011 by disposal method Recycling Ton 493,102 709,841 496,992 Others Ton 4,948 5,341 6,752 Total Ton 4,583 3,930 4,723 Weight of hazardous chemical Korea Ton 900 458 456 substances Overseas Ton 3,683 3,473 4,268 Environmental Costs and investments for KRW billion 156.0 136.6 118.4 costs environmental protection 2019 Sustainability Report 114 1. INTRODUCTION Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Note 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Support for Quality and Technology Integrated figure of Hyundai and Kia; 6 tier 1 suppliers Company 101 107 108 Foundation of Volunteer Group and 102 tier 2 and 3 suppliers Korea Automotive Parts Industry Integrated figure of Hyundai and Kia; 22 tier 1 3. MATERIALITY REPORT Supplier Support Group Company 50 48 54 Promotion suppliers and 32 tier 2 suppliers Cumulative number of Integrated figure of Hyundai and Kia; around 300 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Collaboration suppliers in joint Number of suppliers Company 700+ 700+ 800+ tier 1 suppliers and around 500 tier 2 suppliers expansion partnership Suppliers in joint Number of suppliers Integrated figure of Hyundai and Kia; 125 small5. growth and fair trade agreements in the agreements Company 298 285 273 sized suppliers and 148 medium-sized suppliers APPENDICES Recruitment of Number of people hired Person 13,000 11,300 11,500 suppliers 5.1 Business Performance Total number of security staff 5.2 Facts & Figures Person 359 379 343 (Internal) 5.3 GRI Index Security practices Total number of security staff Person 614 604 603 5.4 Independent Assurance Statement (Korea) (Outsourced) 5.5 About This Report No. of security personnel trained in the Person 933 962 925 organization’s human rights policies Number of people with labor union Labor union Person 48,150 48,261 47,807 membership membership (Korea) Labor union membership percentage % 72.0 70.1 68.5 New recruitment Number of people hired Person 5,301 4,370 4,154 (Korea) 3.62 From among the year’s resigned employees, Employee turnover Number of employee turnover % 1.23 1.75 those whose reason for resigning is changing to (Korea) Employee turnover rate % 0.23 0.34 0.70 a different company People For the previous year’s report, we disclosed the employee satisfaction survey score in the 2017 organization culture survey Organizational culture survey score Point (N/A) 58.7 61.7 In this year’s report, we changed our data as we Organizational continued to conduct an organizational culture culture survey survey Our standard has been changed from employee Employee satisfaction survey score Point 3.55 (N/A) (N/A) satisfaction survey scores to organizational culture survey score in 2017 Number of female employees (Korea) Person 3,436 3,405 3,577 Number of female executives (Korea) Person 4 3 2 Number of female employees Number of female employees Person 1,390 1,431 1,504 by region (North America) Number of female executives Person 6 6 5 (North America) 2019 Sustainability Report 115 1. INTRODUCTION Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Note 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Number of female employees Person 1,212 1,363 1,419 (Europe) Number of female executives Person 2 2 1 3. MATERIALITY REPORT (Europe) Number of female employees (China) Person 2,152 2,134 2,131 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Number of female executives (China) Person 10 10 8 Number of female employees (India) Person 160 155 177 Number of 5. female employees by region Number of female executives (India) Person 0 0 0 APPENDICES Number of female employees (Others) Person 527 521 664 Number of female executives (Others) Person 5.1 Business Performance 5.2 Facts & Figures Total number of female employees Person 8,877 9,009 9,472 5.3 GRI Index Total number of female executives Person 22 21 16 5.4 Independent Assurance Statement Total number of female employees ÷ 5.5 About This Report Total female employment rate % 7.5 7.4 7.6 Total number of employees Number of managers in Korea Person 14,509 14,883 14,115 Number of female managers in Korea Person 331 399 461 The scope of managers is more than managerial level, People Number of managers overseas Person 3,042 including general, research, special, and executive Number of except for the Executive Vice Chairman and advisors Number of managers overseas Person 493 female managers Data on overseas managers and overseas female Total number of managers Person 17,157 managers has been collected and reported since 2018 Total number of female managers Person 954 Ratio of female managers % 5.6 Number of employees Employees Person 1,867 2,501 2,055 with disabilities with disabilities (Korea) Percentage of employees Total number of employees with disabilities ÷ % 2.75 2.97 2.95 with disabilities Total number of employees in Korea Under 30 years old Person 6,373 6,404 7,602 Number of 30-50 years old Person 35,937 34,633 32,199 employees by age Over 50 years old Person 25,511 27,839 29,954 Total Person 67,821 68,876 69,755 Training expenses per employee KRW 10,000 55 43 40 Employee Training hours per employee Hours 56 45 38 training (Korea) Total training expenses KRW billion 36.9 29.3 26.0 2019 Sustainability Report 116 1. INTRODUCTION Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Note 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Number of employees on Person 50 22 93 parental leave (Male) As of the end of 2018 Number of employees on Person 212 123 122 3. MATERIALITY REPORT parental leave (Female) Return rate after parental leave % 89.1 88.9 92.5 (Male) Percentage of total reinstated employees against 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE number of employees in parental leave Parental leave Return rate after parental leave % 89.1 87.0 97.5 (Korea) (Female) 5. Retention rate after parental leave % 96 94.2 100.0 Percentage of employees retained for at least (Male) 12 months against number of employees in APPENDICES Retention rate after parental leave parental leave % 85.6 96.4 98.3 (Female) 5.1 Business Performance No. of employees involved in Person 217 210 286 5.2 Facts & Figures occupational accidents (Korea) Based on figures of Ulsan, Asan and Jeonju plants 5.3 GRI Index in Korea Accident rate (Korea) % 0.55 0.53 0.71 5.4 Independent Assurance Statement No. of employees involved in 5.5 About This Report Person 38 41 32 Occupational occupational accidents (Overseas) Based on figures of overseas manufacturing plants accidents Accident rate (Overseas) % 0.10 0.11 0.09 People No. of employees involved in Person 255 251 318 occupational accidents (Total) Based on figures of Ulsan, Asan and Jeonju plants in Korea, and overseas manufacturing plants Accident rate (Total) % 0.34 0.33 0.42 Business Sites (Korea) % 1.87 1.96 2.39 LTIFR (Lost-Time Injuries Frequency Rate) = Business Sites (Overseas) % 0.41 0.47 0.33 (Number of lost-time injuries × 1,000,000) ÷ Business Sites (Total) % 1.16 1.28 1.46 (Total hours worked in accounting period) LTIFR Based on figures of Ulsan, Asan and Jeonju plants Suppliers (Korea) % 1.76 1.62 2.46 in Korea, and overseas manufacturing plants In case of overseas supplier LTIFR and supplier LTIFR Suppliers (Overseas) % 0.12 0.04 0.10 total, Hyundai Motor Brazil (HMB) is excluded Suppliers (Total) % 0.54 0.46 0.67 Business Sites (Korea) % 0.70 0.49 0.86 OIFR (Occupational Injuries Frequency Rate) = (Number of occupational illness cases × 1,00,000) ÷ OIFR Business Sites (Overseas) % 0.06 0.10 0.11 (Total hours worked in accounting period) Based on figures of Ulsan, Asan and Jeonju plants Business Sites (Total) % 0.39 0.31 0.52 in Korea, and overseas manufacturing plants 2019 Sustainability Report 117 1. INTRODUCTION Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Note 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Social welfare KRW million 22,252 23,147 48,817 Medical and healthcare KRW million 380 414 85 3. MATERIALITY REPORT Education KRW million 10,369 18,969 11,691 Culture & Sports KRW million 27,004 11,210 11,166 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Social contributions Environmental protection KRW million 1,310 7,001 2,482 by theme (Korea) Emergency relief KRW million 5,508 1,203 335 5. International exchange KRW million 1,941 1,380 1,273 APPENDICES Others KRW million 6,738 1,635 1,425 5.1 Business Performance Total KRW million 75,502 64,959 77,275 5.2 Facts & Figures Cash contribution KRW million 50,242 42,554 62,663 5.3 GRI Index Social contributions expenditure by type In-kind giving KRW million 11,511 8,297 2,705 5.4 Independent Assurance Statement (Korea) 5.5 About This Report Management overhead KRW million 13,749 14,109 11,907 Number of volunteer activities Case 2,348 2,129 1,873 Voluntary performance of Number of participants Person 28,462 17,105 17,879 Community employees (Korea) Number of hours participated Hour 144,697 125,093 59,508 Americas USD 20,178,196 20,281,277 19,708,964 Regions of North America and Central & South America Asia-Pacific, Middle East, and Africa USD 2,360,678 3,343,664 3,902,344 Regions of Asia-Pacific, Africa & Middle East, and India Social contributions Europe USD 1,587,648 1,703,200 1,338,128 Regions of Europe and Russia by Region China USD 285,065 372,181 756,000 Total USD 24,411,587 25,700,322 25,705,436 Non-political support for industry-related associations Membership Fees Total KRW million 6,759 6,677 7,489 (Korea) Foundation of Korea Automotive KRW million 2,750 3,124 3,300 Parts Industry Promotion Korea Automobile Manufacturers KRW million 2,577 2,171 2,037 Association Major organization Korea Intelligent Automotive Parts donations KRW million 460 Promotion Institute Korea Automotive Technology KRW million 309 302 305 Institute H2KOREA KRW million 200 2019 Sustainability Report 118 1. INTRODUCTION GRI Index 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Universal Disclosure 2019 Report Standards No. Core Title Page Note 3. MATERIALITY REPORT 102-01 Core Name of the organization 4 102-02 Core Activities, brands, products, and services 4-5 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 102-03 Core Location of headquarters 125 102-04 Core Location of operations 5 5. 102-05 Core Ownership and legal form 4 APPENDICES 102-06 Core Markets served 5, 104-105 102-07 Core Scale of the organization 4, 106-108 5.1 Business Performance 5.2 Facts & Figures 102-08 Core Information on employees and other workers 4, 107 5.3 GRI Index 102-09 Core Supply chain 68-77 5.4 Independent Assurance Statement 102-10 Core Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain No significant changes 5.5 About This Report 102-11 Core Precautionary Principle or approach 44 102-12 Core External initiatives 32-34, 36, 38, 93-97 102-13 Core Membership of associations 117 102-14 Core Statement from senior decision-maker 3 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 34, 36, 38 102-16 Core Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 6-7, 43 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 43 102-18 Core Governance structure 41-42 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 42 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 41-42 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 41 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 41-42 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 41 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 42 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 41-42 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 32-33 102-35 Remuneration policies 42 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 42 2019 Sustainability Report 119 1. INTRODUCTION Disclosure 2019 Report No. Core Title Page Note 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS 102-40 Core List of stakeholder groups 31 102-41 Core Collective bargaining agreements 87, 114 3. MATERIALITY REPORT 102-42 Core Identifying and selecting stakeholders 31 102-43 Core Approach to stakeholder engagement 31 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 102-44 Core Key topics and concerns raised 31 102-45 Core Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Business report 5. 102-46 Core Defining report content and topic Boundaries 32-33 APPENDICES 102-47 Core List of material topics 32-33 5.1 Business Performance 102-48 Core Restatements of information 125 5.2 Facts & Figures 102-49 Core Changes in reporting No significant changes 5.3 GRI Index 102-50 Core Reporting period 125 5.4 Independent Assurance Statement 102-51 Core Date of most recent report 125 5.5 About This Report 102-52 Core Reporting cycle 125 102-53 Core Contact point for questions regarding the report 125 102-54 Core Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 125 102-55 Core GRI content index 118-121 102-56 Core External assurance 122-124 Topic Specific Disclosure 2019 Report Standards _ Topic Name No. Title Page Note Material Topics 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 38-39 103-02 The management approach and its components 38-39 Indirect Economic 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 38-39 Impacts 203-01 Infrastructure investments and services supported 39, 63, 89-102, 117 203-02 Significant indirect economic impacts 39, 63, 89-102 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 34-35 103-02 The management approach and its components 34-35 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 34-35 Emissions 305-01 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 67, 111 305-02 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 67, 111 305-03 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 63, 67, 111 2019 Sustainability Report 120 1. INTRODUCTION Disclosure 2019 Report Topic Name No. Title Page Note 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS 305-04 GHG emissions intensity 111 305-05 Reduction of GHG emissions 63-64, 67, 111 3. MATERIALITY REPORT Emissions 305-06 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 112 305-07 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions 112 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 36-37 103-02 The management approach and its components 36-37 5. Customer 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 36-37 Health and Safety 416-01 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 36-37 APPENDICES Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products 416-02 Business report 5.1 Business Performance and services 5.2 Facts & Figures Topic Specific Disclosure 2019 Report 5.3 GRI Index Standards _ No. Title Page Note 5.4 Independent Assurance Statement Non Material 201-01 Direct economic value generated and distributed 109 5.5 About This Report Topics 201-02 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 34, 63-64, 66 201-03 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 84 201-04 Financial assistance received from government 202-01 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 202-02 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 204-01 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 205-01 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 205-02 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 43, 70, 109 205-03 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken None incident occurred 206-01 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 109 301-01 Materials used by weight or volume 111 301-02 Recycled input materials used 62 301-03 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 62 302-01 Energy consumption within the organization 111 302-02 Energy consumption outside of the organization 302-03 Energy intensity 111 302-04 Reduction of energy consumption 63-64 302-05 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 61 2019 Sustainability Report 121 1. INTRODUCTION Topic Specific Disclosure 2019 Report Standards _ No. Title Page Note 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Non Material 303-01 Water withdrawal by source 112 Topics 303-02 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 65, 112 3. MATERIALITY REPORT 303-03 Water recycled and reused 306-01 Water discharge by quality and destination 112 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 306-02 Waste by type and disposal method 113 306-03 Significant spills None incident occurred 5. 307-01 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 113 In the case of significant fines and penalties of more than USD $ 10,000, one case occurred at Jeonju plant in 2017. APPENDICES Penalty on violating Clean Air Conservation Act Article 31 by influx of outside air into the discharge facility 5.1 Business Performance 401-01 New employee hires and employee turnover 114 5.2 Facts & Figures 401-02 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 84 5.3 GRI Index 401-03 Parental leave 116 5.4 Independent Assurance Statement Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and 5.5 About This Report 403-02 116 number of work-related fatalities Hyundai conducts harmful factor assessments and operates 403-03 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 116 prevention programs because production line workers are exposed to possible risks of a musculoskeletal disorder and hardness of hearing 404-01 Average hours of training per year per employee 115 404-02 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 82-83 405-01 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 114-115 406-01 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No incidents of discrimination occurred Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and 407-01 No business sites and suppliers at significant risk identified collective bargaining may be at risk 408-01 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor No business sites and suppliers at significant risk identified 409-01 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor No business sites and suppliers at significant risk identified 410-01 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures 114 411-01 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples None incident of violations occurred 413-01 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 92-100 413-02 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities No business sites with significant negative impact 415-01 Political contributions In South Korea, Political contribution is prohibited 417-01 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 57 417-02 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling 109 417-03 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications 109 419-01 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 109 2019 Sustainability Report 122 1. INTRODUCTION Independent Assurance Statement 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Introduction Limitations Hyundai Motor Company (“HMC”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part of DNV GL The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of HMC’ subsidiaries, Group, to undertake independent assurance of the Sustainability Report 2019 (the “Report”). The directors of HMC have associated companies, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. We did not interview 3. MATERIALITY REPORT sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance work is to external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial data is crossthe management of HMC in accordance with the terms of reference. DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the checked with internal documents, the audited consolidated financial statements and the announcement disclosed at the assumption that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith. website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr) as well as HMC’s website (www.hyundai.com). These 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE documents, financial statements and the announcements are not included in this Assurance Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization Scope and Basis of assurance were applied. The baseline data for environmental and social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data 5. Based on non-financial data and sustainability activities and performance data of 2018 generated from HMC, we have evaluated the adherence to AA1000 Accountability Principles 20181 and assessed the quality of sustainability at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. APPENDICES performance information. We have reviewed that the Topic-specific disclosures of GRI Standards which are identified in 5.1 Business Performance the process for defining report content; Conclusion 5.2 Facts & Figures On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the reported data and information 5.3 GRI Index No. Material Topic GRI Disclosure disclosed in the Report do not give a fair representation of HMC’s related sustainability performance. Further opinions 5.4 Independent Assurance Statement with regards to the adherence to the Principles are made below; 1 Producing Eco-friendly Vehicles 305-1, 2, 3, 4, 5 5.5 About This Report 2 Customer and Product Safety 416-2 The Principle of Inclusivity HMC has identified internal and external stakeholder groups such as Customers·Dealers, Employees, Government, 3 Social Value Creation 203-1, 2 Shareholders·Investors, Suppliers and Local Communities. HMC engages with the stakeholders at the company and business unit levels through various channels. The examples of approaches to engage with selected stakeholders and relevant organizations are described in the Report. HMC has established CSV (Creating Shared Value) strategy based on five area: Eco-friendly, Mobile innovation, Traffic safety, Future generation and community. HMC is promoting new We performed our work using AA1000AS 20082 and DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM3 (Version 5.0) sustainability management activities related to not only develop business but also solve local community problems. which is based on our professional experience, international assurance best practices. DNV GL provides Type 1 and the moderate level of assurance. The assurance was carried out from April and till June 2019. The site visits were made to The Principle of Materiality HMC’s Headquarters in Seoul, Korea. We undertook the following activities as part of the assurance process: HMC has conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the Report. Various issues have been derived by analysing the topics covered in various global initiatives and standards, reviewing industry peers’ reports and media reports. The issue • challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness pools were used on internal and external stakeholder survey to rate the material topics and subsequently 3 material topics of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls; are prioritized. We have reviewed the materiality assessment process and noted relevant material topics prioritized from • interviewed representatives from the various departments; the process are addressed in the Report. • conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting system as they relate to selected content and performance data; The Principle of Responsiveness • reviewed the materiality assessment report. The Report presents HMC’s CSV strategy system which includes vision and 3 core strategies. In addition, the Report discloses the business results, decisions, key performance and future plans on material topics in terms of sustainability during the reporting period. HMC identifies material sustainability topic (Eco-friendly Vehicles, Customer & Product Safety and Social Value Creation) as stakeholder interest issues and presented management approaches and major achievements for each stakeholder issue in the Report. As the proposition of sales in overseas markets and supply chain management issues increase, HMC could consider including the opinions of overseas investors and international 1 standards for supply chain management when reviewing stakeholders’ opinions. HMC also could report measurable AA1000 AccountAbility Principles 2018: Internationally accepted, four principles-based framework and guidance that organisations can use to identify, prioritise and respond to sustainability performance and reponsibility. targets for medium and long-term sustainability aspects in the future reporting and the progress. 2 AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008: Internationally accepted, freely available standard that provides the requirements for conducting sustainability 12assurance. 3 The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL Website (www.dnvgl.com) 2019 Sustainability Report 123 1. INTRODUCTION 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Competence and Independence The Principle of Impact DNV GL applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quality control, in accordance with ISO/IEC The Report presents the direct and indirect impacts of material topics identified materiality assessment. We have 17021:2011 Conformity Assessment Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of management systems, 3. MATERIALITY REPORT reviewed that HMC identifies, monitors and assess the impacts of material topics to stakeholders. HMC is paying attention and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control, including documented policies and procedures to the environment and safety impacts of its products, demonstrating the impact of expanding the development and regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. distribution of eco-friendly vehicles, and application of advanced safety technologies. In the future, the impacts could be We have complied with the DNV GL Code of Conduct4 during the assurance engagement and maintain independence 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE measured and disclosed in the future reporting. where required by relevant ethical requirements. This engagement work was carried out by an independent team of sustainability assurance professionals. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of statements or data included in the Reliability of Specific sustainability performance information Report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV GL maintains complete impartiality toward stakeholders interviewed 5. We have reviewed the reliability of the disclosure data water consumption, waste generation, LTIFR (Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate), OIFR (Occupational Illness Frequency Rate) and GHG(including scope 1, 2, 3). We have interviewed during the assurance process. DNV GL have no other contract with HMC and did not provide any services to HMC in 2019 that could compromise the independence or impartiality of our work. APPENDICES the in charge person, reviewed the process of gathering and processing data and test information on a sampling basis. 5.1 Business Performance In charge person can explain the source and process of the data identified above, which is considered traceable. The intentional error or misstatement is not noted from the data and information disclosed in the Report. Data owners were 5.2 Facts & Figures able to demonstrate the origin and interpretation of the data in a reliable manner. The data was identifiable and traceable. June 2019 5.3 GRI Index Seoul, Korea 5.4 Independent Assurance Statement 5.5 About This Report Jang Sup Lee Country Representative DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. 4 DNV GL Code of Conduct is available from DNV GL website (www.dnvgl.com) 2019 Sustainability Report 124 1. INTRODUCTION Assurance Statement 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Hyundai Motor Company. Terms of Engagement LRQA’s Opinion 3. MATERIALITY REPORT Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by Hyundai Motor Company (HMC) to provide Based on LRQA’s approach, except for the effect of the matter as below, we believe that the report is prepared in independent assurance on its Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Inventory Report for the calendar year 2018 (the report) against accordance with GHG Target Management Scheme for quantification and reporting of GHG emissions in Korea and 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE GHG Target Management Scheme for quantification and reporting of GHG emissions in Korea using Specification the GHG emissions data in the Table 1 is materially correct: with guidance for verification of greenhouse gas assertions. The report relates to direct GHG emissions and energy • The GHG emissions from LNG and electricity consumed by the companies which are subject to GHG Target indirect GHG emissions. 5. Management Scheme in Korea and are occupying HMC’s own buildings have not been excluded from HMC’s organizational boundary, but we are confident that they are below the quantitative materiality level. APPENDICES Management Responsibility 5.1 Business Performance LRQA’s responsibility is only to HMC. LRQA disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end Dated: 28th March 2019 5.2 Facts & Figures footnote. The management of HMC is responsible for preparing the report and for maintaining effective internal 5.3 GRI Index controls over all the data and information within the report. Ultimately, the report has been approved by, and remains 5.4 Independent Assurance Statement the responsibility of HMC. SANG-KEUN YOO 5.5 About This Report On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. 17th Floor, Singsong Building, 67 Yeouinaru-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, 07327, Korea LRQA’s Approach LRQA’s assurance engagement has been carried out in accordance with our verification procedure using GHG LRQA Reference: SEO 6012382 Target Management Scheme in Korea: Specification with guidance for verification of greenhouse gas assertions to reasonable level of assurance. Table1. GHG emissions reported in the Report Scope (as defined within GHG Target Management Scheme in Korea) Year 2018 The following tasks were undertaken as part of the evidence gathering process for this assurance engagement: Direct GHG Emissions 521,020 • Visiting sites and auditing management system to control the data and records regarding GHG emissions and energy uses Energy Indirect GHG Emissions 1,060,382 • Interviewing the relevant persons responsible for managing and maintaining data and associated records Total GHG Emissions 1,581,399 • Reviewing the historical data and information back to source for the calendar year 2018 Data is presented in tonnes of CO2 equivalent. Level of Assurance & Materiality This document is subject to the provision below: The opinion expressed in this Assurance Statement has been formed on the basis of a reasonable level of assurance, This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the verifier and at the materiality level of 2.5%. Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as the ‘Lloyd’s Register Group’. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register Group entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. Because of the inherent limitations in any internal control it is possible that fraud, error, or non-compliance with laws and regulations may occur and not be detected. Further, the verification was not designed to detect all weakness or errors in internal controls so far as they relate to the requirements set out above as the verification has not been performed continuously throughout the period and the verification carried out on the relevant internal controls were on a test basis. Any projection of the evaluation of control to future periods is subject to the risk that the processes may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with them may deteriorate. The Korean version of this statement is the only valid version. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. Copyright © Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2019. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group. 2019 Sustainability Report 125 1. INTRODUCTION About This Report 2. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS 2019 Sustainability Report of Hyundai Motor Company Hyundai Motor Company has been publishing a sustainability report every year since 2003 in order to disclose its efforts to promote sustainable management and its achievements in a transparent manner and to communicate with 3. MATERIALITY REPORT stakeholders. The 2019 Sustainability Report of Hyundai Motor Company describes our efforts to create economic, environmental, and social performance. Through this, we will actively communicate with stakeholders to realize social value as a global leading company. 4. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 5. Reporting Principles and Standards Reporting Period Publisher Hyundai Motor Company Headquarters: 12, Heolleung-ro, Seocho-gu, Seoul, 06797, Korea APPENDICES This Report applies the ‘Core Option’ of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) This report covers activities undertaken from January 1st, 2018 to Publication 5.1 Business Performance Standards with appropriate modifications. In addition, this report satisfies December 31st, 2018, including some key activities conducted until the June, 2019 Date the four principles (Inclusiveness, Materiality, Responsiveness, and Impact) first half of 2019. As for quantitative performance, if the results need to 5.2 Facts & Figures of the AA1000AP (AccountAbility Principles), including the obligation to be tracked continuously, we have used data for the past three years. The 5.3 GRI Index Production CSV Strategy Team, Hyundai Motor Company explain sustainability management. reporting cycle for this report is 1 year. The previous report was published (Contact Tel: +82-2-3464-8618 5.4 Independent Assurance Statement in July 2018. Information) E-mail: hmcsr@hyundai.com 5.5 About This Report Reporting GRI Standards (Core Option) Principle Scope and Boundary of Report Third Party Assurance Reporting Hyundai Motor Company; also includes some data and Boundary information for Hyundai Motor Group This report covers the activities of the headquarters as well as manufacturing This report has been audited by an independent assurance corporation plants, technical centers, design centers, and sales corporations operated (DNV GL) to ensure the accuracy, objectivity and credibility of the report Reporting Economic (based on Korean International Financial by Hyundai Motor Company in Korea and overseas. Financial information is preparation process and all the information created, and the verification Scope Reporting Standards), social and environmental performance prepared in accordance with the Korean International Financial Reporting was completed in accordance with international verification standards. Reporting January 1st, 2018 December 31st, 2018; also includes Standards (K-IFRS). Non-financial data regarding environmental and social The results of the third party assurance are detailed on P. 122-123. The Period some data and information from the first half of 2019 performance is based on Hyundai Motor Company and manufacturing plants financial information provided in this report has been audited by an in Korea and overseas, those of which constitute 85% of consolidated revenue independent auditor, and assurance on greenhouse gas emissions and Reporting is included. Partial performance of Hyundai Motor Group is included and in energy usage was carried out in accordance with the verification principles Annual (last report was published in July 2018) Cycle case the reporting scope differs, the reporting scope of the information is of the guidelines such as ‘Administrative Guidelines for Operation of indicated separately in the annotation. Emission Trade System’. Assurance DNV GL Design Talantone Creative Group Reports of Recent Three Years 2016 2017 2018 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Report Thanks to Ahn Kang Kim Beom Soo Kim Duk Hwan Kang Eu Gene Chang Hyun Jae Kim Hyun Ji Choi Ji Hye Jang Jin Ah Lee Man Je Sung Mi Dol Yu Seong Man Kang Seung Dae Kim Wan Seung Kim Won Jun Choi (In alphabetical order) Bo Gon Go Ga Jeun Lee Hyun Soo Kim Jin Kyung Kim Mi Jin Na Seung Tae Kim Won Taek Oh Bo Ra Kang Geon Hyeok Park Hyun Soo Lee Jin Seok Heo Mi Sook Kim Shin Jae Kim Won Jin Kim Bo A Lee Gil Woong Bae Jae Hong Cha Jin Soo Park Min Gun Sim Sol Kim Woo Ram Yang Bok Ju Cho Gook Tai Kim Jae Kyung Shin Jin Suk Ryu Min Ho Lee Soo Hyang Lim Yeon Guk Jo Bum Soo Kim Guk Yeon Hwang Jae Woon Hwang Jo Young Chung Min Jae Woo Soo Bin Kwak Yeong Joo Jung Byung Chan Kim Gyu Ho Yi Jae Wook Kim John Suh Min Ok Park Soon Sang Hong Yeong Uk Kim Chang Gu Han Hee Jin Kim Jang Ho Kuk Jong Hak Yi Min Sang Yu Su Hi Nam Yeon Ju Chae Chang Ho Yoo Hee Jun Kim Ja Young Lee Jun Ho Kim Mohammad Badwan Su Yeon Kim Yong Hwan Song Chang Hyun Oh Ho June Park Je Hyeong Jeon Jun Ho Song Na Young Yoon Soo Young Um Yoon Bok Hwang Chang Soon Choi Ho Seon Eo Jeong Min Lee Jun Sik Kim Sang Bom Lee Suk Gyu Choi You Hwan Kim Cho Rong Maeng Hong Rae Kim Jeong Moon Jin June Ho Song Sang Bum Kim Sung Gyu Park Young Bong Kim Dae Il Jeon Hui Joon Kang Jeong Yeon Kim Jung Hee Park Sang Hak Kim Sung Hee Cho Young Hoon Kim Dae Min Choi Hye Mi Song Ji Eun Seo Jung Ho Park Sang Hoo Lee Sung Joong NOH Yun Ryeong Song Deck Su Ho Hye Ran Hong Ji Han Son Ka Yeon Noh Sang Ki Min Sung Mo Koo Yun Sun Lim Deniz Aydogan Hye Won Kim Ji Hoon Gwak Kwang Hyun Pyun Se Jin Kang Sung Mok Kim Deuk Hyung Lee Hyo Il Park Ji Hwa Mok Kyu Seung Noh Seong Min Jeon Tae Gyun Jeong Dong Kun Lee Hyo Jin Kim Ji Hyoung Lee Kyung Ho Kwak Seong Won Hyun Tae Su Kim Dong Woon Jung Hyoung Sub Kim Ji Yeun Lee Kyung Ryool Kong Seong Woong Suh Tong Young Kim
