Integrated report 2019 Annual Review April 2018 – March 2019 Mizuho Financial Group Editorial policy This Integrated Report includes financial information as well as non-financial International Integrated Reporting Council’s “International Integrated information on such subjects as ESG. The report presents information on Mizuho’s Reporting Framework” Guidelines efforts related to strategies, governance, and other subjects along with information on referred to (published on December 2013) Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry’s how those activities are leading to the creation of value for our customers, society, and “Guidance for Collaborative Value Mizuho over the short, medium, and long terms. It was edited with the intention of Creation” (published on May 2017) providing stakeholders with concise and clear explanations in a story-like form. Period covered: From April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019 The content of this Integrated Report was reported to the Audit Committee of Mizuho Scope of the Also includes some information after April 2019 Financial Group, and, after verification of appropriateness by the Disclosure Committee, report Scope covered: In principle, Mizuho the report was given final approval by the President & Group CEO. Financial Group and its subsidiaries and affiliates We hope this report will further improve understanding of Mizuho and its goal of being “the most trusted financial services group with a Publication global presence and a broad customer base, contributing to the information Date of issue: September 2019 prosperity of the world, Asia, and Japan.” CONTENTS P. 2 About Mizuho P. 63 Foundations P.102 Appendix for our corporate value P.2 Corporate Identity P.63 Corporate governance P.102 Compliance contacts P.3 Mizuho’s journey Message from the Chairman of the Board of P.103 Support for SMEs and regional revitalization Directors P.5 Business domain P.104 Internal audit structure Board of Directors P.7 Value creation process Meeting between outside directors P.105 Risk management structure P.9 Financial data and investors P.117 Business continuity management P.10 ESG-related data P.73 Risk governance P.118 Senior executives P.79 Compliance P.120 Location of offices outside Japan P.82 Fiduciary duties P.123 Investor information P.83 Employee engagement P.124 Financial Analysis [Under Japanese GAAP] P.87 P.132 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, 11 Compliance with international P. Our strategies financial regulations Inc. [Under Japanese GAAP] for creating value P.88 Stakeholder communication P.224 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three P.11 Message from the Group CEO Subsidiaries [Under Japanese GAAP] P.21 Message from the Group CFO P.238 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Communication with shareholders and P.316 Disclosure Policy P.27 investors 5-Year Business Plan: Transitioning to the P. 91 Financial and Next Generation of Financial Services corporate data P.35 Bringing innovation to business P.91 Eleven-year major financial data and society through digitalization (FY2008-2018) P.39 Sustainability P.93 Review and analysis for fiscal 2018 P.49 Business strategies by company/unit P.97 Office network Retail & Business Banking Company P.99 Corporate profile Corporate & Institutional Company Global Corporate Company P.100 Group companies Global Markets Company Asset Management Company Global Products Unit Research & Consulting Unit All figures contained in this report are calculated using accounting principles generally accepted in Japan (“Japanese GAAP”). Forward-Looking Statements This Integrated Report contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including estimates, forecasts, targets and plans. Such forward-looking statements do not represent any guarantee by management of future performance. In many cases, but not all, we use such words as “aim,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “endeavor,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “probability,” “project,” “risk,” “seek,” “should,” “strive,” “target” and similar expressions in relation to us or our management to identify forward-looking statements. You can also identify forward-looking statements by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. We may not be successful in implementing our business strategies, and management may fail to achieve its targets, for a wide range of possible reasons, including, without limitation: incurrence of significant credit-related costs; declines in the value of our securities portfolio; changes in interest rates; foreign currency fluctuations; decrease in the market liquidity of our assets; revised assumptions or other changes related to our pension plans; a decline in our deferred tax assets; the effect of financial transactions entered into for hedging and other similar purposes; failure to maintain required capital adequacy ratio levels; downgrades in our credit ratings; our ability to avoid reputational harm; our ability to implement our Medium-term Business Plan, realize the synergy effects of “One Mizuho,” and implement other strategic initiatives and measures effectively; the effectiveness of our operational, legal and other risk management policies; the effect of changes in general economic conditions in Japan and elsewhere; and changes to applicable laws and regulations. Further information regarding factors that could affect our financial condition and results of operations is included in “Item 3.D. Key Information—Risk Factors,” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” in our most recent Form 20-F filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and our report on Form 6-K furnished to the SEC on July 30, 2018, both of which are available in the Financial Information section of our web page at www.mizuho-fg.com/english/ and also at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. The contents of this Integrated Report were prepared prior to the announcement of our financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2019. We do not intend to update our forward-looking statements. We are under no obligation, and disclaim any obligation, to update or alter our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by the rules of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Mizuho Financial Group About Mizuho Corporate Identity Mizuho’s fundamental approach to Corporate business activities, based on the Philosophy raison d’être of Mizuho Mizuho’s vision for the future, Vision realized through the practice of the Corporate Philosophy The shared values and principles of The Mizuho Values Mizuho’s people, uniting all executives and employees together to pursue our Vision Corporate Philosophy Mizuho, the leading Japanese financial services group with a global presence and a broad customer base, is committed to: Providing customers worldwide with the highest quality financial services with honesty and integrity; Anticipating new trends on the world stage; Expanding our knowledge in order to help customers shape their future; Growing together with our customers in a stable and sustainable manner; and Bringing together our group–wide expertise to contribute to the prosperity of economies and societies throughout the world. These fundamental commitments support our primary role in bringing fruitfulness for each customer and the economies and the societies in which we operate. Mizuho creates lasting value. It is what makes us invaluable. Vision The most trusted financial services group with a global presence and a broad customer base, contributing to the prosperity of the world, Asia, and Japan. The most trusted The best The most cohesive financial services group financial services provider financial services group The Mizuho Values Customer First Innovative Spirit Team Spirit Speed Passion The most trusted partner Progressive and Diversity and Acuity and Communication and lighting the future flexible thinking collective strength promptness challenge for the future 2019 Integrated Report 2 About Mizuho Mizuho’s journey Always standing at the forefront of our time, trailblazing is in our DNA 1873 1880 1902 The Dai-ichi The Fuji Bank The Industrial Kangyo Bank 1880 Establishment Bank of Japan 1873 Establishment of Yasuda Bank, 1902 Establishment The Dai-ichi Bank of The Dai-ichi Yasuda Bank 1948 Changed to (photo: The Mainichi) as a public sector (photo: National Diet Library) Bank, 1971 (photo: National Diet Library) The Fuji Bank bank that not only Establishment of offers long-term the Dai-ichi Kangyo funding but also Bank through a securities and trust merger with Nihon banking services Kangyo Bank 2010 Announcement of medium-term policy: Mizuho’s Transformation 2003 Program 1999 Establishment of Mizuho Trust & Banking 2010 Merger of our three Merger with Mizuho Asset 2008 European debt crisis predecessor banks Trust & Banking 2007 Global financial crisis Sub-prime mortgage crisis 2004 2003 Banks are permitted to act as securities brokerages Establishment of the 2006 Industrial Revitalization Corporation of Japan Completion of public fund 2002 repayment Establishment of Mizuho Bank Listed on NYSE and Mizuho Corporate Bank 3 Mizuho Financial Group About Mizuho Mizuho’s journey 2011 Mizuho Trust & Banking and Mizuho Securities become wholly-owned subsidiaries of Mizuho Financial Group 2013 Announcement of medium-term business plan: One Mizuho New Frontier Plan Merger of Mizuho Bank and Mizuho Corporate Bank Establishment of Mizuho Securities Merger with Mizuho Investors Securities 2017 Start of Trump administration in the US 2016 2015 2019 Bank of Japan introduces negative interest rates The United Nations adopts the 2013 Sustainable Development Goals 2011 Bank of Japan introduces quantitative and qualitative monetary easing Announcement of Great East Japan 5-Year Business Plan 2014 Earthquake Transition to a Company with Committees model of corporate governance 2016 Announcement of medium-term Establishment of Asset business plan: Progressive Management One Development of “One Mizuho” Introduction of in-house Establishment of Mizuho company system Americas 2019 Integrated Report 4 About Mizuho Business domain The Mizuho group is composed of Mizuho Financial Group Co., Ltd. (the holding company), its consolidated subsidiaries, and affiliates accounted for under the equity method. As a financial services group, our business domains include banking, trust banking, securities, and other financial services. Under a holding company, the group has five in-house companies, which determine and promote strategies group-wide across banking, trust banking, securities, and other business areas according to the attributes of customers, and two units that support all of the in-house companies. Mizuho Financial Group Banking Trust banking Securities Retail & Business Banking Company Corporate & Institutional Company Global Corporate Company Mizuho Mizuho Trust Mizuho Global Markets Company Bank & Securities Banking Asset Management Company (MHBK) (MHTB) (MHSC) Research & Global Consulting Products Unit Unit Other core group companies * US Bank Holding Company, which is one of MHFG’s core group companies and MHBK’s subsidiaries Mizuho Americas* Mizuho Financial Group About Mizuho Business domain (group aggregate, management accounting, rounded figures) (¥ billion) Reference Net Business Profits by in-house company FY2018 results FY2019 targets 1. Recalculated the FY2018 results based on the FY2019 management accounting rules Retail & Business Banking Company 10.0 18.0 2. The Global Markets Company’s Net Business Profits include Net Gains (Losses) Related to ETFs Corporate & Institutional Company 268.0 238.0 3. MHFG’s Consolidated figures include Consolidated Net Business Profits and Net Gains (Losses) Related to ETFs and others Global Corporate Company 169.0 157.0 Global Markets Company (18.0) 154.0 Asset Management Company 16.0 13.0 In-house company total 445.0 580.0 Group consolidated 408.3 600.0 Asset Research & Other core group management consulting companies Customers Mizuho Individual customers / SMEs / Private Wealth middle-market corporations Management (MHPW) Large corporations / financial institutions / public-sector entities Americas / EMEA / East Asia / Asia & Oceania Investors Asset Investors Management One Mizuho Research Institute (MHRI) JTC Holdings Mizuho Information & Research Institute (MHIR) 2019 Integrated Report 6 About Mizuho Value creation process Mizuho’s Corporate Philosophy, which is at the core of our Corporate Identity, states “These fundamental commitments support our primary role in bringing fruitfulness for each customer and the economies and the societies in which we operate. Mizuho creates lasting value. It is what makes us invaluable.” Our customers’ needs and the financial industry are rapidly undergoing structural changes in reflection of the structural shifts occurring in the economy, industry, and society. In line with our action principles, Open & Connected and Passionate & Professional, Sustainability: achieving sustain prosperity of the economy, industry, and Creation of new value in finance and adjacent fields in o Mediumto long-term changes in the business environment Go beyond the conventional boundaries of finance and c products and services in order to forge n Megatrends Digitalization Respond to structural changes in customer needs Aging population with financial solutions with added value and declining birthrate Mizuho’s strategy Globalization …etc.  raw on the strengths that Mizuho has D cultivated thus far Accelerate our digitalization initiatives and proactive collaboration with external partners Structural changes in customer needs Action principles  sset formation to prepare A Households for the future Open & Connected Digitalization and connected lifestyles Create new, more open value chains spanning both finance and adjacent fields  mooth business succession S Growth in Asian economic Corporations Passionate & Professional zones Industry transformation Anticipate customer needs and then think, act, and deliver P  ositive cycle of funds among Markets market participants Corporate governance Risk governance Structural changes in the financial industry Mizuho’s strengths  eduction in revenue from R Revenue deposits and lending T ighter regulations Approach busin Regulations Entry of players from other industries Financial functions Competition Response to digitalization Human & Social &  bility to respond to A intellectual relationship non-financial needs capital capital Excellent team of professionals 7 Mizuho Financial Group About Mizuho Value creation process we will focus on transitioning to the next generation of financial services—building new forms of partnerships with our customers so that we can respond to their needs as the times change. Our objective is to build a stronger and more resilient financial group which our customers can depend on in the coming era. Through these efforts, we will create new value for our stakeholders and contribute to the sustainable development and prosperity of the economy, industry, and society around the world as well as contribute to the realization of the SDGs. able and stable growth for Mizuho, and through this growth, contributing to the sustainable development and society around the world rder to transition to the next generation of financial services Value created for stakeholders reate new value incorporating both financial and non–financial ew forms of partnerships with our customers Customers  reate new value in adjacent C business areas surrounding finance New forms of partnerships with customers Achieve increased customer convenience and business growth Be a partner that helps customers design their Retail lives in a changing society Shareholders customers Asset formation in an age of longevity & business Solutions for business succession needs Increase corporate value by Create next-generation branches owners Create new business through the application of resolving structural issues and technology and open collaboration accelerating growth Be a strategic partner for business development under a changing industrial structure Corporate & institutional Support the growth acceleration of startups Employees clients Build new partnerships for business development Leverage our Asian network as a hub for global Create  workplaces that give business employees a sense of purpose, linked to customer satisfaction Be a partner with expert knowledge of market mechanisms and the ability to draw on a range of intermediary functions Market Optimize our global markets operational participants framework Enhance the sophistication of our ALM and portfolio management Society Contribute  to the sustainable development and prosperity of the economy, industry, and society around the world Contribute to the ess as a unified group realization of the SDGs Customer base and network S  table capital raising Trustworthiness and Financial structure Further enhance Mizuho’s dependability capital Sound loan assets strengths Market presence Sufficient equity capital 2019 Integrated Report 8 About Mizuho Financial data Historical data (¥ billion) Consolidated gross profits1 Consolidated net business profits1 Profits attributable to owners of parent 2,300.1 2,241.3 2,129.1 1,995.5 1,827.7 Prior to recording one-time loss2 929.2 872.5 699.7 576.5 611.9 670.9 603.5 603.1 581.8 538.0 408.3 96.5 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 1. Consolidated gross profits and consolidated net business profits include net gains (losses) related to ETFs and others 2. Prior to reflecting the one-time loss of ¥695.4 billion recorded in light of structural reforms Consolidated ROE1 Common equity tier 1 capital ratio* (%) (consolidated) Prior to recording 8.5% one-time loss2 10.71 7.7% 10.15 7.4% 9.27 1.2% FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 1. Excluding net unrealized gains on other securities 2. Prior to reflecting the one-time loss of ¥695.4 billion recorded in light *Basel III fully-effective basis (based on current requirements), of structural reforms excluding net unrealized gains (losses) on other securities Reduction in cross-shareholdings* Expense ratio (group aggregated)1 (¥ billion) Reduction amount as of the end of March 2019 ¥543 billion 78.8% (Approx. ¥580 billion when 1,962.9 including sales already agreed upon) 1,687.5 72.1% 1,564.8 1,419.8 66.9% Prior to recording one-time loss2 71.1% March 31, 2015 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 1. The scope of companies aggregated under management accounting has been *Publically listed Japanese stocks, acquisition cost basis. changed since Q1 of FY2017 2. Prior to reflecting the one-time loss of ¥695.4 billion recorded in light of structural reforms Mizuho Financial Group About Mizuho ESG-related data Environment Project finance for the power sector Underwriting of publicly offered sustainable bonds* in Japan (¥ billion) Monetary amount No. of deals Coal-fired power 28 (ultra-supercritical) 10% Project finance Coal-fired power (supercritical, Renewable loan balance subcritical) 11 124.3 for the power sector energy 5% (as of March 31, 2019) 3 50% 5.8 41.1 Gas-fired power, other FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 35% *Includes green bonds, social bonds, sustainability bonds, etc. Social Diversity in corporate management Number of people provided financial education Percentage of management positions filled by women1 General manager equivalent Manager equivalent and above (Number of people) Supervisor equivalent and above Percentage of management positions filled by employees hired outside Japan2 16,178 15,147 43% 44% 40% 12,859 27% 28% 24% 15% 8,015 12% 14% 6,763 4% 5% 5% 2017 2018 2019 1. As of July, total for four group companies in Japan: Mizuho Financial Group, Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, and Mizuho Securities 2. As of March 2019, ratio at Mizuho Bank outside Japan FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Social responsibility indices which include Mizuho (as of June 2019) General index ESG indices selected by the GPIF Themed index 2019 Integrated Report 10 Our strategies for creating value Message from the Group CEO Transitioning to the next generation of financial services by implementing our 5-Year Business Plan We have launched a 5-Year Business Plan: Transitioning to the Next Generation of Financial Services, which covers the five year period starting from fiscal 2019. After being appointed as the President & CEO of Mizuho Financial Group (“Group CEO”) in April of last year, I have looked back on the path that Mizuho has taken overall and have considered our current situation in detail. I have given much thought to the ways that we can create new value in the coming era. In this message, I would like to share with you my perspective as the Group CEO regarding the ways that we are seeking to address the structural changes occurring in the surrounding environment, what I consider to be Mizuho’s challenges and strengths, and what we will do as part of our new business plan in order to win out over the competition. Additionally, over ten years have passed since the last financial How we are addressing change crisis, and there are signs of a turn in the credit cycle. For example the occurrence of an inverted US bond yield curve, expansion of the credit spread in the corporate bond market, and the expansion of the leveraged loans market. What is expected of management The structure of the economy and society, the ways in which In light of the lessons learned from the 2008 global financial crisis, countries around the world are connected, and people’s lifestyles at Mizuho we have enhanced risk management and implemented are all undergoing irreversible, structural change at an accelerated more selective credit processes. We keep a close eye on not only pace. How are we addressing this change? For members of the credit markets but also emerging economies, asset prices, and management, how we handle this era of rapid change may well other trends, working to identify weak points as the financial be the greatest challenge we face. markets and real economy constantly change. As a result of these efforts, I believe we are maintaining an appropriate level of stress Looking at the current state of the global economy, we are seeing resistance in light of credit cycle transitions. the continuation of gradual growth overall. However, uncertainty is increasing in light of factors such as the current US-China trade However, in the coming era, it will not be enough to just prepare friction, and the resulting downturn in confidence regarding the for cyclical changes. It is an undeniable truth that the global global manufacturing industry. Going forward, there are economy and society, as well as people’s lifestyles, are expectations that we will continue to see firm growth, centered on undergoing rapid structural change. This is the result of a number the US, but we must continue to be cautious regarding increasing of interconnected factors, including the downward trajectory of uncertainty arising from a number of directions, including US economic growth rates in advanced economies, the emergence of trade policy, political developments in Europe, economic and economic disparity and anti-globalization movements, aging market trends in China and emerging economies, and geopolitical populations and lengthening lifespans primarily in advanced risk in the Middle East. economies but also in emerging economies, and disruptive innovation arising from digitalization. Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Message from the Group CEO Tatsufumi Sakai Member of the Board of Directors President & Group CEO Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Regarding digitalization in particular, the emergence the IoT This level of dramatic change means that those who rely too much where everyday objects are connected to the Internet, advances in on following the paths which led to success in the past may find big data analysis utilizing AI, and other such developments are themselves falling behind, while those that embrace change and creating an interconnected relationship between the physical and seek transformation will be presented with a rare opportunity. digital world, which in turn is transforming the economy, society, and people’s lifestyles in a wide range of fields. It took humanity a In light of the ways that the competitive environment has, and thousand years to transition from a hunter-gatherer society to an continues to, change significantly, we must objectively examine agricultural society, and the industrial revolution occurred over a reality and assuredly make changes where they are needed. At the span of several hundred years. However, the current digital same time, we must think, act and deliver—drawing on our revolution is likely to completely transform our world within only strengths and developing new ideas in a flexible manner unbound a few decades. by precedent. This will enable us to grow substantially, in ways that may not have been possible in the past environment. From this perspective, we can assume that future global developments will follow this pattern and that the breadth of How we address change and how we can ensure that this attitude change will be larger, the pace will be faster, and the outcome will towards change permeates every corner of the organization are be more dramatic. Surely this will also affect the world of finance, vital considerations in the management of our organization during and we will see discontinuous structural change transform the this period of drastic change within the finance industry. industry beyond our imagination. In that sense, it is unnatural to think that the finance industry alone would be able to continue indefinitely in its current form as the world changes and customer needs and worker preferences change with it. At the most extreme, it is even possible that the finance industry will cease to exist in the form that we currently know it. 2019 Integrated Report 12 Our strategies for creating value Message from the Group CEO Business environment and challenges Megatrends Digitalization, declining birthrate and ageing population, globalization, etc. Increasing uncertainty Structural changes Structural changes Cyclical in the business Structural in customer needs Structural in the finance industry environment  sset formation to A  educed revenue from deposits R  oncerns about economic slowdown C Operating prepare for the future and lending and uncertainty Households environment Digitalization and Issues with sustainable profitability — US trade policy and political connected lifestyles Tightening regulations developments in Europe Regulatory (capital requirements, money — Economic and market trends in Smooth business environment laundering, etc.) China and emerging economies succession Companies from other industries — Geopolitical risk in the Middle East Business Companies Growth in Asian Signs of a turn in the credit cycle economic zones entering the market environment — Inverted yield curve in US bonds Industry transformation Increased profitability of other Japanese megabanks’ business market  ositive cycle of funds P outside of banking, trust banking, — Expansion of credit spread in the Competitive Markets among market and securities domains corporate bonds market environment participants Response to digitalization — Expansion of the leveraged loans market Mismatch between this environment and our business operations framework that has evolved over many years of routine Business Finance Corporate foundations Structural We must quickly implement structural reforms in order to resolve this mismatch issues and respond to new customer needs Three megatrends Going forward, these revolutionary changes are likely to Following these observations, we must first seek to identify the accelerate. In order for established financial institutions to major trends underlying these structural changes in the economy, continue acting as pillars of the financial infrastructure, it is crucial society, and people’s lifestyles. There are three megatrends which that we enhance our services by integrating cutting-edge are having a particularly big impact on the finance industry: technology and work to develop new business and increase digitalization, a declining birthrate and ageing population, and productivity. globalization. The second of the three megatrends is a declining birthrate and As for the first of these trends, digitalization, as I already briefly ageing population. Our home base of Japan is a country that touched upon, digitalization is transforming the economy, society, began experiencing this trend before other countries. A declining and people’s lifestyles in a wide range of fields. In the business birthrate and ageing population are serious issues which many world, innovations such as the IoT and 3D printers are driving a other countries and regions will likely face at various times in the manufacturing revolution. Big data, AI, and other technologies are future. If Japan can present a new model for adapting to these dramatically changing the service industry. And we are seeing a changes, it could lead to stable growth in the world economy and rise in subscription and sharing economy businesses. These major is therefore a very important challenge. transitions within the industrial structure are being referred to as the “4th industrial revolution”. I believe that Japan is capable of building a model where the merging of Japan’s tradition of craftsmanship and technical In this environment, it is essential that financial institutions act as capabilities with digitalization, in addition to more active use of their clients’ business development partners, providing business accumulated capital, will create a significant increase in support that goes beyond the traditional boundaries of finance in productivity to off-set population decline, and this will be a order to respond to rapidly evolving client needs. strength that drives development. Also, the basic services that financial institutions provide such as In Japan, in addition to personal financial assets topping ¥1.8 payments and lending are increasingly being offered by IT quadrillion, which have been accumulated since the nation’s companies, fintech companies, and other industry outsiders. period of rapid economic growth, individuals own more than Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Message from the Group CEO ¥1 quadrillion worth of real estate. Despite this, property income However, digitalization has led to the wide-spread use of more only accounts for 10% of household income in Japan, and it is convenient services, and customers no longer need to visit a bank essential that we work to raise this to a similar level as that of the branch in order to make payments, complete various account US and Europe where it accounts for 20 to 30%. If we can procedures, or use other basic services. As a result, the number of encourage the more effective use of assets, including through branch visitors has been declining year-to-year. Additionally, responding to asset succession and business succession needs, branches are also able to offer more convenient services by then we can not only create a shift from savings to investment utilizing cutting-edge technology, and therefore going forward and asset formation, essential in this age of longevity, but also by branches will increasingly undergo a change in role, becoming a increasing the return on assets we can build the capital that will space for consulting where retail customers come to discuss support a new development model for Japan. investment for retirement and inheritance matters, and where corporate clients come for advice on business matters. As for the third megatrend, globalization, while there has been some push-back recently such as an increase in protectionist trade In order to respond to changing customer needs, we must policies, new trade flows are emerging as the result of changes to fundamentally revise our business structure from one revolving supply chains, and factors such as this make it difficult to around a retail branch network of convenient locations where a determine the future direction of this trend. Although there are large volume of operations are processed, and therefore resolve likely to be more twists and turns going forward in trade talks the mismatch that has arisen between this structure and customer between the US and China, I believe that the direction of needs. globalization as a megatrend, including such ebbs and flows, will become increasingly important. The second area where there is a mismatch is in our finance structure. In Japan, with the long continuation of negative interest That said, I think that the basic structure will not change from rates, our net interest margin continues to shrink, and as a result what we are witnessing now, and emerging economies, primarily a structural mismatch has arisen between our declining gross in Asia, will be the main drivers of growth in the global economy. profits and the expenses required to maintain our traditional Current predictions regarding global GDP see China surpassing business structure. the US in the 2030s, and the GDP of Asia (excluding China and Japan) is on track to expand to a scale three times that of Japan. Negative interest rates are one method of monetary easing, and therefore the Bank of Japan might discontinue this policy in the One of the ways this may impact the finance industry is that the future. However, considering the outlook for Japan’s declining ratio of capital flows related to Asia will increase. An important birthrate, ageing population, and population decline, it is difficult role of the finance industry is to act as a bridge between Asia, the to conceive of a scenario where the economic growth rate would US, Europe, and other regions connecting businesses, and increase significantly, and therefore it is likely that the low interest contributing to the sustainable and stable growth of the global rate environment will continue going forward. economy. Given these factors, we must resolve the mismatch regarding our finance structure by fundamentally reducing fixed costs in addition to investing in areas both within and beyond the Issues that need to be resolved traditional boundaries of finance in order to respond to new customer needs and create new value. Lastly, there is a mismatch in terms of our corporate foundations. Three areas of mismatch As customer needs undergo structural changes, we must change Next I would like to examine Mizuho’s situation specifically, and as well—including the way we manage our business, the way we the mismatch that has arisen in three areas—business structure, work, and our every-day operational processes. If we do not finance structure, and corporate foundations—against the change then we will not be able to provide new services that meet backdrop of the megatrends discussed above and the structural the needs of customers in this new era. changes in customer needs and the finance industry. In this section I will provide specific examples for each area. In particular, workforce-related issues are crucial. When I entered the workforce 35 years ago, “life-time employment” (employment Firstly, there is a mismatch in terms of business structure. In at the same company until retirement) was the assumption at Japan in particular, Mizuho’s business structure has been Japanese corporations and the norm was to work until around influenced by the post-war period of high economic growth. For age 55 or 60 and then live off of the national pension, company example, in the case of Mizuho Bank, our business model has retirement benefits, savings left over after repaying one’s housing been one involving high fixed costs, a brick-and-mortar branch loan, and other such sources of post-retirement income. However, network primarily located on prime real estate directly next to now we are entering an age of longevity. It is estimated that over train stations, and building a robust operational structure and IT 40% of children born in Japan today will live to be 100. So it will systems with the aim of collecting deposits from a broad range of be necessary for individuals to find ways to achieve fulfillment for customers and utilizing these funds for corporate lending. 2019 Integrated Report 14 Our strategies for creating value Message from the Group CEO a longer period of time, including the possibility of working One of the strengths we have been emphasizing is our approach beyond the standard retirement age. to business as a united group, under what we have termed the “One Mizuho” strategy. We will continue to further enhance this In Japan, already we are seeing major changes in the preferences strength while at the same time not limiting ourselves to the One of the younger generations. Rather than selecting a company they Mizuho strategy but rather seeking to further evolve it and go feel an affinity for and planning to work there for the rest of their beyond it. career, young people are selecting a profession they feel an affinity for, working to gain skills, and networking broadly both Why is Mizuho able to evolve in this way? I believe the answer is within and outside their company, approaching work with in the strengths we have accumulated over our long history, and I increasing emphasis on self-discovery. For companies, the extent would like to take this opportunity to share with you, our valuable to which younger workers can develop their careers is gaining stakeholders, two specific areas of strength. increasing importance. The first area of strength is our customer base, network, These examples that I have given regarding areas of mismatch trustworthiness, and reliability. The new design of the ¥10,000 are only a few of the things we need to address based on our note in Japan will feature Eiichi Shibusawa, who founded one of broader understanding of the situation at hand. In order for us to Mizuho’s predecessor banks, the First National Bank, in 1873, respond to the rapid changes in the surrounding environment almost ten years prior to the establishment of the Bank of Japan. against the backdrop of these megatrends, we must directly Over these 146 years of history, we have cultivated our customer address these areas of mismatch. Therefore it is essential that we base, network, trustworthiness, and dependability as our greatest steadily implement our structural reforms aimed at resolving strengths. Mizuho has a strong customer base and a wide network them. both in Japan and around the world, and one of the distinguishing characteristics of our customer base is that it is broad and open, not being limited based on corporate affiliations. In this way, to this day our approach is aligned with Eiichi Shibusawa’s Why Mizuho will win out philosophy. Additionally, out of the approximately 30,000 local subsidiaries that Japanese companies own outside Japan, around 20,000 of them are located in Asia. Therefore, I believe that one of our strengths is our ability to draw on our Japanese client base in The strengths we have cultivated thus far order to expand business in other countries in Asia. We must clearly identify our unique strengths and implement a differentiation strategy if we are to win out over the competition As for trustworthiness and dependability, actually these are both and respond to new customer needs. areas where Mizuho scored very high on an anonymous survey of retail customers conducted in Japan regarding the qualities Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Message from the Group CEO people associate with different companies. We also scored high in In this way, we have strengths in both finance and non-finance terms of the quality of our staff. However, compared to fields. I believe this will provide Mizuho with a major advantage e-commerce companies, we score lower in categories such as when it comes to directly addressing customer needs in this new innovativeness and inclination to take on new challenges. era and creating new value. Also, Mizuho operates in a highly regulated industry. The Building new strengths necessary costs associated with the protection of personal In addition to fully drawing on these unique strengths, we will information, anti-money laundering, and other measures required focus on advancing digitalization. This will mean that based on from the perspective of society are already built into our business. our strategy, at times we will be in competition with other Recently GAFA* have come under pressure to revise their organizations, including those outside the finance sector, while at business model as they encounter issues in these areas. However, other times we will proactively collaborate with them, thus at Mizuho we are able to expand our business based on the creating new strengths. trustworthiness and dependability we have built up throughout our long history, to the benefit of our customers as well as society As I mentioned above, over our long history we have built a and the economy at large. reputation for trustworthiness and dependability. While leveraging *An acronym referring to four major US-based IT companies: Google, Apple, these strengths, we will collaborate with IT companies and other Facebook, and Amazon. partners who are on the cutting edge of innovation, working towards a shared goal of meeting customer needs. By blending The second area of strength is our financial functions, market finance and non-finance fields in this way, I believe we can presence, and ability to respond to non-financial needs. provide customers with added value in the truest sense. The wide range of financial functions within the Mizuho group We have already partnered with SoftBank to provide J.Score, a and our strong presence in the markets are major strengths. For score-based lending service targeting individuals in Japan. And example, Mizuho has ranked first on the Japanese syndicated we are collaborating with regional financial institutions from loan league table for ten years in a row, and we consistently rank throughout Japan to offer J-Coin Pay, a cashless payment service. around the top of Japanese publicly-offered bonds (straight Other initiatives include a new lending business targeting SMEs bonds, energy bonds) league tables, in addition to other leading which we are working on with Credit Engine, and plans for rankings. Also, in the US corporate bond (DCM) league table establishing a new bank in partnership with Line. In this way, we (FY2018, investment grade) we ranked 8th overall, but when are working with a broad range of partners in various industries narrowed down to the major clients we targeted, we ranked 4th, and of different scales with the aim of responding to customer directly after three major US financial institutions. This is just one needs through a flexible, open, and connected approach to example of our strong presence in global capital markets. customer engagement, services, business infrastructure, and Additionally, we continue to receive numerous awards from other aspects. Going forward we will further expand these efforts industry magazines for our transaction banking and trade finance with the aim of differentiating Mizuho from our competitors. capabilities in Asia, and this and other forms of recognition point to the ways that the services we provide are well received. A year to build the groundwork for structural reform implementation At the same time, we have many strengths in non-financial areas. Fiscal year 2018 was positioned as the launchpad for our new Our research functions, for example, where we have a high level business plan and I would like to share some of the initiatives we of expertise spanning a wide range of fields, including being the advanced. leading Japanese bank in terms of industry research. As our clients’ needs shift as they face major changes in the surrounding Since being appointed as Group CEO in April of last year, I environment, our research capabilities are a strong factor of positioned fiscal 2018 as a year where we would go on the differentiation enabling us to provide solutions spanning both offensive. I put an emphasis on strengthening earnings power in finance and non-finance fields. line with our actual business circumstances. As a result, revenue in customer divisions, primarily for large corporations in Japan On top of this, Mizuho Trust & Banking has the strongest real and clients outside Japan, trended upward. This was the highest estate track record in the trust banking services industry in Japan, earnings since introducing the in-house company system and is which is a significant strength in light of increasing asset one way that we are seeing the impact of our efforts. succession needs, including both financial assets and nonfinancial assets such as real estate. Additionally, products and Also, in light of the structural reforms that we identified as part of services which combine our trust banking functions with nonefforts to ascertain the overall business situation, with the aim of financial services have been well received by customers. For addressing issues as early as possible we recorded a one-time example, we launched a new customizable trust product which loss in fiscal year 2018 financial results in order to reduce the combines Mizuho’s range of financial functions such as asset burden on future fiscal years and immediately resolve the safeguarding and asset succession, with nursing care and home mismatch regarding our finance structure. I am confident that this check-in services from external providers. was the best option in order to enable us to resolve structural 2019 Integrated Report 16 Our strategies for creating value Message from the Group CEO issues at an early stage and fully draw out the strengths and Time frame: Why we chose a five year period potential that we have accumulated thus far. Although our previous business plans were three years, this new plan is for five years. A three-year time frame is sufficient for Additionally, we positioned the migration to our next-generation addressing immediate issues. However, a three-year plan tends to IT system as a top priority for management and were able to function as an extension of ongoing initiatives and potentially complete an eight-stage migration process smoothly in fiscal year may only address the symptoms rather than root causes. By 2018. I believe that these efforts will ensure that we have the adopting a five-year time frame, we believe that we will also be groundwork in place for implementing the structural reforms able to directly address the root of structural issues, aiming to under our new business plan. transition to the next generation of financial services. In particular, in the last two years of the period as our efforts begin to bear fruit, we plan to further accelerate growth, and we What we will do in order to win out over hope that our stakeholders can see how this time frame therefore represents our major commitment. the competition Key strategy: Creation of new value in both financial and non-financial business areas Basic policy: Three-pillar reform Our key strategy for realizing our basic policy is to go beyond the Our 5-Year Business Plan: Transitioning to the Next Generation of conventional boundaries of finance and create new value Financial Services, was formulated based on the structural issues, incorporating both financial and non-financial products and strengths, and other considerations outlined in the preceding services in order to forge new partnerships with our customers. pages. As I have explained, I believe that one of the largest issues facing Mizuho at the moment is the need to resolve the mismatch Allow me to go into detail on this important point. Until recently that has arisen between structural changes in customers’ needs the value proposition of financial institutions has been based on and the business operations framework that has evolved over traditional financial services, focused on the value of money itself. many years of routine at Mizuho. This is necessary to enable us to Of course, the importance of money itself is not going to change meet new customer needs. any time soon. However, as I mentioned above, as peoples’ lifestyles and values change, and as countries around the world With this in mind, our basic policy under the new business plan is become more interconnected in terms of economic and industrial to implement forward-looking structural reforms focused on three structures, we are experiencing a time of broad change and new interconnected areas: business structure, finance structure, and customer needs are rapidly arising. corporate foundations. This will enable us to resolve the mismatch in the allocation of corporate resources and respond to new For example, individuals are not only interested in investing their customer needs, aiming to transition to the next generation of money but also in convenient services integrated with an financial services. increasingly digitally connected lifestyle, or in light of increasing Time frame Last 2 years (FY2022 2023) Business structure reforms Achieve the effects of structural reforms and Finance structure reforms accelerate further growth Corporate foundations reforms B  egin to see the full effects of structural reforms Newly launched businesses make a marked First 3 years (FY2019 2021) contribution to earnings Invest in further growth and enhance Full implementation of the structural reforms, building the returns to shareholders firm foundations for next generation financial services  ccelerate and implement structural reforms A Invest in future growth and seek out new business Establish a stable revenue base and secure reserves for investment 5-Year Business Plan (FY2019 2023) Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Message from the Group CEO longevity, services with support for later in life such as inheritance For retail customers and business owners, we will aim to be a or nursing care, or for business succession and other such partner that helps customers design their lives in a changing concerns. society. While identifying asset formation and business succession needs arising in this age of increased longevity, we will provide And companies are not only interested in financing but also in solutions spanning both finance and adjacent fields such as real other means of growth support, business structure estate. Digitalization is also leading to a shift in customer needs, transformation, or responding to the business risk arising from and we will promote cashless payments, transform our network this growth and transformation, talent acquisition needs, and into next-generation branches, and other initiatives, collaborating other such concerns. openly with external partners in order to provide a variety of reliable and convenient services as quickly as possible. Given these changes in needs, the financial services industry must change as well. To build new forms of partnerships with our For corporate clients we will aim to be a strategic partner for customers, we cannot limit ourselves to traditional financial business development under a changing industrial structure, domains. We must seek to identify the underlying needs of our including supporting the growth of startup companies. By customers based on their hopes, dreams, or concerns, and leveraging our strong industry insight, we will become better able connect with customers at a deeper level. to take on risk in non-financial business fields such as pursuing joint investments with our clients, and will forge new forms of Our aim is to go beyond the conventional boundaries of finance partnership, replacing those based on cross-shareholdings. and draw on a wide range of resources. We will seek to create new value incorporating both financial and non-financial products Additionally, in our business outside Japan our strengths include and services with added value by expanding into and connecting our client base and network, especially in Asia where high growth with adjacent business fields. That is the essence of our key is expected, and our presence in attractive US capital markets. We strategy. will draw on these strengths to promote a sharper strategy focused on capturing cross-border trade flows and capital flows, Under this key strategy, we will fully draw on the strengths that supporting clients’ cross-regional business growth. Mizuho has cultivated thus far—customer base, trustworthiness, and financial functions—as well as our ability to respond to For market participants, we will aim to be a partner with expert non-financial needs in domains such as research, consulting, and knowledge of market mechanisms and the ability to draw on a real estate. These strengths will be a major source of range of intermediary functions. We will fully leverage our differentiation for Mizuho. We will also work to create new value strengths, such as our network of investors and issuers around by further enhancing our digitalization initiatives and more the world, in order to strengthen our sales & trading business. In proactively collaborating with external partners. terms of banking, we will enhance ALM and portfolio management in order to stabilize revenue and strengthen our riskIn order to achieve this, we have adopted “Open & Connected” taking capabilities. and “Passionate & Professional” as our action principles. Open & Connected means that we will connect customer segments,  or more details on our business structure reforms, see page 31, and F regions, functions, and other aspects of our business in open for information on the business strategies of each in-house company partnerships within and outside the group in order to create new and unit, see pages 49 to 62. value chains spanning both finance and adjacent fields. Finance structure reforms Passionate & Professional means that each member of the group Our finance structure reforms are designed to enable us to will be encouraged to find a source of inspiration in the dreams transition to a more flexible business and revenue structure which and hopes of our customers, better connect with them, and draw is responsive to changes in the business environment and on a high level of expertise to think, act, and deliver. competitive environment. In implementing this strategy, we are aiming to transition to the We will use four perspectives: (1) risk & return (gross profits ROE) next generation of financial services. Below I will explain the in relation to capital; (2) cost & return (expense ratio) in relation to initiatives we will take through structural reforms in three areas investment and expenses; and (3) growth and (4) stability in terms based on our basic policy and key strategy. of our business portfolio. These perspectives will help us to identify issues specific to the business and revenue structure of Business structure reforms each business domain and reallocate corporate resources from As for our business structure reforms, in light of structural streamlined areas to focus/growth areas. This will enable us to changes in customer needs, we will fully draw on our strengths establish a stable revenue base at an early stage and transition to and go beyond the conventional boundaries of finance in order to a revenue structure that allows us to proactively pursue revenue provide optimal services and solutions. streams with upside potential. 2019 Integrated Report 18 Our strategies for creating value Message from the Group CEO By enhancing the robustness of our financial base through these fit for this new age of longevity, where employees’ professional efforts, we will be able to better withstand turns in the credit cycle growth and career preferences are prioritized and employees seek in addition to aiming to invest in growth and enhance returns to to enhance their universally recognized value by looking beyond shareholders at an early stage. We have revised our shareholder the traditional boundaries of finance. We believe this model will return policy, and under the new policy we are maintaining the ultimately enhance Mizuho’s value. current level of dividends for the time being while aiming to strengthen our capital base further in order to enhance returns to What we mean by “universally recognized value” is that under shareholders at an early stage. this model each individual will be able to maximize their value in a way recognized both within Mizuho and outside the company, One of our financial targets to be achieved by fiscal year 2023, the creating a mutually beneficial outcome for both the company and final fiscal year of the new business plan, is Consolidated ROE of the individual. Our approach to talent management thus far has approx. 7 – 8%. Another target is Consolidated Net Business focused on developing generalists who are well-versed in Profits of approx. ¥900 billion, which we will aim to achieve by Mizuho’s business as a whole, and developing specialists enhancing our stable revenue base and strengthening our primarily to perform a supporting role. However, as our business earnings power. domain expands and diversifies, and as competition becomes fiercer, having expertise which is recognized outside the company F  or more details on our finance structure reforms, see pages 23 and is becoming more important than being well-versed in one’s own 24. company’s business. Each member of the organization will need to develop into a specialist with their own area of expertise. Corporate foundations reform As part of our corporate foundations reforms, we will transform Therefore, we will transition to a model where employees design our approach to business operations in line with changes in their own career plans, leading to higher ambition and motivation society, strengthen group governance, and cultivate a new and encouraging the advancement of women, non-Japanese corporate culture centered on communication. nationals, and other employees from diverse backgrounds. We will also aim to expand opportunities for employees to take on In terms of transforming our approach to business operations, we new challenges as well as expand our development programs, will focus on priority areas (e.g. personnel & workplace, IT providing stronger support for efforts to enhance each individual’s systems & digital) with the aim of further enhancing employee value. Additionally, we will provide an environment which enables engagement and motivation. more diverse and flexible work arrangements aligned to each individual’s job duties, lifestyle, and other factors, with the aim of To strengthen group governance, we will aim to enhance our encouraging greater engagement and long, fulfilling careers. sense of group unity, including among group companies other than our banking, trust banking, and securities entities, achieve In terms of expanding opportunities to take on new challenges, greater consistency in strategy, and increase execution we already have an internal job posting system in place where capabilities in order to advance our efforts regarding the next employees can apply to open positions. When we launched J-Coin generation of financial services. Going forward, we will further Pay, for example, many of our employees, particularly younger consolidate and unify Head Office and frontline functions for each employees, applied for these newly formed positions. We will group company (Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, Mizuho continue to expand such frameworks as well as more broadly Securities, etc.) to the furthest extent possible, including through assign employees to serve concurrently in multiple positions the use of the new office building we are building in Marunouchi within the organization. in the latter half of fiscal year 2020. We are also looking to allow employees to work at other We will seek to transform our corporate culture by greatly companies concurrently as well, and we have started trials in increasing the quality and quantity of communication and certain areas. For example, startups tend to focus a lot of energy fostering a new type of culture. on business model transformation and marketing, but could benefit from the expertise that the employees of financial Below I will provide an outline of our new HR strategy, which is institutions have to offer in regards to finances, corporate key to how we transform our approach to business operations management, and other aspects of corporate governance. Also, and transition to the next generation of financial services. there is strong demand from long-standing family-owned businesses for experienced successor candidates and executive F  or more details on our corporate foundations reforms, see pages 32 level managers. As demand in these areas continues to increase, to 33. there are opportunities for Mizuho employees to experience the innovative process and quick development at startups and other New HR strategy such environments, with potential to lead to new value creation at Under our new HR strategy, we will transform our model from Mizuho. one where employees seek to enhance their evaluations as the source of competition is limited to within the company, to a model Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Message from the Group CEO And we will also proactively support network building between current Mizuho employees and former employees now working In conclusion: Think, act, and deliver as professionals in other fields, both those who had long careers at Mizuho and those who left Mizuho at earlier career stages. In these ways we will seek to create connections among a broad range of people which can lead to new business opportunities. This year marks the 20th year since Mizuho’s launch in 2000. In the past two decades, we have overcome several major turns in Under our new business plan we are aiming to create new value the credit cycle, including the non-performing loan issue in Japan chains in both finance and adjacent business areas, including nonin 2002, the sub-prime loan crisis in 2007-2008, and the global finance domains. Therefore we will put in place an HR system financial crisis that followed. However, in regards to structural which will enable us to pursue this goal. shifts that have occurred over the last 20 years or so, I believe we must be prepared to deal with them over the next five years. Sustainability initiatives As we move to implement the 5-Year Business Plan, we will be In closing, I would like to emphasize that we are not positioning putting an increased emphasis on sustainability. Sustainable our new business plan as a new “direction” or “vision” for development efforts are gaining increasing importance, including Mizuho. Rather, I believe that this plan is a set of tactics, or a in areas such as responding to climate change, respecting human course of action, for Mizuho. It is designed to make us think on rights, and adapting to a society with a declining birthrate and our feet. In essence, given the very fast pace at which the aging population. In light of this, there are expectations from a environment around us is changing, there is never a set answer to wide range of stakeholders that companies’ actions are anything. In these circumstances, we need to face a number of considerate of the economy, society, and the environment. In structural issues. other words, companies are expected to make efforts to increase the positive impacts of their business activities and decrease or As the finance industry faces major structural changes, we at avoid negative impacts. Mizuho must be dedicated to connecting with our customers, and focus on changing our everyday approach and way of doing Mizuho has long been committed to corporate social things. And we need to fully draw on our strengths so that each responsibility (CSR) and we have worked to continually enhance individual can think, act, and deliver based on an open approach our initiatives aimed at creating value for a range of stakeholders. to getting things done. Currently we are using this opportunity with the launch of our new business plan to revise the initiatives we have implemented All members of the group are committed to making every effort to under the concept of CSR and to enhance our group-wide stance steadily implement this business plan and transition to the next towards sustainability. To this end, we have newly defined generation of financial services so that we can build a stronger sustainability for Mizuho as “achieving sustainable and stable and more resilient financial group which our customers can growth for Mizuho, and through this growth, contributing to the depend on in the coming era. sustainable development and prosperity of the economy, industry, and society around the world”. We appreciate your continued support and will do everything in our power to exceed your expectations. Additionally, we have identified “key sustainability areas” connected to our business structure and corporate foundations and have incorporated them into our business plan. These areas July 2019 were selected with consideration of the materiality to and affinity with our strategies, and reflect the expectations and demands of a wide range of stakeholders. We will proactively work towards achieving the SDGs through our business activities and enhancing our mediumto long-term corporate value. Tatsufumi Sakai Member of the Board of Directors President & Group CEO Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 20 Our strategies for creating value Message from the Group CFO Establishing a stable profit structure and robust financial base Member of the Board of Directors Makoto Managing Executive Officer Umemiya Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group (Group CFO) Mizuho’s financial management principles Overview of fiscal 2018 Our fundamental approach to financial management is to In fiscal 2018, the global economy and the Japanese economy establish a stable profit structure and a robust financial base, both experienced a gradual recovery. Although we achieved enabling us to stably perform our financial intermediary functions significant growth in revenue in customer divisions, our under any circumstances as well as transition to a flexible Consolidated Gross Profits (including Net Gains (Losses) Related business and profit structure which enables us to respond to to ETFs* and others) came to ¥1.8277 trillion, a decrease of 8% structural changes in the business environment and customer year-on-year, as a result of factors including decreased revenue in needs. This stance allows us to go beyond the conventional markets divisions, primarily due to a loss of ¥194.7 billion in light boundaries of finance, provide optimal services and solutions, of efforts to enhance the soundness of our securities portfolio, and contribute to continued growth for our customers and society. particularly in respect to non-Japanese bonds. Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Message from the Group CFO By promoting structural reforms and expense Reflecting back on our previous  Y2018 Profit Attributable to F Owners of Parent discipline, we achieved about a 4% decrease in medium-term business plan General and Administrative Expenses, amounting to ¥1.4308 trillion. As a result, our Consolidated Net Business Profits (including Net Gains (Losses) Related to ETFs and others), have During the period of our previous medium-term business plan, against a backdrop of uncertainty regarding tightening international regulations ¥ 96.5 billion declined around 24% year-on-year to ¥408.3 concerning the capital adequacy ratio, we billion. worked to increase non-interest income through the promotion of our One Mizuho strategy with In terms of Credit-Related Costs, we recorded a the objective of restricting the excessive use of ¥479.9 billion (year-on-year) loss of ¥19.5 billion, and as for Net Gains/Losses capital while enhancing earnings power. As a Related to Stocks (not including Net Gains result, we achieved a record high level of non(Losses) Related to ETFs and others), we interest income in customer divisions in the  Y2018 Consolidated Net F achieved ¥259.8 billion in profit by promoting the previous fiscal year, and our Common Equity Tier Business Profits sale of cross-shareholdings. Also, we recorded 1 (CET1) Capital Ratio1, which is a top priority, 408.3 an extraordinary loss of ¥497.8 billion, due largely was 10.71%, exceeding our target of 10% under to a ¥500.7 billion loss in light of structural the previous medium-term business plan. reforms. As a result of these factors, we achieved ¥ billion Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent of ¥96.5 Also, in regards to our target of reducing crossbillion, representing a reduction of around 83% shareholdings by ¥550 billion, we achieved a year-on-year. reduction of ¥543 billion, or around ¥580 billion when including sales already agreed upon, ¥129.6 billion (year-on-year) By recording this one-time loss in advance we thereby meeting our target. will be able to reduce the burden on future fiscal years and accelerate our structural reforms. On the other hand, we fell short of our targets for When excluding this one-time loss of ¥695.4 Consolidated ROE, which is an indicator of billion, we achieved Net Business Profits profitability, and for our expense ratio, which is (including Net Gains (Losses) Related to ETFs an indicator of efficiency, even when deducting and others) of ¥603.1 billion, an increase of the impact of the one-time loss, and therefore around 12% year-on-year, and Profit Attributable there are challenges remaining. Our allocation of to Owners of Parent of ¥581.8 billion, an increase corporate resources such as capital and of around 1% year-on-year. investment/expenses have not sufficiently led to *Net Gains Related to ETFs (aggregate for Mizuho Bank and an increase in Gross Profits, and this mismatch Mizuho Trust & Banking) + Net Gains on Operating Investment Securities (Mizuho Securities consolidated). Reflecting back on our previous medium-term business plan FY2018 targets under the previous FY2018 (results) (prior to FY2018 (results) medium-term business plan recording one-time loss) CET1 Capital Ratio1 Approx. 10% 10.71% N/A 2 Consolidated ROE Approx. 8% 1.2% 7.4% RORA (Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent) Approx. 0.9% 0.1% 1.0% Ratio of non-interest income within total Approx. 60% 56% N/A Reduction in ¥543 billion reduction ¥550 billion reduction N/A cross-shareholdings3 (Approx. ¥580 billion reduction including sales already agreed upon) Expense ratio4 60% 78.8% 71.1% 1. Basel III fully-effective basis (based on current requirements), excluding Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities 2. Excluding Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities 3. Shares listed on the Japanese stock markets, acquisition cost basis, cumulative amount from FY2015 to FY2018 4. Group aggregated 2019 Integrated Report 22 Our strategies for creating value Message from the Group CFO has expanded in the current environment with the changes in the We will promote finance structure reforms under our 5-Year structure of society, shifts in customers’ needs, and the long-term Business Plan to address these profit structure issues. continuation of negative interest rates. Additionally, our business structure has been overly reliant on highly volatile revenue easily impacted by market conditions such as markets-based income and non-interest income. Our 5-Year Business Plan Finance structure reforms workforce and reevaluating or increasing the efficiency of our IT 1. Reallocating corporate resources and strengthening our stable systems. Then we will allocate the corporate resources such as revenue base capital and expenses that are freed up through these efforts into As already touched upon in the Message from the Group CEO, we fields where there is potential to capture stable revenue streams will identify business/revenue structure issues in each business and growth fields where there is potential to capture upside domain, focusing on the following four perspectives: (1) Risk & revenue streams such as new business areas, business outside return (Gross profits ROE) in comparison to capital, (2) Cost & Japan, and settlements & foreign exchange business. return (expense ratio) in comparison to investment and expenses, (3) Growth potential, and (4) Stability. Based on this, we will Through these efforts, we will aim to raise Consolidated Net streamline some areas and reallocate corporate resources to Business Profits from around ¥600 billion (prior to recording a growth areas, enabling us to accelerate the transformation of our one-time loss) in FY2018 to around ¥700 billion by FY2021 and business portfolio to make it more efficient and capable of further to around ¥900 billion by FY2023, including recovering our capturing stable revenue streams. stable revenue base up to the level it was prior to the introduction of negative interest rates in Japan. Also, we will aim to achieve Some of the specific actions we will take are to sell ¥300 billion Consolidated ROE of around 7 to 8% and reduce our expense ratio worth of cross-shareholdings over the next three years and reduce to around 60%. loan assets and other assets which are not profitable in comparison to allocated capital. Additionally, we will aim to reduce expenses by around ¥200 billion by reducing our Consolidated Net Business Profits outlook1 (rounded numbers) (¥ billion) Pursue revenue streams with upside potential  anking book revenue: Revenue in the banking book excluding ALM revenue2 B Upside revenue: Non-recurring customer-related revenue + trading-related Expense Gross Profits reduction revenue (net) Other Stable revenue: Recurring customer-related revenue + ALM revenue2 Asset management 10 10 Corporate solutions 30 Accelerate growth from 30 Approx. 900 Fund investment realizing upside revenue S&T 50 270 160 Improve stable revenue mainly by reducing fixed costs Approx. 700 160 270 110 603.13 FY2018 FY2023 110 200 tion of Increase stable revenue streams to introduc vel prior licy (FY201 5) 160 Reach le ra te po 500 Expense Gross Profits interest negative 420 reduction Other (net) 20 330 Cross-shareholdings 30 Reduce fixed costs +70 Reduce fixed costs +20 Personal loans & Gross Profits +20 Gross Profits +60 deposits 40 Stable revenue +90 Stable revenue +80 30 30 Asset management 500 30 Settlements & FX 90 20 FY2018 FY2021 FY2023 Corporate loans & deposits (mainly outside Japan) 1. Includes Net Gains (Losses) related to ETFs and others New business areas4 2. Revenue in the banking book from comprehensive management of assets 330 Leasing/investments and liabilities 3. Prior to recording the one-time loss FY2018 FY2023 4. J.Score, Mizuho Smart Business Loans, etc. Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Message from the Group CFO 2. Further strengthening our financial base Financial targets Our Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) Capital Ratio was 10.71% as of the end of FY2018 when calculated under current Basel requirements, and 8.2%* on a Basel III fully-effective basis under FY2023 finalized requirements. Therefore, we have accumulated enough capital to exceed the level required for the finalized requirements Consolidated ROE1 Approx. 7 – 8% which will be phased in from FY2021 and fully effective from the end of FY2026, in addition to having secured the necessary level Consolidated Net of capital to ensure stress resistance in the case of a stress event Approx. ¥900 billion Business Profits2 along the lines of the 2008 global financial crisis. 1. Excluding Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities However, we are aware of the need to raise our CET1 Capital Ratio 2. Consolidated Net Business Profits + Net Gains (Losses) Related to ETFs to the lower end of the 9 – 10% range on a Basel III (finalized (aggregate for Mizuho Bank and Mizuho Trust & Banking) + Net Gains on Operating Investment Securities (Mizuho Securities consolidated) requirements) fully-effective basis in order to enable us to use capital more flexibly, including investing in growth and enhancing returns to shareholders. We will continue to build up our equity capital with the goal of transitioning to a capital utilization phase Other key indicators as early as possible. *Excluding Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities. Disciplined capital management policy and returns to Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) Lower end of the shareholders Capital Ratio target level3 9 10% range A stable and sufficient level of equity capital is essential to ensuring Mizuho’s sustainable growth and our ability to meet the Reduction of Reduction of cross–shareholdings ¥300 billion4 expectations of stakeholders by maintaining our financial by the end of fiscal 2021 soundness and fulfilling our role as a financial intermediary even during times of economic downturn. At the same time, we 3. Basel III (finalized requirements) fully-effective basis. Excluding Net understand the importance of our obligation to provide returns to Unrealized Gains on Other Securities. 4. Acquisition cost basis. our shareholders and investors. Therefore, we continue to carry out a disciplined capital management policy which maintains the optimal balance between ensuring capital adequacy and providing steady returns to shareholders. New shareholder return policy In regards to returns to shareholders, in light of our current capital status and our new business plan, we have changed our policy from one of a steady dividend payout policy setting a dividend We are maintaining the current level of dividends for payout ratio on a consolidated basis of approximately 30% to one the time being while aiming to strengthen our capital of maintaining the current level of dividends for the time being base further to enhance returns to shareholders at while aiming to strengthen our capital base further to enhance an early stage. returns to shareholders at an early stage. This new policy further Returns to shareholders for each fiscal year are determined by clarifies our intention of maintaining steady dividends in addition comprehensively considering business environment factors such as the results of the Mizuho group, our revenue base, the to our goal of enhancing returns to shareholders and doing so at status of our equity capital, and regulatory trends in Japan and an early stage. around the world, including Basel requirements. We will aim to enhance returns to shareholders at an early stage by steadily implementing our 5-Year Business Plan and strengthening our capital base. Cash dividend per share of common stock FY2019 (estimate) ¥7.50 Interim cash dividend (estimate) ¥3.75 Fiscal year-end cash dividend ¥3.75 (estimate) 2019 Integrated Report 24 Our strategies for creating value Message from the Group CFO Communication with shareholders and investors At Mizuho, disclosing information to our shareholders and investors in a fair, timely, and appropriate manner is a top priority. In line with the Disclosure Policy on our website, we actively promote dialogue with our shareholders and investors. We aim to provide many opportunities both in and outside Japan for shareholders and investors to learn more about our strategy, corporate governance, and other relevant topics directly from Mizuho’s management. Such opportunities include the General Meeting of Shareholders and a variety of informational sessions and IR briefings. Through our efforts to communicate and foster an accurate understanding of our strategy, financial situation, and other matters, we aim to maintain the trust of market participants and receive a fair valuation. Continued dialogue Initiatives in fiscal 2018 General Meeting of Shareholders We view the General Meeting of Shareholders as a valuable opportunity to engage with and receive direct feedback from our shareholders, and we are implementing a number of (total number, rounded) initiatives to enhance communication. Direct meetings In particular we are working to enhance with institutional communications (providing the convocation investors notice earlier and enhancing its content, including more graphics in the explanation 530 (includes 160 provided on the day of the event, posting overseas investors) materials and a Q&A summary on our website), making it easier for shareholders to exercise voting rights (introducing a system for voting via QR code), conducting a survey and posting the results, and other such initiatives. By senior management We held the 17th regular General Meeting of Shareholders on June 21, 2019 at Tokyo 210 International Forum and 1,931 people attended. We will work to enhance our corporate value (includes 60 overseas investors) based on the valuable feedback we received. By IR Dept. 320 (includes 100 overseas investors) General Meeting of Shareholders Visits to overseas Visits to overseas investors investors Institutional IR IR investors IR Day briefings briefings and analysts Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Individual Redesigned website aimed Online IR investors at individual investors briefings Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Message from the Group CFO Institutional investors Individual investors We hold an online conference, IR briefing, and other We have created a dedicated section on our website for informational sessions after announcing our financial results individual investors which provides an easy to understand and these explanations are also available in multiple summary of Mizuho’s business and strategy. formats on our website, including video and transcripts. Also, we have made a number of changes to enhance our IR Day, our briefing for investors about our business website’s ease-of-use, such as adding a function that strategies in each division/in-house company, is a regular displays a share price chart, financial results, and press event we have been holding since 2012. In Japan, Mizuho releases all together. was the first in the industry to hold this type of event. Based on requests from investors, since 2015 we have also added We were the first Japanese megabank to provide online IR a presentation and a question & answer session by an briefings where investors can communicate directly with the outside director to this event. Please see our website for a CFO and have now offered these opportunities for four summary of the presentation and the question & answer years starting from 2015. In fiscal 2018, around 2,000 session. We also provide a range of other opportunities for individual investors in total viewed these sessions (including sharing information and creating dialogue, including live and recorded viewings). regularly hosting “IR Select” events which cover specific topics that are of interest to investors. IR briefings Website for individual investors IR Day Online IR briefings Constructive dialogue 5-Year Business Plan When formulating the 5-Year Business Plan we announced in May 2019, the Board of Directors and management took into consideration the feedback gathered from investors through the General Meeting of Shareholders and various briefing sessions as well as individual meetings with investors. Additionally, after announcing the 5-Year Business Plan we explained our thinking behind the plan through dialogue with investors and will take into consideration the feedback we received. Enhancing disclosure Enhancing information disclosed in our Securities Report Starting from the March 2019 edition of our Securities Report, we have made a number of efforts to enhance disclosure, including making information regarding issues to be addressed in terms of business policy and the business environment more straightforward and comprehensive, and also specifying “top risks” in the section regarding business risk in order to highlight the risks that management considers to be the most significant. 2019 Integrated Report 26 Our strategies for creating value 5-Year Business Plan: Transitioning to the Next Generation of Financial Services Overview of our new business plan Our customers’ needs and the financial industry are rapidly Business Plan: Transitioning to the Next Generation of Financial undergoing structural changes, reflecting the structural shifts Services. occurring in the economy, industry, and society such as digitalization, an aging society with a low birthrate, and As the name suggests, our new business plan is focused on globalization. It is essential that we respond quickly to these transitioning to the next generation of financial services— structural changes, especially in light of increasing uncertainty building new forms of partnerships with our customers so that in the business environment due to concerns regarding a we can respond to their needs as the times change. Our global economic slowdown, signs of a turn in the credit cycle, objective is to build a stronger and more resilient financial and other factors. group which our customers can depend on in the coming era. In consideration of this environment and the issues we face, we announced a new business plan spanning a five-year period starting from fiscal 2019. The plan is titled 5-Year 5-Year Business Plan: Transitioning to the Next Generation of Financial Services Implement forward-looking structural reforms focused on three interconnected Basic policy areas: business structure, finance structure, and corporate foundations. Resolve the mismatch that has arisen in the allocation of corporate resources and respond to new customer needs in order to transition to the next generation of financial services. Go beyond the conventional boundaries of finance and create new value incorporating both financial and non-financial products and services in order to forge new forms of partnerships with our customers. Open & Connected Passionate & Professional Key strategy Draw on the strengths that Mizuho has cultivated thus far Customer base, network, Financial functions, market 1 trustworthiness & dependability 2 presence, ability to respond to non-financial needs 3 Approach business as a unified group Accelerate our digitalization initiatives and proactive collaboration with external partners Build a stronger and more resilient financial group which our customers can depend Our objective on in the coming era 1. Excluding Net Unrealized Gains on Other Financial Consolidated Securities. Consolidated 2. Consolidated Net Business Profits + Net targets for ROE1 Approx. 7 – 8% Net Business Approx. ¥900 billion Gains Related to ETFs (aggregate for Profits2 FY2023 Mizuho Bank and Mizuho Trust & Banking) + Net Gains on Operating Investment Securities (Mizuho Securities consolidated). Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value 5-Year Business Plan: Transitioning to the Next Generation of Financial Services Basic policy: Three-pillar reform By implementing forward-looking structural reforms focused on three inter-connected areas—business structure, finance structure, and corporate foundations—we will work to resolve the mismatch which has arisen in terms of the allocation of corporate resources, including personnel and our branch network, thereby enabling us to respond to new customer needs and transition to the next generation of financial services. We will implement business structure reforms which draw on Mizuho’s strengths in order to address structural issues in the economy, industry, and society in addition to implementing finance structure reforms to transition to more flexible business and revenue structures to respond to changes in the business and competitive environments. We will also implement corporate foundations reforms to support the continued competitive advantage of our business. The five-year period of the business plan can be broadly divided into two phases. Phase 1 (the three years starting from FY2019) will consist of full implementation of the structural reforms, building the firm foundations for next generation financial services. Phase 2 (the two years starting from FY2022) will be where we achieve the effects of the structural reforms and accelerate further growth. Resolve the mismatch between customer needs and our sales framework  evise our business model to respond to R changing customer needs Go beyond the conventional boundaries of finance and create new, more open value chains spanning both finance and adjacent fields Cultivate new partnerships with customers See P31 Resolve the mismatch Resolve the mismatch between gross profits and between how society is expenses changing and our business style  stablish a stable revenue structure and a E T  ransform our approach to business robust finance base which can withstand Business operations in order to enhance employee changes in the business environment Implement a capital management strategy structure reforms engagement and motivation Strengthen governance of group which will enable us to transition as soon companies and accelerate unified group as possible to a capital utilization phase management Four perspectives Cultivate a new corporate culture centered on communication Risk & Return Cost & Return Stability Growth potential See P32-33 See P23-24 Corporate Finance foundations structure reforms reforms 2019 Integrated Report 28 Our strategies for creating value 5-Year Business Plan: Transitioning to the Next Generation of Financial Services Key strategy: Creation of new value in adjacent business areas surrounding finance With the aim of transitioning to the next generation of financial services, we will go beyond the conventional boundaries of finance and create new value incorporating both financial and non-financial products and services in order to forge new forms of partnerships with our customers. To achieve this, we will fully draw on the strengths that Mizuho has cultivated thus far, accelerate our digitalization initiatives, and more proactively collaborate with external partners. To this end, we will adopt the action principles of “Open & Connected” and “Passionate & Professional”. Mizuho’s strengths  ustomer base, network, trustworthiness & dependability C Financial functions, market presence, ability to respond to non-financial needs Approach business as a unified group Proactive collaboration with external partners Digitalization initiatives Consulting Research M&A, MBO, LBO Settlement Asset Hybrid Leasing and lending management financing Respond to structural changes in customer needs with financial solutions with added value Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value 5-Year Business Plan: Transitioning to the Next Generation of Financial Services Action principles Open & Connected Create new, more open value chains spanning both finance and adjacent fields Passionate & Professional Anticipate customer needs and then think, act, and deliver Examples of changing needs Digitally connected lifestyles Life planning in an age Non-finance of longevity Solutions areas with added More diverse and value complex business Lifestyle support services succession Growth acceleration support Secondment of senior management Support the growth of startups Real estate Business matching Finance areas Structural shifts in industries Score-based lending IoT, sharing economy Online lending for SMEs Social costs reduction through financial intermediary functions Contribute to the sustainable Improve corporate value development of the economy and society 2019 Integrated Report 30 Our strategies for creating value 5-Year Business Plan: Transitioning to the Next Generation of Financial Services Business structure reforms We will implement business structure reforms, primarily in the areas below, in order to exercise our strengths and respond to structural changes in the economy, industry, and society. Megatrends Structural changes in customer needs Mizuho’s strengths Priority business domains Asset formation to prepare for the future Customer base, Be a partner that helps Digitalization Retail & network customers design their business Smooth business succession lives in a changing owners Trustworthiness society Convenient services in line with diversifying Dependability lifestyles Aging population Acceleration of innovation CorporaFinancial functions, Be a strategic partner and declining market presence for business birthrate tions & Industry transformation development under instituAbility to respond a changing industrial tions to non-financial structure Growth in Asian economic zones needs Be a partner with Globalization expert knowledge of Approach business market mechanisms Positive cycle of funds among market Markets participants as a unified group and the ability to draw on a range of intermediary functions Initiatives in priority business domains Retail customers Be a partner that helps customers design their lives in a changing society A  ssist customers with asset building to support their life design in an era of lengthening lifespans, and develop professionals capable of providing this assistance. Provide sophisticated solutions for business succession needs and assist clients with needs regarding identifying candidates for senior management roles. Create next–generation branches which combine physical locations and digital channels. Appeal to new customer demographics and create new demand through the application of technology and open collaboration. Be a strategic partner for business development under a changing Corporate clients industrial structure O  pen collaboration for growth acceleration including financing the growth of startups and forming industry-government-academia partnerships.  uild new forms of partnerships, sharing business risks. B Leverage our Asian client base and network in order to support the business development of global clients. Be a partner with expert knowledge of market mechanisms and the ability Market participants to draw on a range of intermediary functions D  raw on a broad range of intermediary functions to connect investors with other investors and connect issuers with investors. Enhance the sophistication of our ALM and portfolio management through flexible asset allocation. Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value 5-Year Business Plan: Transitioning to the Next Generation of Financial Services Corporate foundations reforms T  ransform our approach to business operations In terms of transforming our approach to business operations, we will focus on four priority areas—personnel & workplace, IT & digital, channels, and group companies—with the aim of further enhancing employee engagement and motivation. As part of this, in order to transition to the next generation of financial services, we will introduce a new HR strategy. Under this strategy, we will focus on each individual’s growth and career preferences, aiming to enhance employees’ universally recognizable value, and ultimately increase Mizuho’s corporate value. (For an overview of the new HR strategy, see P83-86.) Approach Examples of planned initiatives Goal Personnel & workplace Move office buildings Remote work Consolidate and restructure Head Office Provide employees with ultra light-weight Create a work functions and business functions laptops environment which enhances creativity and productivity Further enhance employee engagement and motivation FY2020 FY2020 Automate operational processes Link the new core banking system with branch tablets Automatically digitize paper forms using IT & digital AOR Utilize technology to enable diverse work styles AI Four priority areas OCR RPA FY2019 FY2020 Transformation into Expand digital channels next-generation branches Launch online lending services for SMEs Channels Pursue the best Full-scale consolidation of back office functions channels for customers’ needs FY2019 FY2019 Consolidate subsidiaries Streamline think tank subsidiaries Group companies providing support functions Consolidate corporate functions for Mizuho Merge Mizuho Delivery Service and Mizuho Information & Research Institute and Clarify the mission of Business Service Mizuho Research Institute each company and their role within the group FY2019 FY2019 2019 Integrated Report 32 Our strategies for creating value 5-Year Business Plan: Transitioning to the Next Generation of Financial Services Group company reforms We plan to expand dual-hat appointments of executive officers between the holding company and group companies as well as further consolidate and integrate Head Office functions. This will enable us to further strengthen unified group management, including for group companies other than banking, trust banking, and securities, and also enhance our ability to implement the structural reforms on a group-wide basis. Accelerate unified management of group companies and strengthen corporate governance Core group companies Strategic group companies (newly established category)  stablish a new management framework for the companies E  trengthen the framework for dual-hat appointments of S under the umbrella of core group companies that are deemed executive officers and employees important in the management of our consolidated business Strengthen the unified management of corporate functions portfolio Strengthen group strategic planning and implementation Strengthen the management system for the holding capabilities in addition to corporate governance and risk company to confirm the consistency of the strategies of management frameworks the entire group and each company Strengthen corporate governance FG executive officers Main strategic group companies Appoint FG executive officers to concurrent posts as non-executive directors FG dual-hat appointment as CEO Unified group management Orient Corporation2 Expand concurrent appointment of executive officers Mizuho Leasing2, 3 J.Score BK TB SC IR RI Mizuho Capital ...and others Reduction of the number of executive officers1 (102 78 officers) 1. Total number of executive officers above Executive Officer or equivalent position for Mizuho Financial Group, Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, and Mizuho Securities. The figures are as of June 30, 2019 and are in comparison to March 31, 2018. 2. Equity method affiliates. 3. Current name is IBJ Leasing, which is expected to change on October 1, 2019. Transforming our corporate culture By significantly improving both the quality and quantity of communication within the group, we will aim to cultivate the relationship between management, Head Office, and the frontlines to be more open and flat. In this way we will transform our corporate culture in a way that encourages all members to take more independent and proactive action. Building the groundwork for new value creation Cultivating a new corporate culture centered on communication Get rid of insular thinking Think on our feet! Management Head Office Management Frontlines Head Office Frontlines Significantly improve both the quality and quantity of communication Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value 5-Year Business Plan: Transitioning to the Next Generation of Financial Services Value created for stakeholders Through our initiatives under the new business plan, we will seek to create new value for our stakeholders—our customers, shareholders, employees, and society as a whole. We have defined sustainability for Mizuho as “achieving sustainable and stable growth for Mizuho, and through this growth, contributing to the sustainable development and prosperity of the economy, industry, and society around the world” and we are proactively working to achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). (For details on our sustainability initiatives, see P39-48) Implement forward–looking structural reforms focused on three interconnected areas: business structure, finance structure, and corporate foundations. Sustainability initiatives Create new value for stakeholders in the new era Customers Shareholders Employees  reate new value in adjacent business C  reate workplaces that give employees C areas surrounding finance Increase corporate value by resolving a sense of purpose, linked to customer Achieve increased customer convenience structural issues and accelerating growth satisfaction and business growth Society Contribute to the sustainable development and prosperity of the economy, Contribute to achieving the SDGs industry, and society around the world Reference Quantitative overview of our fundamental structural reforms In November 2017 we announced fundamental structural reforms, and under our new business plan we will make additional reductions to the number of branches in Japan and to expenses, aiming to achieve our targets ahead of schedule. Targets announced Nov. 2017 New business plan (estimates) FY2017 FY2021 FY2023 FY2024 FY2026 Reduction of approx. Approx. Workforce 19,000 people 80,000 people -8,000 people -14,000 people -19,000 people (compared to the end of March 2017) Aim to achieve ahead of schedule Approx. 80,000 -8,000 -14,000 -19,000 Japanese Reduction of approx. Approx. 130 branches 500 branches -100 branches -130 branches (compared to the end of March 2017) branch network Additional 30 branches compared to original target Approx. 500 -50 branches -100 branches Reduction excl. amortization expenses related to the next-generation IT system 1 year ahead of schedule Expenses ¥140 billion ¥1.45 trillion ¥120 billion ¥140 billion (Group aggregate, compared to FY2017) FY2021: Reduce by an additional Around ¥20 billion ¥1.45 trillion Mid ¥100 – 200 billion range ¥100 billion 2019 Integrated Report 34 Our strategies for creating value Bringing innovation to business and society through digitalization By persistently taking advantage of digital technology to accelerate structural reforms to our business and corporate foundations, we will create new value in business areas adjacent to finance Digitalization initiatives Focus areas In recent years, with digitalization being a megatrend, our With the flexibility of our new core banking system, we will customers’ needs have been shifting towards smartphone and create new business centering on strategic white space cashless payment-related services, and tech firms and other opportunities, while also enhancing our existing business and non-financial companies have been entering the financial improving our productivity. industry. We at Mizuho have also been pursuing digitalization in all areas of our business. In order to respond swiftly to our customers’ changing needs, we are leveraging our strengths and collaborating openly with 1 Create new business other companies to meet the emerging needs of our customers (create new business) and to transform our business We will employ digital technology to make bold, gameoperations (enhance existing business and improve changing moves, focusing on areas in which our business productivity). portfolio has been weak.  igital-native generation (Line) D Customers SMEs that prefer digital services (Mizuho Smart Business Loans) P36 Mizuho’s strengths Strengths of partners  onsumer loans (J.Score) C Customer base and Businesses information infrastructure Innovation and technology Cashless payments (J-Coin Pay) P36 Trustworthiness and reliability Customer base and 2 Enhance existing business and (e.g. security, information management) information infrastructure Financial expertise and skill Insight improve productivity We will apply the flexibility of our new core banking system to revising our channels and streamlining our operations. Channels Next-generation branches P37 Agility Trial and error Streamlining AOR P37 3 IT infrastructure facilitating Act with speed and Allow ten attempts to flexibility produce even one success the above objectives Communication and Open innovation We will endeavor to enhance our ability to adopt new collaboration technologies for implementing our business strategy while Timely information controlling the new risks that accompany digitalization. Work with partners sharing and coordination The cloud Cybersecurity P38 Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Highlights 1 Creating new business Began offering the digital currency platform J-Coin Pay in collaboration with approximately 60 financial institutions J-Coin Pay In March 2019, we launched J-Coin Pay, a QR code-based smartphone payment service and digital currency platform. Since then, approximately 60 financial institutions have joined the platform. J-Coin Pay allows customers to make payments, send and receive transfers, and perform a range of other financial transactions all on their smartphones. Customers are also able to use the smartphone app to move funds between their J-Coin Pay accounts and their deposit accounts at financial institutions for free, anytime and anywhere. Together with the participating financial institutions, we will continue aiming to realize a cashless society* by promoting cashless services such as J-Coin Pay. * The Japanese government is aiming to double the cashless payments ratio to 40% by 2025 (Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, “Cashless Vision,” April 2018). Mizuho Smart Business Loans to support busy executives Mizuho Smart Business Loans In May 2019, we launched Mizuho Smart Business Loans, an online lending service targeted at small and medium-sized enterprises. The service is the first of its kind from a Japanese megabank. The application process is entirely online, eliminating the need for clients to visit one of our branches. The new evaluation employs AI and external data and does not require financial statements. Clients can receive a loan in as little as two business days from application. Small and medium-sized enterprise executives often must handle multiple tasks aside from their regular business activities on their own, including their relationships with banks. They face a number of difficulties in applying for loans, such as not being able to go to the bank in person, not having time to make up an application, or not having time to wait the length of the screening process due to urgent cash flow As little as two needs. With this service, we are addressing not only these Completely online No financial business days from executives’ business needs but also their concerns about No branch visit statements application to loan raising funds. This is one example of our efforts to provide comprehensive solutions for our clients. 2019 Integrated Report 36 Our strategies for creating value Highlights 2 Enhancing existing business and improving productivity Accelerate our initiative to transform branches into spaces for consulting utilizing digital technology Establish next-generation branches integrating physical locations with digital solutions We will change our branches from spaces for primarily operational processes to spaces for consulting. Specifically, we will expand spaces for life event-related consulting, incorporate tablets and other technologies, and offer consulting services integrating our strengths in banking, trust banking, and securities. Outline Banking, trust banking, and securities By proactively moving forward the digitalization of our operations, we will also allow customers to open accounts and make routine transactions using tablets in our branches, without paper forms or seals/signatures. Digital services Consulting Developing and commercializing operational efficiency solutions using artificial intelligence AOR We have started to implement digital transformation initiatives in non-competitive areas throughout the financial sector for the purpose of providing to regional financial institutions a solution for automating data input from hand-written documents and non-standard forms, using artificial intelligence (AI), optical character recognition (OCR), and robotic process automation (RPA) technology. This solution has been dubbed “The AOR™”.* Specifically, we have started to formulate a plan for the seamless introduction of the solution in operational systems of financial institutions. The plan is being formulated through close cooperation with six regional financial institutions and NTT Data Corporation, which operates joint operations centers for financial institutions, by conducting proof-of-concept testing on The AOR™, and by working collaboratively with two companies engaged in providing services related to workflow systems in back offices. We aim to substantially improve the productivity of common operational functions in the financial industry by establishing a framework for providing the solution to regional financial institutions. * For hand-written documents and non-standard forms, which required manual data-entry as they were difficult to automate, The AOR™ automates and streamlines overall operations through the highly accurate digitization of character information using AI, OCR, and RPA technology. Based on the results of proof-of-concept testing on requests for direct debit from accounts, manual data-entry was reduced by approximately 80%. Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Highlights 3 IT infrastructure Establish IT infrastructure that allows for quick, secure, and cost-effective adoption of new digital technologies and accelerate our structural reforms Enhance our ability to adopt new digital Features of MINORI technologies for implementing New core banking system Next-generation IT system ahead of other banks our business strategy Main hub Loose coupling At Mizuho, we are striving to enhance our ability to adopt Simple IT system structure new digital technologies in order to stay ahead of the changing times and implement our business strategy in a timely and cost-effective manner. Shared operations platform Shared account ledgers for all branches The starting point for our initiatives is our new core banking Operational processing available at any branch system, MINORI, which we began migrating to in June 2018. MINORI employs a simplified structure that allows for LendDeTranscombining and reusing function-segmented programs and for ing posits fers Componentization Segmented programs and easily connecting with external IT systems. convenient and flexible integration By leveraging MINORI to integrate with APIs and other tools, we will proactively advance our open collaboration with APIs public cloud and fintech firms. Further, we will aim to Open collaboration with other streamline product and service development and investment Public cloud companies and incorporation Fintech firms of new ideas with technologies such as AI and RPA and, in doing so, firms provide new products and services meeting our customers’ needs quickly and at attractive price points. Controlling the new risks that accompany digitalization The advance of digitalization is connecting a range of things Cybersecurity at Mizuho and services, and the increased usage of digital technology is creating new risks. In order to provide safe and reliable Mizuho-CIRT Collaborate financial services to our customers, we must address these External risks, in particular by enhancing our cybersecurity systems. Integrated Rescue/ organization Forensics SOC support As we stated in the Declaration of Cybersecurity Management that we released in June 2018, we consider cyberattacks to be Gather information/ Monitor/respond one of the top risks for our business. implement countermeasures/ Multilayer defense systems investigate Assets/ With Mizuho-CIRT1 taking the lead, we have assigned highservices to be protected level professionals and are drawing on intelligence and ! Attacker cutting-edge technology developed in collaboration with external specialist organizations, while also taking initiatives Targeted cyberattack Protect to strengthen our global strategic resilience capabilities Website alteration DDoS attack across the group. These include monitoring via integrated Information assets Hacking Customer information SOC2, analyzing computer viruses, developing multilayer Illegal money transfer defense systems, and other measures. 1. Cyber Incident Response Team Declaration of Cybersecurity Management 2. Security Operation Center https://www.mizuho-fg.com/company/strategy/it/cybersecurrity/index.html 2019 Integrated Report 38 Our strategies for creating value Sustainability We at Mizuho have continually strengthened initiatives to create value for our diverse stakeholders, and have positioned CSR initiatives as a pillar of our corporate conduct. With the establishment of our new business plan, we have defined sustainability at Mizuho as “achieving sustainable and stable growth for Mizuho, and through this growth, contributing to the sustainable development and prosperity of the economy, industry, and society around the world”. Sustainability initiatives will be an integral part of our strategy moving forward, and we have strengthened our stance on advancing group-wide sustainability initiatives. Specifically, after deliberation at the Executive Management Committee and the Board of Directors, Mizuho Financial Group (our holding company) established a Basic Policy on Sustainability Initiatives to define our fundamental approach and methods for advancing sustainability initiatives. Our group companies have adopted the same policy, allowing implementation of future initiatives on a group-wide level. Also, we have defined key sustainability areas in our 5-Year Business Plan in line with the expectations and requirements of stakeholders and based on the importance and affinity of such initiatives with our strategy, as well as mediumto long-term impact on our corporate value, and each in-house company, unit, and group will establish a strategy incorporating sustainability initiatives. Additionally, we have set business related KPIs (monitoring indicators) and targets for our corporate foundations based on the key sustainability areas. We are also striving to continually enhance these initiatives, placing due emphasis on dialogue with stakeholders, and proactively taking action for the achievement of the sustainable development goals (SDGs). Sustainability Achieving sustainable and stable growth for Mizuho, and through this growth, contributing to the for Mizuho sustainable development and prosperity of the economy, industry, and society around the world Corporate Identity Basic Policy on Management Process for selecting key Basic Policy on Sustainability Initiatives sustainability areas Expectations of society Mizuho’s group strategy Expectations and requirements of various stakeholders towards Mizuho as a financial 5-Year Business Plan institution toward the sustainable development of the economy, industry, Key sustainability areas and society Business Corporate foundations Importance for Mizuho Management that takes into Improvement of corporate value ‌Mediumto long-term impact consideration the creation of value through sustainable and stable on our corporate for various stakeholders growth of the company value A  ffinity with our strategies and business domains Contribution to sustainable economic, Contribution to industrial, and social development, achieve the SDGs and prosperity around the world Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Sustainability Key sustainability areas in the 5-Year Business Plan ‌Asset formation to prepare for the future Declining birthrate and aging ‌Expand services that respond to a society with a population, plus declining birthrate and aging population good health and ‌Convenient services in line with diversifying lengthening lifespans lifestyles P37, P41-P42, P50, P58 Smooth business succession Industry transformation Industrial Acceleration of innovation development & Growth in Asian economic zones Open partnerships and collaboration with a diverse range of stakeholders innovation Creating resilient social infrastructure Business P43, P50, P52, P54, P58, P60, P62 Strengthening capital markets functions Sound economic Transition to a cashless society growth Environmentally conscious social programs P36, P44, P56, P60 Environmental Stable energy supply and addressing climate change considerations P45-P46, P52 ‌Enhancing corporate governance ‌Risk management, strengthening our IT Corporate infrastructure, and compliance governance ‌Disclosure of information in a fair, timely, and appropriate manner, and holding dialogue with stakeholders P25-26, P38, P63-P82, P88-P90 Corporate foundations Talent development and creating workplaces that Human capital give employees a sense of purpose P10, P83-P86 Environmental and human rights considerations for investment and lending Environment and Addressing climate change society Improving financial and economic literacy, and promoting activities that contribute to society based on regional and societal needs P10, P47-P48 Note: Icons indicate relation to major Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 2019 Integrated Report 40 Our strategies for creating value Sustainability Address customer needs by providing face-to-face consulting and lifestyle support as a Declining birthrate and aging population, partner helping customers design their lives in a way that is aligned with their changing plus good health and interests and concerns in a society that faces a declining birthrate and aging population, as lengthening lifespans well as an age of longevity. Asset formation to prepare for the future We strive to assist individual customers with asset formation to prepare for the future, by supporting increased financial literacy and transforming our comprehensive asset consulting services to provide appropriate asset management as a mediumto longterm partner. Asset formation initiatives As Japan’s declining birthrate and aging population issues progress, T otal number of Inflow of assets demand for long-term asset formation services is increasing. At individual customers Mizuho, we are striving to provide comprehensive asset consulting who use investment (¥ trillion) FY2018 results services that address the needs of customers, including the current products working generation, such as asset formation services and 4.1 investment proposals. To this end, our asset management business is focused on long-term investment in order to secure the funds necessary for customers’ future goals as we aim to be a partner that helps our customers design their lives in an age of longevity. 2.6% 2.0 increase We are also leveraging our banking customer base, trust banking 1.1 1.2 functions, and other group strengths, in order to provide consulting regarding securing funds for the future, and robo-advisor asset management. We will continue strengthening our support for asset FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Mizuho A B C formation according to the needs of our customers by providing Securities investment proposals and consulting. Source: Publicly available materials from each company Note: A, B, and C indicate competitor companies Expand services that respond to a society with a declining birthrate and aging population Mizuho provides services which differ from the conventional offerings, addressing the declining birthrate and aging population in Japan by utilizing our industry expertise and business network. A service model that contributes to lifestyle disease prevention In March 2018, Mizuho Bank and Mizuho Information & Lifestyle disease prevention services Research Institute launched a business tie-up to create  tilize customer base and expertise in the field of U services that contribute to the prevention of lifestyle wellness diseases among company employees as well as the financial Mizuho Data analysis and consulting for corporate health insurance associations stabilization of companies and corporate health insurance Research in the health policy, pension, and welfare fields associations. This business tie-up utilizes employee health examination and medical data to provide a one-stop solution Healthcare-related  pecialists in the health field and expertise as a service S businesses provider for improving employee health and evaluating initiative effectiveness, contributing to the financial stability of One-stop solutions that contribute to the prevention of lifestyle diseases corporate health insurance associations by preventing lifestyle diseases and lowering medical expenses. We will Corporate health insurance Employees Companies continue promoting healthy lifestyles for employees by associations developing new services utilizing digital technology and Corporate health Resolve financial Lifestyle diseases initiatives issues open innovation. Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Sustainability Social impact bond initiatives As the birthrate declines and the population ages, initiatives in the fields of healthcare and caregiving are becoming more important. At Mizuho, we are working together with governments and businesses on initiatives utilizing private funds to support the extension of healthy life expectancy and reduce public sector costs. Using social impact bonds to support businesses dedicated to extending healthy life expectancy Mizuho Bank participated in the syndication of a social impact bond (SIB) project which aims to increase the rate of residents receiving colon cancer screenings. This project was launched in August 2017 in Hachioji City and in November 2018 in six municipalities in Hiroshima Prefecture, and recommends area residents covered by the national health insurance plan to receive colon cancer screenings with the goal of increasing healthy life expectancy and quality of life through early detection of cancer. This project is notable for several reasons. The Hachioji City iteration is notable as the first multi-year results-based SIB in Japan that contributes to solving a regional issue, while the Hiroshima Prefecture iteration of the project is the first SIB covering a broad area in Japan. This project also raises capital through crowdfunding with a Pay for Success strategy, and alleviates an issue in the targeted regions via collaboration between a megabank and regional banks. The widespread utilization of SIBs and other results-based public-private sector collaborative initiatives is anticipated as a method of resolving social issues in other fields as well as medicine and caregiving. Structure for supporting businesses through social impact bonds Government Intermediary support Investors/funders Formation of SIB organization & commissioning Project capital of project Private-sector businesses Pay for Success Upfront capital + interest, based on results Reducing the burden of Growth resulting from social security costs on Government social projects and Diverse investment individuals cost-savings are creation of new markets opportunities used to repay investment Support SIB adoption Support growth Provide financing/investor matching Mizuho’s role Provide services City residents Hachioji City colon cancer examination rate 26.8% Maximum Extension of healthy life target rate19% expectancy 9% (FY2015 rate) 2019 Integrated Report 42 Our strategies for creating value Sustainability In addition to contributing to industrial development through efforts such as investment in Industrial infrastructure assets, as a strategic partner for our clients’ business development, we are development & addressing business succession needs which are diversifying and becoming more complex, innovation and supporting technological innovation and the development of innovative solutions. Smooth business succession In Japan, against the backdrop of the declining birthrate and aging population, as well as the lack of successors for businesses due to changing economic, social, and industrial structures, client needs in the area of business succession are diversifying and becoming more complex. In order to support smooth business succession, we are working to provide enhanced solutions as a unified group. Our business succession solutions The business environment that our clients are faced with is shifting Business succession solutions significantly as a result of the declining birthrate and aging of society as well as changing economic, social, and industrial structures. Against the Strong customer base Diversifying business Provision of service on a Financial functions backdrop of these issues that are brought about by this business Relative environment, such as the lack of business successors, client needs in the Best real estate brokerage track record in the industry area of business succession are diversifying and becoming more complex. group-wide basis succession needs Non-relative We will leverage our strengths such as our strong client base and approach employee Best MBO/LBO track record in the industry to business as a unified group to provide enhanced, one-stop solutions Non-relative Substantial M&A/IPO track spanning banking, trust banking, and securities to ensure smooth business outsider record succession for our clients. Creating resilient social infrastructure Leveraging the knowledge we have accumulated thus far by investing in global infrastructure assets, we will support the development and construction of infrastructure projects that are essential for the sustainable development of society. Establishment and management of a fund specialized in equity investment in global infrastructure assets Mizuho Bank and Asset Management One entered Organizational outline into an agreement with Marubeni Corporation to establish and manage a fund specialized in equity Marubeni Corp. Mizuho Bank AM-One investment in infrastructure assets outside Japan, targeting both Japanese and international Investment Investment Investment institutional investors. Together, the three companies established a management company for the fund, MM Capital Partners with the objectives of making equity investments in Co., Ltd. private-sector led infrastructure assets outside Japan (general partner) and building a portfolio of such assets. The fund will Limited partnership invest in the transportation infrastructure and energy investors Management and operation infrastructure sectors, with the goal of expanding Marubeni Corp. capital managed by the fund to a maximum of 50 Limited Equity billion yen. By working proactively as a unified group Mizuho Bank partnership investment investment (various to invest in infrastructure assets outside Japan, we (JPY) MM Capital Infrastructure currencies) Global infrastructure Other investors will contribute to infrastructure development around Distributions Fund 1 (Cayman Islands) Distributions projects (outside Japan) the world. (JPY) (various currencies) Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Sustainability As a financial services group, Mizuho will contribute to sound economic growth through Sound initiatives that promote the shift to a cashless society and the strengthening of capital economic markets functions, in order to support the sustainable development and prosperity of the growth economy, industry, and society around the world. Strengthening capital markets functions By enhancing constructive engagement with investee companies, and focusing on ESG integration, we aim to maximize returns by increasing the corporate value of investee companies. Stewardship activities that contribute to the increased corporate value of our clients Mizuho Trust & Banking and Asset Management One (AM-One) are advancing initiatives which focus on the execution of their stewardship responsibilities and promote ESG investment. AM-One is responsible for the various asset management functions distributed throughout the group. The AM-One Responsible Investment Department, created along with the establishment of AM-One in October 2016, is active in the exercise of its voting rights, as well as constructive engagement with investee companies on environmental, social, and governance (ESG) topics. AM-One encourages ESG integration—via which ESG elements are incorporated in investment processes—through initiatives such as the establishment of the Strategic Fund for ESG Engagement of Japanese Equities in July 2018. In August 2018, AM-One published a report detailing its stewardship activities. Regarding its activities outside of Japan, in December 2018, AM-One signed the UK Stewardship Code and acquired Tier 1 status, the highest status provided by the UK Financial Reporting Council to signatory institutions. Promotion of ESG investment in investment chains Investment capital Responsible Management investing Investee Investors company companies Mizuho Trust & Engagement/Exercise Business Active Individuals Banking of voting rights strategy investment of including financial Outsource / Due diligence ESG integration responses to assets ESG issues Large Companies Pensions companies Middle-market companies Increase returns Increase in corporate value Engagement with a focus on ESG issues ESG integration Increase returns by integrating ESG elements in asset ESG topics we focus on Investee company awareness of management processes relevant issues Climate change Preliminary surveys and analysis ESG-based evaluation program of ESG issues Human capital management Identifying and sharing of ESG Risk aspects Opportunity aspects issues Interrelated (using specialized materials) aspects Regional revitalization Discussion aiming for resolution of issues Supply chains Understanding factors with potential to hinder sustainable Capitalizing on opportunities to Contributing to increasing growth and preventing earn revenue by resolving social Circular economy materialization issues the corporate value of clients 2019 Integrated Report 44 Our strategies for creating value Sustainability It is essential for companies to ensure due consideration for the environment as they engage in their regular business activities, including addressing climate change, and Environmental encouraging recycling and the conservation of biodiversity. We leverage our expertise as a considerations global financial services group to provide financial products, services, and consulting to support the environmental initiatives of our clients. Stable energy supply and addressing climate change For many years we have been actively involved in financing projects that generate renewable energy in Japan and around the world, as well as the support of environmental and energy-related policy. In recent years, we are addressing the diverse needs of clients in light of increasing interest in ESG topics by leveraging the capabilities of the entire group to provide new products and services such as green loans, green bonds, and consulting on climate change initiatives. Financing support for renewable energy projects Since the feed-in-tariff on renewable energy began in 2012, The completed solar power plant in Haramachi-higashi, Minamisoma City Mizuho Bank has contributed to the adoption and spread of renewable energy through its financing of numerous renewable energy projects. In 2019, a solar power plant began operating in Minamisoma City—the result of a project finance deal arranged by Mizuho Bank. Construction of this solar power plant was completed by installing around 120 thousand solar panels on land publicly owned by Minamisoma City, an area struck by the 2011 Tohoku earthquake and tsunami, and has a capacity of 32.3 MW (the amount of energy needed to power approximately 10,000 homes). In addition to contributing to the restoration of disaster-struck regions, we are also focusing on providing financing for offshore wind power, which is being hailed as a nextgeneration technology for renewable energy. Green loan and sustainability loan initiatives In August 2018, Mizuho Bank signed a green loan Akasaka Intercity AIR Hokuriku Shinkansen agreement with Japan Excellent, Inc. based on the Green Loan Principles. The funds from this loan will be utilized to refinance the funds borrowed to acquire a DBJ Green Building-certified real estate property. Also, in February 2019, we arranged financing for a sustainability loan for the Japan Railway Construction, Transport and Technology Agency, and through this arrangement we are able to support the agency’s initiatives on the SDGs. By fulfilling our role as a financing institution, we will continue contributing to clients’ initiatives aimed at environmental issues and the SDGs. Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Sustainability Supporting the issuance of sustainable bonds In 2017, Mizuho Securities set up a sustainable Underwriting of publicly offered sustainable bonds* in Japan finance desk, provided financing for the first model Monetary amount No. of deals pilot project for green bond issuance promoted by (¥ billion) Japan’s Ministry of the Environment, and syndicated Mizuho Financial Group’s first green bonds. Also, 28 Mizuho Securities is strengthening its sustainable bond issuance framework as an ESG structuring agent, including concluding a partner contract with the Climate Bonds Initiative—an environmental 11 124.3 certification organization—in 2018, forming the 3 Sustainable Finance Office in April 2019, supporting 41.1 5.8 structuring and branding of sustainable bonds, and FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 conducting initiatives to gather information on ESG *Includes green bonds, social bonds, sustainability bonds, etc. topics. Environmental consulting At Mizuho we leverage our consulting capabilities to Environment-related consulting and research support the environmental initiatives of our clients. Mizuho Information & Research Institute provides consulting and conducts research on the Reports published by Mizuho 6% advancement of environmental management and 9% 23% countermeasures for climate change, and provides advisory services related to ESG risks. In addition to FY2018 20% holding a forum in February 2019 covering the 293 cases Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate21% related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), which was 21% established by the Financial Stability Board, we provide companies aiming to fulfill the Energy Environmental management recommendations with scenario analysis of the Chemical substances and recycling-oriented society potential risks and opportunities presented by future Climate change Advisory services regarding ESG risks climate change, and subsequent consulting on Other initiatives such as the publishing of reports strategy and disclosure of information. 2019 Integrated Report 46 Our strategies for creating value Sustainability Climate change is closely tied to various economic and social issues, and we recognize that addressing climate change is an important issue over the medium to long term. As a Addressing financial services group, we are dedicated to holding dialogue with customers and other climate change stakeholders and fulfilling our consulting role, and will proactively address climate change and support the shift to a low–carbon society. These initiatives will also be promoted for the purpose of securing stable energy supplies in countries around the world. We support the intent and aims of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures* (TCFD)’s recommendations and will conduct initiatives based on the TCFD framework and work toward more advanced disclosure. *A task force led by representatives of the private sector, established in December 2015 based on recommendations from the Financial Stability Board in order to enhance the availability of corporate information related to climate change; issued final report in 2017. Governance  e have identified key sustainability areas, including responses to climate change, and incorporated them into our W 5-Year Business Plan, based on deliberation by our Executive Management Committee and Board of Directors. These will enable us to advance our sustainability initiatives in line with our strategy. We have also developed an action plan for staged implementation of initiatives matching the Recommendations of the TCFD. The Executive Management Committee has deliberated on the action plan, and it has been presented to the Board of Directors and Audit Committee. Strategy  hen designing our new business plan, we identified climate-related risks and opportunities for each in-house W company, unit, and group. Mizuho recognizes the following risks, opportunities, and impacts on business activities related to climate change, and based on this will actively promote financial products and services that help mitigate climate change or facilitate adaptation to it in order to support the transition to a carbon-free society. At the same time, we will conduct appropriate risk management based on international concerns, trends, and other factors. Opportunities Increased business opportunities, including provision of solutions that support customers in transitioning to a carbon-free society, such as financing for renewable energy projects. Improvement of capital markets and social reputation through appropriate initiatives and disclosure. Risk In terms of climate-related risks, we are taking into account both physical risks and transition risks. Our physical risks include operational risk and credit risk related to the possibility of extreme weather causing damage to Mizuho’s assets (such as data centers) and to customer assets (such as committed real estate collateral). Our transition risks include increased credit risk related to investments in and loans to clients who are impacted by their own transition risks in the form of more stringent carbon taxes, fuel efficiency regulations, or other policies. Impacts U  sing the definitions from the Recommendations of the TCFD, our energy sector and utility sector1 credit exposure comes to approximately 7.2% of our total credit exposure.2 1 Excluding water utilities, nuclear power, and renewable energy. 2 Total of Mizuho Bank and Mizuho Trust & Banking’s loans, foreign exchange assets, acceptances and guarantees, and committed lines of credit as of March 31, 2019. Scenario analysis  e continue to look into methods for climate-related scenario analysis of physical risks and W transition risks. Risk management  e recognize the physical and transition risks associated with climate change and have constructed a system for W addressing these risks through a comprehensive risk management framework that includes credit risk management and operational risk management. We are also applying the Equator Principles* and acting in line with our Policies on Specific Industrial Sectors. As part of this, we are engaging in dialogue with some of our clients in the energy sector and utility sector. As a financial institution, we are working to reduce climate-related risk for our clients and ourselves by supporting our clients’ transition to a carbon-free society. *A financial industry benchmark for determining, assessing, and managing environmental and social risk related to projects that are being financed. Indicators and Targets CO2 emissions basic unit: CO2 emissions / total floor area targets (electricity usage at Japanese facilities of Mizuho Financial Group and core group companies) Long-term target: Reduce by 19.0% from FY2009 levels by the end of FY2030 Medium-term target: Reduce by 10.5% from FY2009 levels by the end of FY2020 Monitoring indicators • Green finance/sustainable finance amounts • Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect) CO2 emissions and energy usage • Scope 3  environmental impact of new large-scale power projects (CO2 emissions) and environmental conservation (CO2 emission reductions) We are continuing to look into setting science-based targets. Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Sustainability In terms of the social and environmental impact of business decisions and business activity, companies need to consider the expectations of their Stance on responsible stakeholders and ensure that their actions are not only aligned with international investment and standards but also transparent and ethical. We have established policies on financing environmental initiatives and human rights, and strive to prevent or minimize adverse environmental and human rights impacts based on the characteristics of the services we are providing. An overview of responsible investment and financing Provide financing or support for raising capital Mizuho Financial Group (holding company) Financing large-scale development projects Establish Policies on Specific Industrial Sectors (Revise regularly Mizuho Bank after establishing in 2018) Adoption and application of the Equator Principles (first adopted Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, Mizuho Securities, and in 2003, and readopted in 2006 and 2013 with the second and Mizuho Americas third revised versions respectively) Implementing Policies on Specific Industrial Sectors Investment (asset management) Mizuho Trust & Banking and Asset Management One Establish and implement policies on the Principles for Responsible Institutional Investors, known as Japan’s Stewardship Code (policies have been revised as necessary since their establishment in 2014) Policies on Specific Industrial Sectors These policies affirm our commitment to considering environmental and social risks when engaging in business with clients in industries (such as weapons, coal-fired power generation, palm oil, and lumber) where there is a high possibility that our involvement with the client could contribute to adverse environmental or social impacts. We will determine whether to extend credit or assist with capital raising for clients in certain industries after confirming the measures which the client is taking to avoid or mitigate such risks, and other due diligence as appropriate based on the characteristics of the services we are providing. Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, Mizuho Securities, and Mizuho Americas established structures for these policies and began implementation in June 2018. These policies will be periodically revised according to changes in the external environment and the results of policy implementation, with the aim of enhancing policy management. In May 2019, we revised the policies to create tighter standards on our involvement in business related to coal-fired power generation. Applying the Equator Principles to large-scale development projects We recognize that large-scale development projects may have  umber of projects for which contracts have been N adverse impacts on the environment and local communities. signed and the Equator Principles applied* Mizuho Bank works together with the project proponents Europe, the Middle East, and Africa Asia and Oceania (clients) to identify and conduct appropriate environmental and Americas 48 social risk assessments and due diligence for management, as 7 required under the Equator Principles. 36 30 4 At the 2017 annual meeting of the Equator Principles Association, 29 2 an agreement was reached to undertake a review of the Equator 25 Principles (EPs), working toward version four of the EPs. The 20 review focuses on four key thematic areas: Social impact and human rights, Climate change, Designated Countries and 12 8 7 Applicable Standards, and Scope of applicability of the EPs. FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 *The items in this graph are those guaranteed by third parties 2019 Integrated Report 48 Our strategies for creating value Retail & Business Banking Company Individual customers SMEs Middle market corporations To realize the wishes, hopes, and growth of our customers, we will aim to be a partner that helps retail customers design their lives, and a strategic partner for corporate clients’ growth strategy and business succession needs. Masahiro Otsuka Head of Retail & Business Banking Company Basic policy Under our 5-Year Business Plan, we will aim to transition to a in three interconnected areas—business structure, finance more stable revenue base through channel optimization and structure, and corporate foundations—we can build a new expansion into new business areas. Our basic policy is to realize business culture which is customer-focused and unique to the wishes and hopes of our retail customers and the continued Mizuho. And we can also focus on investing corporate resources growth of our corporate clients, working to build a sustainable in a way that enables us to better respond to new business and retail business which is responsive to the needs of our customer needs, creating new value in both finance and noncustomers in this new era. By implementing structural reforms finance domains. Business environment and challenges In recent years, structural changes in customer needs have been industry are undergoing structural change due to advances in accelerating. Retail customers are in need of support for digitalization, and a mismatch has arisen in light of our designing their lives in an era of increased longevity. And dependence on a network of brick-and-mortar branches. With among SMEs and middle market clients, there is increasing this in mind, we must seek to take advantage of these changes demand for solutions in areas such as growth strategy and in customer needs in order to create new business opportunities business succession, in light of the uncertain business while also allocating our finite corporate resources in a way that environment. It is essential that we fully respond to these enables us to establish a stable revenue base. changing needs. Also, both customer needs and the financial Trends in performance In FY2018, we achieved strong growth in lending, solutions, and Under our 5-Year Business Plan, we will implement three types other offerings targeting SMEs and middle market clients. of structural reform in order to reduce fixed costs and expand However, due to the challenging market environment and other our stable revenue base, aiming to increase Net Business Profits factors, there was not much room for growth in retail investor by ¥150 billion by FY2023 in comparison to FY2018. AUM revenue. (Group aggregate, rounded figures, ¥ billion) FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2021 FY2023 Items Performance Performance Year-on-year Targets Targets Targets Gross Profits 730.0 710.0 (20.0) 700.0 690.0 730.0 Net Business Profits 14.0 11.0 (3.0) 18.0 100.0 160.0 Results are based on FY2018 management accounting rules (including Net Gains Related to ETFs), targets are estimates based on FY2019 management accounting rules. Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Retail & Business Banking Company Key strategies Build an optimal channel network Related SDGs In light of changes in customer needs such as an increase in consulting spaces, adopting remote access technology and online banking transactions, we will position our online and focusing on having conversations with customers regarding mobile services as the primary channels for every day how to solve their concerns and challenges and how to realize transactions and expand the convenient digital services we their hopes and dreams. offer. At the same time, we will transform branches into Strengthen face-to-face consulting Related SDGs We will aim to be a partner that helps retail customers design middle market clients as they seek to maintain or expand their their lives in an age of longevity. We plan to expand our product businesses in an uncertain business environment. By offering lineup and our services offering continual/regular advice so that sophisticated solutions as a united group, we can support customers can rely on us as a consultant regarding long-term clients’ growth and business succession needs. life plans. We will aim to be a strategic partner for SMEs and Expand into new business domains Related SDGs Utilizing open collaboration and technology adoption through a new business model aligned to the ways that society and our alliances with other companies, we will create new value customers are changing. We will also work to reach new beyond the traditional boundaries of finance in fields such as customer demographics through alliances and other cashless payments and the data business in order to formulate partnerships with IT companies. Balance of assets under management, Asset inflows at securities companies* Number and share of IPOs in which number of investment product users (¥ trillion) Mizuho was the lead underwriter* ¥ trillion million users FY2016 Number Share 2.65 4.1 FY2017 21 2.58 19 18 2.55 48 FY2018 46 20% 20% 2.0 18% 41 1.1 1.2 Mizuho Securities FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 (Retail & Business Competitor Competitor Competitor FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 year-end year-end year-end Banking Division) A B C results results results *Prepared based on financial results disclosures of the *Prepared based on data from Capital Eye and includes respective companies. co-lead underwriter positions, but excludes REITs and global offerings. Highlights The path to launching a smartphone bank In May 2019, Mizuho and Line Corporation jointly launched a preparation company for establishing Line Bank. We started preparations with the aim of launching a new bank during FY2020. This smartphone bank will be accessible and easy to use, combining Mizuho’s extensive financial expertise with Line’s platform which is popular with the digital generation. Highlights Strengthening our support for startups We offer a membership service, M’s Salon, aimed at supporting the growth of startups in Japan which are the drivers of the nation’s future. By drawing on Mizuho’s network, financial services capabilities, and consulting capabilities we provide a range of support for the startups who will shape the future, including business matching forums and a variety of seminars. 2019 Integrated Report 50 Our strategies for creating value Corporate & Institutional Company Large corporations Financial institutions Public-sector entities As a strategic partner for business development, we are aiming to achieve our vision of collaborative value creation and partnerships with our clients and contribute to the sustainable development of Japan’s economy, industries, and society. Akira Nakamura Head of Corporate & Institutional Company Basic policy We support our clients’ business development by providing We will also contribute to the sustainable development of the investment and financing, brokerage, and consulting services economy, industry, and society by creating social value as well not only in the financial sector but also in non-financial sectors. as economic value for our clients through contributions to Japan’s growth strategy, supporting industry transformation, Under the 5-Year Business Plan, in addition to strengthening and promoting economic activity mainly in Asian economic our traditional commercial and investment banking functions, zones. we aim to build new partnerships with our clients by leveraging our high level of industry insight and discernment to create new business opportunities and share business risk. Business environment and challenges The global economy is becoming increasingly uncertain due to governance frameworks and the implementation of SDG increased movements toward protectionist trade policies, initiatives. political risks in Europe, and the persistence of geopolitical risks in the Middle East and East Asia. The role of financial institutions in responding to an increasingly complex society and the challenges and needs of clients is In addition to global competition, the business environment our becoming more sophisticated and diverse. In light of this, we clients face is becoming increasingly complex as a result of will create new value by leveraging our high-level risk-taking restructurings and competition that transcends industries, due capabilities and by providing solutions that go beyond the in part to technological advances, as well as enhanced corporate conventional boundaries of finance. Trends in performance In FY2018, we achieved our targets as Net Interest Income rose Going forward, we will steadily implement the key strategy due to an increase in the balance of loans, and fee-based under the 5-Year Business Plan with the objective of achieving business grew, driven by large-scale M&A projects. KPIs were FY2023 targets. met for DCM and real estate, while there is still room for improvement for ECM. (Group aggregate, rounded figures, ¥ billion) FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2021 FY2023 Items Performance Performance Year-on-year Targets Targets Targets Gross Profits 430.0 470.0 +40.0 460.0 470.0 480.0 Net Business Profits 230.0 280.0 +50.0 240.0 260.0 290.0 Results are based on FY2018 management accounting rules (including Net Gains Related to ETFs), targets are estimates based on FY2019 management accounting rules. Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Corporate & Institutional Company Key strategies Expansion of our business domain Related SDGs Clients’ business challenges and needs are becoming more and pooling our banking, securities, and trust banking capabilities to more diverse and complex, and they are also closely linked to further enhance the financial services we provide to our clients, social issues such as population decline and environmental expand our business scope to include non-financial services, concerns. In response to these challenges, we will contribute to and co-create value with our clients and society. the sustainable growth of the economy, industry, and society by Revenue structure reforms Related SDGs Technological advances are driving innovation and rapidly also build a portfolio capable of withstanding future changing the social structure and clients’ business uncertainties and credit cycle fluctuations, thereby establishing environments. In line with these changes, we will revise the a product and business portfolio that combines both growth services we provide to our clients in a flexible manner. We will potential and stability. Enhance our business base Related SDGs We will build a solid business base to support new business individual can maximize their skills, and we will improve strategies. productivity by introducing new technologies. Specifically, we will hire and train personnel with diverse We will also continue with our efforts to upgrade our risk perspectives and expertise. At the same time, we will transform management system and reform our cost structure to build a our working style to create an environment in which each business base that can meet the challenges of the coming era. Total equity underwriting worldwide Domestic straight bonds M&A amount (deals related to (underwriting amount) (rank) (underwriting amount) (rank) Japanese companies) (rank) 1 1 1 1 2 3 4 4 4 5 5 6 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 results results results targets results results results targets results results results targets Highlights Resolving social issues through renewable energy projects We provided financing for a woody biomass power generation project in the Tohoku region of Japan, leveraging our expertise and client base in the power industry. Biomass power generation is expected to be a stable energy source because it is not affected by weather conditions. It is also an environmentally-friendly power source with zero CO2 emissions. We will continue to support both stable power supplies and decarbonization through renewable energy initiatives. Measures to reduce the number of vacant houses through the Highlights revitalization of the resale market for existing houses The Tokyo Metropolitan Government established the Registration System for Business Groups Promoting the Resale Market for Existing Houses and is working to develop a secure market where existing single-family homes can be bought and sold, and to prevent the city from falling into decline due to an increase in the number of vacant houses. Mizuho is the only registered financial institution under this system, and as part of our commitment to promoting the resale of existing houses, we will support the development of an environment which is conducive to establishing a market that supports the efficient use of existing housing. 2019 Integrated Report 52 Our strategies for creating value Global Corporate Company Americas EMEA East Asia Asia & Oceania As a strategic partner supporting our clients’ global business development, we will work with our clients to realize the potential of the cross-regional value chain. Seiji Imai Head of Global Corporate Company Basic policy We will connect clients and capabilities in each region, focusing To respond to structural issues, including an increase in on our network in high-growth Asian economic zones and on expenses due to regulatory compliance costs resulting from the our presence in the attractive US capital markets. As a strategic introduction of new Basel requirements and the limitations on partner supporting our clients’ global business development, the potential to raise foreign currency funds, we will optimize we will work with our clients to realize the potential of the crossour business portfolio with a focus on profitability and regional value chain. sustainability, expand our stable income sources, and streamline our revenue structure while maintaining our bottom line. Business environment and challenges The global economy is continuing to make a modest recovery introduction of new Basel requirements and the limitations on overall, led by the strong growth of the US economy. However, the potential to raise non-JPY currency funds. Within this we must remain attentive to factors such as the proliferation of business environment, we view these constraints on future protectionist trade policies arising from US-China trade friction, growth as structural issues and will advance initiatives to build the political risk developing in Europe, and the geopolitical risk new business foundations. Specifically, we will increase the present across the Middle East and East Asia. Our business is fundamental earnings power of our current business base, facing constraints on future growth in the form of an increase in improve our cost structure, and revise our business portfolio expenses due to regulatory compliance costs resulting from the strategy through selection and focus. Trends in performance In FY2018, we recorded strong Net Interest Income due to able to achieve our targets for both Gross Profits and Net steady improvement in our corporate loans and deposits. We Business Profits. also expanded our non-interest income by capturing large-scale M&A deals and other business. As a result of keeping down our Going forward, we will implement the key strategy of the 5-Year expenses outside Japan through stringent cost control, we were Business Plan and aim to achieve our targets for FY2023. (Group aggregate, rounded figures, ¥ billion) FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2021 FY2023 Items Performance Performance Year-on-year Targets Targets Targets Gross Profits 340.0 420.0 +80.0 410.0 440.0 460.0 Net Business Profits 90.0 170.0 +80.0 160.0 170.0 180.0 Results are based on FY2018 management accounting rules (including Net Gains Related to ETFs), targets are estimates based on FY2019 management accounting rules. Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Global Corporate Company Key strategies Enhance current business areas and reform cost structure Related SDGs We will continue to provide consulting and support for our on capital investment, and enhance our current business base. Japanese corporate clients’ global expansion and to pursue our In order to improve our cost structure, in addition to proactively Global 300 strategy of focusing on about 300 blue-chip leveraging technology, we will move forward with the corporate groups worldwide. At the same time, we will enhance optimization of our operational frameworks in each region. cross-selling tailored to regions and markets, with an emphasis Expand into new business domains Related SDGs We will raise our transaction banking capabilities in Asia and have achieved a presence in the debt capital market business strengthen our client relationships in US capital markets. In the second only to US financial institutions through our acquisition high-growth region of Asia, we will capture capital flows both of Royal Bank of Scotland assets. With the strengths we have inside and outside the region, leverage our strong client base, from this business, we will expand our client base and product and develop stable business foundations. In North America, we offerings to strengthen our relationships in capital markets. Reduce low-return assets We will look into scaling back businesses that have low return high-return business domains. Through our initiatives to or low potential for improvement. With these cuts to the stock streamline our revenue structure, we will aim to build an variables of our “stock and flow,” we will free up risk-weighted optimized business portfolio. assets and non-JPY currency resources to invest in new and Non-interest income outside Japan Non-JPY deposits ($ billion) Americas bond underwriting (DCM) ranking ($ billion) Net Business Profits ($ million) Ranking (share) 1.4 1.4 1.3 172 197.7 166 161 172.7 161.6 9th 8th (4.8%) 10th (5.4%) (3.6%) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 results results results results results results results results results Mizuho Bank and principal subsidiaries, including Investment-grade bonds worth $250 million or more central bank deposits. Global Corporate Company issued by companies in the Americas. management accounting basis. Source: Dealogic Highlights Our Global 300 strategy is yielding positive results Seeing that the global media industry was moving toward consolidation of communications and content, we acted to be one of the primary banks in a large-scale, representative M&A deal. This allowed us an opportunity to exercise our advantages in the telecom, media, and technology field, as well as to apply our Global 300 strategy, which is aimed at pulling in more financing deals. Going forward, we will continue striving to reach an even higher level as a global player. Highlights Opening of a new Mizuho Securities office in Frankfurt Mizuho Securities has established Mizuho Securities Europe GmbH in Frankfurt, Germany as a subsidiary of our United Kingdom-based subsidiary Mizuho International plc. Mizuho Securities Europe began operating in March 2019 and will ensure service continuation and stability for clients in Europe and around the world, regardless of the progress of Brexit negotiations. 2019 Integrated Report 54 Our strategies for creating value Global Markets Company Investors As a partner with expert knowledge of market mechanisms and the ability to draw on a range of intermediary functions, we will further integrate our banking, trust banking, and securities capabilities to offer the best products and services for our clients’ varied needs. Junichi Kato Head of Global Markets Company Basic policy The Global Markets Company engages in sales and trading in Going forward, we will continue to be a partner with expert order to provide clients with market product-based solutions, knowledge of market mechanisms and the ability to draw on a and we also conduct banking operations, including asset range of intermediary functions. In our sales and trading management and capital raising, securities investment, and operations, by optimizing our global network and products other related activities. framework, we will draw on a broad range of intermediary functions to connect investors with other investors and connect In the 5-Year Business Plan, we have set out a basic strategy to issuers with investors. In our banking operations, we will develop a framework for offering products and services ideally enhance the sophistication of our ALM and portfolio suited for our clients’ true needs, as well as to strengthen our management through flexible asset allocation while maintaining market presence, as part of maintaining our status as one of a focus on achieving a balance between realized gains and Asia’s major players in global markets. unrealized gains/losses. Business environment and challenges According to estimates from the International Monetary Fund, tightening of global financial regulatory standards and the rise with the US Federal Reserve Board refraining from hiking of digitalization and AI in financial markets. interest rates and other countries adopting similar monetary easing policies, the global economic growth rate remained In this environment, we will strive to consistently respond to steady in the first half of 2019 and is expected to trend upward our clients’ increasingly varied risk hedging needs and in the second half. On the other hand, US-China trade friction, investment needs. At the same time, in our banking operations, Brexit negotiations, and other factors continue to create an we will enhance the sophistication of our ALM and portfolio uncertain business environment, and the structure of the market management and aim to maintain our status as one of Asia’s also appears to be undergoing considerable changes due to the major players in global markets. Trends in performance While financial markets were facing growing uncertainty, we operations and of improving the risk taking capabilities of our embarked on a restructuring of our portfolio of non-Japanese banking operations in order to shift to a stable revenue bonds and other securities. As a result, our FY2018 Net Business structure. Through these efforts, we expect to achieve net Profits came to -¥14.1 billion, falling short of our fiscal year business profits of ¥150 billion in FY2019 and of ¥260 billion in target. In the 5-Year Business Plan, we have adopted the goals FY2023. of advancing the global management of our sales and trading (Group aggregate, rounded figures, ¥ billion) FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2021 FY2023 Items Performance Performance Year-on-year Targets Targets Targets Gross Profits 390.0 190.0 (200.0) 370.0 390.0 480.0 Net Business Profits 190.0 (14.0) (204.0) 150.0 180.0 260.0 Results are based on FY2018 management accounting rules (including Net Gains Related to ETFs), targets are estimates based on FY2019 management accounting rules. Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Global Markets Company Key strategies Enhance sales and trading operations by advancing global management Related SDGs To respond to our clients’ true needs, in addition to our ongoing that we have developed through our commercial banking integration of banking, trust banking, and securities services, business to further focus on and expand our securities business. we will advance the global management of each of our In doing so, we will facilitate the realization of a positive cycle products, improving our price competitiveness and ability to of funding between financial market participants and raise our provide solutions. We will also leverage the broad client base global market presence. Enhance the sophistication of our ALM and portfolio management in our banking operations Related SDGs We will enhance the sophistication of our ALM and portfolio processes through digitalization. These efforts will enable us to management both by enhancing our early warning indicator improve our earnings power while also restraining volatility in management to anticipate changes in market conditions in the revenue from our banking operations. In addition, with advance and by optimizing diversification of investment into stable capital raising and balance sheet management, we will interest rates, equity, credit, and other areas based on market continue supporting our clients’ global business and positively conditions. We will also speed up our decision-making contributing to Mizuho’s overall business strategy. Build markets infrastructure and develop digital innovation professionals Related SDGs In order to continue providing high quality services to our infrastructure, reduce our costs, and maintain and heighten our clients in the future, we will allocate our corporate resources competitiveness. Moreover, we will further accelerate our strategically towards building next-generation trading rooms, initiatives to streamline our operations by improving our market IT systems, and market back offices in line with employees’ digital literacy and utilizing robotic process technological advancements. In this way, we will upgrade our automation. Sales & trading-related revenue Volume of Asian/emerging market Institutional investor equity trade share (%) (With FY2017 results as 100) currency transactions 108 (With FY2017 results as 100) 5.4 100 106 111 5.3 106 100 4.7 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 results results targets results results targets results results targets Internal management accounting basis Internal management accounting basis Calculated by Mizuho Securities based on trading data from each section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange Highlights AI and digital innovation initiatives Transaction management system Automatic entry of In collaboration with NTT Communications, we have developed a voice input system that uses important spoken speech recognition, text mining, and robotic process automation to automate entry of market information product transaction data. We have already begun using this tool to streamline our banking operations. Going forward, we will aim to make further improvements through operational Speech System for Robotic recognition identifying process excellence, optimize and upgrade our operations, and establish a sustainable competitive system for important automation agreements information advantage. Highlights First Japanese bank to issue US dollar-denominated CD linked to SOFR In February 2019, we became the first Japanese bank to issue a US dollar-denominated certificate of deposit (CD) linked to the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR). SOFR is a new US dollar reference rate that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York began publishing in April 2018 as an alternative to USD LIBOR, which may soon become unavailable. Financial transactions using SOFR are expected to increase. We will continue to positively contribute to US financial markets with our products, develop insight and knowledge about new reference rates, and support our clients in raising capital. 2019 Integrated Report 56 Our strategies for creating value Asset Management Company Investors In an era of lengthening lifespans, we will support customers’ mediumto long-term asset formation to contribute to growth in financial assets in Japan as part of a unified group. Goji Fujishiro Head of Asset Management Company Basic policy Our basic policy is to raise the added value of our asset centered on business process and IT system integration, and management business to meet the changing needs of our the implementation of operational process reforms utilizing customers by strengthening our investment capabilities and digital innovation. We will contribute to growth in financial ability to provide solutions, and by developing products and assets in Japan by shifting to a high capital efficiency structure providing services in line with our customers’ mediumto for our asset management business and working together with long-term asset formation needs as we enter an age of Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, Mizuho Securities, and longevity. In addition, we will enhance cost control by Asset Management One, to support customers’ mediumto establishing an efficient and robust business base through the long-term asset formation. development of organizational integration management Business environment and challenges As the environment surrounding our asset management other clients who play an important role in people’s ability to business undergoes major changes, such as longer life spans, prepare for retirement. On the investment side, as we continue the continuing low interest rate environment, and the spread of to find ourselves in a difficult investment environment due to digital devices, customer needs are also changing. For retail negative interest rates, institutional investors are expecting us investors, we believe that asset management services for asset to provide high added value. In light of this, we will need to formation for the future are still in the developmental stage further improve our investment capabilities by offering amidst this age of longevity. High-level consulting capabilities alternative investment strategies and utilizing technologies, are needed to respond to the increasing diversification of such as AI and big data. pension plans and investment solutions for pension funds and Trends in performance In fiscal 2018, we generated a net inflow in publicly traded In the future, we will aim to achieve our targets under the 5-Year investment trusts designed for long-term investment. However, Business Plan by strengthening our operational capabilities Net Business Profits fell short of our targets as a result of a through a process of selection and focus, placing greater decline in market value due to worsening market conditions emphasis on our consulting and solutions businesses, and and outflows from products designed for institutional investors. shifting to a more efficient business structure. (Group aggregate, rounded figures, ¥ billion) FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2021 FY2023 Items Performance Performance Year-on-year Targets Targets Targets Gross Profits 50.0 50.0 +0.0 49.0 54.0 60.0 Net Business Profits 17.0 16.0 (1.0) 13.0 18.0 23.0 Results are based on FY2018 management accounting rules (including Net Gains Related to ETFs), targets are estimates based on FY2019 management accounting rules. Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Asset Management Company Key strategies Focusing on asset management services for an age of longevity Related SDGs In order to support our customers’ life plans and goals in terms and individual-type defined contribution pension plan (iDeCo) of asset management, we will focus on product development, services, as well as disseminating educational materials on including those for customers with little prior experience of investing. We will also actively support distributors, by investing, and providing solutions such as fund wraps. In providing online content and other support in order to help addition, we will raise awareness of the importance of asset drive the financial asset market. formation by offering defined contribution corporate pensions Selection of and focus on solution services with high customer demand Related SDGs As customers’ needs shift to investment strategies that offset institutional investors whose needs are diversifying, we have lower interest rates and minimize the impact of market established specialized departments in Mizuho Trust & Banking conditions, we will focus our corporate resources on alternative and Asset Management One that focus on providing investments, such as real estate and loans, and on absolute comprehensive consulting and solution services. return strategies. For clients such as pension funds and Shifting to a more efficient business structure Related SDGs We will optimize operations by completing the integration of revise our current operations in each department of the Asset business processes and IT systems in order to maximize the Management Company by introducing automated processes profitability of Asset Management One, where corporate that utilize technologies, such as RPA, in order to improve resources related to the group’s asset management functions operational efficiency and raise productivity and added value. have been consolidated. In addition, we will fundamentally Publicly traded investment trust assets Defined contribution corporate pension Number of individuals enrolled in under management balance (¥ trillion) assets under management balance (¥ trillion) individual-type defined contribution 1.85 pension plans (iDeCo) (thousand) 1.74 163 7.3 1.60 6.9 120 6.6 79 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 results results targets results results targets results results targets Highlights Launch of long-term asset formation fund targeting individuals In July 2018, Asset Management One introduced a JPY-denominated principal-protected investment trust, the first of its kind in Japan,* for which net assets exceed ¥200 billion. We are confident that this fund will contribute to more active investment in Japan as many of the investors in the fund are first-time investors. Mizuho will continue to provide asset management services that support the asset formation of individual investors. *Based on analysis by Asset Management One, this is the first publicly traded principal protected investment trust in Japan with a guarantee period of 10 years. Highlights Launch of global infrastructure debt fund Asset Management One Alternative Investments, a subsidiary of Asset Management One specializing in alternative investments, has launched an infrastructure debt fund. The fund provides investors with attractive investment opportunities and invests in infrastructure projects that are essential for the sustainable development of the countries and local communities they are located in. We will continue to provide excellent investment opportunities by leveraging the strengths of the group. 2019 Integrated Report 58 Our strategies for creating value Global Products Unit Investment banking Transaction banking We aim to leverage our sophisticated expertise as a team of specialists as we continue offering optimal solutions that are aligned with client needs. Goji Fujishiro Head of Global Products Unit Basic policy At the Global Products Unit (GPU), our activities are primarily addressing the needs of clients and investors, while supporting divided into two areas, investment banking and transaction the strategies of in-house companies and the Mizuho group as banking, and we provide a wide range of solutions for our a whole to increase our stable earnings power. clients including M&A, real estate, and project finance, as well as settlement in Japan and globally, cash management, and In addition, we are aiming to improve productivity and transfer agency services. efficiency by endeavoring to achieve optimal allocation of corporate resources and review stock variables (in terms of By drawing on the sophisticated expertise of the banking, trust stock and flow) without being constrained by established banking, and securities functions of the group, we will continue conventions. Business environment and challenges As uncertainty in the global economy rises, price fluctuation risk as we continue offering optimal solutions that are aligned with continues to increase for stocks, bonds, real estate, and client needs. commodities. Also, the business environment that our clients are faced with is shifting at a rapid pace, with Fintech and other Specifically, by utilizing our financial product expertise to take forms of technological innovation bringing new developments measured risks, and by further advancing the originate-toon an almost daily basis. distribute model taking the perspectives of investors into account, we will support the financial product aspects of Confronted with this business environment, at the GPU we are Mizuho’s strategy, and contribute to solutions for issues that are focusing our attention on leveraging our sophisticated expertise faced by clients and society. Key strategies Providing effective solutions across banking, trust banking, securities, and other group companies Related SDGs In order to provide the best support for value chains that create For example, we aim to develop a deep understanding of the added value and contribute to increased corporate value for business strategies of our corporate clients based on each clients, we will further deepen our collaboration with financial company’s development stage, from discussions on their product departments throughout the banking, trust banking, growth strategy to financial and management strategies and and securities entities and our other group companies to exit strategies, and aim to provide optimal solutions drawing on continue to provide solutions as a united group. the strengths of the entire group. Enhancing our global operating framework and honing financial product expertise Related SDGs Against the backdrop of Japan’s aging population and declining transaction banking services, as well as services in the field of birthrate, and the growing presence of Asia as a global player, project finance. clients are accelerating their global operations, and we aim to address these needs by enhancing Mizuho’s services on a Also, in order to bolster our capacity to provide solutions to our global basis. clients, we are working to strategically develop a larger pool of specialists to further increase our financial product expertise. We will boost collaboration between offices to support our clients, especially for cash management, settlements, and other Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Global Products Unit Expansion into new business areas Related SDGs In order to address client needs which are diversifying and Our unit is making use of digital technologies which are becoming more complex, and to support clients in resolving advancing day by day, and endeavoring to expand business in issues, Mizuho must create and provide solutions beyond those new fields to capitalize on recent trends. offered in our existing financial product line-up. Principal accomplishments in investment banking Principal accomplishments in transaction banking FY2018 results FY2018 results 1 Syndicated loans No. 1 Custody No. 14 Japan publicly offered bonds No. 12 CMS No. 15 (industrial bonds & electric power bonds) ABS lead underwriter No. 13 Trade finance No. 16 1. Amount basis, bookrunner basis 4. Holding and managing securities for securities investments. 2. Underwriting amount basis, excluding our own bonds Mizuho won first place in custody bank survey rankings (in the Japanese market) in 3. Amount basis, asset-backed securities Global Custodian magazine. 5. Mizuho won first place in the Cash Management Service (CMS) ranking survey of Euromoney magazine (in the Japanese market). 6. Global Trade Review awarded Mizuho the “Best trade finance bank in East Asia & the Pacific” award. Highlights Awards in transaction banking Among the various solutions Mizuho provided to clients in the field of transaction banking in FY2018, our initiatives in trade finance and custody were particularly highly evaluated, and we received awards from industry magazines. In trade finance, Mizuho Bank won the award for best trade finance bank in East Asia and the Pacific among Global Trade Review’s choice of Leaders in Trade. Our sophisticated product development and dedicated service, as well as customized product offerings addressing the needs of major players throughout the region, were critical factors in receiving this prestigious regional award for the third consecutive year. Receiving the trade finance award In custody, at the Global Custodian’s Leaders in Custody Awards hosted in March 2019, Mizuho Bank was awarded the Asia-Pacific region Best Relationship Management and Client Service Award, as well as the Continued Excellence Award for Asia-Pacific, a special honor presented to banks in each region that have consistently outperformed in Global Custodian surveys, as a way of commemorating the 30th anniversary of the Leaders in Custody awards. Mizuho Trust & Banking (Luxembourg) was also honored with the Best Global Custodian Network Team Award. We will strive to improve the standard of our services, supporting the growth strategies of clients who are expanding globally, and enhance our asset management support for investors. Leaders in Custody Awards Highlights Establishment of JTC Holdings In October 2018, Trust & Custody Services Bank (TCSB) and Japan Trustee Trust & Custody Services Bank (JTSB) established JTC Holdings (JTCHD) through a joint share Services Bank, Ltd. JTC Holdings, transfer. Ltd. Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. The purpose of this integration is to realize more stable and higher quality operations and to strengthen IT system development capabilities by concentrating TCSB’s and JTSB’s corporate resources and expertise, and seeking to leverage the benefits of scale, thus contributing to the further growth of the domestic securities settlement market. Custody Bank of Japan, Ltd. Note: Contingent on approval from the relevant authorities. Together, JTCHD, JTSB, and TCSB form an elite Japanese financial group specializing in asset administration services, with approximately ¥700 trillion in assets under custody (including entrusted assets of approximately ¥400 trillion). These entities will continue adapting to changing client needs and providing optimal solutions based on our sophisticated expertise. 2019 Integrated Report 60 Our strategies for creating value Research & Consulting Unit Fulfilling our role as a knowledge navigator by co-creating value with clients and society, while aiming to make Mizuho a stronger and more resilient financial group. Motonori Wakabayashi Head of Research & Consulting Unit Basic policy Against the backdrop of structural shifts including digitalization, For the finance structure reforms, we are working to optimize an aging population with a declining birthrate, and our operations and resources to better align with the business globalization, we are working to implement structural reforms conducted by each in-house company and their needs, in in three areas—business structure, finance structure, and addition to our unit’s independent business. corporate foundations—by utilizing our expertise and organizational knowledge, while addressing the diversifying And thirdly, for the corporate foundations reforms, we are needs of clients to strengthen value chains both inside and working to strengthen the capabilities of our personnel to outside our unit. resolve a range of client issues drawing on the strengths of the entire group, in addition to increasing productivity through For our business structure reforms, we will focus our attention efforts such as accelerating the integration of operations within on four areas: enhancing the sophistication of research, the unit. enhancing consulting, the active use of IT and digital technologies, and revising client channels. Business environment and challenges In addition to structural shifts in society such as digitalization, focused research can provide clients with new management an aging population with a declining birthrate, and and business strategies, setting Mizuho apart from the globalization, and as the state of the economy in Japan and competition as a strategic partner. around the world grows increasingly uncertain, clients continue to face a range of issues which our unit’s strengths can be As a trusted partner sharing knowledge with our clients and leveraged to resolve. society, we are committed to working together to create new value including in spaces that span finance and non-finance For example, as clients expand into new business fields and domains. geographical regions, our unit’s industry expertise and globally Key strategies Enhance the sophistication of research Related SDGs By conducting thorough research and origination with a clear For this purpose, along with effectively consolidating the sense of purpose, we contribute to strengthening Mizuho’s group’s research functions to bolster our fundamental research earnings power as well as our brand and reputation. capabilities, we will expand our origination capabilities to capture research-related business in priority areas and new business areas linked to in-house company strategies. Enhance consulting Related SDGs By broadening the scope of our consulting services to include value-chain-based model of consulting to reality, which enables new offerings such as cross-sector support and digital us to leverage our consulting services to generate business for consulting, we are increasing the underlying value of our the entire Mizuho group. consulting services. At the same time, we are bringing a Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Research & Consulting Unit Active use of IT/digital Related SDGs We are driving the digital transformation of clients and Mizuho Mizuho employees, we are committed to developing and itself by leveraging the digital technology expertise of our unit. supporting tech-savvy personnel who will lead the next Along with promoting the digitalization and data-based generation. business of our clients and improving the digital literacy of all Revise client channels Related SDGs In the interest of relaying to our clients and society the new for individual clients, advance our Mizuho Membership One value created by our unit through enhancing the sophistication membership service, and reinforce collaboration between our of our research, enhancing consulting, and actively using IT and unit and frontline offices. digital technologies, we will deepen our one-on-one approach Highlights One Think Tank Report: “Rapidly changing US trade policy and its impact on the world economy” In the One Think Tank Report, which condenses our unit’s knowledge and expertise on major global trends and the latest topics, we covered the impact that US trade policy is having on the global economy. The report includes insightful analysis of potential scenarios for the global economy going forward and the impact that US trade policy could have on Japanese companies. We have received positive feedback from many clients saying that the report has been helpful for formulating management and business strategies. We will continue publishing such reports to facilitate problem solving at client companies. Highlights Mizuho Business Succession Seminar With the increasing public interest in the topic of business succession in Japan, Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, and Mizuho Research Institute held a joint seminar for clients including those business owners who will require asset or business succession, and the seminar was attended by many clients. At the seminar, we outlined and explained key points for utilizing the business succession taxation scheme, which underwent significant revisions in FY2018, and covered management succession issues including how to evaluate and select successor candidates. We explained these matters in a practical and straightforward manner based on our experience cultivated through prior business succession consulting. Highlights Mizuho Information & Research Institute booth at CEATEC Japan 2018 Mizuho Information & Research Institute (MHIR) exhibited a booth at CEATEC Japan 2018, which was held at the Makuhari Messe convention center from October 16–19, 2018. Many attendees visited the booth to see exhibits featuring concepts of everyday life in the coming decades and demonstrations of underlying technologies, including a “personal AI secretary” utilizing voice recognition to identify users and answer questions according to the user, and a cosmetics simulation which enabled visitors to try out different types of makeup on screen using image processing technology. Also, at a panel session and seminar, examples of AI-related initiatives and R&D being conducted by MHIR were introduced, and we exchanged ideas with visitors from a variety of industries to achieve digital transformation through partnerships both inside and outside the Mizuho group. 2019 Integrated Report 62 Foundations for our corporate value Corporate governance Mizuho Financial Group, as the group’s holding company, is working to fulfill our social role and mission by creating value for shareholders and other stakeholders, realizing improved corporate value through continuous and stable corporate growth, and as a result, contributing to economic and industrial development and the prosperity of society inside and outside of Japan. With this goal, we have established our corporate governance system with the Board of Directors at its core, and are working to further enhance our corporate governance. Basic policy regarding Mizuho Financial Group’s corporate governance system Secure the effectiveness of corporate governance by ensuring the separation of supervision and management Ensuring the separation of and making supervision of the management, such as the execution of duties by executive officers, the primary supervision and management focus of the Board of Directors Make it possible for the management to make swift and flexible decisions and realize expeditious corporate Delegating decisions on business management by enabling the Board of Directors to delegate decisions regarding business execution to the execution to the executive officers executive officers Utilize committees and other forms of oversight, comprised mainly of outside directors who are not members Securing independence of of the management of Mizuho, and secure transparency and fairness in decision-making processes regarding management supervision the appointment and dismissal of, and compensation for, the management as well as ensure effective supervision of the management At the holding company level, actively adopting operations and global best practices regarding corporate Adopting global standards governance Principal features of Mizuho Financial Group’s corporate governance system Organizational structure Fairness and transparency Adopted a Company with Three Committees model of corporate governance This structure consists of a Board of Directors, Nominating Committee, The members of the Nominating Committee and the Compensation Compensation Committee, and Audit Committee, and enables executive Committee shall all be outside directors. officers to perform their duties most effectively The Chairmen of the Nominating, Compensation, and Audit Committees shall be outside directors. The chairman of the Board of Directors shall be an outside director. Decision-making regarding the appointment and dismissal of, and compensation for, the management is primarily conducted by outside directors Appropriate disclosure in line with Japan’s Corporate Governance Code Compliance with Japan’s Corporate Governance Code Our Corporate Governance Guidelines set out the fundamental perspectives regarding corporate governance at Mizuho, and the framework of the corporate governance system, including the roles, composition, and governing policies regarding the Board of Directors, executive officers, Nominating Committee, Compensation Committee, and Audit Committee for Mizuho Financial Group as a Company with Three Committees. In addition, the Corporate Governance Report, which sets out the status of the corporate governance system of the group, is submitted to the TSE and posted on the websites of the TSE and Mizuho Financial Group. Corporate Governance Guidelines Corporate Governance Report https://www.mizuho-fg.com/company/structure/governance/pdf/g_guideline.pdf https://www.mizuho-fg.com/company/structure/governance/pdf/g_report.pdf Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Corporate governance Message from the We conduct highly effective Board of Directors’ Meetings to meet Chairman of the Board of Directors the expectations of our shareholders and other stakeholders. FY2018 Board of Directors Fiscal year 2018 was an important year for formulating a new business plan under the direction of the new President & Group CEO, Tatsufumi Sakai. Right after his appointment, Mr. Sakai worked to fully grasp Mizuho’s earnings structure by identifying structural issues and determining why earnings had not increased as expected. His efforts to accurately identify these issues have given the outside directors a better understanding of Mizuho’s status. Based on this understanding, the decision was made to record a large, one-time loss. This was a very difficult decision for Mr. Sakai to make and involved repeated deliberations by the Board of Directors as well as numerous meetings solely between him and outside directors. The conclusion drawn from this was that recording a one-time loss and disposing of unprofitable assets was necessary to allow Mizuho to get back on track. This decision involved Mr. Sakai exercising his authority, outside directors taking onboard and advancing his intentions, and intense discussions by the Board. This process demonstrates the function of Mizuho’s reliable corporate governance system and the role of the Board. Through this process, we have formulated a five-year business plan aimed at completing Mizuho’s structural reforms and increasing earnings power. Initiatives in the coming year 2019 marks the launch of the 5-Year Business Plan: Transitioning to the Next Generation of Financial Services. In the first three years of the plan, we will undertake a variety of measures geared towards full implementation of the structural reforms and transitioning to the next generation of financial services, aimed at boosting earnings power. The remaining two years will focus on ensuring the success of these initiatives. One issue Mizuho faces is a high expense ratio, which only structural reforms can solve. In fiscal year 2018, the Board of Directors repeatedly discussed what structural reforms should entail. To implement the necessary changes, we established an effective team under the direct control of President & Group CEO Tatsufumi Sakai. While implementing such a plan is difficult under any circumstances, but with the Board of Directors monitoring the implementation, we hope to make steady progress. The 5-Year Business Plan newly established “key sustainability areas” to realize Mizuho’s mission to maintain a sustainable social presence. Through these efforts, we are realizing management and oversight over a wide range of areas with a long-term view. We see heightened global economic risks led by the US-China trade war, while digitization is driving accelerating change in the financial industry. Recognizing these changes quickly and staying consistently focused on the medium-term company goals, we are mindful of the need for the Board of Directors to make expeditious selections and decisions. Since fiscal year 2014, internal and outside directors have worked together to strengthen the corporate governance system. We have positioned 2019 as a year to further build upon and push this initiative forward. I will do my utmost as chairman to meet the expectations of shareholders and the rest of our stakeholders. Hiroko Ota Chairman of the Board of Directors 2019 Integrated Report 64 Foundations for our corporate value C  omposition of the Board of Directors Corporate governance system 6 outside 5 directors directors who concurrently We have adopted a Company with Three Committees model of corporate governance with the belief serve as executive that, under the current legal system, this model is the most effective as a means of realizing the officers objectives of our basic policy regarding Mizuho Financial Group’s corporate governance system. General Meeting of Shareholders Determines the content of proposals regarding the appointment Appointment of directors Supervision and dismissal of directors Note: The persons appointed as chairs of the Nominating, Compensation, and Audit Committees are outside directors. 9 non-executive 8 internal directors directors Determines the content of Board of Directors proposals for the General Nominating Chairman Meeting of Shareholders regarding Committee the appointment and dismissal Outside of directors Tenure of directors directors: All members, in principle, shall be outside directors. Chairman less than 3 years: 9 directors Human Resources Review Meeting Determines 3 years or more but Internal non-executive compensation less than 6 years: 4 directors directors: Determines the compensation Compensation Chairman for each individual director Committee and executive officer 6 or more years: 1 director Internal directors who Audits the All members, in principle, shall be outside directors. concurrently serve as execution of executive officers: duties Audits the legality and appropriateness of the E  valuating the effectiveness Audit Chairman execution of duties by directors The Chairman shall, in principle, be an outside director. Committee of the Board of Directors Non-executive directors shall comprise a majority of and executive officers the directors. The majority of members shall be outside directors The Board of Directors shall perform an analysis and Outside Director Session Risk Committee evaluation of the effectiveness Appoints and dismisses executive officers of the Board of Directors as Delegates decisions on business execution a whole each year and shall Audits the execution of duties Determines the compensation Supervises the execution of duties disclose a summary of the by executive officers for executive officers results. Based on such analysis and evaluation of effectiveness, Executive President & Group CEO in order for the Board of Management Makes decisions on business execution, based on delegation from the Board of Directors, Directors to exercise its officers and implements business execution management oversight role to the maximum extent, the Board considers and implements necessary measures. For further details, please refer to our Directors website: https://www.mizuho-fg. Appointment or dismissal of directors com/company/structure/ governance/structure.html Mizuho Financial Group’s Nominating Committee selects director candidates. The requirements that these candidates must satisfy in order to be considered for an appointment consist of criteria  verview of Independence O regarding qualities such as high integrity and deep insight, high ethical standards, and commitment Standards to compliance with laws and regulations, in addition to criteria regarding capabilities, including For Mizuho Financial Group’s extensive experience and knowledge which we expect will enable them to contribute to Mizuho’s Overview of Independence continued and stable growth and improvement in corporate value. Standards of Outside Directors, please refer to our website: Additionally, outside director candidates must meet criteria regarding the ability to perform h  ttps://www.mizuho-fg. com/company/structure/ supervisory functions in specific areas of expertise such as corporate management, law, financial governance/pdf/o_director. accounting, and economic policy. pdf The Nominating Committee also may submit as an agenda item for deliberation at the General Meeting of Shareholders a proposal to dismiss directors if there are objective and reasonable grounds for determining that they have become unqualified in respect of the requirements and it is deemed that they are no longer capable of being entrusted with the performance of director duties. Corporate Governance Guidelines https://www.mizuho-fg.com/company/structure/governance/pdf/g_guideline.pdf Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Corporate governance Outside directors Outside directors and reason for their appointment Fields where directors are especially expected to contribute* Name Reason for appointment as an outside director Corporate Law Financial Economic Finance Technology management accounting policy Expected to contribute to (i) strengthening the effectiveness of both the decision-making and supervisory functions of Mizuho Financial Group’s Board of Directors and (ii) Mizuho Tetsuo Seki Financial Group’s effort to further enhance internal control systems and group governance, leveraging his extensive experience and deep insight as a top executive. Expected to contribute to (i) strengthening the effectiveness of both the decision-making and supervisory functions of Mizuho Financial Group’s Board of Directors and (ii) the Tatsuo Kainaka further enhancement of the corporate governance, compliance, and risk management system of Mizuho Financial Group, leveraging his extensive experience, deep insight, and high level of expertise as a prosecutor, judge, and attorney-at-law. Expected to contribute to strengthening the effectiveness of both the decision-making and supervisory functions of Mizuho Financial Group’s Board of Directors, leveraging Hirotake Abe his extensive experience, deep insight, and high level of expertise as a certified public accountant. Expected to contribute to strengthening the effectiveness of both the decision-making and supervisory functions of Mizuho Financial Group’s Board of Directors, leveraging his Masami Yamamoto extensive experience as the CEO of a global company and his deep insight and expertise in technology fields. Expected to contribute to strengthening the effectiveness of both the decision-making and supervisory functions of Mizuho Financial Group’s Board of Directors, leveraging her extensive experience, deep insight, and high level of expertise as a university professor Hiroko Ota and a Minister of State for Economic and Fiscal Policy of the Cabinet Office, which includes, among other things, the ability to see things from a macroeconomic perspective (e.g., from a public policy and economic policy perspective) as well as a high level of awareness of the problems that must be resolved for the revival of the Japanese economy. Expected to contribute to strengthening the effectiveness of both the decision-making and supervisory functions of Mizuho Financial Group’s Board of Directors, leveraging her Izumi Kobayashi extensive experience and deep insight as a top executive who has served both in and outside Japan. *The fields in the chart above are not representative of all of the areas of expertise the directors possess. Director training We provide our directors with opportunities to acquire and improve knowledge that is necessary to fulfill their expected roles and duties, at the time of appointment and continuously thereafter. 1 2 Offering all directors opportunities for Opportunities to acquire and improve knowledge for outside directors acquiring knowledge and self-improvement • Training is provided for newly At the time of appointment Post-appointment (the examples below were conducted for fiscal 2018) appointed directors, mainly regarding the duties and responsibilities of Acquiring an understanding of the group’s Deepening understanding of Board of Directors’ proposals directors, and is conducted by an outside instructor (lawyer). financial and other businesses • Providing for thorough explanations of Board of Directors’ proposals in advance and • Training is also held and conducted • Intensive explanation at the time of follow-up (after each Board meeting) appointment will be conducted individually Improving communication at times other than the Board of Directors’ meetings by an outside instructor regarding for each newly appointed outside director. compliance and customer protection • Outside director sessions and off-site meetings regarding business operations (for and awareness of human rights related − Explanations from executive officers in details, see P70) charge of different business areas and issues. the General Manager of the Corporate • Lunches following the Board of Directors meetings and receptions and dinners for • Directors gain an overall perspective Secretariat regarding Mizuho’s Corporate outside directors and executive officers of the management of the group by − Meetings to acquire necessary knowledge though the exchange of information with Identity, business domain, business discussing various proposals, reports, the internal directors strategy, business plan, finances, and other activities in the Board of Other opportunities to acquire/enhance knowledge corporate governance system, etc. Directors’ meetings • Attendance of the General Managers’ Meetings held by the Three Core Companies* • When necessary for the performance *Three Core Companies: Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, Mizuho Securities of duties, directors in charge of various areas make individual presentations; advice and instruction is provided by external specialists, and training is provided (at the company’s expense). 2019 Integrated Report 66 Foundations for our corporate value Board of Directors a b c i j g h Internal director a Tetsuo Seki b Hisaaki Hirama c Hirotake Abe Outside director Outside director Member of the Board of Outside director Director who concurrently Member of the Nominating Committee / Directors Member of the Compensation serves as an executive officer Member of the Compensation Committee / Member of the Audit Committee / Committee / Member of the Audit Non-executive director Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Risk Committee Committee (Chairman) (Chairman) For further details on the Career highlights (year of appointment) Career highlights Career highlights (year of appointment) backgrounds of directors,  epresentative Director and Executive R (entity / year of appointment) C  EO, Tohmatsu & Co. (2001) please refer to our website: Vice President, Nippon Steel (2000) General Manager of Accounting Certified Public Accountant (current) President (Representative Director), Department (FG, BK, CB/2012)  ttps://www.mizuhoh Shoko Chukin Bank (2008) General Manager of Nagoya Corporate fg.com/company/info/ Banking Department (BK/2015) executives/index.html Head of Internal Audit Group (BK/2017) g Masahiro Kosugi h Hiroko Ota i Motonori Wakabayashi j Hiroaki Ehara Member of the Board of Outside director Member of the Board of Directors, Member of the Board of Directors Chairman of the Board of Directors / Managing Executive Officer / Head of Directors, Managing Executive Officer / Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nominating Research & Consulting Unit and Head of Head of Human Resources Group Committee Risk Management Group (Group CHRO) (Group CRO) Career highlights Career highlights (year of appointment) Career highlights Career highlights (entity / year of appointment) Minister of State for Economic and (entity / year of appointment) (entity / year of appointment) General Manager of Portfolio Fiscal Policy (2006) General Manager of Industry Research General Manager of Trust Business Management Department (FG, BK/2014) Professor, National Graduate Institute Department (BK, CB/2013) Department VI (TB/2015) General Manager of Accounting for Policy Studies (current) Head of Research & Consulting Unit Head of Human Resources Group and Department (FG, BK/2016) and Executive Officer in charge of Head of Internal Audit Group (TB/2016) Banking (BK/2016) Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Corporate governance e f d l k n m Definition of terms d MasamiYamamoto e Yasuhiro Sato f Tatsuo Kainaka FG: Mizuho Financial Group Outside director Member of the Board of Directors Outside director BK: Mizuho Bank Member of the Nominating Chairman (Kaicho)* Member of the Nominating Committee TB: Mizuho Trust & Banking Committee / Member of the *Chairman (Kaicho) Sato engages in (Chairman) / Member of the Compensation SC: Mizuho Securities the company’s external activities, but Compensation Committee (Chairman) does not chair the Board meetings. Committee / Member of the Audit CB: Mizuho Corporate Bank The Board meetings are chaired by the Committee independent director chair, Ms. Ota. The former Mizuho Bank and Career highlights (year of appointment) Career highlights Career highlights (year of appointment) the former Mizuho Corporate P  resident, Fujitsu Ltd. (2010) (entity / year of appointment)  uperintending Prosecutor of the Tokyo S Bank conducted a merger Director & Senior Advisor, Fujitsu Ltd. President & CEO (CB/2009, BK/2013) High Public Prosecutors Office (2002) on July 1, 2013, whereby the (2019, current) President & Group CEO (FG/2011) Justice of the Supreme Court (2002) former Mizuho Corporate Bank Lawyer (current) was the surviving company in an absorption-type merger and changed its trade name to Mizuho Bank. k Satoshi Ishii l Makoto Umemiya m Tatsufumi Sakai n Izumi Kobayashi Member of the Board of Directors, Member of the Board of Member of the Board of Outside director Senior Managing Executive Officer / Directors Directors Member of the Nominating Executive Officer in charge of Digital Managing Executive Officer / Head President & Group CEO Committee / Member of the Risk Innovation and Head of IT Systems Group of Financial Control & Accounting (Representative Executive Officer) Committee and Head of Operations Group (CDIO and Group CIO and Group COO) Group (Group CFO) Career highlights Career highlights Career highlights Career highlights (year of appointment) (entity / year of appointment) (entity / year of appointment) (entity / year of appointment) President and Representative Director, Head of Human Resources Group General Manager of Osaka Branch Head of Investment Banking Unit Merrill Lynch Japan Securities (2001) (FG, BK/2015) (BK/2012) (FG, BK, CB/2013) Executive Vice President, the Head of Business Promotion and in General Manager of Financial Planning Head of International Banking Unit Multilateral Investment Guarantee charge of Banking (BK/2017) Division (FG, BK/2014) (FG, BK/2014) Agency, the World Bank Group (2008) President & CEO (SC/2016) 2019 Integrated Report 68 Foundations for our corporate value Operation of the Board of Directors and each committee Number of Board/ meetings in fiscal Main roles Composition Operation in FY2018 Committee Chairman 2018 (average attendance) Hiroko Ota The main roles of the Board of Directors are • The Chairman The Board of Directors held in14 meetings making decisions on business execution such is an outside depth discussions regarding issues (100%) Chairman of the as the basic management policy, which are director. linked with the formulation of Board of Directors matters to be determined solely by the Board • The majority the new business plan. Meetings of Directors under laws and regulations, of the Board also included presentations and supervising the execution of duties by of Directors is covering the current state of risk Board of Directors directors and executive officers. comprised of governance, risk management, non-executive compliance, and internal control. The Board of Directors shall, in principle, directors. delegate to the President & CEO of Mizuho Financial Group, decisions on business execution, excluding matters to be determined solely by the Board of Directors under laws and regulations, for the purpose of realizing quick and flexible decision-making and expeditious corporate management and strengthening the supervision of executive officers and other personnel by the Board of Directors. Tatsuo Kainaka The Nominating Committee determines • The Chairman The committee decided on the 8 meetings the content of proposals regarding the is an outside FY2019 director candidates for (100%) Nominating Committee Chairman appointment and dismissal of directors of director. Mizuho Financial Group, approved Mizuho Financial Group to be submitted • The members the selection of directors and to the General Meeting of Shareholders are outside other appointees at the Three and exercises the approval rights held by directors. Core Companies, and made Mizuho Financial Group with respect to the other decisions and approvals in appointment and dismissal of directors of each addition to receiving reports on the of the Three Core Companies and exercises formulation and implementation the approval rights held by Mizuho Financial status of succession plans and Group with respect to the appointment and seeking opinions as necessary. removal of representative directors and senior directors of the Three Core Companies. Masami Yamamoto The Compensation Committee determines • The Chairman The committee discussions 11 meetings the compensation for each individual director is an outside covered the executive (100%) Compensation Committee Chairman and executive officer, as defined in the director. compensation system for Companies Act of Mizuho Financial Group, • The members Mizuho Financial Group and the exercises the approval rights held by Mizuho are outside Three Core Companies, seeking Financial Group regarding compensation of directors. to identify issues and make each individual director of the Three Core revisions. The Committee also Companies, and determines the basic policy decided on the compensation of and executive compensation system for individual Mizuho Financial Group Mizuho Financial Group and the Three Core directors and executive officers as Companies. defined in the Companies Act and approved the compensation of the individual directors of the Three Core Companies. Tetsuo Seki The Audit Committee audits the execution • The Chairman The Audit Committee received 17 meetings of duties by directors and executive officers; is an outside reports regarding the state of (100%) Chairman inspects and monitors the establishment director. performance of duties by the and operation status of the internal control • The majority directors and executive officers, Audit Committee systems of Mizuho Financial Group and of the Audit including as pertains to the its subsidiaries; monitors and inspects the Committee management of group companies. execution of duties of executive officers is comprised The committee also confirmed the regarding the corporate management of of outside effectiveness of different auditing subsidiaries and affiliates; and creates audit directors. practices particularly that of the reports. In addition the committee determines internal control system, and the content of proposals regarding the provided advice on a range of appointment, dismissal, or non-reappointment topics as needed. of accounting auditors to be submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders. Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Corporate governance Primary initiatives for enhancing the effectiveness of the Board of Directors We ensure there are a number of opportunities for insightful discussion in order to continually increase the effectiveness of the Board of Directors. Such opportunities include Outside Director Sessions as well as off-site meetings where outside directors and management share information on key company issues and the status of the execution of duties.  rimary initiatives (FY2018) P Number of meetings Primary purpose Topics •  mong only the outside directors, reflecting back A •  ow the Board of Directors should operate and how H on previous activities, sharing issues identified, and Outside Director to evaluate its effectiveness 2 meetings discussing initiatives going forward Sessions • Providing management with advice from an • Opinions on the formulation of the new business plan and other topics independent and frank outsider’s perspective • Information sharing between the outside directors and the business execution line as well as open and • The new business plan Off-site meetings on 21 meetings honest exchange of opinion • Primary management discussion points management issues • An opportunity to develop a deeper understanding of • Primary in-house company discussion points and discussion points and issues prior to meetings of the other topics Board of Directors Changes to the compensation system for officers responsible for business execution In July 2018 we changed the compensation system as follows with the aim of enhancing corporate value and increasing incentives for executive officers to fulfil their roles to the maximum extent possible. Conceptualization of the compensation system for officers responsible for business execution Stock Previous type Compensation of stock (I, II) compensation 20% 32.5% Base Salary After change Prior to change Base Salary Performance 50% (July 2018 onward) 60% Payment 20% Performance Payment Compensation structure 17.5% Base Salary A monthly cash payment consisting of a base amount determined by the officer’s rank and an added amount based on their role and responsibilities. Objective Act as an incentive for officers to achieve fiscal targets and enhance results. Performance Payment A cash payment consisting of a base amount determined by the officer’s rank, and adjustments based on the performance of the Mizuho group overall, the performance of the organization (in-house company, unit, etc.) the officer is responsible for, the performance of the individual officer, and other factors. Payment of performance payments above a certain amount will be deferred over three years. Objective Further align the interests of officers with those of shareholders and increase the incentive to maximize corporate value. Stock Paid in the form of Mizuho Financial Group stock at the time of leaving the position based on the officer’s rank. Stock Compensation I Compensation Stock Paid in the form of Mizuho Financial Group stock as deferred payments over three years in an amount equivalent to a base amount Compensation II determined by the officer’s rank and adjustments based on the performance of the Mizuho group overall, the performance of the organization (in-house company, unit, etc.) the officer is responsible for, the performance of the individual officer, and other factors. 2019 Integrated Report 70 Foundations for our corporate value Meeting between outside directors and investors Mizuho IR Day 2019 June 17, 2019 Member of the Nominating Committee Member of the Compensation Committee Member of the Audit Committee (Chairman) Tetsuo Seki Overview of the Q&A session at the Mizuho IR Day 2019 briefing for institutional investors held on June 17, 2019 Q.01 What’s your view of the 5-Year Business Plan as an outside director? Over the past year, President and Group CEO Tatsufumi Sakai simultaneously directed toward improving fundamental has spearheaded efforts to formulate the plan, maintaining earnings power. The remaining two years will focus on reaping close communication with us outside directors and with the the benefits from these efforts while generating earnings in executive side through numerous rounds of in-depth dialogue. specific areas. This initiative has showcased in detail Mr. Sakai’s core management policies. The first three years of the plan will be extremely critical for creating this framework. Constant changes in financial and Firstly, in the midst of formulating the plan, we recorded just economic conditions have the potential to make this a more under ¥700 billion as a one-time loss at the end of fiscal year difficult task than expected. However, there is almost no room 2018, while Mizuho’s capital adequacy ratio has remained to fall outside of the plan’s final fiscal year profit targets, so we largely intact. I can’t stress enough how meaningful this has must establish the groundwork for fundamental earnings been for allowing management to make a fresh start. power over the first three years to stay on target. This has built a platform from which we can launch the twoI’m confident that we can achieve the business plan, but we stage rocket that is the current 5-Year Business Plan. The focus need to be flexible as we continue to identify various issues for in the first three years will be on laying the groundwork for management during the plan’s run. fundamental earnings power while corporate resources will be Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Corporate governance Q.02 Could you tell us about the framework for implementing the 5-Year Business Plan? We have clarified the policy and philosophy that should guide In addition, thorough communication is necessary to pool the the thoughts and actions of all members of the organization efforts of all members of the organization. Rather than taking under the banner of “Transitioning to the Next Generation of the conventional top-down approach of management assigning Financial Services” raised by the 5-Year Business Plan. employees goals that must be met, Mr. Sakai has Subsequently, it will be critical for everyone to pool their efforts unequivocally called upon everyone to anticipate customer to realize the plan. needs and then think, act, and deliver. We ultimately need to place executives in the business Having already adopted an “in-house company system,” execution line and other core personnel in the right positions Mizuho maintains customer-focused business platforms and while establishing a framework of clearly defined has clarified this responsibility framework. I believe that with responsibilities. in-house companies connecting the organization, if all members of Mizuho can think and act as independent financial During Human Resources Review Meetings comprising of Mr. professionals and fully communicate with each other, this will Sakai and the outside directors, we carefully deliberated on the produce results as a matter of course. needed personnel by using a wide variety of evaluation methods, including some provided by external institutions, and fully reviewing each candidate’s abilities and qualities. Q.03 What role should the Audit Committee play going forward? The Audit Committee has so far functioned as a part of the Board of Directors, fulfilling its key role of offering opinions to the Board on Mizuho’s important business strategies and policies. I think formulating the current 5-Year Business Plan represents an opportunity to shift the Audit Committee’s focus to the thorough implementation and monitoring of this plan. The Audit Committee will focus on financial areas such as profit targets, monitoring implementation of plans to allocate personnel who are essential to the business plan (staffing plans), and identifying risk trends that could impede the business plan, closely cooperating with the Internal Audit Group, Risk Committee, and Audit and Supervisory Committees of the Three Core Companies, and increasing the audit effectiveness. Tetsuo Seki Mr. Seki has served as outside director for Mizuho Financial Group since 2015. Prior to that, he served as Representative Director and Executive Vice President of Nippon Steel Corporation; President (Representative Director) of the Shoko Chukin Bank, Ltd.; Chairperson of the Japan Audit & Supervisory Board Members Association; and Chairperson of the Audit Committee of Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd. 2019 Integrated Report 72 Foundations for our corporate value Risk governance Risk governance overview Risk governance is a part of Mizuho’s corporate governance framework, centered on our risk appetite framework (RAF). The Board of Directors determines fundamental matters regarding the RAF, along with its management systems and specific risk appetites, and incorporates these in document form as the risk appetite statement (RAS). At Mizuho, we also work to foster and promote a sound risk culture to support this risk governance framework. The effective administration of the RAF leads to the creation of a sound risk culture, and at the same time, cultivating a sound risk culture creates a foundation for the disciplined risk-taking and risk communication which are promoted as part of the administration of the RAF. To ensure strong risk governance, we maintain a risk management and compliance structure that operates in accordance with the principles of the “three lines of defense.” Risk culture We foster a sound risk culture in which all executive officers and guidelines provide a foundation for the appropriate values and employees maintain a high level of awareness regarding risk, and courses of action for Mizuho’s executive officers and employees to endeavor to make proper judgements and take appropriate actions take when approaching risks. The guidelines are aligned with the rooted in good sense and ethical standards. Such judgement and five Mizuho Values that form a part of Mizuho’s Corporate actions allow us to achieve our risk appetite and enhance our Philosophy, and executive officers and employees can refer to them corporate value. when they are unsure of a risk-related judgement that needs to be made in their daily work. Putting these guidelines into practice We have also established Behavioral Guidelines for a Sound Risk improves our ability to address and counter risks, and fosters a Culture, and work to ensure that executive officers and employees sound risk culture. understand these principles through messages from senior management, training sessions and other measures. For Mizuho These initiatives are also important from the standpoint of internal to put the “customer first principle” into practice and enhance our control, ultimately helping to prevent inappropriate behavior by corporate value, it is essential that all members maintain an attitude executive officers and employees. of not simply avoiding risk, but rather taking appropriate risk. These Risk appetite framework (RAF) The purpose of our RAF is to maximize our corporate value by we will accept in order to implement our business and financial securing sustainable and stable profits, and to fulfill our social strategies. We will further concretely define our risk appetite in responsibilities. Based on such purpose, our core risk appetite our medium-term and fiscal year business plans. The risk is to take appropriate risk and provide solutions based on our appetite forms the basis for establishing our business strategy, customers’ actual needs, establishing our competitive advantage resource allocation, and earnings plans as well as monitoring against our peers. the operating status, thus integrating risk management, business strategy, and profits in order to achieve disciplined We have positioned the RAF as the corporate management risk-taking that achieves an optimal balance of risk and return. framework to support taking the types and levels of risk that Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Risk governance Systems for operating the risk appetite framework Our risk appetite consists of a risk appetite policy that serves as the On the other hand, to implement the RAF in the course of business fundamental policy regarding our risk-taking activities, and risk operations, the Group CRO, Group CFO, and Group CSO provide appetite metrics that serve as a means of quantifying the level of assistance overseen by the Group CEO, and implement business risk-taking based on the risk appetite policy. strategy, financial strategy, and risk management from an overall perspective. Also, heads of in-house companies, units, and groups In implementing the RAF, the Board of Directors decides on basic are responsible for planning and implementing strategies based on matters, including the risk appetite policy, metrics, and levels of risk appetite, and as the individuals in charge of risk-taking, conduct risk, and operations are supervised based on the Board’s decisions. operations. Note that the Internal Audit Group provides objective In addition, the Risk Committee, which advises the Board of and comprehensive assessments of the effectiveness of the RAF Directors, provides advice regarding risk governance and offers from an independent perspective and offers advice and suggestions to management. recommendations for addressing any issues that arise. Formulation and monitoring of risk appetite Risk appetite is determined through management discussions on the effectiveness of the RAF.The in-house companies in turn formulate outlook for external factors such as the macroeconomic, regulatory, individual risk appetite policies to implement the group’s overall and competitive environment, along with potential risk events such policy, and set risk appetite metrics and levels to meet group metrics as economic slowdown and turbulence in financial markets.These and levels. are then incorporated into main and risk scenarios that are shared internally. Monitoring of the operational status for the established risk appetite is conducted by the Risk Management Committee (Chairman: Group We then formulate a group-wide risk appetite policy based on our CRO) on a quarterly basis and as necessary. As part of this process, awareness of these external environments, create specific strategies the Group CRO and each in-house company work to identify issues and measures according to this policy, and determine corporate related to risk and share information on these issues.This monitoring resource allocation and earnings plans. Our risk appetite metrics are enables timely and appropriate actions, including flexible revisions expressed in terms of capital strength, profitability, and liquidity, to our risk appetite and strategies, to be discussed and carried out in utilizing measures such as CET1 Capital Ratio, ROE, and LCR. the event of changes in the external environment that increase risk or impede our risk appetite and strategies. Further, the risk appetite for the entire group is shared with the in-house companies that implement strategies, to ensure the Mizuho’s RAF Control Structure Supervision Management Board of Directors President & Group CEO • Determines basic matters regarding RAF Executive Management Committee and RAS • Formulates risk appetite policy • Conducts business operations •S  upervises business execution by the • Establishes risk appetite metrics/level consistent with the risk appetite management based on the above determinations • Formulates RAS • Embeds a sound risk culture in each Audit Committee line of business • Audits the execution of duties by the executive Risk Management Committee (Chairman: Group CRO1) officers and the management regarding RAF • Monitors the operation of RAF Risk Committee Balance Sheet Management Committee (Chairman: Group CFO2) • Advises the Board of Directors and makes • Formulates and promotes balance sheet management-centered strategies proposals to the management regarding related to risk control and risk-taking risk governance 1. Group Chief Risk Officer 2. Group Chief Financial Officer 2019 Integrated Report 74 Foundations for our corporate value Three lines of defense In accordance with the “three lines of defense” approach in the independent third line of internal auditing. In addition, Mizuho Corporate Governance Principles for Banks released by the Basel Financial Group sets group strategies and allocates resources, Committee on Banking Supervision and the definitions and roles monitoring the autonomous controls in the first line at core outlined below, we ensure appropriate and effective risk group companies in order to strengthen the system providing governance through autonomous controls (first line) and a appropriate responses. check-and-balance system (second line), along with an Our definition of the three lines of defense and their roles Our risk management and compliance framework Autonomous control function Mizuho Financial Group Core group companies* The first line-of-defense involves daily operations based on Basic policies 3rd line 3rd line First line the rules, procedures, and risk appetite, and has a primary Internal Audit Group Internal Audit Group Submit/report responsibility for risks and compliance matters accompanying Internal Internal the conduct of business as a risk owner, and for performing audit audit autonomous control activities (to identify, assess, and manage/control risks and compliance matters).  epartment(s) in D D  epartment(s) in 2nd line 2nd line charge of risk Internal Basic policies charge of risk Internal Risk management and compliance function management/ audit Submit/report management/ audit Second line The second line of defense oversees (monitors), measures, compliance compliance and assesses the first line’s autonomous control activities, and is responsible for establishing and implementing basic Monitoring Monitoring policies for risk management and compliance. Report regarding the In-house companies/units first line-of-defense Divisions/units 1st line 1st line autonomous control Internal audit function First line-of-defense First line-of-defense Third line The third line-of-defense is independent of the first and Formulate strategies, autonomous control allocate business autonomous control second lines and involves assessment and examination of the resources, etc. operations of the first and second lines, and is responsible for providing advice and guidance to settle issues. * Of the core group companies, Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, Mizuho Securities, and Mizuho Americas conduct risk management and compliance based on the “three lines of defense” concept. Comprehensive risk management Basic approach For the group as a whole, in order to ensure sound and stable Mizuho Financial Group (the holding company) has established corporate management and enhance our corporate value, basic policies for risk management that are applicable to the appropriately managing risk and controlling risk are key issues group as a whole. In line with these basic policies, as a group relating to overall management, and therefore we are working we analyze risk comprehensively from multiple perspectives to put in place risk management systems. and adopt a variety of measures to strengthen and enhance the sophistication of our risk management system. Comprehensive risk management systems We recognize that conducting operations tailored to the risks structure, and provide for the employee training necessary for and managing such risks is a key issue relating to overall appropriate levels of risk management. The policies also management. In order to implement our business strategies provide for audits to measure the effectiveness and suitability while maintaining our financial stability, we maintain of the management structure. In line with these basic policies, comprehensive risk management and control measures. we maintain various measures to strengthen and enhance the sophistication of our risk management system. Mizuho Financial Group maintains basic policies for risk management established by the Board of Directors that are Each of our subsidiaries adopts appropriate risk management applicable to the entire group. These policies clearly define the measures in line with their business domains and the scale and kinds of risks to be managed, set forth the organizational conditions of the associated risks, while Mizuho Financial Group controls risk management for the group as a whole. Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Risk governance The Risk Management Committee chaired by the Group CRO of our group companies we adopt the same approach of provides integrated monitoring and management of the overall managing risks, such as settlement risk, trust banking operations risk for the group. The Group CRO reports the risk management risk, and other risks appropriately given their nature. situation to the Board of Directors, the Risk Committee, and the Executive Management Committee regularly and as necessary. In In addition to managing each type of risk individually, we addition, Mizuho Financial Group receives reports and have established a risk management structure to identify and applications for approval concerning the risk management evaluate overall risk and to keep risk within limits that are situation from our core group companies and gives them acceptable. appropriate instructions concerning risk management as necessary. In line with the basic policies relating to overall risk management established by Mizuho Financial Group, we are We classify and manage the risks that arise in our businesses working to take even more proactive and sophisticated according to the various kinds of risk, including credit risk, approaches to risk management. market risk, liquidity risk, and operational risk. Moreover, in each Mizuho Financial Group Supervision/Audit Management Departments responsible for risk management Executive Management Credit risk Comprehensive risks Committee Business policy committees Market risk/Liquidity risk Risk Management Department (e.g. Risk Management Committee) Operational risk Credit risk Credit Risk Management Department President & Group CEO Officers responsible Information technology risk IT & Systems Planning Department (e.g. Group CRO) Board of Directors Operations risk Operations Planning Department for risk management Operational risk Legal risk Legal Department Global Talent Planning and Human capital risk Management Department Risk Committee Tangible asset risk Facility Management Department Regulatory risk Strategic Planning Department Corporate Communications Reputational risk Department Set risk management policies Report the risk management situation Give instructions and approval concerning risk management Submit applications concerning risk management MHBK MHTB MHSC Mizuho Americas Other core group companies For more information on our risk management, please visit our website. https://www.mizuho-fg.com/company/internal/r_management/index.html 2019 Integrated Report 76 Foundations for our corporate value Risk capital allocation We endeavor to obtain a clear grasp of the group’s overall risk basis does not exceed our financial strength. To ensure the exposure and implement measures to make sure this exposure is ongoing financial soundness of Mizuho Financial Group and our within limits that are acceptable and are in accordance with the core group companies we regularly monitor the manner in which risk capital allocation framework. risk capital is being used in order to obtain an accurate grasp of the risk profile within this framework. Reports are also submitted More specifically, we allocate risk capital to our core group to the Board of Directors and other committees of each company. companies (including their subsidiaries) to control risk within the Risk capital is allocated to Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, limits set for each company. We also control risk within acceptable Mizuho Securities, and Mizuho Americas by risk category, and is limits by working to ensure that the overall risk on a consolidated further allocated within their respective business units. Framework for allocating risk capital Mizuho Financial Group (holding company) Examples Financial strength of Risk exposure of the group Mizuho Bank the group Setting of upper limits based on risk capital and exercise of control over various risks Allocated risk capital Credit risk Mizuho Bank Risk exposure of core group Market risk Allocated to Mizuho Trust & Banking Stock price risk operating units Operational risk Mizuho Securities Group companies companies* Capital Mizuho Americas Mizuho Trust & Banking Mizuho Securities Other risks Mizuho Americas *Includes the risk exposure of group companies that are managed by core group companies Top risks For risks that are recognized to have a major potential impact For the top risks that are identified, the status of controls is on the group, we specify these as “top risks” and have confirmed, and, when deemed necessary, consideration is introduced top risk management methods. given to additional risk controls. In addition, by reflecting these considerations in stress test scenarios, we can verify using Based on assessments of the likelihood, impact, and other quantitative analysis the appropriateness of business operation characteristics of monitored risks, and after careful deliberation plans and confirm the adequacy of capital. by management, top risks are designated and managed accordingly. Through this approach, we endeavor to deepen Furthermore, when deciding on top risks, we consider the communication regarding risks, seek to create common timing and probability of the emergence of such risks in a time perspectives regarding risks, and work to secure consistency in frame of about one year, and review these considerations awareness of various types of risks. every six months. Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Risk governance Top risks Examples  udden deterioration in the credit standing of obligors where we are heavily exposed and in credit S Rebound in credit standing of major clients related costs Slowdown of the global economy and turbulence in financial markets due to factors such as US-China trade friction and geopolitical risk  orsening valuation of securities due to a US rate hike W Sudden drop in the Decline in stock prices, sudden fluctuations in currency values, drying up of liquidity due to turmoil in value of assets financial markets Destabilization of  nexpected outflows of funds, deterioration in liquidity conditions due to turmoil in financial markets, U foreign currency and accompanying rise in funding costs procurement Major system Emergence of costs due to IT system failures, government fines, etc., and damage to reputation failure E  mergence of additional costs and damage to reputation due to suspension of services as a result of Cyber attacks cyberattacks, data falsification, information leakage, improper funds transfer, etc. Money laundering/ G  overnment fines/penalties and damage to reputation because of flaws in policies to prevent money provision of funds laundering and supplying funds for terrorism for terrorism Improper market F  ines/penalties and damage to reputation because of market manipulation or other compliance transactions violations Note: T he risks described here are only some of the possible risks we are aware of. For more comprehensive information on the group’s risks, please refer to our Securities Report, Form 20-F, and other related documents. Stress testing We assess the suitability of our risk appetite and the validity of addition, we calculate the impact to risk capital, including our business plans through stress testing, calculating and interest rate risk in the banking book and we use post-stress assessing the financial effect on our capital adequacy ratio and risk capital to assess the adequacy of the capital level. on our business. Furthermore, to structure robust risk management systems, We carry out stress testing based on scenarios formulated stress testing is also used to manage risk in various risk taking into account current economic conditions and future categories, such as market risk. outlooks, vulnerabilities in the Mizuho group’s business and finance structures, and other factors. We can confirm whether This process also serves as a foundation for understanding the our capital adequacy ratio, performance, and other indicators characteristics of our business portfolio and enables planning in are sufficient in the case that stress events actually materialize. advance regarding the course of action which should be taken if If such indicators fall below the necessary level, we reconsider a stress event occurs, and is conducted regularly to enhance and revise our risk appetite and business plans if necessary. In our risk management capabilities. Mizuho’s stress testing 1. Preparing scenarios 2. Calculation of risk impact 3. Analysis and use of results C  urrent economic conditions and  alculation of the impact on the group C  ppropriateness of risk-taking and A future outlook when the risk scenario materializes verification of suitability of the Vulnerabilities of the group’s business Main items to calculate: Capital adequacy business plans and financial structure ratio, losses, VAR, etc. Assessment of capital adequacy Preparation of scenarios common across the group 2019 Integrated Report 78 Foundations for our corporate value Compliance Compliance As a leading Japanese financial services group with a global presence and a broad customer base, we remain conscious at all times of the importance of our social responsibilities and duty to the public. We define compliance as the strict observance of all laws and regulations and the pursuit of fair and honest business operations that conform to socially-accepted norms, and we view ongoing compliance as one of the basic principles of sound business management. Each of our group companies maintains their own compliance structure in line with the basic policies established by Mizuho Financial Group. Compliance structure The President & CEOs of Mizuho Financial Group, Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, and Mizuho Securities each generally Compliance structure oversee compliance matters for their respective company, and Mizuho Financial Group important matters concerning compliance are discussed at the Compliance Committees chaired by the relevant President & Supervision/ CEO. Board of Directors Audit Committee audit The four core group companies also have individual compliance departments overseen by a Chief Compliance Executive Management President & Group CEO Officer. These departments are responsible for compliance Committee planning and implementation and control overall compliance Compliance Committee management at each company. At each organizational unit (Chairman: President & Group CEO) (such as branches and departments) within the four core Management group companies, the head of the organizational unit is Group Chief Compliance Officer responsible for guidance and implementation related to (Department in charge: Compliance Department) compliance matters, and the compliance officer or compliance administrator at each organizational unit reviews the status of Every organizational unit compliance. Head of each organizational Compliance officer/ unit compliance administrator Mizuho Financial Group monitors the status of compliance of the group through reports submitted by our core group companies and adopts appropriate responses when necessary. Compliance at subsidiaries of our core group companies is Core group companies (e.g. MHBK, MHTB, and MHSC) monitored and managed by their respective parent company. Subsidiaries of the above group companies Compliance practices The Mizuho Code of Conduct sets forth clear and concrete We monitor the status of compliance levels through selfstandards of ethical behavior, and is distributed to all executive assessments by each department and monitoring conducted officers and employees of the group. Furthermore, each of our by the compliance department of each company. In addition, group companies has also prepared a compliance manual, every fiscal year, each of our group companies establishes which serves as a practical guidebook for rigorous compliance a compliance program which contains concrete measures enforcement and clarifies the laws and regulations that we for compliance enforcement such as compliance framework must observe in regards to our business operations and the management, training, and assessments. Progress on the compliance practices we are required to follow. Each group compliance program is monitored every six months. company also conducts compliance training for executive officers and employees so that they are fully acquainted with the content of the compliance manual. Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Compliance Preventing money laundering and financing of terrorism Financial crime is becoming more diverse and sophisticated, and Combating the Financing of Terrorism, and financial and acts of terrorism continue to occur around the world. In institutions in Japan are making an effort to improve their light of this, anti-money laundering (AML) and combating countermeasures. As a financial services provider operating the financing of terrorism (CFT) are becoming increasingly globally, Mizuho Financial Group is subject to the laws and important. Against this backdrop, the Financial Action Task Force regulations of both Japan and the other jurisdictions where it (FATF) will carry out its fourth round of mutual evaluation for operates, as well as to supervision from financial regulators Japan in 2019, with the objective of reviewing the technical based on those laws and regulations. Accordingly, we have compliance of Japan’s money laundering-related laws and devised AML and CFT policies and procedures that conform to regulations and the effectiveness of Japan’s countermeasures. the laws and regulations in each jurisdiction and we are also In preparation for the evaluation, Japan’s Financial Services continually enhancing our AML and CFT measures. Agency has issued the Guidelines for Anti-Money Laundering Our stance towards organized crime In order to prevent organized crime from influencing the of the compliance committees of Mizuho Financial Group, management of our clients and to avoid any association with Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, and Mizuho Securities, the harm caused by organized crime, the Mizuho Code of which are chaired by the President & CEOs or other senior Conduct includes a policy covering our zero-tolerance stance management members of these group companies. on business relationships with individuals or organizations that are in any way associated with organized crime and therefore Furthermore, core group companies maintain centralized threaten the rule of law, public order, and safety. departments or appoint an officer to manage anti-organized crime efforts and to maintain effective frameworks, for We have also formed an Anti-Organized Crime Committee example, by establishing a manual on how to manage such which includes external experts in industry-specific, in-depth issues and conducting training sessions. If required, we consult discussions on this subject, in addition to other initiatives we with third-party experts and authorities on the handling of are implementing on a group-wide basis to ensure that we specific cases. have no direct or indirect associations with organized crime. Moreover, drawing on the discussions in this committee, these matters are also discussed and reported on at meetings Measures for ensuring compliance At Mizuho, compliance-related education and training are key and taking appropriate action. When we become aware of measures for ensuring appropriate compliance. potential compliance issues, such matters must be reported immediately to department and branch managers in During fiscal 2018, Mizuho provided effective training tailored accordance with our compliance manual. Furthermore, each to employees working in a broad range of roles within the group company has established a hotline which employees organization. We conducted 11 training sessions in total, can call in order to speak with someone within the including mandatory compliance training sessions for all Compliance Division or an external law office or compliance employees; role-specific training for executive officers, professional. general managers, deputy general managers, compliance officers, and other senior management members; and For matters related to inappropriate accounting, internal e-learning training sessions on specific compliance topics. control on financial reporting, and auditing, an internal control and auditing hotline, which connects to an external In addition to training sessions and other programs designed law office, is available to receive reports from both in and to promote compliance, we are also dedicated to detecting outside the company. potential compliance issues at the earliest stage possible Internal reporting systems (Compliance hotline) We have a robust internal reporting system in place, and are working to further increase its effectiveness by establishing groupwide reporting channels outside the workplace that are available in the evenings, on Saturdays and Sundays, and also by making such services available in foreign languages. In order to ensure that employees at each group company are fully acquainted with these systems, hotline numbers and other relevant information is included on posters within each workplace and distributed to all employees on wallet-sized cards. In fiscal 2018, Mizuho Financial Group and our core group companies received a total of 159 reports through our hotlines from both inside and outside the group, with the response status reported to our Audit Committee. Internal control and audit hotline Our audit hotline, which connects to an external law office, is available to receive reports from both in and outside the company in connection with concerns regarding accounting and financial reports. 2019 Integrated Report 80 Foundations for our corporate value Customer protection management We give first priority to our customers, and we believe that earning their trust is the basis for ensuring sound management and therefore earning the trust of other stakeholders as well. With this in mind, a core part of our compliance is to continuously seek to monitor and improve the operations of the group from the perspective of what is in the best interests of our customers in order to ensure that our operations are appropriate and to improve customer convenience. We manage customer protection uniformly throughout the group in order to achieve this objective. Customer protection management structure At Mizuho, customer protection management refers to the efforts we make to improve the protection of our customers and improve customer convenience from the following Mizuho Financial Group perspectives: 1. Ensuring the appropriateness and sufficiency of explanations Supervision/ Board of Directors Audit Committee provided to customers prior to conducting transactions, audit purchasing products, etc. as well as the provision of information (e.g. product explanations) to customers. 2. Ensuring the appropriateness and sufficiency of the Executive Management handling of customer inquiries, complaints, and other President & Group CEO Committee communications (customer service). 3. Ensuring the appropriateness of the management of Compliance Committee customer information (customer information management). (Chairman: President & Group CEO) Management 4. Ensuring the appropriateness of customer interaction and the handling of customer information in cases where group Officers responsible for the general management of customer protection operations are outsourced (outsourcing management). (Department in charge: Compliance Department) 5. Ensuring the appropriateness of the management of measures to be taken in order to address conflicts of interest arising from transactions with customers (conflict of interest Divisions in charge Customer protection management management). Explanation of products Outsourcing management Our President & Group CEO generally oversees the management of customer protection, and also heads the Customer service management Conflict of interest management Compliance Committee in which related important matters are discussed. At our core group companies, the division responsible for each area of management described above also provides centralized monitoring and implementation of customer protection management. Core group companies Core group companies (e.g. MHBK, MHTB, and MHSC) oversee customer protection management at their own subsidiaries. Subsidiaries of the above group companies Information management Customer service management Advances in information technology have enabled greater At Mizuho, we engage in business with a wide range of utilization of data. At the same time, many countries have customers, and we put a strong emphasis on responding tightened legislation protecting personal information. There has appropriately to feedback, complaints, or other communication also been closer public scrutiny of the methods companies use from customers in addition to our efforts to offer customers to protect personal information. Mizuho is aware of the vital stronger protections and higher convenience. importance of managing information in a way that ensures appropriate protection and use of information assets. We are In the case of receiving a complaint or other critical feedback, constantly working to strengthen our information management we not only emphasize the importance of responding quickly practices. For example, we aim to ensure that our security and politely, but also require reports to be drawn up in order to management measures and information administration monitor these situations. methods for information assets are clear and straightforward. Also, we implement training and awareness-building exercises Furthermore, we regard all customer feedback as an important to ensure that all members of our organization have a firm asset and work continuously to improve our operations and understanding regarding the proper protection of information prevent the recurrence of issues with the aim of increasing assets. customer satisfaction. For more information on Mizuho’s customer protection measures, please see our website: https://www.mizuho-fg.com/company/internal/customer/ Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Fiduciary duties* *F iduciary duties is a general term for the broad range of various roles and responsibilities that fiduciaries are expected to fulfill when engaging in certain business activities in order to live up to the trust that is placed in them by their customers. Mizuho’s Corporate Identity includes our central values—the Mizuho Values—starting with putting our customers first, and these values are shared by everyone at Mizuho. As a team of financial professionals providing a broad range of financial services, we are committed to providing the best, most appropriate solutions in response to our customers’ diverse needs. As a long-term partner providing optimal products and services that are in our customers’ best interests, and in seeking to continue to be our customers’ most trusted financial services group in respect to our asset management–related business, Mizuho has established and disclosed our group-wide Policies Regarding Mizuho’s Fiduciary Duties*. In addition, at the holding company and relevant group companies, we have established and made public specific action plans for ensuring we are always aligned with customers’ best interests. For more information on Mizuho’s policies regarding fiduciary duties, please see our website: https://www.mizuho-fg.com/release/pdf/20170330_2release_jp_1.pdf Our commitment to performing our Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) fiduciary duties Through the performance of our fiduciary duties, we endeavor With the objective of creating shared value with our customers, to grow customers’ financial assets over the medium-to-long we have established KPIs to confirm our level of performance term and to ensure a high degree of customer satisfaction and of our fiduciary duties, and we announce them periodically trust. along with the status of initiatives under our Action Plan. This level of customer satisfaction and trust enables us to expand our business base and strengthen our brand, paving the way for our mediumto long-term growth. In this way, we are aiming to create shared value with our customers. Creating shared value with our customers Performing our fiduciary duties Positive and trustworthy public image Results Mizuho Customers Mizuho Increase in financial assets over the medium-to-long term Mediumto long-term growth Providing optimal financial products and services Creating Pursuing what is in our customers’ best interests shared value Expanding customer base Enhancing customer satisfaction and trust Strengthening our brand Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) Balance of assets under management Number of certified personnel Number  of customers using our investment products Number of products developed or improved Customer satisfaction survey Balance of pension trust assets Number  of companies involved in our engagement Balance of funds in publicly offered and privately activities Number of fund awards placed investment trusts Survey of satisfaction among investment trust Total number of seminar attendees Balance of funds invested in DC specialized funds companies and long-term investment focused funds Number of funds with a rating of 4 stars or higher Balance of funds in new publicly offered investment Number  of participants in financial education courses trusts In addition to the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) listed above, we have also made public the following Common KPIs. Common KPIs (1) Ratio of customers receiving different percentage ranges of returns for investment trust funds/fund wraps, (2) Cost vs. return of the best-selling investment products in terms of balance of investment trust assets under management, (3) Risk vs. return of the best-selling investment products in terms of balance of investment trust assets under management Common KPIs are based on the Japan Financial Services Agency’s common KPIs comparable across investment trust distributors, published in June 2018. Earned S score in R&I Customer-Oriented Investment Trust Sales Company Evaluation Mizuho Financial Group, Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust We received the results in November 2018. All four & Banking, and Mizuho Securities, as part of our companies earned an S score, placing them in the efforts to obtain third-party objective evaluations top tier of companies in the industry. of our initiatives for our fiduciary duties, requested Rating & Investment Information (R&I) to assess us through their new R&I Customer-Oriented Investment Trust Sales Company Evaluation. The R&I Customer–Oriented Investment Trust Sales Company Evaluation (“the evaluation”) is not a statement of fact. Rather, it represents R&I’s opinions regarding the “customer-oriented business operations” initiatives of companies engaged in the trust investment sales business. Though R&I uses information that it deems to be reliable when carrying out the evaluation, it does not independently verify the accuracy of this information. Furthermore, R&I does not guarantee the accuracy or integrity of this information. It does not endorse the purchase, sale or holding of any specific product nor guarantee the future performance of any such product. All intellectual property rights (including copyrights) and any other rights pertaining to the evaluation belong to R&I. Any reproduction or republication without permission is prohibited. The evaluation for Mizuho Financial Group combines the evaluations for Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, and Mizuho Securities. 2019 Integrated Report 82 Foundations for our corporate value Employee engagement Adopting a new HR strategy With the aim of transitioning to the next generation of financial services we are implementing forward-looking structural reforms which include corporate foundations reforms, part of which involves the transformation of our workforce. We have formulated a new HR strategy where each individual designs their own career plans, leading to higher ambition and motivation and enhancing employees’ universally recognized value. By putting in place a support system for career design and encouraging employees to take ownership, be independent, and take on new challenges, we can build a mutually beneficial relationship between employees and the company where the growth of one leads to the growth of the other. As society and our customers’ needs undergo major changes, we must go beyond the conventional boundaries of finance in order to forge new partnerships with our customers. In order to do this, we will need to enhance the expertise and skills of our personnel. Additionally, in Japan, workers’ perspectives are shifting away from the assumption of “lifetime employment” where one belongs to a company for the rest of one’s career, to “lifelong profession” where one belongs to a professional field, and the focus is on increasing one’s individual value. Our new HR strategy responds to these changes in customer needs and employee perspectives, transitioning from a model where the source of competition is limited to within the company to one which prioritizes employees’ professional growth and career preferences, seeking to enhance their universally recognized value. New HR strategy Shift from a model where the source of competition is limited to within the company to a model prioritizing employees’ professional growth and career preferences Career design encouraging employees to take ownership, One-track career building and talent development Basic policy be independent, and take on new challenges Mandatory retirement Learning Employees design their own career plans, Work XX years leading to higher ambition and motivation Cycle of lifelong Growth Challenge learning and growth and enhancing employees’ universally Work X years recognized value Start Work Initiatives Upgrading our talent development platform Expanding opportunities to take on new challenges Fostering a creative and attractive workplace Upgrading our talent development platform Personalized development In order to strengthen employees’ skills personalized recommendations for training E  ducational seminars for and expertise through highly effective and educational content. employees (FY2018) development, our new framework will provide Number of people enrolled in training and educational content based on These initiatives will encourage employees to online courses each individual’s needs and career aspirations, take ownership of their careers, increase their rather than their seniority or other such motivation to learn, and provide learning 13,604 employer-determined categories. We will also opportunities regarding career design to a (+2,100 YoY) utilize AI to provide each individual with broader range of age groups. Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Employee engagement Development programs drawing on employee knowledge and external, open source content We will shift our method of selecting training and educational content from a Company-to-Employee (CtoE) method where the company selects content and provides it to employees, to an Employee-to-Employee (EtoE) method where employeerecommended and employee-created content is proactively used. Additionally, in light of the broad range of fields that our employees are interested in studying, we will upgrade our learning platform in order to make it easier for employees to study anytime, anywhere, in addition to providing access to massive open online courses (MOOCs). We will also work with external partners to provide opportunities for employees to gain knowledge regarding the latest technologies, including enhancing digital literacy. Mizuho-IBM Digital Conference for employees Promoting employee resource groups (ERGs) ERGs enable employees to connect across organizational, and national borders, we hope to encourage connectivity national, gender, and cultural boundaries and to share among employees in different organizations and regions, knowledge and experience and proactively learn from one enabling them to expand their perspectives, leading to new another. This results in increased motivation and opportunities ideas and discoveries which benefit our business and contribute for each individual to achieve professional growth. By to corporate growth. Currently over 3,000 employees around supporting ERGs which span across different group companies the world are members of Mizuho ERGs. Key ERGs at Mizuho Mizuho Women’s Initiatives Network (M-WIN) • A global network for promoting women’s empowerment at Mizuho. Mizuho LGBT+ & Ally Network (M-LAN) • A network aiming to raise awareness and increase understanding of diversity as well as promote inclusion within the workplace and the services we provide. Mizuho Global Communication & Connectivity Club (MGCC) • A network promoting the globalization of Mizuho by providing a platform for communication and connectivity. Collaboration, Creation, Relation, Evolution (CocreA) • A network whose mission is to effect change within Mizuho through co-creation using technology. Expanding opportunities to take on new challenges Expansion of internal job postings We are confident that an effective way to increase employees’ ambition Number of applicants for internal job postings Line* J-Coin* (people) and universally recognizable value is to increase the quality and 774 quantity of opportunities for employees to work in different fields and in different locations throughout Mizuho’s global business, taking on new challenges in order to achieve the career they envision for themselves. 496 In order to achieve this, we have expanded our existing internal job 427 522 posting system to include opportunities for employees to apply to 365 384 open positions on a project basis, including projects such as our joint venture with Line and J-Coin Pay. As a result, the number of applicants more than doubled over the five-year period from FY2014. 184 We are also launching a dual appointment program which provides 68 opportunities for employees to be involved in other roles or projects FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 they are interested in while maintaining their primary duties. Together with support for employee growth and independent career design, *External projects these initiatives are aimed at fostering innovation through the full engagement of our diverse workforce. 2019 Integrated Report 84 Foundations for our corporate value Creating opportunities to take on challenges and contribute outside the company By providing opportunities for employees to take appointment program where employees can work on challenges and contribute outside the in external roles part time while maintaining their company, we are aiming to provide employees position at Mizuho. Also, we will expand our with the chance to achieve professional growth seminar offerings to include more opportunities and gain external insight. In addition to expanding for networking with diverse professionals from the internal job postings that employees can apply outside Mizuho as well as support other external for to include more opportunities both within and network-building activities, including connecting outside the company, we also will start a dual with former Mizuho employees. Fostering a creative and attractive workplace Enhancing incentives based on individual job duties and results We will shift to a flexible compensation model we will roll out attractive incentives more that is more focused on job duties, placing an strongly linked to results and mediumto emphasis on each individual’s current long-term corporate value enhancement as a performance and expertise rather than means of drawing out employees’ motivation seniority or years of experience. Additionally, and ambition and encouraging proactivity. Achieving a more flexible working style In addition to the flexible work arrangements we themselves-all of which leads to enhanced already offer such as flextime and staggered productivity. We are also aiming to create a work work hours, we will introduce free address work environment that encourages healthy and spaces and expand other options such as remote efficient working styles by focusing on eliminating work. We believe this is key to ensuring diversity overwork. Going forward we will continue to Mizuho received 4.5 stars on the Nikkei Smart Work Survey. within the organization, further cultivating promote tailored labor management practices in employees’ creativity, and enabling them to be partnership with industrial physicians. Diversity and inclusion KPIs Area Numerical target To be achieved by Current (July 2019) Percentage of management positions filled by women (aggregate for general manager and manager 20% July 2024 15% equivalent positions)1 Area Level to be maintained Current (FY2018) Mizuho received Platinum KuruPercentage of management positions filled by min certification in recognition 65% 65% of our significant efforts to imemployees hired outside Japan2 plement and maintain systems Percentage of new graduates hired for management that assist workers in balancing 30% 32% track jobs who are female1 work and childcare. 1 Percentage of paid annual leave taken by employees 70% 78% Percentage of eligible male employees who take 100% 100% childcare leave1 1. In Japan (aggregate for Mizuho Financial Group, Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, and Mizuho Securities) 2. Outside Japan (aggregate for Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, and Mizuho Securities) We aim to proactively incorporate the with disabilities, individuals who identify as perspectives and ideas of our diverse workforce LGBT, and other diverse groups. Mizuho was recognized on the into our everyday work, strategic planning, and 2019 Bloomberg Financial Services Gender-Equality Index. decision-making in order to create new value. By integrating diversity and inclusion into We are committed to valuing the voices of every aspect of our HR strategy and continuing women, non-Japanese nationals, individuals to set KPI for key areas, we are working to fully engage our diverse workforce. Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Employee engagement We are promoting career development and In order to ensure that women can continue to advancement for women in particular by offering develop their careers throughout different life a strategic development program. One of our key events, we offer programs to support working objectives is to develop more female candidates parents and caregivers, remote work options, for senior leadership roles (general manager and other support systems that enable diverse equivalent positions and above) and so we are and flexible work arrangements. Additionally, we Mizuho received the top rating strengthening career development support by are working to change mindsets throughout the of “Gold” on the PRIDE Index providing assignments and promotions in line organization via a range of initiatives, including which evaluates LGBT-related with individualized development plans. encouraging men to take childcare leave. initiatives. Strategic development programs for female employees Cultivate an executive management General manager perspective in future executive • Strategic assignments M-WIN equivalent leader candidates • Coaching In recognition of our efforts to A network for promote women’s empowerAim to accelerate professional Manager growth by transforming participants’ • Career development support women working ment in the workplace, Mizuho equivalent seminars received Nadeshiko Brand desigmindsets regarding their careers at Mizuho nation for 2019, conferred jointly by the Tokyo Stock Exchange and Supervisor While cultivating their career • HR management tailored to the equivalent perspective, enhance each individual (including transform• Network expansion Japan’s Ministry of Economy, individual’s strengthens through ing management mindsets) • Access to role Trade and Industry. (under Supervisor equivalent) evaluations and assignments • Meetings with female career models advisors Employee-led Company-led initiatives initiatives Promoting employee health and wellness By promoting employee health and wellness, health checks. In fiscal 2018, 99% of employees we are aiming to enhance the performance of took an annual medical exam and 95% took a each individual and increase the productivity stress assessment. Additionally, Mizuho was Mizuho was selected under of the organization as a whole. We are working recognized under the 2019 Health & Productivity the 2019 Health & Productivity to cultivate a healthy work environment and to Stock Selection based on having put in place a Stock Selection, which is jointly promote employee awareness regarding number of strategies, including those aimed at administered by the Ministry health, for example by providing subsidies that encouraging employees to monitor their health of Economy, Trade and Industry encourage employees to undergo preventative status and enhance their health literacy. and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Our HR strategy We aim to provide equal opportunity for employees regardless of their nationality, ethnicity, gender, or values, to exercise their abilities to their maximum potential. As we aim to transition to the next generation of financial services under our new business plan, we must put an increased focus on diversity and inclusion and make a continual effort to enhance creative thinking throughout the organization. At the same time, mental and physical health are essential for each individual to be fully engaged at work. Therefore, continuing to strengthen employee health management and other such initiatives is a key aspect of ensuring Mizuho’s sustainable growth. Adopting a new HR strategy We have adopted a new HR strategy as part of the corporate foundations reforms under our new business plan. This is an ambitious undertaking in which we are aiming to fundamentally shift our HR management practices to no longer be single-track and insular but rather to emphasize each individual’s ambition and independence, supporting them in enhancing their universally recognizable value. Our talent development is focused on shaping our workforce to meet the needs of the coming era and ensuring that our employees cultivate the capabilities they will need in order to have lifelong, active careers. At the same time we are working to attract top talent to Mizuho and achieve growth. Together these efforts will enable us to build a stronger and more resilient financial group, which will in Hiroaki Ehara turn enhance our talent development and acquisition, creating a virtuous cycle. Group Chief Human Resources Officer 2019 Integrated Report 86 Foundations for our corporate value Compliance with international financial regulations The Basel Accords, an international regulatory framework for ensuring the soundness of banking institutions, were first created in 1988 (and now referred to as Basel I). As the financial services industry has developed, this framework has seen new iterations. The most recent, Basel III, is a comprehensive regulatory reform framework addressing issues that came to light in the 2008 global financial crisis. Since 2013, Basel III has gradually come into effect, as its various standards have attained international agreement. In January 2019, around ten years after the financial crisis, the necessary international agreement for finalization was reached. Currently, the public and private sectors in each jurisdiction are working together to prepare for beginning phased implementation in 2022 and for achieving full implementation by 2027. Global 1982 Latin American Increase in trading Increasing diversity and 2008 Global Financial Crisis debt crisis activity complexity of financial systems developments More sophisticated risk management systems 1988 1996 2004 2009 2010 2017 2019 Basel Basel I Basel I Basel II Basel 2.5 Final agreement on Basel III • Introduction of the • Market risk • Use of banks’ internal • Tightening of restrictions on • Review and revision of risk asset restrictions first capital ratio incorporated into risk credit ratings in risk securitized products, increased calculation (denominator of the (numerator = asset calculation asset calculation capital ratio capital ratio) shareholders’ equity; • Operational risk Basel III • Introduction of output floor (to reduce denominator = credit incorporated into risk excessive variations among banks in risk assets) asset calculation • S tronger qualitative and measurements of risk-weighted assets) quantitative restrictions on capital / shareholders’ equity (numerator of Completion of remaining Basel III tasks the capital ratio) • Fundamental Review of the Trading • Introduction of leverage ratio Book restrictions and liquidity restrictions Principal restrictions under Basel III and state of compliance As a Global Systemically Important Bank (G-SIB), Mizuho Capital Financial Group must meet some regulatory standards Capital ratio Risk assets at a higher level. We maintain full compliance with all the (which are calculated by taking account of the risk of assets held) requirements in the standards and, going forward, we will steadily accumulate capital and control our balance sheet Capital to ensure that we can satisfy any new requirements that are Leverage ratio Risk exposure introduced. (calculated without taking account of the risk of assets held) High-quality portfolio of liquid assets Liquidity coverage ratio Funds that would flow out under severe stress conditions over a specified short-term period (30 days) Available stable funding Net stable (capital, deposits, market funding, etc.) funding ratio Required stable funding (loans, securities, etc.) International financial standards going forward With the completion of the post-crisis regulatory reforms, the first time discussed responding to fragmentation in standards Financial Stability Board and the Basel Committee on Banking and strengthening cooperation among jurisdictions. Supervision, which are responsible for developing international financial regulatory standards, are turning their attention to Currently, the finance industry is facing various structural new areas. They have shifted their focus from developing new changes, such as rapidly accelerating digitalization and regulatory standards to addressing existing issues by, for increasing societal interest in sustainability. There is growing example, analyzing the actual impacts of regulatory standards attention to the opportunities and risks that cyberattacks, on the financial system and divergences between standards crypto-assets, cloud services, climate change, and other in different jurisdictions (e.g., different jurisdictions adopting new phenomena present to banks and the financial system. international regulatory standards with different content and In order to prevent another crisis, we will work closely with at different times, different jurisdictions having conflicting government, academia, and industry to respond to these new standards, and so on). At the 2019 G20 Summit, for which trends, while also holding proactive internal discussions. Japan served as chair, the assembled heads of state for the Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Stakeholder communication In addition to articulating our commitment to maintain an ethical stance towards our stakeholders within the Mizuho Code of Conduct, we aim to communicate with our stakeholders proactively and we strive to ensure that our corporate activities are aligned with social expectations as well as fair and transparent. Our stakeholders We communicate with our broad base of stakeholders using a wide range of communication tools and channels and aim to reflect their opinions and ideas into our corporate activities. Stakeholders Principal communication channels Customer feedback cards, customer satisfaction surveys, call centers, and our website customer Customers Customers feedback forms for gathering opinions or complaints  P89 Government General shareholders’ meetings, Shareholders Shareholders authorities investor briefings P25 Various briefings and other communications, Employees employee opinion surveys P90 Social contribution activities, support for Regional/local financial education  Suppliers/ communities https://www.mizuho-fg.com/csr/ Employees competitors Suppliers/ Purchasing activities and outsourcing competitors contracts Regional/local communities  overnment G Policy recommendations, participation in industry groups, authorities appropriate responses to supervisory authorities A closer look at our communication with customers In our Vision, we at Mizuho have adopted a goal of being our customers’ best financial services provider and we have put a number of initiatives in place in order to achieve this objective. Using a range of communication channels, we actively stay abreast of the constantly changing needs of our customers and strive to improve the level of services that we can offer. Customer satisfaction improvement cycle Customers Providing attractive products and services Customer feedback systems Providing  recommendations and information promptly Identification of each customer’s Consulting  services which draw on needs and expectations Customer feedback cards  our advanced expertise Call centers  Enhancement  of our solutions Customer satisfaction surveys  capabilities Group companies Mizuho Financial Group (holding company) Increase customer satisfaction (CS) awareness throughout the group Construction of a group-wide CS promotion system Application of common CS improvement tools across the group Enhancement of CS education and training 2019 Integrated Report 88 Foundations for our corporate value Stakeholder communication Systems to capture customer feedback Customer feedback cards Satisfaction surveys Customer feedback cards are distributed and otherwise made We regularly conduct satisfaction surveys targeting our available in retail branches. We have also installed “customer individual and corporate customers globally. The results of feedback boards” where cards which have been submitted are these surveys are reported directly to management and used to displayed along with the branch’s response. improve our products and services. Call centers Website feedback forms Our call centers are available for responding to customer The feedback forms available on our website are another opinions and requests and data collected from these centers is method we use to field comments and requests directed at a valuable resource. In fiscal 2018, we received approximately Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, and Mizuho Securities. 3.95 million phone inquiries for Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, and Mizuho Securities combined. Reflecting customer feedback into Customer feedback our corporate activities For matters that At the branch level, we Customer opinions, requests, At Mizuho Bank, we draw on the opinions cannot be addressed respond when we can complaints, and other feedback expressed by customers in discussions held immediately, we immediately, and received at our branches or via by our Customer Satisfaction and Protection devise and implement announce results on the other channels such as surveys Promotion Committees within our branches, improvement plans on Customer Feedback Board and our website. as well as at management level meetings, a group-wide basis. and other locations. including those of the Executive Management Committee. When we have made improvements based on customer feedback, we post this Branches: Customer Satisfaction and Protection Promotion Committees information on our Customer Feedback Boards located in our branches. Head Office: Executive Management Committee and other venues Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Stakeholder communication A closer look at our internal communications We are endeavoring to substantially raise the quality and quantity of the internal communications within our group as part of our efforts to build reciprocal, horizontal relationships between our management, Head Office, and frontlines and foster a corporate culture in which each employee acts independently and proactively. Initiatives to raise quality and quantity of communication Briefings for employees 5-Year Business Plan Forum In these briefings, employees hear from management about the This forum brought executive officers and general managers latest developments and ask questions of management directly, together to facilitate understanding of the 5-Year Business Plan. engaging in a lively exchange. The briefings are also streamed live to our offices, allowing many employees to take part. Roundtable discussions with senior management Mizuho Web In these roundtable discussions, management and employees Our internal group website facilitates reciprocal communication talk directly about matters such as the 5-Year Business Plan. between management and employees, serving as a channel for Participating in the discussions motivates employees to think management to receive a variety of comments directly from and act independently. employees. 2019 Integrated Report 90 Financial review Eleven-year major financial data (FY2008-2018) Summary of consolidated performance FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Consolidated gross profits 1,806.9 1,996.6 2,025.3 2,003.0 2,171.7 Net interest income 1,068.8 1,151.7 1,109.4 1,088.3 1,075.8 Fiduciary income 55.8 49.1 49.3 49.0 48.5 Credit costs for trust accounts — — — — — Net fee and commission income 416.6 466.0 458.8 458.9 507.3 Net trading income 301.5 312.3 243.9 150.3 215.0 Net other operating income (35.9) 17.4 163.6 256.4 324.8 General and administrative expenses (1,192.7) (1,317.2) (1,277.8) (1,283.8) (1,244.6) Consolidated net business profits* 622.6 702.6 741.7 719.1 912.1 Credit-related costs (536.7) (219.3) (16.6) 27.7 (111.8) Aggregate figures for the 2 banks (539.3) (157.1) 16.0 24.7 (114.1) Net gains (losses) related to stocks (400.2) 4.2 (70.5) (38.1) (82.9) Net gains (losses) on sales of stocks 49.7 88.8 25.7 15.6 46.6 Losses on impairment (devaluation) of stocks (482.1) (53.5) (94.4) (49.3) (125.8) Equity in income from investment in affiliates (3.5) 2.8 (6.1) 2.6 (11.1) Other (51.1) (96.9) (6.1) (62.9) 29.2 Ordinary profits (losses) (395.1) 327.1 588.4 648.5 750.3 Net extraordinary gains (losses) (10.7) 50.6 46.9 67.8 (32.5) Income taxes – current (48.2) (18.0) (18.3) (55.3) (50.4) – deferred (109.1) (25.1) (120.1) (97.4) (7.4) Profit (loss) (563.2) 334.6 496.9 563.6 659.9 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests (25.5) (95.2) (83.7) (79.1) (99.4) Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent (588.8) 239.4 413.2 484.5 560.5 * Consolidated gross profits – G&A expenses (excluding non-recurring losses) + Equity in income from investments in affiliates and certain other consolidation adjustments Summary of consolidated balance sheet FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Assets 152,723.0 156,253.5 160,812.0 165,360.5 177,411.0 Loans and bills discounted 70,520.2 62,164.5 62,777.7 63,800.5 67,536.8 Securities 30,173.6 43,096.4 44,782.0 51,392.8 53,472.3 Liabilities 148,536.4 150,416.5 154,188.0 158,491.2 169,674.8 Deposits 77,179.5 76,339.7 79,233.9 78,811.9 84,241.9 Negotiable certificates of deposit 9,359.4 10,287.8 9,650.2 11,824.7 15,326.7 Net assets 4,186.6 5,837.0 6,623.9 6,869.2 7,736.2 Total shareholders’ equity 2,554.1 3,207.2 4,248.2 4,762.7 5,174.6 Retained earnings 608.0 854.7 1,132.3 1,405.0 1,814.7 Total accumulated other comprehensive income (420.3) 305.8 80.9 146.6 752.5 Non-controlling interests 2,051.6 2,321.7 2,292.1 1,957.6 1,806.4 Financial indicators FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio (consolidated) ／ ／ ／ ／ 8.16 Tier 1 capital ratio (consolidated) ／ ／ ／ ／ 11.03 Capital adequacy ratio (BIS standard) (consolidated) 10.53 13.46 15.30 15.50 ／ Total capital ratio (consolidated) ／ ／ ／ ／ 14.19 Net assets per share (Yen) 104.38 191.53 177.53 187.19 229.70 Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent per share (Yen) (54.14) 16.29 20.47 20.62 22.96 Net return on equity (consolidated) (29.61) 10.97 11.78 11.36 10.99 Mizuho Financial Group Financial review Eleven-year major financial data (¥ billion) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 2,035.2 2,247.7 2,221.6 2,092.7 1,915.3 1,812.7 1,108.3 1,129.4 1,003.6 867.8 807.3 762.4 52.0 52.6 53.4 50.6 55.4 55.1 — — — — — — 560.7 593.3 607.5 603.5 614.3 610.4 187.4 262.9 310.5 325.3 275.7 297.3 126.7 209.3 246.4 245.4 162.4 87.3 (1,258.2) (1,351.6) (1,349.5) (1,467.2) (1,488.9) (1,430.8) 744.2 876.9 852.8 663.4 457.8 393.3 112.8 (4.6) (30.4) (47.5) 156.3 (19.5) 116.6 (7.8) (26.7) (49.3) 153.2 (22.7) 77.0 131.9 205.6 242.1 272.0 274.8 81.5 143.7 225.3 261.1 288.3 305.2 (5.3) (5.3) (10.3) (4.8) (5.1) (5.7) 15.4 15.0 24.2 18.8 21.4 51.2 5.1 (27.5) (74.0) (101.5) (93.7) (74.2) 987.5 1,010.8 997.5 737.5 782.4 614.1 (2.2) (20.2) 10.7 46.6 17.5 (497.8) (137.0) (260.2) (213.2) (196.5) (190.1) (161.3) (77.9) (44.7) (69.2) 58.8 (1.4) 163.8 770.3 685.6 725.7 646.4 608.3 118.7 (81.9) (73.7) (54.7) (42.9) (31.7) (22.1) 688.4 611.9 670.9 603.5 576.5 96.5 (¥ billion) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 175,822.8 189,684.7 193,458.5 200,508.6 205,028.3 200,792.2 69,301.4 73,415.1 73,708.8 78,337.7 79,421.4 78,456.9 43,997.5 43,278.7 39,505.9 32,353.1 34,183.0 29,774.4 167,518.3 179,884.2 184,105.3 191,235.2 195,207.0 191,598.1 89,055.5 97,757.5 105,629.0 120,045.2 125,081.2 124,311.0 12,755.7 15,694.9 11,827.5 10,631.2 11,382.5 13,338.5 8,304.5 9,800.5 9,353.2 9,273.3 9,821.2 9,194.0 5,676.2 6,131.1 6,559.9 7,001.2 7,388.3 7,303.0 2,315.6 2,769.3 3,197.6 3,615.4 4,002.8 3,915.5 781.0 2,029.9 1,607.8 1,520.9 1,677.5 1,445.7 1,844.0 1,635.5 1,182.6 749.3 754.2 444.5 (%) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 8.80 9.43 10.50 11.34 12.49 12.76 11.35 11.50 12.64 13.30 15.44 15.94 ／ ／ ／ ／ ／ ／ 14.36 14.58 15.41 16.28 18.24 18.85 253.25 322.86 322.46 335.96 357.41 345.00 28.18 24.91 26.94 23.86 22.72 3.80 11.65 8.60 8.37 7.27 6.55 1.08 2019 Integrated Report 92 Financial review Review and analysis for fiscal 2018 Summary of consolidated performance ■ Historical data (¥ billion) FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Consolidated gross profit 1,806.9 1,996.6 2,025.3 2,003.0 2,171.7 2,035.2 2,247.7 2,221.6 2,092.7 1,915.3 1,812.7 Consolidated net business profit 1 622.6 702.6 741.7 719.1 912.1 744.2 876.9 852.8 663.4 457.8 393.3 688.4 611.9 670.9 603.5 576.5 484.5 560.5 413.2 239.4 2 96.5 Net income (losses) （588.8） 1. Consolidated gross profits – G&A expenses (excluding non-recurring losses) + Equity in income from investments in affiliates and certain other consolidation adjustments 2. Profit attributable to owners of parent Consolidated (¥ billion) Consolidated net business profits Change from FY2018 FY2017 FY2017 We recorded consolidated gross profits of ¥1,812.7 billion for fiscal Consolidated gross profits 1,812.7 1,915.3 (102.6) 2018, decreasing by ¥102.6 billion from the previous fiscal year. General and administrative expenses (1,430.8) (1,488.9) 58.1 Despite the increase for customer divisions inside and outside Japan, consolidated gross profits declined mainly due to the writeExpenses related to portfolio problems1 (30.7) (17.0) (13.6) down of a loss in advance pertaining to the restructuring of our Gains on reversal of reserves for 11.1 173.3 (162.1) securities portfolio, such as foreign bonds with unrealized losses in possible losses on loans and others Net gains (losses) related to stocks 274.8 272.0 2.8 markets. Equity in income from investments in affiliates 51.2 21.4 29.7 G&A expenses decreased by ¥58.1 billion on a year-on-year basis Other (74.2) (93.7) 19.4 to ¥1,430.8 billion. As a result, consolidated net business profits Ordinary profits 614.1 782.4 (168.3) decreased by ¥64.4 billion on a year-on-year basis to ¥393.3 billion. Net extraordinary gains (losses) (497.8) 17.5 (515.3) Income before income taxes 116.2 799.9 (683.6) Income taxes 2.5 (191.6) 194.1 Profit 118.7 608.3 (489.5) Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent Profit attributable to non-controlling interests (22.1) (31.7) 9.5 Profit attributable to owners of parent 96.5 576.5 (479.9) Consolidated credit-related costs increased by ¥175.8 billion on a year-on-year basis to ¥19.5 billion. Credit-related costs (19.5) 156.3 (175.8) Consolidated net business profits2 393.3 457.8 (64.4) Net gains (losses) related to stocks increased by ¥2.8 billion on a 1 Including reversal of [provision for] general reserve for losses on loans year-on-year basis to ¥274.8 billion. 2 Consolidated gross profits G&A expenses (excluding non-recurring losses) + Equity in income from investments in affiliates and certain other consolidation adjustments As a result, ordinary profits decreased by ¥168.3 billion on a yearon-year basis to ¥614.1 billion. Mizuho Bank + Mizuho Trust & Banking* (Aggregate figures on a non-consolidated basis) Net extraordinary gains (losses) decreased by ¥515.3 billion on (¥ billion) Change from a year-on-year basis to net losses of ¥497.8 billion due to the FY2018 FY2017 FY2017 recording of impairment losses in light of efforts toward structural Gross profits 1,197.1 1,293.3 (96.1) reforms. G&A expenses (949.3) (964.7) 15.3 Income taxes decreased by ¥194.1 billion on a year-on-year basis to (excluding non-recurring losses) Net business profits 247.7 328.5 (80.8) -¥2.5 billion. Credit-related costs (22.7) 153.2 (175.9) Net gains (losses) related to stocks 176.1 266.3 (90.1) As a result, profit attributable to owners of parent for FY2018 Ordinary profits 339.9 616.5 (276.5) decreased by ¥479.9 billion on a year-on-year basis to ¥96.5 billion. Net Income (105.3) 493.1 (598.5) *Abbreviated as MHBK + MHTB Mizuho Financial Group Financial review Review and analysis for fiscal 2018 Summary of consolidated balance sheet Consolidated (¥ billion) Securities Change from March 31, March 31, March 31, 2019 2018 Securities were ¥29,774.4 billion, decreasing by ¥4,408.5 billion 2018 from the end of the previous fiscal year due to an decrease in JGBs Assets 200,792.2 205,028.3 (4,236.0) and other factors. Securities 29,774.4 34,183.0 (4,408.5) Japanese government bonds 13,016.0 15,292.0 (2,275.9) JGB balance (MHBK + MHTB)1 (Acquisition cost basis) Japanese local government 209.8 239.3 (29.4) bonds Mediumand long-term bonds2 Floating-rate notes Treasury discount bills Japanese corporate bonds  (¥ trillion) 2,681.0 2,964.2 (283.2) and short-term bonds Japanese stocks 3,563.2 3,952.7 (389.5) 9.0 Other 10,304.2 11,734.6 (1,430.4) 1.5 15.6 Loans and bills discounted 78,456.9 79,421.4 (964.5) 0.5 13.3 11.8 0.6 10.2 Loans 20.0 1.7 3.4 5.4 (MHBK + MHTB, banking 80,060.9 75,201.7 4,859.1 14.4 0.6 0.6 0.6 account + trust account) 7.8 9.2 5.8 Domestic total 57,434.6 55,729.0 1,705.6 Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, 2016 2017 2018 2019 Loans to SMEs and 33,186.5 32,740.4 446.0 individual customers Average remaining period3 (Housing loans for 2.5 years 2.4 years 2.5 years 2.1 years owner’s residential 8,791.4 9,136.8 (345.4) housing) 1. Other securities which have readily determinable fair values Overseas total 22,626.2 19,472.7 3,153.4 2. Including bonds with remaining period of one year or less Liabilities 191,598.1 195,207.0 (3,608.8) 3. Excluding floating-rate notes Deposits 124,311.0 125,081.2 (770.2) Domestic deposits 101,655.1 96,788.3 4,866.7 (MHBK + MHTB) Japanese stocks (consolidated)* (¥ billion) (Acquisition cost basis)） Individual deposits 43,959.4 42,861.9 1,097.5 Corporate deposits 49,898.5 47,109.9 2,788.6 1,847.1 Financial/government 7,797.1 6,816.5 980.5 institutions 1,687.5 Negotiable certificates of deposit 13,338.5 11,382.5 1,955.9 1,564.8 Net assets 9,194.0 9,821.2 (627.2) 1,419.8 Total shareholders’ equity 7,303.0 7,388.3 (85.2) Common stock 2,256.7 2,256.5 0.2 Capital surplus 1,138.4 1,134.9 3.5 Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, 2016 2017 2018 2019 Retained earnings 3,915.5 4,002.8 (87.3) Treasury stock (7.7) (5.9) (1.7) *Other securities which have readily determinable fair values Total accumulated other 1,445.7 1,677.5 (231.7) comprehensive income Net unrealized gains 1,186.4 1,392.3 (205.9) (losses) on other securities Deferred gains or losses (22.2) (67.5) 45.2 on hedges Revaluation reserve for land 137.7 144.2 (6.5) Foreign currency (111.0) (85.0) (25.9) translation adjustments Remeasurements of 254.9 293.5 (38.6) defined benefit plans Stock acquisition rights 0.7 1.1 (0.4) Non-controlling interests 444.5 754.2 (309.7) 2019 Integrated Report 94 Financial review Loans Total net assets The total of loans was ¥78,456.9 billion, a decrease of ¥964.5 Net assets amounted to ¥9,194.0 billion, decreasing by ¥627.2 billion from FY2017, caused mainly by the decrease in consolidated billion from FY2017 due to a decrease in retained earnings subsidiaries in accordance with the reorganization of group by payout of dividends, net unrealized gains (losses) on other companies. securities, and other factors. The combined total of loans for MHBK and MHTB was ¥80,060.9 billion, an increase of ¥4,859.1 billion. For our loan balance in Japan, while the balance of personal loans and Japanese government Non-performing loans (NPLs) loans increased, that of large, medium, and small businesses decreased, resulting in an overall increase of ¥1,705.6 billion The combined NPL balance of MHBK and MHTB was ¥560.4 (including decrease of ¥510.7 billion loans to the Japanese billion, an increase of ¥1.6 billion from FY2017, and the NPL ratio government and other such obligors). Our loan balance outside was 0.62%. We maintained a good credit portfolio, with both the Japan (including loans booked offshore) increased by ¥3,153.4 NPL balance and ratio remaining stable in a low position. billion, mainly due to an increase in loans especially in Europe and Asia. Non performing loans based on the financial reconstruction act (MHBK + MHTB, banking book + trust banking book) Loan balance (MHBK + MHTB, banking book + trust banking book) Claims for special attention (¥ trillion) Claims with collection risk (¥ trillion) Loan balance in Japan Loan balance outside Japan  (¥ trillion) Claims against bankrupt and substantially bankrupt obligors (¥ trillion) NPL ratio (%) 80.0 74.7 75.4 75.2 22.6 19.2 19.1 19.4 1.00 1.00 0.8 0.8 0.66 0.62 55.5 56.2 55.7 57.4 0.5 0.5 Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 N  on performing loans based on the financial Deposits reconstruction act (MHBK + MHTB, banking book + trust banking book) (¥ billion) The total deposits was ¥124,311.0 billion, a decrease of ¥770.2 March 31, March 31, Change from March 31, billion from FY2017, caused mainly by the decrease in consolidated 2019 2018 2018 subsidiaries in accordance with the reorganization of group companies. Claims against bankrupt and 52.9 76.6 (23.6) substantially bankrupt obligors Claims with collection risk 347.6 284.2 63.3 The combined deposits in Japan of MHBK and MHTB increased by Claims for special attention 159.7 197.8 (38.0) ¥4,866.7 billion from FY2017 due to factors such as an increase in corporate deposits. Subtotal 560.4 558.7 1.6 Normal claims 89,236.8 83,644.2 5,592.5 Total 89,797.2 84,203.0 5,594.2 Deposits in Japan (MHBK + MHTB) NPL ratio 0.62% 0.66% (0.03%) Individuals Corporations Financial/government institutions (¥ trillion) 96.7 101.6 88.0 92.7 7.7 7.4 6.8 7.1 43.9 47.1 49.8 40.6 40.2 41.3 42.8 43.9 Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, 2016 2017 2018 2019 Mizuho Financial Group Financial review Review and analysis for fiscal 2018 BIS capital BIS capital BIS capital ratio Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio (consolidated) (%) Tier 1 capital ratio (consolidated) (%) Total capital ratio (consolidated) (%) 18.85 The Common Equity Tier 1 capital was ¥7,390.0 billion, a decrease 18.24 of ¥46.9 billion from FY2017. 16.28 15.44 15.94 13.30 12.49 12.76 11.34 Risk assets Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, 2017 2018 2019 The risk-weighted assets were ¥57,899.5 billion, a decrease of ¥1,629.4 billion from FY2017, due to a decrease in credit risk related Mizuho continues to perform disciplined capital management which assets maintains the optimum balance between strengthening of the stable capital base and steady returns to shareholders. With regard to the enhancement of equity capital, the consolidated BIS capital ratio Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio (based on Basel III fullyimplemented basis* [based on current requirements], excluding net unrealized gains on other securities), which is regarded as the most The Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio increased by 0.27% from important indicator of soundness, as of the end of March 2019, we FY2017 to 12.76%. achieved 10.71%, is higher than the target of the previous mediumterm business plan of 10%. *Calculated on a Basel III fully effective basis at the end of FY2018. BIS capital ratio (consolidated) (¥ billion) Change from March 31, March 31, 2019 2018 March 31, 2018 Dividend policy Common Equity Tier 1 capital (CET1) 7,390.0 7,437.0 (46.9) As for our policy to return profits to shareholders in FY2018, we have Capital stock, surplus, and implemented a steady dividend payout policy setting a dividend payout 7,302.6 7,387.8 (85.1) retained earnings ratio on a consolidated basis of approximately 30% as a guide for our Additional Tier 1 capital 1,842.1 1,755.1 86.9 consideration. Additional Tier 1 capital 1,570.0 1,220.0 350.0 instruments Based on this policy, we made cash dividend payments on common Eligible Tier 1 capital stock of ¥7.50 (¥3.75 for interim dividends and ¥3.75 for year-end instruments subject to 303.0 577.5 (274.5) dividends) for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, the same phase-out arrangements amount as the annual dividend of the previous fiscal year. The Board Tier 2 capital 1,685.3 1,668.1 17.1 of Directors of Mizuho Financial Group considered thoroughly and decided on a cash dividend, although profit attributable to owners of Tier 2 capital instruments 1,168.4 988.1 180.3 parent for fiscal 2018 declined significantly as a result of recording Eligible Tier 2 capital losses in light of the structural reforms. instruments subject to 506.1 674.8 (168.7) phase-out arrangements To make such a decision, the Board of Directors considered that Total capital 10,917.5 10,860.4 57.0 consolidated Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio (based on Basel III Risk-weighted assets 57,899.5 59,528.9 (1,629.4) fully-implemented basis [based on current requirements], excluding Credit risk assets 52,628.8 53,647.3 (1,018.5) net unrealized gains on other securities ), which is the foundation of fulfilling stable financial functions, is higher than the target of the Market risk equivalent assets 2,034.2 2,470.3 (436.1) medium-term business plan formulated for the three years from Operational risk equivalent 3,236.4 3,411.2 (174.7) fiscal 2016, i.e., 10% as of March 31, 2019, and that we aim to assets implement a steady dividend payout policy. The Board of Directors also Total capital ratio (consolidated) 18.85% 18.24% 0.61% comprehensively took into account our business environment, such Tier 1 Capital ratio (consolidated) 15.94% 15.44% 0.50% as future earnings forecasts, profit base, status of capital adequacy, and domestic and international regulatory trends such as the Basel Common Equity Tier 1 capital framework. 12.76% 12.49% 0.27% ratio (consolidated) Cash dividend per share of common stock ( ¥ ) 7.5 7.5 7.5 7.5 Status of capital adequacy The total capital ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio, and Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio at the end of March 2019 were 18.85%, 15.94%, and FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 12.76%, respectively. Dividend payout ratio 28% 31% 33% 197% 2019 Integrated Report 96 Company information Office network We utilize our office network, which covers every prefecture in Japan as well as major cities outside Japan, to respond to our customers’ diversified and globalizing financial needs while supporting their economic activities. Europe, the Middle East, and Africa Asia and Oceania Mizuho Bank 16 offices Mizuho Bank 43 offices Mizuho Trust & Banking 1 office Mizuho Securities 9 offices Mizuho Securities 6 offices Asset Management One 2 offices Asset Management One 1 office Amsterdam Brussels Düsseldorf Frankfurt Zurich Vienna Tianjin London Dalian Nanjing Beijing Qingdao Moscow Hefei Seoul Wuhan Paris Xiamen Milan Suzhou Istanbul Shenzhen Shanghai Tehran Guangzhou Luxembourg Madrid Bahrain New Delhi Wuxi Riyadh Taipei Hanoi Taichung Dubai Kaohsiung Ahmedabad Hong Kong Mumbai Manila Bangalore-Devanahalli Chennai Labuan Ho Chi Minh City Yangon Phnom Penh Thilawa Eastern Seaboard Johannesburg Bangkok Jakarta Sydney Kuala Lumpur Singapore Mizuho Financial Group Company information Office network International network (As of June 30, 2019) Mizuho Bank: 87 offices Mizuho Trust & Banking: 1 office Mizuho Securities: 25 offices Asset Management One: 4 offices Branch or equivalent 42 Subsidiary 1 Representative office 3 Subsidiary 4 Representative office 6 Subsidiary 22 Subsidiary 39 Note: Subsidiaries include head offices, branches or relevant offices, and representative offices of overseas subsidiaries. Americas Mizuho Bank 28 offices Mizuho Securities 10 offices Asset Management One 1 office Calgary Chicago Toronto Boston New York Iselin San Francisco Atlanta Washington, DC Los Angeles Nassau Dallas Cayman Houston León Mexico City Network in Japan (As of June 30, 2019) Mizuho Bank • In January 2019, Mizuho Securities Head office and branches: 421 opened the Mizuho International plc Madrid Sub-branches: 43 Representative Office. Mizuho Trust & Banking São Paulo • In March 2019, Mizuho Bank opened the Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Shanghai Head office and branches: 36 Sub-branches: 24 Hongqiao Sub-Branch. Santiago • In March 2019, Mizuho Securities opened Mizuho Securities Mizuho Securities Europe GmbH in Tokyo head office and regional head offices: 3 Frankfurt. Branches: 105 Planet Booths*: 150 Sales office: 1 *Planet Booths are the consulting booths of Mizuho Securities located in Mizuho Bank’s branches 2019 Integrated Report 98 Corporate profile Corporate profile (As of March 31, 2019) Company name: Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Rating information (As of June 30, 2019) Stock listing (code): Tokyo Stock Exchange (8411) R&I JCR Moody’s S&P Fitch New York Stock Exchange (MFG) Location of head office: 1-5-5, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Mizuho Financial Group A+ AAA1 AA100-8176, Japan Representative: Tatsufumi Sakai, President & Group CEO Mizuho Bank AAAA A1 A ACapital: ¥2,256.7 billion Issued shares: 25,392,498,945 shares Mizuho Trust & Banking AAAA A1 A ANumber of employees: 1,664 (Total number of employees on a consolidated Mizuho Securities AAAA A1 A — basis: 59,132) (Reference) Date of establishment: January 8, 2003 AA+ AAA A1 A+ A Japanese Government Shareholders (common stock) Historical data of stock price Foreign investors Mizuho Financial Group Nikkei Index 22.81% Individuals and others 160 National & municipal government 31.09% 140 0.03% 120 Other domestic companies 100 12.23% 80 Securities Financial institutions companies 60 5.63% 28.21% March 2017 September 2017 March 2018 September 2018 March 2019 The graph showing Mizuho Financial Group’s stock price and the Nikkei stock price average has been prepared as an index with the closing prices on March 31, 2017 as 100. ©Nikkei Website Our website provides additional information regarding the business operations of Mizuho Financial Group and our group companies. Sections covering IR, financial information, and our products and services are available in addition to in-depth industry and economic reports. Additionally, you can sign up for our News Release E-mail Distribution Service to receive updates by email. ‌www.mizuho-fg.com/ Corporate responsibility Investor relations Gain insights into our approach to CSR. Access reports, presentations, news, and other investor resources and get details on upcoming events. ‌‌www.mizuho-fg.com/csr/ ‌‌www.mizuho-fg.com/investors/ Mizuho Financial Group Company information Group companies (As of March 31, 2019, except for each company’s network, which is as of June 30, 2019) Mizuho Bank Mizuho Trust & Banking Date of establishment July 1, 2013 Date of establishment March 12, 2003 Capital ¥1,404.0 billion Capital ¥247.3 billion Location of head office 1-5-5, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Location of head office 1-2-1, Yaesu, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 100-8176, Japan 103-8670, Japan Representative Koji Fujiwara, President & CEO Representative Tetsuo Iimori, President & CEO Number of employees 29,991 Number of employees 3,478 Network in Japan 464 Network in Japan 60 Network outside Japan 87 Network outside Japan 1 Website www.mizuhobank.com/ Website www.mizuho-tb.co.jp/english/ Mizuho Securities Date of establishment January 4, 2013 Capital ¥125.1 billion Location of head office Otemachi First Square, 1-5-1, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0004, Japan Representative Koichi Iida, President & CEO Number of employees 7,554 Network in Japan 259 Network outside Japan 25 Website www.mizuho-sc.com/english/ 2019 Integrated Report 100 Company information Mizuho Research Institute Mizuho Information & Research Institute Mizuho Research Institute is one of Japan’s leading think tanks With IT as its core technology, Mizuho Information & Research providing research, consulting, and corporate memberships. In Institute is a professional organization with more than 4,000 addition to providing high-value-added information and preparing employees that provides assistance to corporations in increasing policy proposals, Mizuho Research Institute offers highly actionable their corporate value through its consulting, system integration, and consulting advice to assist the Japanese national government, local outsourcing services. governments, and private corporations in addressing the issues they confront. Mizuho Research Institute has the largest number of corporate membership subscribers of any bank-affiliated research institute in Japan. Date of establishment October 1, 2002 Date of establishment October 1, 2004 Capital ¥900 million Capital ¥1,627 million Location of head office 1-2-1, Uchisaiwaicho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Location of head office 2-3 Kanda-Nishikicho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Representative Motonori Wakabayashi, President & CEO Representative Yasumasa Mukai, President & CEO (Appointed on June 28, 2019) (Appointed on April 1, 2019) Number of employees 323 Number of employees 4,183 Website www.mizuho-ri.co.jp/english/ Website www.mizuho-ir.co.jp/english/ Asset Management One Mizuho Private Wealth Management Asset Management One is an asset management company in which Mizuho Private Wealth Management offers consulting services Mizuho and Dai–ichi Life Holdings both have equity holdings. Asset tailored to the needs of its customers. These services range Management One collaborates with its offices in Europe, the US, and from consulting on customers’ financial matters such as wealth Asia to offer investment trust products to individuals and management, arranging for business inheritance to advice on corporations, as well as provide investment advisory services to customers’ individual matters, including health of the customers customers including Japanese and overseas pension funds. themselves as well as family members and children’s education. Date of establishment October 1, 2016 Date of establishment October 3, 2005 Capital ¥2,000 million Capital ¥500 million Location of head office Tekko Building, 1-8-2 Marunouchi, Location of head office 1-1-5, Uchisaiwaicho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Representative Naoyuki Machinaga, President Representative Akira Sugano, President & CEO (Appointed on April 1, 2019) Number of employees 894 Number of employees 36 Network outside Japan 4 Website www.am-one.co.jp/english/ Mizuho Americas JTC Holdings Mizuho Americas is a US bank holding company with Mizuho’s JTC Holdings is a bank holding company that has the asset primary US-based banking, trust banking, and securities entities administration companies Trust & Custody Services Bank and Japan under it. To further increase its competitiveness in the US, which is Trustee Services Bank as subsidiaries. The balance of assets under the world’s largest financial market, Mizuho Americas is proactively custody and administration of these two companies stands at about strengthening its governance framework, and, while promoting the ¥700 trillion (including trust assets of about ¥400 trillion) and is the collaboration of its banking, trust banking, and securities operations, largest of any asset administration company in Japan. it is conducting management and other activities that are necessary for expanding its profit base. Date of establishment June 20, 2016 Date of establishment October 1, 2018 Capital $3,820 million Capital ¥500 million Location of head office 1251 Avenue of the Americas, New York, Location of head office Tower Y, Harumi Triton Square, 1-8-11, NY 10020, USA Harumi, Chuo-ku, Tokyo Representative Teiji Teramoto, CEO Representative Nobumitsu Watanabe, President & CEO Website www.mizuhoamericas.com/ Number of employees 121 Notes: 1 .The representatives of each company have representation rights. 2. The number of employees does not include each company’s employees dispatched outside each company while it includes employees dispatched to each company from other organizations. This figure also includes overseas local staff but excludes executive officers and temporary employees. 3. Mizuho’s network consists of our Head Office and branches in Japan, and branches, representative offices and overseas subsidiaries outside Japan. Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Compliance contacts Internal control and audit hotline —A system designed for reporting questionable accounting or auditing matters— Reporting items: M  izuho Financial Group has established a hotline • When a report is received concerning the reporting items stipulated to receive reports from in and outside the company on the left, Mizuho Financial Group will make a reasonable effort in connection with problems concerning internal to investigate the facts behind the information received and report control and audits of accounts and financial reports. back on the results. Contact point: This hotline has been established within an external • Anonymous tips are also acceptable, but there are cases where it law office. Reports can be made via postal mail or will not be possible to fully satisfy the intentions behind such tips email. owing to constraints on investigations and the inability to report Postal mail: 12th Floor, Kasumigaseki Bldg., back. Kasumigaseki 3-2-5, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo • Information on persons making such reports is not disclosed to 100-6012 third parties other than the group companies except in cases where Mizuho Accounting Hotline, c/o Daiichi the assent of the person in question has been obtained or such Fuyo Law Office disclosure is required under laws and ordinances. Email: kaikei-mizuho@daiichifuyo.gr.jp Approaches to financial alternative dispute resolution (ADR) In order to deal expeditiously, fairly, and appropriately with The designated dispute resolution institution as defined in Japan’s complaints and other feedback from customers, Mizuho Bank Banking Act which Mizuho Bank and Mizuho Trust & Banking have and Mizuho Trust & Banking have concluded a contract for the contracted implementation of dispute resolution procedures with the Japanese The Designated Dispute Resolution Institution:  Bankers Association, which is a designated dispute resolution Japanese Bankers Association institution as defined in Japan’s Banking Act. Mizuho Trust & Banking Contact: Advisory Center of Japanese Bankers Association has also concluded a contract for the implementation of dispute Tel: +81-(0)3-5252-3772 resolution procedures with the Trust Companies Association of Japan, which is a designated dispute resolution institution as defined The designated dispute resolution institution as defined in Japan’s in Japan’s Trust Business Act and Act on Concurrent Operation of Trust Business Act and Act on Concurrent Operation of Trust Trust Business by Financial Institutions. Business by Financial Institutions which Mizuho Trust & Banking has contracted The designated dispute resolution institution takes the steps toward The Designated Dispute Resolution Institution:  resolution from a fair and neutral perspective in cases where the Trust Companies Association of Japan solutions to customers’ complaints adopted by the two banks are not Contact: Trust Consultation Center of the Trust Companies accepted. Association of Japan Tel: +81-(0)3-6206-3988 2019 Integrated Report 102 Appendix Support for SMEs and regional revitalization Support for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) Mizuho provides information to clients which is relevant to their particular needs and challenges at each stage in their development, and we propose solutions and provide support for the implementation of these solutions. By drawing on our consulting capabilities to provide proposals and support the growth of innovative companies with exceptional solutions that address the issues SMEs face, we ensure that clients’ technologies or ideas. perspectives are prioritized when providing support for business expansion, succession, reorganization, and other client needs. Furthermore, a specialized business reorganization section within We also believe that proactively supporting SMEs is a key part of the Head Office provides support for SMEs’ business improvement fulfilling our social responsibility as a financial institution. and reorganization needs. In addition, our Head Office collaborates with frontline offices to provide consultations and support for clients In particular, by providing consulting and support for SMEs’ growth through partnerships with external organizations, external specialists, strategies, we can introduce clients to potential M&A opportunities and other financial institutions. from the standpoint of business expansion and succession, and Regional revitalization initiatives In Japan, as a result of the trend toward concentration of businesses Utilizing our office network in Japan, we are striving to promote and other economic activity solely in Tokyo, rural populations are the revitalization of regional economies by providing our clients expected to decline and regional economies are expected to shrink with funding, supporting the operations of local businesses, and in the future. As a nation, Japan must look for ways to revitalize collaborating with regional governments. regional areas through a virtuous cycle in which jobs draw people back to local areas and population growth creates more jobs. Case example Investing in an agricultural sector industrialization fund For its fifth project, the Hiroshima Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries Growth Support Fund invested ¥30 million in Tsunagu Farm (May 2019). This fund was established in January 2014 with investment from The Hiroshima Bank; The Hiroshima Shinkin Bank; Mizuho Bank; the Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Fund Corporation for Innovation, Value-chain and Expansion Japan (A-FIVE); and Hiroshima Venture Capital for the purpose of actively contributing to the revitalization of the regional economy and job creation. The Tsunagu Farm plans to increase the added value of livestock products and build a new brand by entering the food service industry to supply locally-produced beef. Finance facilitation and response to the Guidelines for Personal Guarantee Provided by Business Owners Finance facilitation  uidelines for Personal Guarantee Provided by Business Owners G Mizuho works to promote finance facilitation in accordance with We are committed to establishing and maintaining good relationships group-wide fundamental policies. This includes ensuring that we with our clients in line with the Guidelines for Personal Guarantee respond appropriately to requests for new loans or loan condition Provided by Business Owners established by the Japanese Bankers adjustments, and provide tailored consulting. Association and the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry. We provide the option for a joint guarantee with a termination clause and other alternative lending methods allowing for a personal guarantee provided by business owners. Also, we have established a structure for cooperation between our frontline offices and Head Office to encourage the utilization of these methods. Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Internal audit structure Basic approach Internal audits consist of a series of activities, ranging from the In line with the Basic Policy for Internal Audit established by Mizuho objective and comprehensive evaluation of the effectiveness Financial Group, our principal banking subsidiaries and other core and appropriateness of each process relating to governance, group companies conduct internal audits, which include the internal risk management, and control, to providing recommendations, auditing of their respective subsidiaries. In addition, with respect to corrective guidance, etc., toward the resolution of problems from an the management of risks applicable across the Mizuho group, we independent standpoint of the departments and business processes coordinate internal audits throughout the group to assess the risk that are subject to the audit, based on a plan approved by the board management status of the group as a whole. of directors of each of our group companies. Through these series of activities, internal audits assist the boards of directors of each of our group companies to fulfill their managerial duties efficiently and effectively. Internal audit management structure Internal audit management structure Mizuho Financial Group Our Internal Audit Committee determines all important matters Mizuho Financial Group concerning internal audits. The committee is chaired by our President Supervision, & Group CEO and is independent of our other business operations. Board of Directors Audit Committee audit The Head of the Internal Audit Group reports the progress of Instruction individual audits and plans to the Audit Committee, responds to Report President & Group CEO Internal Audit Committee requests for inspections, and receives specific instructions from the (Chairman: President & committee. Group CEO) Management Our Internal Audit Committee monitors and manages internal audits Internal Audit Group at our principal banking subsidiaries and other core group companies through internal audit reports submitted by such subsidiaries. Our Internal Audit Committee discusses and makes decisions regarding internal audits at our principal banking subsidiaries and other core Internal Audit All organizaInternal Audit group companies and submits the results, together with the results tional units Department of their examination of the internal audit reports, to the Audit Committee and our Board of Directors. Mizuho Bank and Mizuho Trust & Banking Mizuho Bank and Mizuho Trust & Banking have also established Advice, guidance internal audit committees that are independent of their other Management by Mizuho and remedial Report the results Financial Group of internal audits business operations and a framework under which their internal recommendations audit committees coordinate with their respective audit & supervisory committees. Both banks have established internal audit departments to conduct Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, Mizuho Securities internal audits at their respective domestic and overseas business and other core group companies offices, head office departments, and group companies. Specifically, the internal audit departments assess the suitability and effectiveness of business activities associated with compliance and risk management. Subsidiaries of the above group companies (As of June 21, 2019) Other core group companies Other core group companies have also established effective and efficient internal audit structures adapted to the characteristics of their respective businesses. 2019 Integrated Report 104 Appendix Risk Management Structure Credit risk management Basic approach We define credit risk as the group’s exposure to the risk of losses Mizuho Financial Group manages credit risk for the Group as a that may be incurred due to a decline in, or total loss of, the value whole. Specifically, Mizuho Financial Group establishes the group’s of assets (including off–balance–sheet instruments), as a result of fundamental credit risk policy to manage major group companies, deterioration in obligors’ financial position. We have established the and monitors and manages the credit risks of the group as a whole. methods and structures necessary for grasping and managing credit risk. Credit risk management structure Our Board of Directors determines the group’s basic matters The Balance Sheet & Risk Management Committee and the Credit pertaining to credit risk management. In addition, the Risk Committee, each of which is a Business Policy Committee of our Management Committee of Mizuho Financial Group discusses principal banking subsidiaries, are responsible for discussing and coordinates matters relating to basic policies and operations and coordinating overall management of their individual credit in connection with credit risk management and matters relating portfolios and transaction policies towards obligors. The respective to credit risk monitoring for the group. Under the control of the Chief Risk Officers of our principal banking subsidiaries are Group CRO of Mizuho Financial Group, the Credit Risk Management responsible for matters relating to planning and implementing Department and the Risk Management Department jointly monitor, credit risk management. The credit risk management departments analyze, and submit suggestions concerning credit risk and formulate of our principal banking subsidiaries are in charge of planning and and execute plans in connection with basic matters pertaining to administering credit risk management and conducting credit risk credit risk management. measuring and monitoring. The departments regularly present reports regarding their risk management situation to Mizuho Our principal banking subsidiaries and other core group companies Financial Group. The credit departments of our principal banking manage their credit risk according to the scale and nature of their subsidiaries determine policies and approve/disapprove individual exposures in line with basic policies set forth by Mizuho Financial transactions in terms of credit review, credit management and Group. The Board of Directors of each company determines key collection from obligors in accordance with the lines of authority set matters pertaining to credit risk management. forth respectively by our principal banking subsidiaries. In addition, our principal banking subsidiaries have established internal audit groups that are independent of the business departments in order to ensure appropriate credit risk management. Method of credit risk management We have adopted two different but mutually complementary client. Through this process, we curb losses in the case of a credit approaches to credit risk management. The first approach is event. The second is “credit portfolio management,” in which we “individual credit management,” in which we manage the process utilize statistical methods to assess the potential for losses related to for each individual transaction and individual obligor from execution credit risk. Through this process, we identify credit risks and respond until collection, based on our assessment of the credit quality of the appropriately. Individual credit management 1. Credit code 2. Internal rating system The basic code of conduct for all of our executive officers and One of the most important elements of the risk management employees engaged in the credit business is set forth in our credit infrastructure of our principal banking subsidiaries is the use of code. Seeking to fulfill our mission and social responsibilities, our an internal rating system that consists of credit ratings and pool basic policy for credit business is determined in light of fundamental allocations. Credit ratings consist of obligor ratings which represent principles focusing on public welfare, safety, growth, and profitability. the level of credit risk of the obligor, and transaction ratings which represent the possibility of ultimately incurring losses related to each individual claim by taking into consideration the nature of any collateral or guarantee and the seniority of the claim. In principle, obligor ratings apply to all obligors and are subject to regular reviews at least once a year to reflect promptly the fiscal period end financial results of the obligors, as well as special reviews as required whenever an obligor’s credit standing changes. This enables our principal banking subsidiaries to monitor both individual Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Risk management structure obligors and the status of the overall portfolio in a timely fashion. based on obligor specific characteristics such as type of business Because we consider obligor ratings to be an initial phase of the (corporation or individual) and geography (in Japan or outside self-assessment process regarding the quality of our loans and offJapan). We categorize our rating models for companies in Japan balance-sheet instruments, such obligor ratings are closely linked into those for large companies and those for small and mediumto the obligor classifications and are an integral part of the process sized companies. The former consist of 13 models according to for determining the provision for loan losses and charge-offs in our industry-specific factors, while the latter consist of three models. For self-assessment of loans and off-balance-sheet instruments. (Please companies outside Japan, we utilize nine models. refer to the chart below regarding the connection between obligor ratings, definition of obligor classifications of self-assessments, These were developed by the Credit Risk Management Department claims disclosed under the FRA and non-accrual, and past due & based on a statistical methodology and approved by the Chief Risk restructured loans). Officer. To assign obligor ratings, we have a quantitative evaluation system Pool allocations are applied to small claims that are less than a (rating model) in place to enable proper assessment of an obligor’s specified amount by pooling obligors and claims with similar risk credit standing. The system gives a quantitative rating to an obligor characteristics and assessing and managing the risk for each such Connection between obligor ratings, definition of obligor classifications of self-assessments, claims disclosed under the FRA and non-accrual, past due & restructured loans Definition Obligor Non-accrual, Category I Category IV Claims of obligor ratings past due & Definition of ratings (nonCategory II Category III (nondisclosed classifications of (major restructured categorized) collateralized) under the FRA self-assessment category) loans Obligors whose certainty of debt A1—A3 fulfillment is very high, hence their level of credit risk is excellent. Obligors whose certainty of debt fulfillment poses no problems for the B1—B2 foreseeable future, hence their level of credit risk is sufficient. All credit given Normal Obligors whose certainty of debt to normal obligors fulfillment and their level of credit risk obligors. C1—C3 Normal claims pose no problems for the foreseeable future. Obligors whose current certainty of debt fulfillment poses no problems, however, D1—D3 their resistance to future environmental changes is low. E1 Obligors who require close watching going forward because there are problems with their borrowings, such as Credit given to reduced or suspended interest payments, watch obligors Restructured Watch problems with fulfillment such as de other than loans obligors Claims for facto postponements of principal or those included E2 R interest payments, or problems with their in category I. special Loans past due financial positions as a result of their attention for 3 months poor or unstable business conditions. or more Obligors who are not yet bankrupt but are Credit given in financial difficulties and are deemed to intensive to be very likely to go bankrupt in the control future because they are finding it difficult Intensive control Credit to obligors other Claims with F1 to make progress in implementing obligors obligors which than those collection risk their management improvement plans has pledged included in (including obligors who are receiving collateral or category I and ongoing support from financial is covered by category II. Non-accrual institutions). guarantees, delinquent considered loans Credit to The difference of high obligors which between the Obligors who have not yet gone legally quality, such Credit to is covered assessed Substantially or formally bankrupt but who are as deposit bankrupt and by general value and bankrupt G1 substantially bankrupt because they are collateral. substantially collateral, market value obligors in serious financial difficulties and are not bankrupt such as real of collateral deemed to be capable of restructuring. obligors, other Claims against estate and on credit to guarantees. than those bankrupt and bankrupt and in category substantially substantially I, category II bankrupt bankrupt and category obligors, and obligors (i.e., III (credit that equivalent the portion of Obligors who have already gone is judged to be Loans to Bankrupt loans for which H1 bankrupt, from both a legal and/or formal unrecoverable bankrupt obligors final collection perspective. or without obligors problems or value). losses are anticipated). 2019 Integrated Report 106 Appendix pool. Our principal banking subsidiaries efficiently manage credit extended to watch obligors when the following conditions are met: risk and credit screening by dispersing a sufficient number of small we are aiming for business reconstruction or financial support; claims within each pool. Our principal banking subsidiaries generally and lending conditions were amended favorably to the client such review the appropriateness and effectiveness of our approach to as allowing interest rate reduction, postponement of principal obligor ratings and pool allocations once a year in accordance with repayment/interest payment, debt forgiveness, etc. predetermined procedures, which is audited by the Internal Audit Group. An overdue loan is defined as a loan for watch obligors of which the loan principal or interest is overdue for three months or more Mizuho Financial Group defines a restructured loan as a loan following the contractual payment date. Methods for reserves and write-offs Normal Calculate the value of estimated loss based on the probability of failure over the coming year for loans by obligor rating and appropriate it for the obligors General reserve for possible losses on loans. Calculate the estimated loss on loans based on the probability of failure over the next three years and appropriate it for the general reserve for Watch possible losses on loans. Further, in regard to special attention obligors, for obligors with large claims more than a certain amount, if the cash obligors flow from the return of principal and interest payments can reasonably be estimated, set up a reserve under the DCF method. Provide an amount for specific reserve for possible losses on loans as calculated by one of the following methods after deducting amounts anticipated to be recoverable from the sale of collateral held against the claims and from guarantors of the claims: a) an amount calculated based Intensive on the overall ability of the obligor to pay, or b) the estimated loss calculated on the basis of the balance and the probability of failure over the control next three years. obligors Further, for obligors with large claims more than a certain amount, if the cash flow from the return of principal and interest payments can reasonably be estimated, set up a reserve under the DCF method. Substantially bankrupt obligors Provide the entire balance after deducting amounts anticipated to be recoverable from the sale of collateral held against the claims and from guarantors of the claims for specific reserve for possible losses on loans, or write-off the entire balance. Bankrupt obligors 3. Self-assessment, provision for loan losses and off-balance-sheet 4. Credit review instruments, and write-offs Prevention of new impaired loans through routine credit We conduct self-assessment of assets to ascertain the status of assets management is important in maintaining the quality of our overall both as an integral part of credit risk management and in preparation loan assets. Credit review involves analysis and screening of each for appropriate accounting treatment, including provision for loan potential transaction within the relevant business department. In losses and off-balance-sheet instruments and write-offs. During the case the screening exceeds the authority of the department, the process of self-assessment, obligors are categorized into certain credit department in charge at Head Office carries out the review. We groups taking into consideration their financial condition and their have specialized credit departments for different industries, ability to make payments, and credit ratings are assigned to all business sizes, and regions, which carry out timely and specialized obligors, in principle, to reflect the extent of their credit risks. The examinations based on the characteristics of the client and their related assets are then categorized into certain classes based on the market, and provide appropriate advice to the business department. risk of impairment. This process allows us to identify and control the In addition, in the case of obligors with low credit ratings and high actual quality of assets and determine the appropriate accounting downside risks, the business department and credit department treatment, including provision for loan losses and off-balance-sheet jointly clarify their credit policy and in appropriate cases assist the instruments and write-offs. Specifically, the credit risk management obligors at an early stage in working towards credit soundness. department of each of our principal subsidiaries is responsible for the overall control of the self-assessment of assets of the respective banking subsidiaries, cooperating with the administrative departments specified for each type of asset, including loan portfolios and securities, in executing and managing self-assessments. In our assessment of the probability of obligor bankruptcy, we deem an obligor that is rated as being insolvent or lower as being bankrupt. Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Risk management structure Credit portfolio management 1. Risk measurement We use statistical methodologies that involve a risk measurement guarantees; deposits and foreign exchange; derivatives including system (enterprise value corporate valuation model, holding period swaps and options; off-balance sheet items including commitments; of one year) to manage the possibility of losses by measuring the and other assets involving credit risk. expected average loss for a one-year risk horizon (“Expected Loss”) and the maximum loss within a certain confidence interval (“Credit In establishing transaction spread guidelines for credit transactions, VAR”). The difference between Expected Loss and Credit VAR is we aim to ensure an appropriate return from the transaction in light measured as the credit risk amount (“Unexpected Loss”). The risk of the level of risk by utilizing credit cost data as a reference. Also, measurement system covers the following account items reported by we monitor our credit portfolio from various perspectives and set each Mizuho Financial Group company: credit transactions including guidelines noted below so that losses incurred through a hypothetical loans and discounts; securities; clients’ liabilities for acceptances and realization of the full Credit VAR would be within the amount of risk capital and loan loss reserves. Loss distribution 2. Risk control methods Our principal banking subsidiaries recognize the risk arising from Frequency allowing unexpected loss to become too large. Our principal banking subsidiaries manage “credit concentration risk,” which stems from Average granting excessive credit to individual corporate groups, in line with our specific guidelines. Our principal banking subsidiaries also set the credit limit based on verification of status of capital adequacy. In cases where the limit is exceeded, our principal banking subsidiaries will formulate a handling policy and/or action plan. In addition to This amount depends on the above, our principal banking subsidiaries monitor total credit the confidence interval. For example, if the confidence exposure, credit exposure per rating, credit concentration per interval is set at 99%, it is individual corporate group, geographic area, and business sector to the 9,900th smallest loss make a periodical report to the Balance Sheet & Risk Management figure out of 10,000 trials. Committee and the Credit Committee. Loss amount Credit VAR Expected Unexpected Loss Loss 2019 Integrated Report 108 Appendix Market risk management Basic approach We define market risk as the risk of losses incurred by the group due Mizuho Financial Group manages market risk for the Mizuho group to fluctuations in interest rates, stock prices, and foreign exchange as a whole. Specifically, Mizuho Financial Group establishes the rates. Our definition includes the risk of losses incurred when it fundamental risk management policy for the entire group, manages becomes impossible to execute transactions in the market because the market risk of our principal banking subsidiaries and other core of market confusion or losses arising from transactions at prices that group companies, and monitors how the group’s market risk is being are significantly less favorable than usual. managed as a whole. Market risk management structure Our Board of Directors determines basic matters pertaining to market As for the situation of market risk, the Risk Management Department risk management policies. The Risk Management Committee of submits reports to the President and Group CEO on a daily basis Mizuho Financial Group broadly discusses and coordinates matters and to the Board of Directors on a regular basis. For the purpose relating to basic policies in connection with market risk management, of managing the market risk of our principal banking subsidiaries market risk operations, and market risk monitoring. The Group CRO and other core group companies, the Department regularly receives of Mizuho Financial Group is responsible for matters relating to reports from each of them to properly identify and manage their market risk management planning and operations. market risk. These subsidiaries and core group companies, which account for most of the Mizuho group’s exposure to market risk, The Risk Management Department of Mizuho Financial Group is establish their basic policies based on ours, and their Boards of responsible for monitoring market risk, reporting and analysing, Directors determine important matters relating to market risk making proposals, setting limits and guidelines, and formulating and management. implementing plans relating to market risk management. Market risk management method To manage market risk, we set limits that correspond to risk capital strength represented by capital and other indicators. The amount of allocations according to the risk profile of each of our principal risk capital allocated to market risk corresponds to value-at-risk (the banking subsidiaries and other core group companies and thereby “VAR”) and additional costs that may arise in order to close relevant prevent the overall market risk we hold from exceeding our financial positions. Setting limits Monitoring When the above mentioned limits are set, various factors are To provide a system of mutual checks and balances in market taken into account, including business strategies, historical limit operations, we have established middle offices specializing in risk usage ratios, risk-bearing capacity (profits, equity capital, and risk management that are independent of front offices which engage in management framework), profit targets and the market liquidity of market transactions and of back offices which are responsible for the products involved. The limits are discussed and coordinated by book entries and settlements. When VAR is not adequate to control the Risk Management Committee, discussed further by the Executive risk, the middle offices manage risk using additional risk indices, Management Committee and then determined by the President & carry out stress testing, and set stop loss limits as needed. We Group CEO. For trading and banking activities, we set limits for VAR monitor market liquidity risk for individual financial products in the and for losses. For banking activities, we set position limits based market while taking turnover and other factors into consideration. on interest rate sensitivity (10 BPV) as needed. An excess over any of these limits is immediately reported and addressed according to a pre-determined procedure. Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Risk management structure Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s market risk The following graph shows VAR figures of our trading activities for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019: Value-at-risk We use the VAR method, supplemented with stress testing, as our principal tool to measure market risk. The VAR method measures Fiscal 2018 VAR (trading activities) the maximum possible loss that could be incurred due to market (VAR: ¥ billion) movements within a certain time period (or holding period) and 10 9 degree of probability (or confidence interval). 8 7 Trading activities 6 VAR related to our trading activities is based on the following: 5 • historical simulation method; 4 • confidence interval: one-tailed 99.0%; 3 • holding period of one day; and 2 • historical observation period of three years. 1 0 The following tables show the VAR related to our trading activities by 04/02/2018 04/21/2018 05/10/2018 05/29/2018 06/17/2018 07/06/2018 07/25/2018 08/13/2018 09/01/2018 09/20/2018 10/09/2018 10/28/2018 11/16/2018 12/05/2018 12/24/2018 01/12/2019 01/31/2019 02/19/2019 03/10/2019 03/29/2019 risk category for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2017, 2018, and 2019 and as of March 31, 2017, 2018, and 2019: VAR by risk category (trading activities) (¥ billion) The following table shows VAR figures of our trading activities for the Fiscal 2016 fiscal years indicated: Daily average Maximum Minimum At March 31 Interest rate 2.0 3.6 1.0 1.0 VAR (trading activities) (¥ billion) Foreign exchange 0.5 1.6 0.1 0.1 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Change Equities 0.4 3.2 0.1 0.9 As of fiscal year end 2.6 3.0 2.6 (0.3) Commodities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Maximum 5.8 6.2 9.2 3.0 Total 3.3 5.8 2.3 2.6 Minimum 2.3 2.2 2.4 0.2 Fiscal 2017 Average 3.3 3.0 3.4 0.3 Daily average Maximum Minimum At March 31 Interest rate 1.7 2.5 1.0 2.2 Foreign exchange 0.4 1.2 0.1 0.1 Equities 0.6 2.4 0.3 0.5 Commodities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 3.0 6.2 2.2 3.0 Fiscal 2018 Daily average Maximum Minimum At March 31 Interest rate 2.0 2.9 1.3 2.0 Foreign exchange 0.8 2.8 0.1 0.3 Equities 0.6 7.7 0.2 0.5 Commodities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 3.4 9.2 2.4 2.6 2019 Integrated Report 110 Appendix Non-trading activities • VAR does not capture all complex effects of various risk The VAR related to our banking activities is based on the same factors on the value of positions and portfolios and could conditions as those of trading activities, but the holding period is one underestimate potential losses. month. In addition, as for risk management of banking activities, it is important to properly measure interest rate risk so that we calculate Cross-shareholdings portfolio management activities interest risk using appropriate methods such as recognizing demand We take the market risk management approach with use of VAR and deposits as “core deposits.” risk indices for cross-shareholdings portfolio management activities to properly manage stock price risk. Specifically, we monitor The following graph shows the VAR related to our banking activities VAR measurements and the state of risk capital on a daily basis. excluding our cross-shareholdings portfolio for the year ended March Moreover, in order to control stock price risk, we are working on the 31, 2019: reduction in cross-shareholdings through careful negotiations with counterparties. Fiscal 2018 VAR (banking activities) Back testing VAR In order to evaluate the effectiveness of market risk measurements (VAR: ¥ billion) Interest rate on five-year government bonds (%) 350 0.5 calculated using the VAR method, we carry out regular back tests to 0.4 compare VAR with assumptive profits and losses. Assumptive profits 300 and losses accounts for general market risk. The graph below shows 0.3 250 daily VAR of trading activities for the fiscal year ended March 31, 0.2 200 2019 and the corresponding paired distribution of profits and losses. 0.1 150 We had zero case where losses exceeded VAR during the period. 0.0 In addition, we conduct evaluations of the assumptions related to 100 -0.1 the VAR models. Based on the number of times losses exceeded 50 -0.2 VAR through back testing and the results of the evaluation of the 0 -0.3 model assumptions, we will make adjustments to the models as appropriate. Changes to fundamental portions of the VAR models are 04/02/2018 04/21/2018 05/10/2018 05/29/2018 06/17/2018 07/06/2018 07/25/2018 08/13/2018 09/01/2018 09/20/2018 10/09/2018 10/28/2018 11/16/2018 12/05/2018 12/24/2018 01/12/2019 01/31/2019 02/19/2019 03/10/2019 03/29/2019 subject to the approval of our Group Chief Risk Officer. Fiscal 2018 back testing Assumed profit or loss (¥ billion) The following table shows the VAR figures relating to our banking 6 activities for the fiscal years indicated: 4 VAR (banking activities) (¥ billion) 2 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Change As of fiscal year end 292.7 268.4 194.4 (74.0) 0 Maximum 397.5 307.2 298.5 (8.7) Minimum 247.4 210.8 194.4 (16.3) (2) Average 331.0 267.8 255.5 (12.2) (4) (6) Characteristics of VAR model 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 VAR is a commonly used market risk management technique. VAR (¥ billion) However, VAR models have the following shortcomings: Note: We conduct our back testing and assess the number of cases where losses exceed VAR based on a 250 business day year. The expected average number of instances • By its nature as a statistical approach, VAR estimates possible where one-day trading losses exceeded VAR at the 99% confidence level is 2.5. losses over a certain period at a particular confidence level using past market movement data. Past market movement, however, is not necessarily a good indicator of future events, Stress testing particularly potential future events that are extreme in nature. Because the VAR method is based on statistical assumptions, we • VAR may underestimate the probability of extreme market conduct stress testing to simulate the levels of losses that could movements. be incurred in cases where the market moves suddenly to levels • The use of a 99.0% confidence level does not take account of, that exceed these assumptions. The stress testing methods we use nor makes any statement about, any losses that might occur include the calculation of losses under scenarios in which stresses beyond this confidence level. are applied to interest rate risk and stock price risk based on current and projected economic conditions, historical market events, etc. Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Risk management structure Liquidity risk management Basic approach We define liquidity risk as the risk of losses arising from funding as a whole. Specifically, Mizuho Financial Group establishes the difficulties due to a deterioration in our financial position that fundamental liquidity risk management policy for the entire group, makes it difficult for us to raise necessary funds or that forces manages the liquidity risk of our principal banking subsidiaries and us to raise funds at significantly higher interest rates than usual. other core group companies, and monitors how the group’s liquidity Mizuho Financial Group manages liquidity risk for the Mizuho group risk is being managed as a whole. Liquidity risk management structure Our Board of Directors determines basic matters pertaining to matters relating to planning and running cash flow management liquidity risk management policies. The Risk Management Committee operations, and the Financial Planning Department is responsible of Mizuho Financial Group broadly discusses and coordinates for monitoring and adjusting the cash flow management situation matters relating to basic policies in connection with liquidity risk and for planning and implementing cash flow management to management, operations, and monitoring, and proposes responses maintain appropriate funding liquidity. Reports on liquidity risk to emergencies such as sudden market changes. The Group Chief management are submitted to the Risk Management Committee Risk Officer of Mizuho Financial Group is responsible for matters and the Balance Sheet Management Committee (each of which is a relating to liquidity risk management planning and operations. business policy committee), the Executive Management Committee The Risk Management Department of Mizuho Financial Group is and the President & Group CEO on a regular basis. responsible for monitoring liquidity risk, reporting and analysing, making proposals, and formulating and implementing plans relating Our principal banking subsidiaries and other core group companies to liquidity risk management. In addition, the Group Chief Financial also establish their basic policies on liquidity risk management to Officer of Mizuho Financial Group is additionally responsible for properly identify and manage liquidity risk. Liquidity risk management method We manage liquidity risk with the use of “liquidity risk management testing to verify the sufficiency of liquidity reserve assets and the indicators” and “liquidity categorization.” The former is determined effectiveness of countermeasures against a possible outflow of funds for the purpose of managing limits on funds raised in the market during a stress event. The results of stress testing are used for cash considering our fund raising capabilities, and the latter is determined flow management operations. based on our funding conditions. We also carry out liquidity stress Liquidity risk management indicators Liquidity stress testing Limits on funds raised in the market are set based on a number of We carry out stress testing regularly based on market-wide factors, time horizons taking into account characteristics and strategies of idiosyncratic factors of the group, and a combination of both types each of our principal banking subsidiaries and other core group of factors to verify the sufficiency of liquidity reserve assets and the companies. Such limits are discussed and coordinated by the effectiveness of our liquidity contingency funding plans. Furthermore, Risk Management Committee, discussed further by the Executive we utilize stress testing for evaluating the appropriateness of our Management Committee, and determined by the President & Group annual funding plan. CEO. An excess over any of these limits is immediately reported and addressed according to a pre-determined procedure. Liquidity categorization We have established a group-wide framework of liquidity risk stages such as “normal,” “anxious” and “crisis,” which reflects funding conditions. In addition, we set early warning indicators (“EWIs”) and monitor on a daily basis to manage funding conditions. The EWIs we use include stock prices, credit ratings, amount of liquidity reserve assets such as Japanese government bonds, and our funding situation. 2019 Integrated Report 112 Appendix Operational risk management Basic approach We define operational risk as the risk of losses that may be incurred reputational risk, we have separately determined the fundamental resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, risk management policies for these different types of risk. We human error, or external events. We control operational risk manage the operational risk associated with our principal banking management for the Mizuho group as a whole. Considering that subsidiaries and other core group companies while monitoring the operational risk includes information technology risk, operations risk, state of group-wide operational risk. legal risk, human capital risk, tangible asset risk, regulatory risk, and Definition Principal risk management methods • Identify and evaluate the risk by setting specific standards that need to be complied with and implementing measures tailored based on Information technology risk (“IT risk”) shall refer to the risk evaluation results to reduce the risk. that problems (e.g. malfunctions, disruptions, etc.) with the • Ensure ongoing project management in systems development and computer systems or improper use of the computers in these Information quality control. systems, which cause disruptions of the services provided to technology risk • Strengthen security to prevent information leaks. customers, or have significant impact on settlement systems, • Strengthen capabilities for rapidly and effectively dealing with etc., will result in losses for customers, and the incurrence of cyberattacks. losses (tangible or intangible) by our group companies. • Improve effectiveness of emergency responses by improving backup systems and holding drills. • Establish clearly defined procedures for handling operations. Risk that customers may suffer service disruptions, as well as • Periodically check the status of operational processes. the risk that customers or the group may incur losses because • Conduct training and development programs led by Head Office. Operations risk senior executives or employees fail to fulfill their tasks • Introduce information technology, office automation, and properly, cause accidents or, otherwise act improperly. centralization for operations. • Improve the effectiveness of emergency responses by holding drills. • Review and confirm legal issues, including the legality of material Risk that the group may incur losses due to violation of laws decisions, agreements and external documents, etc. Legal risk and regulations, breach of contract, entering into improper • Collect and distribute legal information and conduct internal training contracts or, other legal factors. programs. • Analyze and manage issues related to lawsuits. Risk that the group may incur losses due to turnover or loss • Conduct employee satisfaction surveys. of personnel, deterioration of morale, inadequate • Understand the status of working hours. development of personnel, inappropriate working schedules, Human capital risk • Understand the status of vacation days taken by personnel. inappropriate working and safety environment, inequality or • Understand the status of voluntary resignations. inequity in human resource management, or discriminatory • Understand the status of the stress check system. conduct. • Manage the planning and implementation of construction projects Risk that the group may incur losses from damage to tangible related to the repair and replacement of facilities. assets or a decline in the quality of the working environment Tangible asset risk • Identify and evaluate the status of damage to tangible assets caused as a result of disasters, criminal actions, or defects in asset by natural disasters or other causes, and respond appropriately to maintenance. such damage. • Understand important changes in regulations or systems that have significant influence on our business operations or financial Risk that the group may incur losses due to changes in condition in a timely and accurate manner. Regulatory risk various regulations or systems, such as those related to law, • Analyze degree of influence of regulatory changes and establish taxation, and accounting. countermeasures. • Continuously monitor our regulatory risk management mentioned above. • Establish framework to identify and manage, on an integrated basis, Risk that the group may incur losses due to damage to our information that may have a serious impact on group management credibility or the value of the “Mizuho” brand when market and respond to such risk in a manner appropriate to its scale and Reputational risk participants or others learn about, or the media reports on, nature. various adverse events, including actual materialization of • Swiftly identify rumors and devise appropriate responses depending risks or false rumors. on the urgency and possible impact of the situation to minimize possible losses. We also recognize and manage information security risk and compliance risk, which constitute a combination of more than one of the above components, as operational risk. Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Risk management structure Operational risk management structure Our Board of Directors determines basic matters pertaining to market risk, reporting and analysing, making proposals, setting limits operational risk management policies. The Risk Management and guidelines, and formulating and implementing plans relating to Committee of Mizuho Financial Group broadly discusses and operational risk management. coordinates matters relating to basic policies in connection with operational risk management, operational risk operations, and Our principal banking subsidiaries and core group companies operational risk monitoring. The Group Chief Risk Officer of Mizuho establish their basic policies on operational risk management, and Financial Group is responsible for matters relating to operational their Boards of Directors determine important matters relating to risk management planning and operations. The Risk Management operational risk management. Department of Mizuho Financial Group is responsible for monitoring Operational risk management method To manage operational risk, we set common rules for data gathering sophistication and diversification of financial operations and to develop various databases shared by the group and measure developments relating to information technology by utilizing control operational risk as operational VAR on a regular basis, taking into self-assessments and improving measurement methods. account possible future loss events and changes in the business environment and internal management. Control self-assessments An autonomous method of risk management in which risk inherent We have established and are strengthening management methods in operations is identified and, after evaluating and monitoring and systems to appropriately identify, assess, measure, monitor, risks that remain despite implementing risk control, the necessary and control the operational risks that arise from the growing measures are implemented to reduce risk. Definition of risks and risk management methods As shown in the table on the previous page, we have defined management methods in accordance with the scale and nature of each component of operational risk, and we apply appropriate risk each risk. Measurement of operational risk equivalent 1. Implementation of the Advanced Measurement Approach 2. Outline of the AMA (AMA) Outline of the measurement system We have adopted the AMA for the calculation of operational risk We have established our model by taking account of four elements: equivalent in association with capital adequacy ratios based on the internal loss data; external loss data; scenario analysis and business Basel Accords. However, we use the Basic Indicator Approach for environment; and internal control factors (BEICFs). We calculate entities that are deemed to be less important in the measurement of the operational risk amount by estimating the maximum loss, operational risk equivalent. using a 99.9th percentile one-tailed confidence interval and a oneyear holding period as operational risk equivalent, employing both The measurement results under the AMA are used not only as the internal loss data (i.e., actually experienced operational loss events), operational risk equivalent in the calculation of capital adequacy and scenario data to reflect unexperienced potential future loss ratios but also as Operational VAR for internal risk management events in the measurement. purposes for implementing action plans to reduce operational risk, and other countermeasures. In the measurement of operational risk equivalent as of March 31, 2019, we did not exclude expected losses and also did not recognize the risk mitigating impact of insurance. In addition, we did not take into account the events related to credit risk in measuring operational risk equivalent. 2019 Integrated Report 114 Appendix Outline of measurement model Estimation of Frequency Distribution and Loss Severity Operational risk equivalent is calculated as a simple sum of those risk Distribution amounts related to the seven loss event types defined in the Capital Frequency Distribution is estimated by applying information on Adequacy Notice from Japan’s Financial Services Agency, large-scale occurrence frequency of both internal loss data and scenario data to natural disasters, and litigation. In the measurement of operational Poisson Distribution. Loss Severity Distribution is generated as the risk equivalent as of March 31, 2019, we did not reflect the correlation result of combining, through a statistical approach (Extreme Value effects among operational risk related to each of the seven loss event Theory), of the actual distribution for the low severity distribution types. portion created by internal loss data and another loss distribution (Log-normal Distribution or Generalized Pareto Distribution) for the Operational risk by loss event type high severity distribution portion created by scenario data. Loss Distribution (Compound Poisson Distribution) Approach (LDA) is adopted for the calculation of operational risk. LDA is based on the assumption that Poisson Distribution applies to the occurrence frequency of operational risk events, and loss severity is expressed through a separate distribution. Operational risk is calculated for each of the seven loss event types employing both internal loss data, based on our actual experience as operational loss events, and scenario data. Scenario data, expressed as numerical values of occurrence frequency and loss severity, reflects external loss data and BEICFs, in order to estimate unexperienced potential future loss events (of low frequency and high severity). Frequency Distribution and Severity Distribution are estimated employing the above mentioned internal loss data and scenario data, and Monte-Carlo simulations are then applied to these distributions to measure operational risk. The detailed steps of creation of scenario data are explained later in the Scenario Analysis. Outline of measurement model Internal loss data External loss data Business environment and Litigation data internal control factors Scenario analysis Risk amount for litigation risk Large-scale natural Risk amount for large-scale Scenario data disaster scenario data natural disasters Risk amount for internal fraud Risk amount for external fraud Distribution of Distribution of Unified Loss distribution Risk amount for employment internal loss scenario data distribution practices and workplace safety Monte-Carlo simulation Risk amount for customers, Frequency Frequency Frequency products, and business practices distribution distribution distribution Risk amount for damage to information information information physical assets Risk amount Risk amount for business Loss severity Loss severity Loss severity disruption and system failure distribution distribution distribution Calculate risk amount information information information by seven loss event Risk amount for execution, types defined by BIS delivery, and process management Operational VAR (Total operational risk amount) Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Risk management structure Operational risk of large-scale natural disasters Setting units for scenario analysis Monte-Carlo simulation is applied to the datasets expressed as a In order to ensure completeness and sufficiency, we set units that combination of the probability of occurrence of large-scale natural are commonly applied across group entities that adopt AMA (the disasters and the probable loss amount in case of such occurrence, “Group Entities”) by referencing and categorizing risk scenarios as opposed to estimating Frequency Distribution and Loss Severity recognized through control self-assessment, internal loss data of Distribution. the Group Entities, external loss data, etc. Then each of the Group Entities selects the unit on which scenario analysis is conducted from Operational risk of litigation the units established on a group-wide basis in accordance with its Each litigation is converted into data according to the profile of the business activities and operational risk profile. individual litigation to which Monte-Carlo simulation is applied, as opposed to estimating Frequency Distribution and Loss Severity Estimation of occurrence frequency Distribution. Basic occurrence frequency (once a year) is calculated for each scenario analysis unit. If a certain scenario analysis unit has relevant Verification internal loss data of a pre-determined threshold amount or above, We confirm the appropriateness of the measurement model by its basic occurrence frequency is calculated based on such data, and verifying it, in principle, semi-annually. if not, the basic occurrence frequency (the occurrence frequency per year of losses at or above a pre-determined threshold) is calculated 3. Scenario analysis with reference to the situation of occurrence of internal loss data of Outline of scenario analysis less than the threshold amount and/or external loss data. The basic In the process of scenario analysis, scenario data is created as occurrence frequency is then adjusted within a pre-determined range numerical values of occurrence frequency and loss severity reflecting for the purpose of reflecting the most recent BEICFs to determine the external loss data and BEICFs, in order to estimate unexperienced final occurrence frequency. potential future operational risk events (of low frequency and high severity). Estimation of Loss Severity Distribution In order to estimate Loss Severity Distribution, we use a preAs for external loss data, we refer to data publicly reported by determined series of severity ranges. Basic Loss Severity Distribution domestic and overseas media, and such data are reflected in the is calculated for each scenario analysis unit as an occurrence ratio estimation of occurrence frequency and Loss Severity Distribution in (in percentile figures) of loss at each severity range when losses the process of scenario analysis. In addition, BEICFs are utilized as at or above a pre-determined threshold occurred, with reference indices to adjust occurrence frequency and Loss Severity Distribution to transaction amount data, external loss data, etc. Then the basic in the process of scenario analysis. severity distribution is adjusted, if necessary, from the viewpoint of statistical data processing to determine the final Loss Severity We categorize scenario analysis into four approaches in accordance Distribution. with the characteristics of each loss event type and risk management structures. Creation of scenario data For each scenario analysis unit, scenario data is generated as a series Approach Loss event type(s) to be applied of combinations of occurrence frequency per year at each severity Internal fraud / external fraud / clients, products, and business range, based on the final occurrence frequency and the final Loss A practices / execution, delivery, and process management Severity Distribution. B Employment practices and workplace safety C Damage to physical assets Example of scenario data D Business disruption and system failure Final loss severity distribution Severity range (¥ billion) At Mizuho Financial Group, loss event types to which Approach A is Total applied account for a considerable amount of operational risk. The 0.1 0.5 1 5 10 detailed process of Approach A is explained here as a typical example Occurrence ratio (%) 40 30 15 10 5 100 of scenario analysis. Occurrence frequency (times) 0.4 0.3 0.15 0.1 0.05 1 Final occurrence frequency (As of July 1, 2019) 2019 Integrated Report 116 Appendix Business continuity management In light of our social responsibility and the important role Mizuho These offices function as a controller in the event of an emergency plays within the social infrastructure as a financial institution, that may materially impact business management, by collecting and ensuring the continuity of financial settlement functions and the swift analyzing information, formulating countermeasures, and taking and efficient recovery of operations in the event of an emergency is other necessary action. In addition, their role includes collecting and one of our top priorities within the group. analyzing signs and indicators of a potential crisis, and reporting their findings promptly to management. To improve business continuity management practices across the group, we assess the potential impact of emergencies beforehand Particular focus is placed on strengthening our response to natural and formulate necessary countermeasures in order to minimize such disasters, covering not only earthquakes and tsunamis but also impact, and to ensure the swift and efficient recovery of operations. volcanic eruptions, large-scale wind or water damage, and facilitating initial responses to acts of terrorism and riots. We also focus on One of the ways in which we are working to achieve this is by responses to cyberattacks that have been occurring with increasing establishing Crisis Management Offices within Mizuho Financial frequency around the world. Group, Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, and Mizuho Securities that are responsible for business continuity management and our Also, to secure the effectiveness of our measures to deal with responses in the event of emergency. emergencies, group-wide practice drills and training sessions are conducted on an annual basis. Mizuho Financial Group Senior executives Mizuho Financial Group Executive Officers as Defined in Yasumasa Mukai Managing Executive Officer Members of the Board of Directors Our Internal Regulations In charge of Specific Business of IT& Systems Group, President & CEO of Mizuho Information & Research Executive Officers as Defined in Toshitsugu Okabe Institute the Companies Act Deputy Chairman & Executive Officer Takuo Murakami In charge of Specially Assinged Matters Managing Executive Officer Tatsufumi Sakai Daisaku Abe Joint Head of Asset management Company* President & CEO Deputy Chairman & Executive Officer (Representative Executive Officer) Head of Internal Audit Group / In charge of Specially Hiroshi Nagamine Group CEO Assigned Matters Managing Executive Officer Head of Europe, Middle East and Africa Satoshi Ishii Satoshi Miyazaki Senior Managing Executive Officer Deputy President & Executive Officer Masayuki Sugawara Chief Digital Innovation Officer / Head of IT & Systems Group / In charge of Western Japan (Kinki, Chugoku, and Managing Executive Officer Head of Operations Group (CDIO & Group CIO & Group COO) Shikoku regions) Head of East Asia Makoto Umemiya Naofumi Fuke Masao Kanamaru Managing Executive Officer Senior Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group (Group CFO) Deputy Head of Retail & Business Banking Company Joint Head of Global Corporate Company* / Joint Head of Global Products Unit* Motonori Wakabayashi Teiji Teramoto Managing Executive Officer Senior Managing Executive Officer Hidekatsu Take Head of Research & Consulting Unit / Head of Risk Head of the Americas Managing Executive Officer Management Group (Group CRO), President & CEO Head of Asia & Oceania excl. East Asia of Mizuho Research Institute (appointed on June 28) Kenji Fujii Managing Executive Officer Naoto Takahashi Hiroaki Ehara Joint Head of Research & Consulting Unit* / Joint Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer In charge of Specific Business of Strategic Panning Head of Risk Management Group* Head of Human Resources Group (Group CHRO) Group / General Manager of Next-Generation IT Yasuto Hamanishi Systems Coordination Project Team / Joint Head of Yasuhiro Sato Managing Executive Officer Strategic Planning Group* / Joint Head of Financial Member of the Board of Directors Joint Head of Corporate & Institutional Company* / Control & Accounting Group* Chairman Joint Head of Global Corporate Company* / Joint Head of Global Products Unit* Hiroshi Itabashi Hisaaki Hirama Managing Executive Officer Member of the Board of Directors Taiji Kumagai Joint Head of Corporate & Institutional Company* Managing Executive Officer Masahiro Kosugi Joint Head of Compliance Group* Hiroyuki Iijima Member of the Board of Directors Managing Executive Officer Masaya Oishi In charge of Specific Business of Retail & Business Tetsuo Seki Managing Executive Officer Banking Company Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Joint Head of Asset management Company* Kei Umeda Tatsuo Kainaka Koji Arita Managing Executive Officer Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Managing Executive Officer Joint Head of Global Products Unit* Hirotake Abe Deputy Head of Operations Group Akihito Mochizuki Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Koji Yonei Managing Executive Officer Masami Yamamoto Managing Executive Officer Joint Head of Internal Audit Group* Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Deputy Head of IT & Systems Group / General manager of IT & Systems Promotion Department Shoji Yakabe Hiroko Ota Executive Officer Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Atsushi Takahashi Joint Head of IT & Systems Group* / Joint Head of Managing Executive Officer Operations Group* Izumi Kobayashi Joint Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group* / Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Joint Head of IT & Systems Group* / Joint Head of Tatsuhiro Takahashi Operations Group* Executive Officer Junichi Kato General Manager of IT & Systems Planning Senior Managing Executive Officer Masatoshi Yoshihara Department (Representative Executive Officer) Managing Executive Officer Deputy Head of Global Markets Company Eishi Shimizu Head of Global Markets Company Executive Officer Takafumi Matake General Manager of Operations Planning Department Akira Nakamura Managing Executive Officer Senior Managing Executive Officer Joint Head of Human Resources Group* Yasuto Sengoku Head of Corporate & Institutional Company Executive Officer Toshiro Egawa Joint Head of Internal Audit Group* Seiji Imai Managing Executive Officer Senior Managing Executive Officer In charge of Specific Business of Retail & Business Bo Kusanagi Head of Global Corporate Company Banking Company Executive Officer Deputy Head of Asset Management Company Masahiro Otsuka Yuzo Kanamori Senior Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Yasuhiko Ushikubo Head of Retail & Business Banking Company Joint Head of Global Corporate Company* / Joint Executive Officer Head of Strategic Planning Group* Deputy Head of Research & Consulting Unit, Director Shuji Kojima Senior Managing Executive Officer of Mizuho Managing Executive Officer Hidenobu Mukai Research Institute (appointed on June 28) Head of Compliance Group (Group CCO) Managing Executive Officer In charge of Specific Business of Retail & Business Manabu Akasaka Goji Fujishiro Banking Company / Deputy Head of Digital Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Innovation Strategy Joint Head of Global Markets Company* Head of Asset Management Company / Head of Global Products Unit Keisuke Saito Shingo Suwabe Managing Executive Officer Executive Officer Hisashi Kikuchi Joint Head of Global Products Unit* In charge of Specific Business of IT& Systems Group, Managing Executive Officer Senior Managing Director of Mizuho Information & Head of Strategic Planning Group (Group CSO) Yasuhiro Shibata Research Institute Managing Executive Officer Joint Head of Global Markets Company* Naoshi Inomata Executive Officer In charge of Specially Assinged Matters 2019 Integrated Report 118 Shinya Matake Executive Officers Yuzo Kanamori** Executive Officer Executive Managing Director Joint Head of Retail & Business Banking Company* (Head of Each Region Outside Japan) Head of Strategic Planning Group / In charge of Markets Strategic Intelligence Dept. / Joint Head of Global Finance / Kenya Koshimizu Teiji Teramoto Joint Head of Global Risk Management / Joint Head of Executive Officer Senior Managing Executive Officer Global IT / Joint Head of Global Operations / Joint Head of Joint Head of Global Markets Company* Head of the Americas Global Compliance/ Joint Head of Global Human Resources Masaomi Takada Hiroshi Nagamine Kosuke Nakamura Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Chairman General Manager of Executive Secretariat Head of Europe, Middle East and Africa Tatsufumi Sakai Satoshi Yoneda Masayuki Sugawara Member of the Board of Directors Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Junichi Kato General Manager of Branch Banking Department Head of East Asia Member of the Board of Directors Tetsuya Akutsu Hidekatsu Take Akira Nakamura Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Member of the Board of Directors General Manager of Global Corporate Coordination Head of Asia & Oceania excl. East Asia Department Masahiro Otsuka Makoto Matsubara Mizuho Trust & Banking Member of the Board of Directors Executive Officer Members of the Board of Directors Hidetaka Kawakita General Manager of Global Talent Planning and Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Management Department Tetsuo Iimori** Hideyuki Kawashima Fumio Tajima President & CEO (Representative Director) Member of the Board of Directors (Audit & Executive Officer Supervisory Committee Member) General Manager of Global Products Coordination Isao Nakamura** Department Deputy President (Representative Director) Daisaku Abe Head of Business Promotion Member of the Board of Directors (Audit & Satoshi Asai Supervisory Committee Member) Executive Officer Naoto Takahashi** Deputy Head of Financial Control & Accounting Executive Managing Director Yuji Yoshimasu Group / Deputy Head of Human Resources Group Head of Strategic Planning, Financial Control & Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Accounting Group / In charge of Executive Secretariat Director, Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Hiroya Uchimura Executive Officer Tatsufumi Sakai Yasuhisa Hashimoto General Manager of Credit Risk Management Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Department Director, Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Akira Nakamura Nobuhiro Kaminoyama Member of the Board of Directors Masaru Ono Executive Officer Member of the Board of Directors (Outside General Manager of Corporate Secretariat Masahiro Otsuka Director, Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Member of the Board of Directors Atsushi Ishisaka Executive Officer Masaru Ono Notes: General Manager of Corporate & Institutional Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) 1. * indicates the omission of “for cross-entity Coordination Department strategy” Eiji Ogawa Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Mizuho Bank 2. ** indicates directors concurrently serving as Masato Monguchi executive officers Members of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) 3. Executive officers, excluding the directors Koji Fujiwara ** concurrently serving as executive officers President & CEO (Representative Director) Daisaku Abe Member of the Board of Directors (Audit & and executive officers responsible for global Satoshi Miyazaki ** Supervisory Committee Member) regional operations of Mizuho Bank, have not Deputy President (Representative Director) been listed. In charge of Western Japan (Kinki, Chugoku, and Masayuki Satake Member of the Board of Directors (Outside 4. Executive officers, excluding the directors Shikoku regions) concurrently serving as executive officers of Director, Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Kiyoshi Miyake ** Kiyotaka Fuke Mizuho Trust & Banking and Mizuho Securities, Deputy President (Representative Director) have not been listed. Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Head of Business Promotion Director, Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) (As of June 21, 2019, except specially noted date of Takahiko Yasuhara** Yoshikazu Nishiwaki appointment) Deputy President (Representative Director) Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Head of Business Promotion Director, Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Tatsufumi Sakai Member of the Board of Directors Mizuho Securities Kazutoshi Narita Members of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Koichi Iida** President & CEO(Representative Director) Toshitsugu Okabe Member of the Board of Directors Atsushi Takahashi** (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Deputy President (Representative Director) Yukio Machida Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group / Head Member of the Board of Directors(Outside of IT & Systems Group / Head of Operations Group / Director, Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Head of Global Finance / Head of Global IT / Head of Global Operations Shigeo Ohara Member of the Board of Directors(Outside Masaya Oishi** Director, Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Executive Managing Director Head of Fund Business Division / In charge of JA Toshio Kinoshita Sales Dept. of Global Markets Division Member of the Board of Directors(Outside Director, Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Seiji Koga Member of the Board of Directors(Outside Director, Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Mizuho Financial Group Location of offices outside Japan (As of June 30, 2019) Network of Mizuho Bank Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. India Shenzhen Branch Bangalore-Devanahalli Branch Asia and Oceania 30th Floor, Huanggang Business Center Tower1, Jintian Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, #462/440/339, 2nd Floor, Near Jain Temple, N.H.7/4-207, (Country/Region) Guangdong Province 518046, B.B. Road, Vijayapura Cross, Devanahalli Town, The People’s Republic of China Bangalore Rural District 562 110, Karnataka, India Australia Tel 86-755-8282-9000 Tel 91-80-4968-2000 Sydney Branch Chennai Branch Level 33, 60 Margaret Street, Sydney, N.S.W. 2000, Australia Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Unit No. 11B, 11th Floor, Prestige Palladium Bayan, Tel 61-2-8273-3888 Suzhou Branch Nos. 129 to 140, Greams Road, Chennai – 600 006, 17th Floor, Genway Building, 188 Wangdun Road, Tamil Nadu, India Mizuho Australia Ltd. Suzhou Industrial Park, Suzhou, Jiangsu Province 215123, Tel 91-44-4928-6600 Level 33, 60 Margaret Street, Sydney, N.S.W. 2000, Australia The People’s Republic of China Tel 61-2-8273-3888 Tel 86-512-6733-6888 Mumbai Branch Level 17 TOWER–A Peninsula Business Park, Cambodia Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai 400013, India Phnom Penh Branch Tianjin Branch Tel 91-22-4911-2000 11th Floor, International Financial Center Building, 13A Floor, Phnom Penh Tower, #445, Monivong Blvd (St. 93/232) Sangkat Boeung Pralit, No.136 Chifeng Road, Heping District, Tianjin, New Delhi Branch The People’s Republic of China 1st Floor, DLF Capitol Point, Baba Kharag Singh Marg, Khan 7 Makara, Phnom Penh, Cambodia Tel 86-22-6622-5588 Tel 855-23-964-490 Connaught Place, New Delhi, 110001, India Tel 91-11-3041-0900 Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. China Wuhan Branch Ahmedabad Branch Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. 5th Floor, Tower A, New World Center Tower, Office No. 402, 4th Floor, Commerce House–5, 23rd Floor, Shanghai World Financial Center, 634 Jiefang Avenue, Hankou, Wuhan, Nr. Vodafone House, Prahladnagar Corporate Road, 100 Century Avenue, Pudong New Area, Shanghai Hubei Province 430032, Prahladnagar Satellite, Ahmedabad–380 051, India 200120, The People’s Republic of China The People’s Republic of China Tel 91-79-4014-4666 Tel 86-21-3855-8888 Tel 86-27-8342-5000 Indonesia Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Wuxi Branch PT. Bank Mizuho Indonesia Shanghai Hongqiao Sub-Branch Sinar Mas Land Plaza Menara 2, 24th Floor, Room 504; 510; 511; 515 (Nominal No. Room A601; 8th Floor, Wuxi SI Park B, No. 16 Changjiang Road, WND, Wuxi, Jiangsu Province 214028, Jl. M. H. Thamrin No. 51, Jakarta 10350, A602; B601; B602), Hongqiao Sunnyworld Center, The People’s Republic of China Republic of Indonesia No. 1226 South Shenbin Road, Minhang District, Tel 86-510-8522-3939 Tel 62-21-392-5222 Shanghai 201106, The People’s Republic of China Tel 86-21-3411-8688 Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Korea Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Changshu Sub-Branch Seoul Branch Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone Sub-Branch Room701-704, Kechuang Building, No. 33 Dongnan Road, 19th Floor, Seoul Finance Center, 136, Sejong-daero, Room 01, 08, 09, 10, 11, 12, 7F, Shanghai International Changshu New & Hi-tech Industrial Development Zone, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea Communication and Trade Building, 55 Jilong Road, Jiangsu Province, 215500, The People’s Republic of China Tel 822-3782-8500 Shanghai 200131, The People’s Republic of China Tel 86-512-6733-6888 Tel 86-21-3855-8888 Malaysia Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Dalian Economic & Technological Labuan Branch Beijing Branch Development Area Sub-Branch Level 9 (B) & (C), Main Office Tower, 8th Floor, West Wing, World Financial Center, 22nd Floor, International Business Building of Gugeng, Financial Park Labuan, Jalan Merdeka, No. 1 Dong San Huan Zhong Road, Chaoyang District, No. 81 Hongmei Area, Dalian Economic & Technological 87000 Federal Territory of Labuan, Malaysia Beijing 100020, The People’s Republic of China Development Area, Dalian, Liaoning Province 116600, Tel 60-87-417766 Tel 86-10-6525-1888 The People’s Republic of China Tel 86-411-8793-5670 Labuan Branch, Kuala Lumpur Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Marketing Office Dalian Branch Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Level 27, Menara Maxis, Kuala Lumpur City Centre, 23rd Floor, 24th Floor-A, Senmao Building, Kunshan Sub-Branch 50088 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 147 Zhongshan Road, Xigang District, Room D,E, 18th Floor, Dongan Building, Tel 60-3-2070-6880 Dalian, Liaoning Province 116011, No. 258 Chunxu Road, Development Zone Kunshan City, The People’s Republic of China Kunshan, Jiangsu Province 215300, Mizuho Bank (Malaysia) Berhad Tel 86-411-8360-2543 The People’s Republic of China Level 27, Menara Maxis, Kuala Lumpur City Centre, Tel 86-512-6733-6888 50088 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Tel 60-3-2058-6881 Guangzhou Branch Nanjing Representative Office 25th Floor, International Finance Place, No. 8 Huaxia Road, Room 2220, Suning Universal Hotel, 188 Guangzhou Road, Myanmar Zhujiang New Town, Tianhe District, Guangzhou, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province 210024, The People’s Republic of China Yangon Branch Guangdong Province 510623, The People’s Republic of China Tel 86-25-8332-9379 Sedona Business Suites, Level 4, Tel 86-20-3815-0888 No. 1 Ka Ba Aye Pagoda Road, Yankin Township, Yangon, Xiamen Representative Office Republic of the Union of Myanmar Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Room 2102, The Bank Center, No. 189 Xiahe Road, Tel 95-1-860-5501 Siming District, Xiamen, Fujian Province 361003, Hefei Branch The People’s Republic of China Yangon Branch Thilawa Front Office Room No. 1902-1907, No. 7 Office Building Wanda Plaza, Room No. 204, Administration Building, Tel 86-592-239-5571 130 Maanshan Street, Baohe District, Hefei, Corner of Thilawa Development Road and Dagon-Thilawa Anhui Province, The People’s Republic of China Tel 86-551-6380-0690 Hong Kong Road, Thilawa SEZ, Thanlyin Township, Yangon, Republic of the Union of Myanmar Hong Kong Branch Tel 95-1-230-9046 Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. 13/F, K11 Atelier, 18 Salisbury Road Tsim Sha Tsui, Qingdao Branch Kowloon Hong Kong, S.A.R., Philippines 44th Floor, Qingdao International Finance Center, The People’s Republic of China 59 Hong Kong Middle Road, Shinan District, Qingdao, Tel 852-2306-5000 Manila Branch Shandong Province 266071, 25th Floor, Zuellig Building, Makati Avenue corner Paseo de The People’s Republic of China Roxas, Makati City 1225, Metro Manila, Philippines Tel 86-532-8097-0001 Tel 63-2-860-3500 India 2019 Integrated Report 120 Singapore Frankfurt Branch Brazil TaunusTurm 34th Floor, Taunustor 1, 60310 Frankfurt am Singapore Branch Main, Germany Banco Mizuho do Brasil S.A. 12 Marina View, #08-01 Asia Square Tower 2, Tel 49-69-29-72-95-0 Avenida Presidente Juscelino Kubitschek, Singapore 018961, Republic of Singapore 2041Torre E-7 andar, Vila Olimpia, Sao Paulo, SP, Tel 65-6805-2000 Iran CEP. 04543-011, Brazil Tel 55-11-5504-9844 Taiwan Tehran Representative Office 3rd Floor, No. 1, 14th Street, Khaled Eslamboli Avenue, Canada Kaohsiung Branch Tehran 15117, Iran 12th Floor, No. 2, Chung Cheng 3rd Road, Tel 98-21-8872-6593 Canada Branch Kaohsiung 800, Taiwan 100 Yonge Street, Suite 1102, Toronto, Ontario, Tel 886-7-236-8768 Italy Canada, M5C 2W1 Tel 1-416-874-0222 Taichung Branch Milan Branch 8th Floor, No. 169, Fuhui Parkway, Taichung 407, Taiwan 6th Floor, Largo Augusto 7, 20122 Milan, Republic of Italy Calgary Office Tel 886-4-2374-6300 Tel 39-02-778-0001 Suite 1000, 888 3rd Street, South West, Calgary, Alberta, Canada, T2P 5C5 Taipei Branch Saudi Arabia Tel 1-403-444-5375 8-9th Floor, Cathay Landmark Square, 68 Zhong Xiao East Road, Xinyi District, Mizuho Saudi Arabia Company Cayman Islands Taipei, Taiwan North Lobby 1st Floor, Al Faisaliah Tower, Tel 886-2-8726-3000 King Fahd Road, Olaya District, Riyadh 11544, Cayman Branch Kingdom of Saudi Arabia P. O. Box 1353, Harbour Place, 5th Floor, Thailand Tel 966-11-273-4111 103 South Church Street, George Town, Grand Cayman KY1-1108, Cayman Islands Bangkok Branch South Africa 98 Sathorn Square Office Tower 32nd – 35th floor, Johannesburg Representative Office Chile North Sathorn Road, Silom, Bangrak, Bangkok 10500, Thailand 2nd Floor, West Tower, Maude Street, Santiago Representative Office Tel 66-2-163-2999, 2-002-0222 Nelson Mandela Square, Sandton 2196, South Africa, Av. Apoquindo 3472, Piso 7, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile P.O. Box 785553, Sandton 2146 Tel 56-2-3203-5773 Eastern Seaboard Branch Tel 27-11-881-5410 300/7 ESIE Plaza 2, Unit No. 2-05 Moo 1, Tambol Ta Sit, Mexico Amphoe Pluak Daeng, Rayong 21140, Thailand Spain Tel 66-3-899-7000 Mexico Representative Office Mizuho Bank Europe N.V. Paseo de la Reforma 342, Piso 10, Colonia Juarez, Vietnam Madrid Branch Delegacion, Cuauhtemoc, 06600, Ciudad de Mexico, Mexico Calle Orense 34, Planta 6, Edificio Iberia Mart Ⅱ, Tel 52-55-5281-5037 Hanoi Branch 28020 Madrid, Spain 4th Floor, 63 LTT Building, 63 Ly Thai To Street, Hanoi, Tel 34-91-598-2905 Mizuho Bank Mexico, S.A. Socialist Republic of Vietnam Paseo de la Reforma 342, Piso 10, Colonia Juarez, Tel 84-24-3936-3123/3124 The Netherlands Delegacion, Cuauhtemoc, 06600, Ciudad de Mexico, Mexico Mizuho Bank Europe N.V. Tel 52-55-5281-5037 Ho Chi Minh City Branch 18th Floor, Sun Wah Tower, Apollolaan 171, 1077 AS Amsterdam, The Netherlands 115 Nguyen Hue Boulevard, District 1, Tel 31-20-5734343 Mizuho Bank Mexico, S.A. Ho Chi Minh City, Socialist Republic of Vietnam León Office Tel 84-28-3827-8260/8292 Turkey Blvd. Paseo de los Insurgentes 3356, Torre 2, nivel 2, Col. San Jose de las Piletas, 37530 Leon, Europe, the Middle East and Africa Istanbul Representative Office Guanajuato, Mexico Office 813, Tekfen Tower 8th Floor, Tel 52-477-6885-248/249 (Country/Region) Buyukdere Caddesi No. 209, 4. Levent 34394, Istanbul, Austria Turkey USA Tel 90-212-371-8474 Mizuho Bank Europe N.V. Chicago Branch Vienna Branch UAE 311 South Wacker Drive, Suite 2100, Chicago, IL 60606, USA DC Tower 26th Floor, Donau-City-Strasse 7, DIFC Branch-Dubai Tel 1-312-855-1111 1220 Vienna, Austria The Gate Building, East Wing, Level 5, Dubai International Tel 43-1-269-1000-00 Financial Centre, P.O. Box No: 506607, Dubai, United Arab Los Angeles Branch Emirates 350 South Grand Avenue, Suite 1500, Los Angeles, Bahrain Tel 971-4-279-4400 CA 90071, USA Bahrain Representative Office Tel 1-213-243-4500 Suite 201-202, Entrance 4, 2nd Floor, Manama Center, United Kingdom New York Branch Manama, Bahrain London Branch 1251 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10020, USA (P.O. BOX 5759, Manama, Bahrain) Mizuho House, 30 Old Bailey, London EC4M 7AU, United Tel 1-212-282-3000 Tel 973-17-224522 Kingdom Belgium Tel 44-20-7012-4000 Park Avenue Branch 320 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10022, USA Mizuho Bank Europe N.V. Russia Tel 1-212-282-3000 Brussels Branch AO Mizuho Bank (Moscow) Atlanta Representative Office Avenue Louise 480, 1050 Brussels, Belgium 5th floor, 20, bld.1, Ovchinnikovskaya nab., 3353 Peachtree Road NE, Atlanta Financial Center, Tel 32-2-645-5280 115035 Moscow, Russian Federation Suite 500, Atlanta, GA 30326, USA Tel 7-495-212-0333 Tel 1-404-364-1550 France Paris Branch The Americas Dallas Representative Office Washington Plaza 40, rue Washington, (Country/Region) 5345 Towne Square Drive, Suite 285, Plano, 75408 Paris Cedex 08, France TX 75024, USA Tel 33-1-5383-4000 Bahamas Tel 1-972-324-3350 Mizuho Bank (USA) Nassau Branch Germany 308 East Bay Street, P.O. Box N-7768, Nassau, Bahamas Düsseldorf Branch Benrather Strasse 18-20, 40213 Duesseldorf, F.R. Germany Tel 49-211-13020 Mizuho Financial Group Houston Representative Office Network of Mizuho Trust & Banking Mizuho International plc 2700 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 1270, Houston, TX 77056, USA Madrid Representative Office Office 1807. Madrid Torre Europa, Paseo de la Tel 1-713-499-4800 Mizuho Trust & Banking Castellana 95 -15º, San Francisco Representative Office (Torre Europa), Madrid, 28046, Spain (Luxembourg) S.A. Tel 34-91-418-69-00 235 Pine Street, Floor 19, San Francisco, CA 94104, USA 1B, rue Gabriel Lippmann, L-5365 Munsbach, Tel 1-415-365-1750 Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Mizuho Securities Europe GmbH Tel 352-42-16-17-1 TaunusTurm 34th Floor, Taunustor 1, Washington, D.C. Representative Office 60310 Frankfurt am Main, Germany 1275 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Suite 310, Washington, Tel 49-69-42729-3000 DC 20004, USA Network of Mizuho Securities Tel 1-202-292-5080 Mizuho Securities USA LLC 320 Park Avenue, 12th Floor, New York, NY 10022, USA Mizuho Bank (USA) Beijing Representative Office Tel 1-212-209-9300 1251 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10020, USA 8011, Chang-Fu-Gong Office Building, Jia 26, Tel 1-212-282-3000 Jianguomenwai Street, Chaoyang District, Mizuho Securities USA LLC Beijing 100022, The People’s Republic of China Boston Office Mizuho Bank (USA) Tel 86-10-6523-4779 125 High Street, 21st Floor, Boston, MA 02110, USA Atlanta Representative Office Tel 1-617-235-1722 3353 Peachtree Road NE, Atlanta Financial Center, Shanghai Representative Office Suite 500, Atlanta, GA 30326, USA T32 33rd floor, Shanghai World Financial Center, Mizuho Securities USA LLC Tel 1-404-364-1550 100 Century Avenue, Pudong New Area, Shanghai Chicago Office 200120, The People’s Republic of China 311 South Wacker Drive, Suite 700, Chicago, Mizuho Bank (USA) Tel 86-21-6877-8000 IL 60606, USA Tel 1-312-294-8800 Chicago Representative Office Mizuho Investment Consulting 311 South Wacker Drive, Suite 2100, Chicago, IL 60606, Mizuho Securities USA LLC USA (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Tel 1-312-855-1111 T51 33rd floor, Shanghai World Financial Center, Chicago Office (Investment Banking) 100 Century Avenue, Pudong New Area, Shanghai 311 South Wacker Drive, Suite 2100, Chicago, 200120, The People’s Republic of China IL 60606, USA Mizuho Bank (USA) Tel 1-312-855-1111 Tel 86-21-6877-5888 Dallas Representative Office 5345 Towne Square Drive, Suite 285, Plano, TX 75024, USA Mizuho Investment Consulting Mizuho Securities USA LLC Tel 1-972-324-3350 (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Houston Office (Investment Banking) Beijing Branch 2700 Post Oak Blvd, Suite 1270, Houston, Mizuho Bank (USA) 6010, Chang-Fu-Gong Office Building, Jia 26, TX 77056, USA Houston Representative Office Jianguomenwai Street, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100022, Tel 1-713-499-4800 2700 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 1270, Houston, TX 77056, USA The People’s Republic of China Tel 1-713-499-4800 Tel 86-10-6526-7577 Mizuho Securities USA LLC Iselin Office Mizuho Bank (USA) Mizuho Securities Asia Limited 101 Wood Avenue S, 3rd Floor, Iselin, NJ 08830, USA Los Angeles Representative Office 14-15/F, K11 Atelier, 18 Salisbury Road, Tel 1-201-626-1000 350 South Grand Avenue, Suite 1500, Los Angeles, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong, S.A.R., CA 90071, USA The People’s Republic of China Mizuho Securities USA LLC Tel 1-213-243-4500 Tel 852-2685-2000 Los Angeles Office (Investment Banking) 350 South Grand Avenue, Suite 1500, Los Angeles, Mizuho Bank (USA) Mizuho Securities Asia Limited, CA 90071, USA Park Avenue Branch Seoul Branch Tel 1-213-243-4500 20th Floor, Seoul Finance Center, 136, 320 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10022, USA Sejongdaero, Jung-gu, Seoul, 04520, Korea Mizuho Securities USA LLC Tel 1-212-282-3000 Tel 822-2206-1800 New York Office (Investment Banking) 1251 Avenue of the Americas, 30th Floor, Mizuho Bank (USA) Mizuho Securities Asia Limited New York, NY 10020, USA San Francisco Representative Office (Sydney Office) Tel 1-212-282-3000 235 Pine Street, Floor 19, San Francisco, CA 94104, USA Level 33, 60 Margaret Street, Sydney, N.S.W. 2000, Tel 1-415-365-1750 Australia Mizuho Securities USA LLC Tel 612-8114-4511 San Francisco Office Mizuho Alternative Investments, LLC 235 Pine Street, 19th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94104, USA 757 Third Avenue, 8th Floor, New York, NY 10017, USA Mizuho Securities India Private Limited Tel 1-415-268-5500 Tel 1-212-282-4420 Level 18, TOWER–A, Peninsula Business Park, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai 400013, India Mizuho Securities USA LLC Mizuho Capital Markets LLC Tel 91-22-4353-7600 San Francisco Office (Investment Banking) 320 Park Avenue, 12th Floor, New York, NY 10022, USA 235 Pine Street, 19th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94104, USA Tel 1-212-547-1500 Mizuho Securities (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Tel 1-415365-1750 12 Marina View #10-01A, Asia Square Tower 2, Mizuho Desk Singapore 018961 (Country/Region) Tel 65-6603-5688 Network of Asset Management One Mizuho (Switzerland) Ltd UAE Loewenstrasse 32, 8021 Zurich, Switzerland Asset Management One Hong Kong Limited Tel 41-44-216-9111 12/F., K11 Atelier, 18 Salisbury Road, Mashreqbank psc Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong, S.A.R, Japan Desk, Mashreqbank Building 3F, Dubai Internet City, The People’s Republic of China Mashreqbank, P.O. Box 1250, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Mizuho International plc Mizuho House, 30 Old Bailey, London EC4M 7AU, United Tel 852-2918-9030 Tel 971-4-363-2324/2285 Kingdom Tel 44-20-7236-1090 Asset Management One Singapore Pte. Ltd. “Mizuho Desk” 2 Shenton Way #12-01 SGX Centre I, Singapore 068804 By forming tie-ups with major financial institutions in Mizuho International plc Tel 65-6532-5470 regions where Mizuho does not possess offices, we offer our clients financial services through various Frankfurt Office institutions. (Transactions are conducted directly TaunusTurm 34th Floor, Taunustor 1, 60310 Frankfurt am Asset Management One USA Inc. Main, Germany 400 Park Avenue, 4th Floor, New York, NY 10022, USA between the client and the local financial institution.) Tel 1-212-350-7650 Mizuho International plc (DIFC Branch) Asset Management One International Ltd. The Gate Building, East Wing, Level 5, Mizuho House, 30 Old Bailey, London, EC4M 7AU, UK Dubai International Financial Centre, Tel 44-207-329-3777 PO Box 507206, Dubai, U.A.E. Tel 44-20-7090-6181 2019 Integrated Report 122 Investor information Date of establishment Convocation of general meetings of shareholders January 8, 2003 An ordinary general meeting of shareholders of the Company shall be convened no later than 3 months from the last day of Paid-in capital each business year and an extraordinary general meeting of ¥2,256.7 billion shareholders shall be convened whenever necessary. Issued shares Record date 25,392,498,945 shares 1. The Company shall deem shareholders having voting rights appearing in writing or electronically in the register of Number of shareholders shareholders as of the end of March 31 of each year as the Common stock: 999,140 shareholders who are entitled to exercise their rights at the ordinary general meeting of shareholders for the relevant Major shareholders (common stock) business year. 2. The provision of the preceding paragraph shall apply mutatis Percentage mutandis to the record date for voting rights at the general of shares Shares held outstanding meetings of holders of classes of stock, where there is a (%) matter to be resolved at an ordinary general meeting of The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. shareholders that requires, in addition to such resolution, a 1 1,360,079,600 5.35 resolution by the relevant general meeting of holders of class (Trustee account) of stock. Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 3. In addition to the preceding two paragraphs, the Company 2 1,065,112,500 4.19 (Trustee account) may set an extraordinary record date, when necessary, by Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. a determination by Executive Officer(s) under the authority 3 525,839,800 2.07 delegated by the Board of Directors and upon giving a prior (Trustee account 5) public notice thereof. Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 4 516,271,400 2.03 (Trustee account 9) Organizations that decide dividends from surplus The Company shall decide distribution of dividends from 5 JP Morgan Chase Bank 385151 393,575,328 1.55 surplus and other matters provided for in each item of Article 459, Paragraph 1 of the Companies Act of Japan, not by a State Street Bank resolution of a general meeting of shareholders, but by a 6 392,747,217 1.54 resolution of the Board of Directors, unless otherwise provided West Client – Treaty 505234 for in laws or regulations. Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 7 349,978,800 1.37 (Trustee account 1) Record date for distribution of dividends from surplus The record dates for distribution of dividends from surplus of Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. the Company shall be March 31 and September 30 of each year. 8 339,733,700 1.33 (Trustee account 7) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 9 325,188,100 1.28 (Trustee account 2) ADR* information Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. Outline of Mizuho Financial Group’s ADR 10 288,707,000 1.13 (Trustee account 4) 1. Exchange : New York Stock Exchange 2. Ticker symbol : MFG Notes: 1. Figures for the Percentage of Shares Outstanding are rounded 3. CUSIP : 60687Y109 down to the nearest second decimal place. 4. Conversion ratio : 1 ADR = 2 common shares 2. The Percentages of Shares Outstanding are calculated by excluding 5. Depositary bank : The Bank of New York Mellon the treasury stock (6,520,138 shares). 6. Local custodian bank : Mizuho Bank, Ltd.  (As of March 31, 2019) * ADRs are securities issued for the purpose of trading in the US in place of the underlying stock of foreign companies. As ADRs are registered with the SEC as US securities, they are traded, settled and held in custody in Stock listing substantively the same manner as the stocks of US companies. ADR is an (common stock) acronym for American Depositary Receipts. Tokyo Stock Exchange Accounting auditors Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC Shareholder register manager Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Share unit 100 shares Fiscal year April 1 to March 31 Mizuho Financial Group Disclosure Policy 1. Basic principles laws and regulations as well as stock exchange rules, we We are committed to growing together with our customers follow the defined disclosure procedures such as publishing in a stable and sustainable manner and bringing together such information in business reports (Jigyo–Hokoku), our group–wide expertise to contribute to the prosperity of annual securities reports (Yukashoken–Hokokusho), economies and societies throughout the world as the leading Integrated Report (Annual Review) and other disclosure Japanese financial services group with a global presence publications, as well as providing such information through and a broad customer base. For this reason, we place one of the information distribution systems of domestic and the highest management priorities on continuing to disclose international stock exchanges and through press releases. information to our customers, shareholders, and investors both We also endeavor to disclose other information in a fair, in and outside Japan in a fair, timely and appropriate manner, timely and appropriate manner. When we disclose such in order that they may form proper judgments and appraisals information, we basically publish on our website the of the group. To achieve this aim, we observe applicable information we disclose. In addition, we endeavor to utilize domestic and international laws and regulations as well as the latest disclosure methods and tools to provide more fair stock exchange rules relating to corporate disclosure, and we and widespread disclosure. establish and implement appropriate Disclosure Controls and (2) Investor relations activities Procedures. Investor relations activities to market participants both in and outside Japan such as shareholders, investors and 2. Disclosure Controls and Procedures securities analysts are conducted by the President & Group (1) Establishment and implementation of Disclosure Controls CEO, Group CFO, Chief IR Officer, and executives and and Procedures employees designated by them. In accordance with our Our Disclosure Controls and Procedures are established basic principles described in section 1 above, and with due to observe applicable domestic and international laws and attention to two–way communication, we endeavor sincerely regulations as well as stock exchange rules and to implement to facilitate a proper understanding of our management fair, timely and appropriate corporate disclosure. The strategies, financial condition and other matters. In this Disclosure Controls and Procedures are the process carried way, we aim to earn the trust of the market and obtain an out by directors, officers and employees of Mizuho Financial appropriate market reputation. Group and include Internal Controls over Financial Reporting designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding Beginning with the disclosure required by applicable the reliability of Financial Reporting and the Preparation domestic and international laws and regulations as of Financial Statements. We have established the basic well as stock exchange rules, we endeavor to grasp principles underlying our Disclosure Controls and Procedures properly the types of information desired by the market as well as our internal rules related to Disclosure Controls and and to disclose useful and appropriate information Procedures that govern the management framework for the voluntarily and proactively, in accordance with the soentire Mizuho Financial Group including group companies, called Fair Disclosure Rule (“FDR”). Regarding disclosure and we endeavor to establish, implement and continuously of information we consider particularly important, we improve our Disclosure Controls and Procedures. Our communicate such information on an ad hoc basis as and Disclosure Committee is the Business Policy Committee when necessary, even if a press release has already been that is responsible for discussing and coordinating matters issued, through such means as special briefing sessions. relating to Disclosure Controls and Procedures. (2) Evaluation of effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and In addition, we respect various disclosure principles Procedures including fair disclosure. Accordingly, at individual calls, Our Disclosure Controls and Procedures are documented, private meetings or conferences hosted or attended by and evaluation of the overall effectiveness of our Disclosure representatives of Mizuho Financial Group we endeavor to Controls and Procedures is conducted regularly by limit carefully our explanations to matters already disclosed reviewing the contents of such documentation and their and facts commonly known. implementation. In addition, evaluation of the effectiveness and appropriateness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures Should we happen to disclose important information such is conducted through internal audits. as information subject to insider trading regulations and/or (3) Others undisclosed financial results that might have a significant We established a “Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals” influence on stock prices, we endeavor to take necessary to be observed by all directors and executive officers, as well action such as officially announcing the information as soon as all managers and other employees within Mizuho Financial as possible, in accordance with FDR. Group who engage in financial reporting, accounting or (3) Correction of misconceptions in the markets disclosure. We have also developed the “internal control and If we identify significant misconceptions regarding Mizuho audit hotline”, a system designed for reporting questionable Financial Group in the market due to the spread of rumors accounting, internal control, or auditing matters from both or otherwise, we endeavor to investigate their causes and inside and outside Mizuho Financial Group. correct such misconceptions promptly. 3. Disclosure methods, other (1) Disclosure methods With respect to the information which is required to be disclosed pursuant to applicable domestic and international 2019 Integrated Report 316 Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 1-5-5, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8176, Japan www.mizuho-fg.com This PDF version of the Integrated Report is a digital version of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified published version, which is printed on FSC-certified paper.
