Saving more lives together 500,000 every year by 2020 Impact Update January 2018 LAERDAL Photo 2 Credit Md. Kabirul Abedin vi r 26 st ol po Page Fir ge & ds s he er Ev Op m e e ie ita g t n Tea 4 Mobilizing the N nit e H Pa g zin Community ng tu bili atio Page 6 Mo suscitPage 8 S up Re por ti s n 24 Pag earc g Re e h Saving more lives ers together e oth ive S st E pread g M urv M ing lpin s S Pag S Pr He Babiege 18 e 1 act ic 0 and P a Revolution in Be m en Healthcare Quality Page 12 e on 30 pl vir Page Pe 28 o En e Pa g t Building on Tayeeba’s Story I first met Tayeeba as a fourThis booklet reports on progress towards the goal week-old survivor of birth Laerdal established in 2013: Helping save 500,000 asphyxia. She was with her more lives. Every year. By 2020. The word Helping mother, Rikta, and her birth is key. Laerdal does not save lives. Bystanders, attendant, Sakhina, who saved first responders and healthcare personnel do her shortly after participating when providing essential help in life-threatening in the Helping Babies Breathe situations. Our aim is to help those who educate (HBB) program. Tayeeba’s story inspired the many and equip these lifesavers to be more effective in national trainers who gathered in 2012 for the their work. rollout of the program in South East Asia. The alliance programs described on the following Today, Tayeeba is a thriving five-year-old; over pages make us believe our ambitious goal is well 500,000 birth attendants in 80 low-resource on the way to being achieved. Underpinning countries have participated in the program; and these are the values and cultural traditions of our there are likely thousands of happy birthday heritage, our people, the way we interact with the stories like Tayeeba’s. environment, and how we address evolving needs and opportunities. Tore Lærdal, Chief Executive Officer 3 “If we can create value to society at large and do our job well, satisfactory economic results will follow and allow us to build a stronger company with time.” Åsmund S. Lærdal Founder Heritage Åsmund S. Lærdal’s simple philosophy quoted above was from Laerdal values February 1940 when he established his business in Stavanger as a publisher of cards and books, and later toys. It remains Laerdal’s philosophy today. With an eye for innovation, Åsmund recognized the potential for using his expertise in producing plastic Pride in our history dolls for a new purpose the development of a realistic training A clear vision A sound company culture A willingness to learn manikin to teach mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. A passion for continuous improvement A commitment to sustainable development A dedication to help improve global health Over the subsequent decades, Laerdal has developed a broad range of products and programs to support healthcare education Laerdal Values and emergency interventions. With a growing focus on patient safety, new ground was broken in the field of medical simulation an ability to listen with the introduction of a series of realistic patient simulators, endless curiosity allowing for risk-free interactive training. practical problem solving respect for the customer hard work and a passion Laerdal today for continuous improvement Today, Laerdal is a global company with about 1,500 employees in 24 countries, dedicated to Helping Save Lives. It has remained family-owned with a long-term dedication to its mission. In 2010, Laerdal Global Health was established as a separate not-for-profit company to develop high impact, affordable products to help save lives at birth in low-resource countries. 4 More to be done Significant opportunities for helping save more lives remain to be addressed, especially in lowand middleincome countries. The graph below illustrates the relative death toll of leading categories of sudden death.* 1 million 2 million Pre-hospital Cardiac Arrests HIC 3.5m LMIC In-hospital Cardiac Arrests HIC 1.4m LMIC Respiratory Arrest HIC 12345 3.5m LMIC 1. Drowning 2. Suffocation 3. Birth Asphyxia 4. Fresh Stillborn 5. Others8 Trauma HIC 1 2 3 4 3.5m LMIC 1. Road Traffic Accidents 2. Falls 3. Wars, Landmines, Disasters 4. Others Patient Safety HIC 3.5m LMIC * For references see www.laerdal.com/references Measuring Success The following “balanced scorecard” visualizes how the two parts of Laerdal, Laerdal Medical and Laerdal Global Health, contribute to a sustainable mission-oriented organization offering value by complementary means. Financial Results Mission Achievement Other Factors Sales Lives Saved Employee Motivation Laerdal Medical Laerdal Global Health Operating Results Life-years Saved Brand Equity Performance according to this balance scorecard is assessed annually by the Laerdal Board of Directors on which three Laerdal employees are seated. 5 Mobilizing the Community Denmark has become a prime example of implementing best resuscitation practice in Europe, and has achieved a remarkable tripling of survival from pre-hospital cardiac arrest over the past ten years. A national cardiac arrest registry was introduced in 2003. Since 2006, a national school Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) training program has been underway, sponsored by Trygfonden, a national Danish foundation. 17,000 Automated External Defibrillators (AEDs) have been placed in the communiGreater Copenhagen has a register of 5,000 AEDs. ty. A research program has helped measure and improve impleThe location of any AED less than 180 seconds transport mentation. Key representatives of all five Emergency Medical from the site of the caller automatically comes up on the dispatcher screen (red dots in middle screen). Services (EMS) systems in the country participated in a national Resuscitation Academy in the Autumn of 2017, and committed to specific follow up actions – progress will be reviewed at a national meeting in May 2018. The latest development is the introduction of the HeartRunner Similar apps to the HeartRunner in app to activate volunteer laypersons trained in CPR and AED use Denmark have been introduced in to respond to cardiac arrests in their neighborhood. 16,000 citiseveral other places, including Singapore, zens joined the system within the first two months. When receivStockholm, Gothenburg and many US cities. ing a suspected cardiac arrest call, the dispatcher alerts immediately all HeartRunners that at that time find themselves within 300 m distance from the location of the caller. Any Heartrunner able to respond can then confirm this on the app and will receive exact address and directions on a map on their mobile phone. The dispatcher is also able to inform the responder of all AEDs available within the same 300 m radius with the push of a button. Recent advances in CPR training include quality improvement through technology-facilitated feedback. 6 In the UK, there are about 30,000 out-of-hospital resuscitation attempts every year with less than 10% of victims surviving, equivalent to 50 survivors per million population. In 2014, the British Heart Foundation (BHF), the leading independent funder of cardiovascular research in the UK, established The Nation of Lifesavers program to improve outcomes, setting a target of training 5 million people in CPR by 2020. To achieve this, they partnered with the Resuscitation Council (UK), ambulance trusts, community groups, schools, and Laerdal and other companies. The BHF is well on track to achieve their target with over 3 million people trained to date including 1.2 million in 2017 alone. This is approximately 5% of the UK population, with an exceptional reach into more than 50% of UK secondary schools. Sarah’s Story Sarah was a pupil at Prendergast School in Lewisham, a suburb of London. On 29th May 2016, her dad collapsed with a cardiac arrest at home. Sarah, who had learnt CPR at school knew what to do, dialed 999 and began CPR. She cradled the phone between her ear and shoulder; her arms were aching; she was sweating; but she kept going, saying “I don’t want my dad to die!”. She told her mum to calm down and directed her to do rescue breaths. She continued to do CPR for about ten minutes until the paramedics arrived and took over. Sarah’s dad is now fit and well after a heart operation. Restart a Heart Day Sarah’s story was featured by the BHF in their promotion of Restart a Heart Day, a European Resuscitation Council initiative held in October every year. On that day in 2017, a remarkable 195,000 young people were trained in CPR in the UK alone. 7 Mobilizing the First Resuscitation Team Around 70% of all cardiac arrests occur in the home where family and friends can become lifesavers. CPR training alone is not enough, since only one of three who are CPR trained will initiate CPR when facing cardiac arrest. The combination of CPR training in the community plus professional help over the phone, so-called Telephone CPR (T-CPR), is the best strategy. And, with the widespread use of mobile phones, T-CPR is practical almost everywhere. Bystander CPR rates in Seattle, Arizona, Sweden and Norway are now above 70%, and are increasing rapidly in Singapore, Korea, and Denmark. T-CPR is taking place in twothirds of these cases. This “first resuscitation team”, the caller and the dispatcher, is key to success in Korea. Survival is increasing, and CPR before Role playing as caller and dispatcher is beambulance arrival is now initiated by the dispatcher in 80% of coming an important part of CPR training. cases. Laerdal helped with dispatcher training in 2013, and in 2014 partnered with Seoul National University Hospital and Seoul Metropolitan Government to develop a complementary community CPR Training program. Called HEROS, it prepares the bystander for interacting with the dispatcher. Singapore has a similar story: following dispatcher training in T-CPR, they implemented T-CPR linked training for lay people through the DARE program. Their recent annual report shows great progress in community CPR rates and the number of survivors has more than doubled over three years. Asian countries have a burden of sudden cardiac arrest similar to countries in Europe and the USA, but most of them have just started to develop programs and initiatives for CPR before ambulance arrival. These are now accelerating with initiatives such as HeartRescue in India and China, and the formation of the Asian Association for EMS. Laerdal is supporting the PanAsian Resuscitation Outcomes Study (PAROS), the primary goal of which is to improve outcomes from out-of-hospital cardiac “Telecommunicators are arrest across Asia. the true first responders and a critical link in the These successes inspired a national campaign in Norway called “Sammen redder vi liv” (Saving lives together). The goal is to cardiac arrest chain increase annual survival from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest by of survival.” 200 lives per year from 50 to 90 per million population, and T-CPR recommendation most of the potential comes from optimizing CPR quality by by the American Heart Association the first resuscitation team. 8 Stein’s Story Unusual sounds from her husband, Stein, wakens Berit. She tries to wake him, but no response. A sensation of fear builds in Berit. Something must be wrong. She decides to call the emergency services for help. “Is he conscious? Is he breathing normally?” These key questions define the help that Stein will receive. Berit is not confident enough to do CPR, and decides to waken Sondre, their 18-year-old son. Sondre had recently been CPR trained, and, guided by the dispatcher, he performs life-saving CPR until the ambulance arrives and takes over. Today, Stein is thriving and has resumed running marathons. 9 Spreading Best EMS Practice According to one study, survival from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in the US ranges from 3% to 16%. Since the resuscitation guidelines based on the medical science are now essentially universal, this disparity in survival is attributed to differences in quality of education and implementation of what has been shown to work. The Resuscitation Academy was started in King County, Seattle in 2008 to provide a forum for US Emergency Medical Services “Where you live should not (EMS) systems to learn from best practice. It is now an indedetermine if you’ll live” pendent educational foundation. Nearly 1,000 EMS leaders have attended Resuscitation Academy programs. Building on this Mickey Eisenberg groundbreaking work, three initiatives have been launched to Founder and Director of both deepen and broaden its impact: the Resuscitation Academy Foundation • Global Resuscitation Alliance In June 2015 at the Utstein Abbey near Stavanger, Norway, 36 EMS leaders from around the world convened to address the challenge of how to implement best EMS practice. This resulted in a call for the establishment of a global Best Practice consortium, the “Global Resuscitation Alliance”, which has to Improve Cardiac Arrest Survival* since conducted workshops in Korea, Japan, Singapore, China, Australia, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Switzerland, 1 Cardiac arrest registry and the UK. 2 Telephone CPR for more and better CPR • Resuscitation Academy Foundation, American Heart Association (AHA) and Laerdal Alliance 3 High performance EMS CPR This Alliance is committed to creating turnkey EMS programs 4 Rapid dispatch to help improve implementation efforts. These cover System 5 CPR performance data Assessment, Dispatcher CPR training, Resuscitation Quality Improvement for individual resuscitation skills, and High6 First responder AED programs Performance CPR for Teams. Piloting begins in five communi7 Smart technologies to expand ties in Q1 2018, three in the US and two internationally. CPR and Public Access Defibrillation 8 CPR/AED training in schools • Global Resuscitation Alliance and the community Spreading to Lowand Middle-Income Countries 9 Accountability For many years, Sudden Cardiac Death (SCD) was considered a consequence of lifestyle that related to high-income 10 Work towards a culture countries. There may be around one million SCDs in these of excellence countries. Today we know that SCD is also a big and growing issue in lowand middle-income countries, where the World *Global Resuscitation Alliance http://www.globalresuscitationalliance.org/ten-programs/ Health Organisation (WHO) estimates the death toll from SCD may be at least 2.5 million per year. In response to this, an expert meeting to discuss steps to improve survival in these countries through improved EMS systems was held in Singapore in August 2017. These are now being followed up in South East Asia, China, and India. 10 The Frame of Survival The “Chain of Survival” is a concept that for 30 years has focused communities on the key activities which need to be linked together to improve survival from cardiac arrest. Leadership It is now evident that to maximize the impact of such links they need to be embedded in a framework of strong leadership, systematic refresher training and Culture a quality improvement system, all bound of excellence Early recognition and call for help Quality Post Resuscitation Care Training together by a culture of excellence. This is now Quality Dispatcher Assisted CPR Quality Pro CPR being referred to as the “Frame of Survival”. Effective implementation of this Frame has resulted in impressive Quality increases in survival rates as documented in cardiac arrest Improvement registries in King County in Seattle, Denmark, and Korea. Impressive Increases in Survival The graph* shows survival from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in Seattle, Denmark, and Seoul, leading EMS systems in their respective world regions, for the periods Survival per million from 2006 through to 2014-16. The three systems are all founding members of the Global Resuscitation Alli140 ance (GRA) and focus on adopting best EMS practice for improving survival. 120 Their results are impressive, showing almost doubling Seattle of survival in Seoul and tripling of survival in Denmark over ten years. The dotted lines indicate a further 50% 100 increase of these survival numbers by 2020 by continuing the trends. Average Several studies indicate that the average survival 80 High-Income Countries from cardiac arrest among EMS systems in high-inDenmark come countries may be at a similar level as in Seoul, i.e. around 50 per million population (/m). Assuming 60 these EMS systems adapt the GRA ten best practice steps, survival could increase 50%, i.e. to around 75/m in 2020. This is the goal set by the GRA, and would 40 amount to 35,000 additional survivors per year. Seoul In lowand middle-income countries, where 82% of 20 Average the global population live, the situation is dramatically Low-and Middle-Income Countries different. Very few witnesses of a cardiac arrest are trained to recognize and respond to such an 0 emergency, the dispatch systems are not well established, and the ambulances (if at all available) 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 typically arrive too late and with poorly-trained and poorly-equipped personnel. As a result, current survival may be as low as 1/m. By modest implementation of best practice, an increase in survival from 1 to 6/m * For references see www.laerdal.com/references by 2020 should be achievable, saving another 35,000 lives per year. 11 Revolution in Health Care Quality Doubling Survival from In-hospital Sudden Cardiac Arrest For decades, healthcare providers have typically been undertak“This is probably the most ing Basic and Advanced Life Support training once every one to exciting and important project two years. However, over recent years, researchers have shown that has come up in the AHA that resuscitation skills deteriorate quickly, often in three to six months after training. To help maintain and improve these over the last twenty years, and important lifesaving skills, Laerdal has collaborated with the it may be so also for the next American Heart Association (AHA) to develop the Resuscitation ten years”. Quality Improvement (RQI) program. This program enables learners to practice their skills every three months in small Nancy Brown sessions of 10 to 15 minutes, without an instructor present. CEO, American Heart Association Early reports show significant improvement in quality, compliance, cost and above all patient survival. At one of the Laerdal has been a strategic alliance early adopters, Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas, partner of the AHA for development survival doubled in the first year. These results have led the of CPR and Emergency Cardiac Care AHA to suggest that a typical RQI implementation could help education since 2006. save an additional ten lives per year per hospital. With 5,400 The goal of the RQI project is to have acute care hospitals in the USA, Laerdal and AHA believe that 90% of US hospitals enrolled in the Program by 2025. The system provides feedback of value both for student coaching and for accreditation. 12 full adoption of RQI can help save 50,000 additional lives per year in US hospitals alone. Since introduction, approximately 300 hospitals in the US have adopted the RQI program, involving over 300,000 learners. “Poor-quality CPR Improved competence with small Initial and frequent learning activities should be considered Training a preventable harm” 2013 AHA Consensus Statement on Quality CPR. Proficiency Typical skill decay with conventional training once every two years 0 1 2 3 4 years Low-dose, High-Frequency Refresher Training* This method of training has the major advantage of more value and increased competence for less money. Instead of incurring the cost of sending healthcare providers away from the workplace for courses, learning occurs as a part of normal, daily activities with the added advantage of being fully in context. Thus, both improved patient care and good return on investment result. * For references see www.laerdal.com/references 13 Improving Nurse Education Best Practice In 2015, the US National Council of State Boards of Nursing to make Simulation effective * (NCSBN) published a recommendation that high-quality simu1 Facilitated debriefing lation could substitute up to 50% of clinical practice across the nursing curriculum. A recent study showed that 96% of all 2 In situ refresher training accredited nursing schools in the USA use simulation in some 3 Distributed practice form, but also that many have challenges meeting the best 4 Curriculum integration practice guidelines. 5 Clinical variation To address this gap, the US National League for Nursing (NLN) 6 Range of difficulty and Laerdal developed the Simulation Education Solutions for 7 Individualized learning Nursing (SESN) program. To date, SESN is implemented in over 8 Multiple learning strategies 100 schools across the US, with highly encouraging results. 9 Defined outcomes 10 Valid simulator Preparing nurses for clinical practice * Technology-enhanced Simulation for Health Professions Many hospitals do not have an efficient and effective program Education. A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis. JAMA 2011, Vol 9, 978-88 to onboard new nurses. This can impact patient safety. 75% of new nurses in a US study were observed to commit medication errors. Nurses not feeling prepared and confident are more likely to leave their job. 34% of new nurses do so in the USA by the end of their second year. The cost of replacing nurses is high, and patient safety is also affected by this high attrition. The NLN and Laerdal have also partnered to develop the Accelerating to Practice program. This is a blended learning program, using peer-to-peer training, e-simulation and handson team simulation training. Performance data is captured and aggregated in an analytics platform. This helps hospitals assess and quality assure that new nurses are competent and confident before starting to care for patients. Helping Strengthen Nurse Education in China and India In 2017, in collaboration with the NLN, the Ministry of Education in China developed a multi-year plan to introduce simulation-based education in several hundred nursing schools. A similar initiative is under discussion with the Nursing Council and the Ministry of Health in India. Expert panel presentations on the opportunity for simulation education were held at the 2017 world congresses of both the International Confederation of Nurses and the International Confederation of Midwives. 14 Ashley’s Story Newly out of residency, Ashley van der Zee Ormsby RN, BSN, had no idea late one evening that she would be relying on her simulation training to ensure a patient’s very survival. The patient, just from emergency surgery, suffered a pulmonary embolism that sent him into cardiac arrest. Crediting an identical case in her simulation training at Children’s Hospital, Washington State University, Ashley called a code, took the lead, and directed the delivery of CPR for 30 minutes. The patient survived. Photo: Washington State University College of Nursing 15 Patient Safety Since the landmark 1999 “To Err is Human” report by the US Institute of Medicine, there has been increased attention on patient safety, i.e. the treatment of patients in a safe environment and protected from avoidable harm. Both initial training and continuing medical education are prerequisites for establishing a safe environment for patient care. Johns Hopkins University researchers in Baltimore, USA, have estimated recently that as many as 250,000 may die annually in USA hospitals due to medical errors. Globally, this figure may be two to four million. However, medical errors occur not only by doing something incorrectly, but also by failing to act promptly. Simulation-based training and refresher practice were identified in the “To Err is Human” report among the key measures to enhance patient safety. Continuing medical education and maintenance of competence of healthcare providers are essential, particularly in promoting better team interaction and communication making a “team of experts into an expert team”. SAFER Simulation Center SAFER was established in 2006 as a collaboration between Stavanger University Hospital, University of Stavanger and Laerdal to improve patient safety and strengthen competence among employees of these partners. Over 250 facilitators are active in running more than 50 educational programs for nursing and medical students, personnel from all departments of the hospital, and others. In 2017, SAFER logged over 14,000 participant days, with 1/3 of these being in-situ simulation at the hospital. SAFER is one of more than one thousand patient simulation centers in operation today worldwide. Nurse training Maternal & Newborn Emergency Care & Trauma 16 Patient Safety Movement The Patient Safety Movement (PSM) was established in 2012 with a mission to Reduce Preventable Deaths from Medical Errors to Zero by 2020. The PSM has established fifteen Actionable Patient Safety Solutions (APSS) including Neonatal Safety, Optimal Resuscitation, Airway Safety, and Obstetric Safety. Over 3,500 hospitals, 40% outside the US, have now committed to these APSS, with a total goal of preventing 150,000 deaths Courtney Lindley, Simulation Coordinator Children’s Hospital of Atlanta (right) from medical errors in 2018. These include commitments by Nora Colman, Critical Care Fellow Children’s Laerdal of helping save 25,000 more lives in 2018 by Hospital of Atlanta ( left) simulation-based educational programs including with its Every Life Campaign partner the American Heart Association 5,000 more lives In 2017, Laerdal launched its Every Life by the Resuscitation Quality Improvement Program. campaign to collect stories from healthcare institutions on how simulation-based training may be used to improve patient safety. Safe Surgery and Anaesthesia To date, over 200 institutions have joined this According to the Lancet Commission on Global Surgery, five initiative, and their stories will be shared to billion people, i.e. two thirds of the global population, are withinspire others. For every story submitted, out access to safe and affordable surgery and anaesthesia. Laerdal is making a donation to the National Patient Safety Foundation. In 2016, Laerdal became a Global Impact Partner of the World Federation of Societies of Anaesthesiologists (WFSA). And in September that year, the Laerdal Foundation awarded the WFSA a grant to introduce the Safer Anaesthesia from Education (SAFE) programme over a two-year period in four more countries: Tanzania, Bangladesh, Nepal and Zambia. The WFSA has been working closely with partner institutions as well as member national societies, in particular the Association of Anaesthetists of Great Britain and Ireland (AAGBI), to support delivery of the program. Optimizing in-hospital stroke treatment For stroke patients, door-to-needle time is critical. Every 15-minute decrease equals one month additional disability-free life. To minimize this time, Stavanger University Hospital, Norway, started weekly, multidisciplinary team training focusing on communication, diagnostics, handover and management. They simulate the whole patient pathway, from ambulance to cath lab. After only a few months, they have managed to reduce the door-to-needle time from 29 to 14 minutes – a result that is among the best in the world. 17 Helping Mothers and Babies Survive Best Practice Implementation of Helping Babies Survive Since the establishment of Laerdal Global Health in 2010, and Helping Mothers Survive programs* Laerdal has been a dedicated member of the Helping Babies 1 Secure Ministry of Health buy-in Breathe (HBB) alliance. Studies from Tanzania, Nepal, Uganda, 2 Form a working group for planning, and Ghana show this program may help reduce early newborn training and monitoring 3 Develop national roll-out plans, for premortality by 50% and fresh stillborn by 25%. When well service and in-service training, in both implemented throughout lowand middle-income countries, public and private sector the alliance believes HBB has the potential to save about half 4 Provide learning materials & equipment a million babies’ lives per year. at time of training 5 Identify and support local leaders and champions The success of the HBB program has catalyzed the development 6 Establish low-dose, high-frequency of three more educational programs for saving newborns by refresher training the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), and four additional 7 Establish facility-level quality improvement teams programs for saving mothers by Jhpiego, an affiliate of Johns 8 Monitor performance Hopkins University. Together these programs address over three 9 Establish a system for reporting quarters of the about 300,000 mothers and at least three million and feedback 10 Engage healthcare providers, families newborns who die unexpectedly every year. Even when policies and the broader community are in place, practices may be far behind evidence-based guidelines. There is a real need to improve the quality of services, * http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/ journal.pone.10178073 especially in health facilities as institutional deliveries and care-seeking for sick children increase in many countries. 18 Survive & Thrive is a public-private partnership including US 300,000 mothers and 3,000,000 pediatric, obstetrics and gynecology and midwifery organizations, newborns die unexpectedly each year. the private sector, Save the Children, Jhpiego, USAID and others. The partnership collaborates with international and national HBB has the potential to save about professional associations and global health scholars to strengthen 500,000 babies’ lives per year. maternal, newborn and child health (MNCH) programs through training, quality improvement approaches, effective technologies, and evaluation. The partnership has also mobilized and equipped members of professional associations to improve the quality of high-impact MNCH interventions in health facilities. Since 2005, Laerdal has been an alliance partner of the American Academy of Helping Babies Survive (HBS) is a hands-on suite of training Pediatrics (AAP) in developing training modules developed by AAP and based on the latest WHO guidesolutions for their Newborn Resuscitation and Pediatric Basic and Advanced lines. These modules address the main causes of neonatal mortalLife Support Programs. These programs ity and morbidity and include: Helping Babies Breathe, Essential have reached over 4 million healthcare Care for Every Baby, and Essential Care for Small Babies. providers in 130 countries. The alliance has resulted in the development of several simulators supporting Helping Mothers Survive (HMS) is a suite of simulation-based the Newborn Resuscitation Program training modules developed by Jhpiego and endorsed by global (SimBaby, SimNewB, and Premature professional organizations such as the respective world federaAnne) as well as e-simulation programs. tions for midwives, obstetricians and gynecologists, and nurses, as well as the United Nations Population Fund. The modules include Bleeding After Birth on prevention and management of post-partum hemorrhage, Pre-eclampsia and Eclampsia on clinical decision making and rapid treatment, and Threatened PreJhpiego is a non-profit health organization affiliated with Johns Hopkins term Birth on preparing for and preventing preterm birth using University, Baltimore, USA, operating antenatal corticosteroids. in over 150 lowand middle-income countries to prevent the needless deaths of women and their families. 25 Million Safer Births Laerdal has partnered with Jhpiego and others in developing a suite of The Helping Babies Survive and Helping Mothers Survive Helping Mothers Survive educational Programs have now reached over 500,000 birth attendants in programs, and has also developed culturally-adapted and highly-affordable lowand middle-income countries, primarily in healthcare birthing simulators to enable these centres. Assuming these birth attendants attend on average 50 programs to be scaled up in over deliveries per year, this will have contributed to 25 million safer 60 countries. births annually. Laerdal has provided simulators which can be used not only for the initial training, but are so affordable that they can also be acquired by rural health care institutions to Laerdal Global Health is a founding enable frequent refresher training. member of this alliance initiated in 2012 by USAID, and encompassing professional health associations, and private sector and non-profit partners. The alliance works with national governments and healthcare professionals to improve health outcomes for mothers, newborns and children, and has been instrumental in scaling up the Helping Babies Breathe and Helping Mothers Survive educational programs. 19 Bundling Programs and Products Laerdal has developed a series of highly affordable simulators in support of the Helping Babies Survive and Helping Mothers Survive Programs. These solutions are also relevant for highincome countries for use in low-dose, high-frequency training. Antenatal Care Labour Management Pre-eclampsia & Eclampsia training program addresses the second leading cause of maternal mortality globally. Pre-eclampsia & Eclampsia Threatened Preterm Birth Normal and Prolonged Labour addresses the second leading cause of focuses on identifying women likely to focuses on how to ensure what starts maternal mortality. deliver a preterm baby and out as a normal birth remains normal. the actions that can be taken prior to birth. MamaBirthie MamaNatalie BabyBirthie 20 The training programs, bundled with hands-on training products help healthcare workers gain knowledge, experience and confidence in handling a wide range of complications occuring before, during and after birth. Birth Postpartum Care Newborn Care Helping Babies Breathe Bleeding after Birth Essential Care for Every Baby teaches the initial steps of neonatal teaches active management of Essential Care for Small Babies resuscitation to save lives and give the third stage of labor, and early teach essential newborn care a much better start to many babies detection and basic management practices to keep all babies healthy who struggle to breathe at birth. in order to reduce maternal deaths from the time of birth to discharge caused by post-partum hemorrhage. from the healthcare facility. NeoNatalie, Upright bag-mask MamaNatalie PremieeNatalie and Penguin suction and Nifty feeding cup 21 From Training to Survival Transition from training to clinical outcome is particularly dependent on local ownership and follow-up of the initial training with low-dose-high-frequency refresher training. In the Safer Births research program at the Haydom Lutheran Hospital in rural Tanzania, more than 30,000 deliveries have been closely monitored and evaluated over a six-year period. This has engaged 10 PhD students and resulted in four innovations adapted to local needs to make regular refresher training more accessible while improving care at birth. The number of infant deaths dropped from 181 in 2014 to 90 in 2015. The combination at Haydom of Helping Babies Breathe (HBB) and Safer Births has resulted in 120 additional newborn lives being saved between 2011 and 2016: corresponding to one more The “Safer Births Bundle” developed life per midwife per year.* for the Safer Births project comprises the Moyo Fetal Heart Rate Monitor, the NeoBeat Newborn Heart Rate Meter, the Upright Bag-Mask Resuscitator with peep valve, and the Advanced NeoNatalie Newborn Model with adjustable lung compliance and heart rate function. * For references see www.laerdal.com/references 120 100 80 60 One more life saved per midwife 40 per year 20 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 22 From 10,000 to 50,000 Happy Birthdays In 2014, Laerdal started a collaboration with the International Confederation of Midwives (ICM) launching “10,000 Happy Birthdays” to scale up the Helping Babies Breathe and Helping Mothers Survive programs in two pilot countries, Malawi and Zambia. These programs have now been introduced in all nurse/ midwifery schools by the two national midwifery associations, and the goal of educating 10,000 birth attendants has been achieved. A recent study of the effect of these programs implemented in Uganda by Jhpiego and AAP shows a highly positive impact on reduction of newborn mortality and postpartum hemorrhage. In 2017, based on the positive results of the pilot programs, ICM announced a Call for Proposals for additional countries to take part in the program, with the aim to report on 50,000 Happy Birthdays at the ICM world congress in Bali in 2020. Ethiopia, Tanzania and Rwanda have been selected to join Malawi and Zambia in the next phase of the program. Scale-up of Essential Life-Saving Commodities Helping Babies Breathe was listed as one of ten breakthrough innovations for recommended further scale-up in a report from PATH, an international non-profit organization. This was presented in September, 2013 by the then Secretary General, Ban Ki-moon, to the United Nations General Assembly. By early 2018, over 500,000 Penguin Suctions, 250,000 Bag-Mask Resuscitators and 125,000 NeoNatalie Newborn Simulators have been distributed. Family Planning 2020 More active family planning is essential for ensuring healthy lives by reducing maternal and newborn mortality and providing access to sexual and reproductive healthcare services. A two-year spacing between births may also help reduce maternal deaths by a third and child deaths by 10%. India will contribute to its “Family Planning 2020” program by providing contraceptive services to 48 million new users and in turn prevent 1 million infant deaths and over 42,000 maternal deaths by 2020. At the request of, and in close collaboration Training in post-partum IUCD insertion with, the Indian Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Laerdal has designed an affordable, portable, modular training solution for wide-scale intra-uterine contraceptive device insertion. The product was launched in June 2017. 23 Supporting Research In addition to Laerdal’s own research, the company contributes to research through donations to the Laerdal Foundation for Acute Medicine, which was established in 1980 in collaboration with the University of Oslo. To date, the Foundation has supported 1,800 research projects. Among these were 25 expert meetings held at the Utstein Abbey outside Stavanger, Norway, on recommendations for evaluation and reporting on various aspects of emergency medicine and education. The latest meetings have focused on best practice implementation of pre-hospital resuscitation programs and on the Helping Babies Survive and Helping Mothers Survive programs. The Foundation has also provided significant support to eight centers of excellence in the USA and Europe for better validation of simulation-based education, and to the development of the Norwegian Medical Index for dispatcher assistance to the caller in emergencies. Since 2010, the Foundation has provided annual grants totaling NOK 40 mill (USD 6.7 mill), and has earmarked 50% of future grants for projects related to saving lives at birth in low-resource settings. 24 Improving Sur vival from Out-of-Hospital A Call to Establish a Global Resuscitation Alliance To date, 25 expert meetings have been held at the Utstein Abbey. Two meetings held in 2015 established ten steps for best practice for implementation of programs relating to sudden cardiac arrest and Helping Babies and Mothers Survive, respectively. 25 Evolving Needs & Opportunities The United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), illustrated by the color wheel, present a common roadmap to a healthier, greener, fairer and more inclusive society by 2030. Laerdal supports the SDGs: its mission is particularly relevant to SDG 3, Good Health and Well-being, with a focus on solutions Selected SDG 3 Targets to improve the quality of education of healthcare professional, first responders and the general public. SDG 4 (Quality 3.1: By 2030, reduce the global maternal mortality ratio to less than 70 per Education), SDG 9 (Innovation) and SDG 17 (Partnerships) are 100,000 live births. also relevant for mission implementation. 3.2: By 2030, end preventable deaths of newborns and children under 5 years of Laerdal is working closely with a number of alliance partners age, with all countries aiming to reduce and user groups to make sure that new solutions are thoroughly neonatal mortality to at least as low as addressing real needs and are implemented globally. 12 per 1,000 live births and under-5 mortality to at least as low as 25 per 1,000 live births. 3.4: By 2030, reduce by one third premature mortality from non-communicable diseases through prevention and treatment and promote mental health and well-being. 3.6: By 2020, halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents. SDG 4 targets SDG 9 stresses the SDG 17 emphasizes include substantially importance of industrial the importance of 3.7: By 2030, ensure universal access increasing the number innovation. Laerdal has partnerships between to sexual and reproductive health-care of adults with relevant multidisciplinary and governments, the private services, including for family planning, employment skills. Such customer-focused teams sector and civil society information and education, and the quality education is the to ensure developments in achieving a successful integration of reproductive health into cornerstone of Laerdal’s are driven by life-saving sustainable development national strategies and programmes. approach to achieving and business potential. agenda. the SDG 3 targets. 3.c: Substantially increase health financing and the recruitment, development, training and retention of the health workforce in developing countries, especially in least developed countries and small island developing States. Laerdal is also a member of the UN Global Compact which encourages businesses worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies, and to report on their The UN published a report in 2017 implementation. The Global Compact covers ten principles in the on the global progress towards reaching the SDG3 goals, available on areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdg3 These principles will be addressed on the following pages. 26 HEALTHCARE TRENDS LIFESAVING OPPORTUNITIES EDUCATION TRENDS Patient safety focus Implementation partnerships Peer-to-peer learning Improving quality of care Impact-centered business models Self directed learning Ageing population Continuous learning platforms Rapid feedback loops Personal health tracking Integrated simulation solutions Just-in-time refreshers Decentralized systems Data-driven decision support Mobile/remote learning Shortage of providers Accelerating clinical readiness Adaptive learning Cost containment Remote coaching of care Scalable solutions Measuring to Improve The figure above identifies the healthcare and education trends that are presenting significant lifesaving opportunities. Laerdal is proactively exploring and adapting evolving technologies to meet these needs. For users, this includes augmented /virtual reality; cloud-based data capture for feedback and learning management systems; and machine learning to predict individual maintenance of competence needs and give advice to emergency healthcare personnel. For development and manufacturing processes, it includes automation, digitalization, 3D printing, and new cloud-based customer resource management and business systems. In 2016, Laerdal adopted a new development process with multidisciplinary and customerfocused teams working together with partners and users to secure design and implementation of optimal needs-based solutions. 27 People Recruiting with Mission in Mind An Integrated Mission Laerdal employees’ understanding of the company’s mission, An ongoing research project by the two knowledge of its strategy and their engagement for their work researchers, Steven W. Whiting from the are key for delivering impact to customers and partners. University of Central Florida and Alexander M. Sandvik from the Norwegian School of Economics, confirms that the The study described on the left, underlines the need for recruiting mission in Laerdal is well embedded and people with a strong commitment to the mission as well as a offers real value. strong professional knowledge for the job they are doing. Impact on Individual Employees: The research underlines that the extent It is known from this study that the company’s mission is to which an employee believes in particularly important as a source of motivation that impacts and finds meaning in Laerdal’s mission employee well-being and performance. This creates a true “winsignificantly correlates with self-reported win” for both achievement of the mission and the employees’ job job satisfaction and supervisor-reported performance. satisfaction. However, the results also highlight the responsibility of Laerdal’s leadership to cultivate the mission in a sincere and Impact on Leaders: honest fashion. They found a positive correlation between a leader’s mission-derived motivation and the extent to which Performance Management their followers say they put their customers and team members first. The Performance Management Process in Laerdal is a regular dialogue between the manager and employee Impact on Customers: about work tasks, areas of responsibility, priorities, The research collected survey reports goals and competence development. In 2017, from Laerdal customers and matched these reports to the surveys of the performance, competence development and learning salespeople who interact with those were integrated into one system to simplify the process customers. Salespeople who reported for managers and employees. higher levels of pro-social motivation The goal is to increase individual accountability for were rated as more trustworthy by their customers than salespeople with lower personal development; and to meet more effectively levels of pro-social motivation. strategic needs and increase the number of internal talents. Employee Motivation Laerdal conducts annual surveys to understand the perspective of employees on questions of importance for the organization, 88% I understand my work helps achieve the Company Strategic Goals. including values, leadership, strategic understanding, and business alignment. In 2017, 84% of employees took part in the survey. It is encouraging that the respondents report that they 85% I feel confident we can achieve the goal of helping save 500,000 lives. understand the corporate strategy and are very confident on how they can contribute to achieving the company’s goals. 87% The Laerdal mission has a personal meaning for me. Average scores on a scale of 1-100 to some questions in the 2017 Employee Survey 28 Gender Balance in Workforce Attention on gender workforce balance has been increased in Women in workforce among total 15,00 employees worldwide. 46% recent years to broaden Laerdal’s talentpool and better reflect its users and their needs. At present, 46% of the 1,500 employees are women. In leadership roles, 36% are women, so we have Women in leadership roles among 243 leaders worldwide. 36% room for improvement in certain areas of the business. Diversity in Workforce An important area of attention is ensuring equal opportunities. Operating in 24 countries underlines the ethnic and cultural diversity within the Laerdal workforce. In Norway, 40 nationalities are represented amongst 400 employees. For Laerdal, this diversity helps to build more cultural awareness, better sensitivity for differences and a broader competence base. Supplier diversity The Laerdal manufacturing plant in Suzhou, China, partners The sales and marketing leadership in Asia Pacific. with a local Chinese company, Ruolin, where all of the manufacturing workers have some kind of disability, ranging from hearing or visual impairment to other physical and, mental disabilities. Ruolin stresses that this type of employment is not done for charity but because they believe it helps to deliver good business results. Ethical Standards Laerdal believes in only doing business with those who embrace and demonstrate high standards in accordance with its Code of Conduct. Internal processes provide a good platform to ensure all employees understand and live up to the standard defined in the Code of Conduct. Fighting Corruption In the Sustainability report in 2016, corruption problems in I understand the key elements in the Laerdal Code of Conduct. 88% China were described. To avoid a repetition of such problems, Laerdal has introduced improved contracts and better training of employees and leaders. I apply the Laerdal values when faced with job related ethical dilemmas. 86% Whistleblowing Transparency is important to secure an environment free of I have personally not experienced bullying at work during the last 6 months. 85% harassment and corruption. On the Laerdal internal website, a Average scores on a scale of 1-100 whistleblower line provides an important channel for reporting to some questions in the 2017 if the working environment falls short of the Laerdal values. Employee Survey 29 Environment Laerdal has established a process to ensure compliance with global environmental regulations both internally and at suppliers’ Laerdal Code of Conduct on the Environment locations. The Laerdal Code of Conduct on the Environment defines the company’s position on minimizing adverse effects. Business and industry policies and operations can play a major role in reducing impact on use of natural We have mapped the CO2 emissions from operations in areas resources and the environment. Laerdal such as distribution, manufacturing and business travel since is committed to doing business in an environmentally responsible manner 2010. The data show an increase in overall emissions of 10% throughout its entire manufacturing from the baseline year of 2010. In the same period net sales and distribution chain and network. To have increased by 25%, meaning the ratio of emissions to minimize adverse effects, Laerdal utilizes activities has been reduced. Over the years, energy consumption environmentally compatible materials and manufacturing processes wherever at manufacturing sites has been reduced, as has reliance on air feasible. freight in the supply chain except to the Asia Pacific region. However, the desired improvements have not been achieved over the last two years. After considering opportunities and alternatives for reduction, a target has been set of reducing emissions by 30% by 2020. Projects and initiatives in 2017 Emissions From Traveling give confidence that this ambition can be achieved. One area of concern is the emissions from business travel. Laerdal has invested in communication equipment to encourage effective cross-border collaboration. However, there is a need to maintain customer intimacy and cultural sensitivity towards external partners and colleagues in 24 countries, which requires some face-to-face contact. Overall Corporate Emissions 2014 2020 14 000 0,000004 Target: 30% reduction in 0,0000035 12 000 emissions by 2020 0,000003 10 000 0,0000025 8 000 Metric Tonnes 0,000002 6 000 0,0000015 4 000 0,000001 2 000 0,0000005 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Direct Emissions(gas) Energy indirect(Electricity) Other indirect: Distribution Other indirect: Business travels Projected emissions 2018-2020 CO2 emissions relate to Net Sale 30 Asia Pacific Distribution Hub With Laerdal’s growing sales in emerging markets in the Asia Pacific region, there has been an increase in the emissions from high use of air freight into the region. To reduce this use of air freight, in 2017 a new regional Distribution Center was established in Shanghai to serve the whole of the region. We expect a 20% reduction in our CO2 emissions as a result of this initiative. Investing in Solar Power To help reduce our environmental Environmental Waste footprint, Laerdal plans to invest Over the years, for environmental reasons, Laerdal has resisted in a solar power solution in 2018 at our US factory in Gatesville, Texas. the temptation to develop single-patient-use products except A 282 kW solar power system will be where unavoidable. Instead, we have developed reusable and installed on the roof of the factory. durable solutions, and actively explored opportunities and When in operation it will generate invested in creating digital solutions. In 2017, we established approximately 400Mwh per year, offsetting more than 50 % of our Laerdal Bangalore to scale up the efforts in Copenhagen and electricity consumption. Stavanger to grow our portfolio of digital solutions. There has been a 20% reduction in manufacturing waste from 2016 to 2017. One of the drivers has been product design changes to reduce scrap. Laerdal and GRI Standards The table contains page references to Global Compact Principles and relevant performance indicators from the GRI Standard. Both indicators and scope of indicators are chosen based on the degree of materiality to Laerdal’s sustainability performance. The reporting is related to 2016/17. Global Compact GRI Standards Principle 1 and 2, 412-2, page 28 Human Rights 412-3, page 28 and 29 413-1, page 26 Principles 3-6, Labor 102-8, page 28 and 29 202-2, page 29 404-3, page 28 Principles 7-9, Environment 305-1, page 30 305-2, page 30 305-3, page 30 305-5, page 30 and 31 Principle 10, Anticorruption 102-16, page 29 102-17, page 29 205-2, page 28 and 29 31 At Laerdal, we work towards a future where no one should die or be disabled unnecessarily during birth or from sudden illness, trauma or medical errors. Our solutions are used for quality education and therapy in emergency and critical care. www.laerdalglobalhealth.com www.laerdal.com
