We accelerate the new Africa Missionpharma COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 CEO STATEMENT Missionpharma 2 A STATEMENT FROM THE CEO Missionpharma takes an active part in advancing healthcare in emerging countries. We do so by delivering social, environmental and economic value to the people and societies we engage with. We are happy to confirm our commitment to the We run our business with integrity and respect for the principles of responsible business conduct promoted by communities in which we operate, and we have a long the UN Global Compact and the broader UN goals, history of supporting our local societies. including the Sustainable Development Goals. Our support for the UN Global Compact encourages us This Communication on Progress summarises our actions to put sustainability at the heart of our strategies. When in accordance with the requirements as a participant to we all work with the goals in mind, we are one step the Global Compact. In this first report we present our further towards addressing the most urgent agendas of approach to, and results within, human rights, labour, today. environment and anti-corruption. All figures included in In the coming year, we will continue our focus on this report cover the period 1/4 2018 to 31/3 2019, contributing to the ten principles for human rights, which corresponds to Missionpharma’s financial year. labour, environment and anti-corruption and we will At Missionpharma, we aim for continuous improvement expand our measuring of impact. and we work passionately to advance global healthcare. CHRISTIAN OVERGAARD CEO, Missionpharma Group MISSIONPHARMA OUTLINED Missionpharma 3 MISSIONPHARMA AT A GLANCE WE ARE LONG HISTORY GLOBAL PRESENCE A leading supplier of medical Missionpharma was founded in Missionpharma is headquartered in products and kit solutions to the 1975 and has been a part of Denmark, and has its own facilities public healthcare sector Eurapharma and the CFAO Group in India, China and Zambia plus primarily in Africa. since 2012. local representatives in over 30 countries worldwide. PRODUCTS EMPLOYEES OUR VISION Our products include generic We employ more than 180 Missionpharma contributes to pharmaceuticals, medical conemployees globally, of which 65 progress in Africa by strengthening sumables, hospital equipment are employed at our headtomorrow’s healthcare with intelligent and medical kits. quarters in Lynge, Denmark. solutions and trustful partnerships. BUSINESS MODEL Missionpharma 4 OUR BUSINESS MODEL We are founded on a strong desire to increase access to safe and affordable healthcare in emerging countries and to integrate responsibility in the way we act as a company. MISSIONPHARMA IN SHORT Every year our products and services reach millions of Missionpharma is a leading supplier of generic people. By delivering solutions with a long-term positive pharmaceuticals, medical consumables and hospital impact, we grow the communities we work in – and we equipment to public and private institutions in emerging grow Missionpharma. countries with particular attention towards African CREATING LOCAL VALUE markets. We are headquartered in Denmark and we We are today a part of Eurapharma, which is owned by have our own offices in India, China and Zambia, as the CFAO Group – a multinational distributor of brands, well as the support of agents and CFAO offices in most particularly within technology, healthcare and consumer African countries. We employ more than 180 people, goods – and ultimately owned by Toyota Tsusho who pursue our purpose of taking an active part in Corporation (TTC) in Japan. This integration enables advancing healthcare in the countries where we are us to further establish and develop our wholesale active. operations and to extend our operational reach. OUR BUSINESS APPROACH We focus on continuously improving our market position Africa is a continent on the rise and efficient healthcare and at the same time developing new business areas is fundamental to realising the potential. Our purpose PURPOSE STATEMENT through focused strategic initiatives. We are motivated statement underlines our focus on contributing to driving by creating value to all our stakeholders, but our core Africa forward. It also underlines our dedicated efforts to make a positive impact by providing tailored intelligent focus is to secure availability of essential healthcare WE ACCELERATE THE NEW AFRICA products in our markets at affordable prices and a healthcare solutions built on deep insights and decades consistently high quality. Missionpharma contributes to progress of experience. in Africa by strengthening tomorrow’s In addition, we are committed to creating local value For more than 40 years, Missionpharma has provided by advancing the communities in which we are present healthcare with intelligent solutions safe and affordable healthcare products to the African population via direct or donor-funded procurement. through job creation, local competence and capacity and trustful partnerships. building and creating business for local companies. SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK Missionpharma 5 OUR SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK As a member of the UN Global Compact we conduct our business activities with respect for human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. Our efforts are targeted towards creating a platform for sustainable growth. WE CREATE SHARED VALUE OUR SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENTS Our leading market position and strong presence in AfriOur sustainability framework aims to ensure that our ca allows us to make an impact on many people’s lives, business activities are conducted in a way that mitigates whether they are patients, partners, customers or emthe related significant risks and supports the key ployees. Making a difference for these people is the core principles of the UN Global Compact principles and the goal of our company. It’s why we do what we do. relevant UN Sustainable Development Goals. Contributing to better healthcare in Africa is a Missionpharma has defined four sustainability As a member of the UN Global Compact, bold statement and no simple task. It takes in-depth commitments – in line with the UN Global Compact Missionpharma has embraced the UN understanding of the needs of customers, the business principles – which we adhere to and seek to continuously Sustainable Development goals, as they encourage environment, and the entire healthcare systems in the develop and integrate further into our global markets. organisation. us to put sustainability in the center of our strategies. We actively contribute to Goal 3, Good health We want to deliver social, environmental, and economic We also work actively to identify, prevent and mitigate and well-being, and in particular to the targets: value to the people and communities we engage with. any adverse impacts on our sustainability commitments. We call this approach our sustainability commitment. Through this Communication on Progress, we intend to 3.1: Maternal health communicate transparently about how we manage this 3.2: Newborn and child health work on an annual basis, inform about our challenges 3.3: AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria treatments and evaluate our progress. 3.7: Sexual and reproductive health The targets directly relate to our focused efforts to strengthen healthcare in Africa. SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENTS Missionpharma 6 OUR FOUR SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENTS Missionpharma has defined four sustainability commitments – in line with the UN Global Compact principles – which we adhere to and seek to continuously develop and integrate further into our global organisation. We translate our commitments as follows: COMMITMENT 1 COMMITMENT 2 COMMITMENT 3 COMMITMENT 4 We create We empower We reduce our We stand for local value people environmental footprint integrity by helping to advance by fostering an inclusive by striving to integrate by aiming for the highest the communities in culture where people can environmental responsibility ethical standards in our which we are present. grow and develop. into all our activities. business practices. HUMAN RIGHTS Missionpharma 7 HUMAN RIGHTS Our most significant contribution to society is to ensure that our products reach those who need them. We are proud to contribute to making a difference for millions of people every year. Missionpharma wants to ensure access to qualitywhich is why we have invested in state-of-the-art kit assured and affordable healthcare products in emerging assembly facilities in Zambia. We are thus able to serve countries and thereby contribute to improving health the population with medical kits manufactured locally on conditions in the regions. We take an active part in behalf of Missionpharma A/S. accelerating progress in Africa through supporting local empowerment and creating sustainable solutions. This is CASES very much in line with our purpose statement as well as an the principles of the UN Global Compact. Malaria kits Every year nearly 60,000 people die from malaria in CREATING VALUE DR Congo. With an estimated more than 22 million For more than 40 years, Missionpharma has focused cases of malaria each year in the country, efforts to 2 MILLION on refining our fundamental purpose: To ensure timely ensure accessible treatment for the population are supplies of safe and affordable medicine to those who highly needed. Through a USAID-funded project, need it. It’s easy to say and much harder to do. Over the Missionpharma has supplied 1 million Artesunate kits for MEDICAL KITS HAVE BEEN PACKED AND years we have learned that in order to get healthcare treatment of malaria in DR Congo. DISTRIBUTED BY MISSIONPHARMA OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS products out to where they are needed, we first and Caesarean kits Medical kits are known to create long-term positive foremost need an in-depth understanding of the local effects, if optimally tailored to fit regional and seasonal Every day approximately 800 women die from environment and conditions as well as trusted partners needs and medical purposes in the country. preventable causes related to pregnancy and childbirth. who share the same goals. This is the only way to 90% of all maternal and newborn deaths could have achieve our purpose and run a sustainable business. 25% been prevented with access to good quality care. We take our position as a leading supplier of healthcare Missionpharma has contributed to the reduction of products and medical kits to Africa very seriously. In maternal mortality in Togo by 25% through delivery of REDUCTION OF MATERNAL Caesarean kits to the country. Products in the kit are MORTALITY IN TOGO many countries, supplies from Missionpharma constitute pre-packed and thereby readily available, which has led Missionpharma has contributed to the reduction of the backbone of local healthcare solutions. We believe to a reduction of surgery preparation time from 2 hours maternal mortality in Togo by 25% through delivery that medical kits for Africa should be packed in Africa, of Caesarean kits to the country. and 30 minutes to just 30 minutes. HUMAN RIGHTS Missionpharma 8 HUMAN RIGHTS ACCOUNTABILITY Our main contribution to society is to ensure availability of safe and affordable healthcare GROUP HUMAN RIGHTS POLICIES products in our markets. We employ comprehensive The Group has zero tolerance for any human systems and procedures to support our efforts. We rights abuse, in particular: have incorporated stringent QA/QC procedures supported by a comprehensive Quality Management We do not engage or get involved in any System. Missionpharma works only with pre-qualified business that is against human dignity manufacturers, whose performance is continuously We do not discriminate based on race, colour, monitored and evaluated, and who are subject to gender, religion or national origin regular Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) audits. We maintain a permanent global team of auditors, who We do not get involved in any child labour, perform over 60 GMP inspections of manufacturers human trafficking or any other kind of forced or every year. involuntary labour Integrated IT systems support the safety of products We do not tolerate any form of harassment throughout the supply chain to last mile delivery, including comprehensive vendor prequalification and We do not deal with any person that engages approval procedures, product quality compliance and in or is involved with any human rights abuses Missionpharma’s Quality Management product traceability via GS1 barcoding. System complies with ISO 9001:2015 CODE OF CONDUCT Respect for international human rights is rooted deeply and EU GDP regulations. This safeguards If adverse human rights violations are found, they will be in our fundamental philosophy. Our parent company, addressed according to their severity, scope and scale. control of the global supply chain and Toyota Tsusho Cooperation (TTC), has set up a Code In the years to come, we are planning to grow and consequently maintains the quality, of Conduct & Ethics which applies to all members consolidate our approach to human rights due diligence of the Group and which explicitly addresses group within our organisation. consistency and integrity of products, commitments to respect human rights. from the production facilities to the endcustomer. LABOUR Missionpharma 9 LABOUR Missionpharma wants to inspire people to share our commitment in Africa. Providing a safe and healthy work environment and fostering an inclusive culture where people can grow and develop is a key factor in achieving this. OUR PEOPLE EMBRACING DIVERSITY Our employees are our most valuable asset. Our We believe that diversity and inclusion are instrumental success, development and business efficiency depend in realising our full potential. Further, we believe that on our employees, their well-being and their job diversity among employees contributes to enrichment satisfaction. Our priority is to be an attractive employer of ideas that drive innovation and progress. Being a and to foster a culture where employees enjoy their truly international company Missionpharma has many work, take pride in what they do, show respect for each different nationalities represented in our offices. other and develop personally and professionally. ”We want to make an inclusive We want to create a healthy and motivating work working culture a benchmark for all environment with a high level of engagement and commitment to our purpose across all locations. our affiliates across Asia and Africa”. 12 1.16% CHRISTIAN OVERGAARD, CEO DIFFERENT NATIONALITIES SICKNESS ABSENCE FOR We focus on attracting, retaining, and developing EMPLOYED ACROSS LOCATIONS DANISH EMPLOYEES capable employees. Fundamentally, we believe in We promote social diversity, we fight discrimination and people’s ability to act responsibly when provided with we strive to provide a fulfilling and inclusive environment the right guidance. In order to secure a high level of for every employee. We always seek a fair balance GENDER DISTRIBUTION employee satisfaction and a constant high performance between men and women among our staff, as we GENDER DISTRIBUTION* AMONG MANAGERS* 30% 18% culture, we encourage ongoing skill development believe it benefits our working environment and ability for everyone who works for us and we run extensive to develop. In particular, we have a policy for striving training programmes in all our locations. towards a higher degree of gender diversity within our 70% 82% management teams. *Figures as of 31/3-2019 LABOUR Missionpharma 10 LABOUR LABOUR CONDITIONS chosen to use the reputable Great Place to Work® global Our priority is to provide a safe and healthy work platform to obtain detailed information about the extent environment for our employees, and we are committed to which Missionpharma is considered to be a great to complying with local health, safety and labour laws workplace by our employees. at all locations. In 2018, we had no reports of safetyWe have a history as one of Denmark’s best places to related incidents or incidents of labour rights violations work. In 2018, we obtained a position as no. 13 out in any of our locations. of 89 companies in the category Best Medium-sized Periodical workplace assessments among Danish Workplaces in Denmark. employees are part of our efforts to ensure a safe and In 2018, 98% of the Danish employees rated healthy work environment and increase awareness of Missionpharma to be a great place to work – a rating mental health at work. which we are extremely proud of. Extensive resources We exercise the right to freedom of association and we are used to translate employee feedback into concrete do not conduct or condone forced, compulsory or child actions and initiatives to ensure continuous improvement. labour. We have a zero tolerance for the use of child We are planning to extend the survey to include selected labour in any of our affiliates. ratings from all Missionpharma locations in order to Employees EMPLOYEE SURVEY Age distribution collect a global Seniority score. Denmark 63 <25 years 4% < 1 years 10% India Every 80 year, Missionpharma conducts 25-29 years a comprehensive 15% 1 < 3 years 30% China 5 3 < 5 years 21% Zambia employee 30 survey in our Danish30-39 headquarters. years 40-49 years We have 41% 22% 5 < 10 years 18% 50-59 years 16% 10 < 20 years 18% 60+ years 2% 20+ years 3% STATISTICS FROM GREAT PLACE TO WORK® SURVEY 2018* EMPLOYEE DISTRIBUTION AGE DISTRIBUTION SENIORITY NO.13 2% Missionpharma’s position among 4% 3% 10% 30 16% 15% 18% 89 participating companies in our 5 < 1 years category in Denmark 63 Denmark <25 years 1 < 3 years 25-29 years India 30% 3 < 5 years 30-39 years 98% 5 < 10 years China 22% 40-49 years 18% 10 < 20 years of employees think that Missionpharma 50-59 years Zambia 60+ years 20+ years is a great place to work 41% 80 21% 100% of employees think they are treated fairly Our largest group of employees is based in India, The majority of Missionpharma employees Nearly 40% of all employees have been in regardless of their race, ethnicity or sexual from where a large range of our logistics and are between 30 and 50 years old. the company for +5 years. orientation. business support services are handled. *Survey covers only Danish employees ENVIRONMENT Missionpharma 11 ENVIRONMENT We strive to integrate environmental responsibility into all our activities and to continuously improve the environmental performance of our company. ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS OPTIMISING TRANSPORTATION We want to reduce our environmental footprint every Transportation of goods constitutes by far the biggest year. We pay special attention to the consumption of environmental impact within our part of the supply electricity and fuel in all of our locations worldwide and chain. That’s why we always plan for the most we focus on minimizing waste. We actively share and environmentally effective mode of transportation, given encourage best practices among our affiliates and with the circumstances. As a project-oriented company, our partners. we are often subject to a range of external factors on which we have limited influence. Where at all possible, To limit the negative environmental impacts of we seek to influence our customers’ and suppliers’ pharmaceutical manufacturing and ensure constant transportation preferences towards the method with the improvements, we keep manufacturers’ social and lowest possible environmental impact. environmental responsibility top of mind at all times. This is particularly addressed during periodical GMP Packing medical kits in India and shipping healthcare audits, and we are planning to intensify requirements to products directly from facilities in China and India to manufacturers going forward. Africa – and thereby avoiding passage through Europe – helps reduce emissions and reinforces our commitment to environmental responsibility. TRANSPORTATION VOLUMES FOR PERIOD 1/4 2018 31/3 2019 To limit our environmental impact, our medical kits are designed to optimally fit 22,000 m³ 343 tons 10,500 m³ the contents as well as the inside measurements of containers. The compact design provides safety, optimises transportation SEAFREIGHT AIRFREIGHT INLAND TRANSPORTATION and limits our environmental footprint. ENVIRONMENT Missionpharma 12 ENVIRONMENT RECYCLING OF PACKING MATERIAL produce cardboard separator sheets, which are widely As a consequence of the considerable volumes of used in connection with kit packing and for protection of healthcare products handled by Missionpharma, cartons against dirt and humidity in the containers. in particular at our logistics premises in India, our We minimise product repacking, also in our kit packing consumption of packing material is high. Therefore, processes, and we only apply plastic shrink-wrapping particular attention is always paid towards securing the of pallets when required by our customers or airline lowest possible waste in our packing processes and the companies. Our pallets are reusable and made of highest possible level of material recycling. biodegradable wood. We are currently looking for Shipper cartons constitute by far the biggest part of the biodegradable plastic bags, since bags are used as an packing material used. We segregate scrap cartons, and important protective layer inside the cartons. use them for recycling to form pulp. The pulp is utilised to Missionpharma’s shipper cartons are of very high quality, strength and durability and are proven to be CONCRETE INITIATIVES re-used by the customers for various purposes at the final Meatfree lunch destination, which extends the lifetime of the packing Missionpharma Denmark has recently introduced one material. meatfree lunch per week for its employees. This equals a DESTRUCTION OF MEDICINE reduction of CO2 emmission of nearly10 tons per year. 1,072,000 kWh Expired or damaged medicines constitute the majority Refurbishment of IT equipment of hazardous waste generated by Missionpharma. Strict Every year, we donate IT equipment for refurbishment inventory management procedures limit quantities sent ANNUAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION to public schools and local societies in Africa via FAIR for destruction. Destruction strictly follows regulations ACROSS LOCATIONS Denmark, thus contributing to bridging the gaps in from public authorities. 100 kW educational opportunities as well as ensuring reuse of functional IT equipment. SOLAR ENERGY Missionpharma Kandla has installed a 100 kW solar Upgrade of video conference equipment power system, which generates enough power to SOLAR POWER INSTALLED IN KANDLA We have significantly invested in technical upgrades maintain all office equipment, light and approximately 9,929 kg of our video conference equipment and setup in all our 30% of the total air conditioning energy consumption. locations. This highly encourages the daily interaction This results in a reduction of more than 100 tons CO2 with colleagues globally and further reduces the need emissions per year. EXPIRED PHARMACEUTICALS for CO2 burdening flight travels across continents. DESTRUCTED ACROSS LOCATIONS ANTI-CORRUPTION Missionpharma 13 ANTI-CORRUPTION We stand for integrity, respect and transparency in all aspects of our activities, and we aim for the highest ethical standards in our business practices. BUSINESS WITH INTEGRITY ANTI-CORRUPTION Missionpharma is known and respected for dealing We believe that corruption and other unethical practices honestly and fairly with our business partners. We are incompatible with our vision and undermine the believe that conducting business with honesty and support and confidence of our business environment. transparency boosts competitiveness. Our Code of Therefore, we have implemented policies to counteract Conduct and supporting compliance policies define corruption in all possible forms and to ensure compliance an elaborate set of guidelines that everyone in our with key international anti-corruption legislation and organisation must learn and commit to. The policies sanctions. Missionpharma has recently introduced a guide employees to make responsible business decisions comprehensive anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy as and act ethically and according to the highest standards well as a whistleblowing procedure, which employees, of integrity. Basically, this means that our employees agents and selected business partners are trained in and should never compromise their integrity for the sake of commit to adhere to in writing. business. 3 ANTI-CORRUPTION INITIATIVES INTRODUCED AREAS STRENGTHENED IN NEW COMPLIANCE POLICIES • Communication and training for all employees and • Reinforced policies on donations and gifts selected business relationships on new anti-corruption and • Strengthened policies on facilitation payment NEW COMPLIANCE POLICIES whistleblowing commitments INTRODUCED • Addition of no-go areas for off-shore payments and payments • Communications (whistleblowing) channels and follow-up on behalf of third party mechanisms for reporting concerns or seeking advice • Management responsibility and accountability for • Formalised whistleblowing procedure with confidentiality terms and response times 180 100% implementation of anti-corruption commitments PEOPLE TRAINED IN OF EMPLOYEES ARE TRAINED IN • Compliance Committee responsible for setting directions and MISSIONPHARMA’S COMPLIANCE MISSIONPHARMA’S COMPLIANCE • Internal periodical audits to ensure consistency with investigating larger reported concerns POLICIES IN Q1 2019 POLICIES commitments ANTI-CORRUPTION Missionpharma 14 ANTI-CORRUPTION VETTING OF BUSINESS RELATIONS Therefore, we have implemented comprehensive vetting Our approach to compliance is very much risk-based, procedures, which our business relations must pass which means that we conduct assessments of the through to ensure compliance with Missionpharma compliance-related risks we face as a company on a standards of integrity. All business partners are regular basis. We realise that failures of compliance screened for critical information on persons and entities can occur throughout the entire value chain and that an through the Dow Jones Risk & Compliance database, act or an omission on our part can result in the risk of and agents, in particular, go through a rigorous due complicity. diligence process and approval procedure. We are planning to introduce digital training CERTIFICATIONS programmes and increasingly automated processes • ISO 9001:2015-certified by Bureau Veritas and in our compliance work, which will allow us to further audited for compliance on an annual basis expand our coverage, efficiency and quality of work. • Good Distribution Practice (GDP) license from the COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Danish Medicines Agency In accordance with group policies, Missionpharma has • Indian warehouse is WHO-GDP certified by Bureau recently established a Compliance Committee, headed Veritas and we have Indian FDA licenses for storage, by a Compliance Officer, that analyses and processes packing and export of wholesale drugs any alerts on corrupt practices submitted by employees • Missionpharma Zambia is approved by the Zambia or third parties. Upon identification of a potential nonMedicines Regulatory Authority (ZAMRA) for Pharmacompliance, the Compliance Committee may conduct ceutical Wholesale as well as for kit packaging and an audit to gather additional information or verify labelling the truthfulness of the allegations. Our comprehensive We do not tolerate corrupt or fraudulent • We have obtained international certifications and internal control environment is our tool to monitor practices in any of our activities. Speadherence to commitment and minimize risks in all parts approvals and are today collaborating with several of our operation. cial provisions prohibiting such practices UN Agencies as well as the WHO. Furthermore, we operate as an approved certified wholesaler for and authorising strong remedial actions, USAID including termination, are included as • Missionpharma is TRACE certified and has completed a comprehensive due diligence process administered part of our business procedures. by TRACE International SUSTAINABILITY OUTLOOK Missionpharma 15 OUR SUSTAINABILITY OUTLOOK The ten principles of the UN Global Compact constitute an important guidance for Missionpharma in our process to maintain positive and honest business practices, while at the same time delivering social, environmental and economic value to the people and societies we engage with. In addition to this overall commitment, the table below summarizes specific future targets that are already today guiding continuous improvement actions of our management teams and the entire organisation. AREA PERFORMANCE 2018/19 FUTURE TARGET HUMAN RIGHTS GMP audits of manufacturers 50-60 Minimum 50-60 Child labour Observed but not a formal requirement during GMP audits Integrated part of every GMP audit LABOUR Condensed employee survey launched globally. Target is that minimum 98% of Danish employees believe that ”Missionpharma is a Employee satisfaction 90% of all global employees believe that ”Missionpharma is a great great place to work” place to work” We strive towards a higher degree of gender diversity within our Gender distribution among managers 18% female • 82% male management teams Annual personal development talks coverage 100% (DK location). Global % not yet measured Minimum 80% (global target) ENVIRONMENT Continuous focus on reducing destruction levels. Target to be decided Destruction of expired pharmaceuticals 9,900 kg based on changes in corporate stockkeeping strategies Electricity consumption 1,072,000 kWh 930,000 kWh Solar power 100 kW 200 kW Recycling of packing material Initiated packing material recycling efforts Measure impact with improvement target ANTI-CORRUPTION Training in new compliance policies 100% of Missionpharma employees trained Compliance training completed for agents and suppliers Tailored case-based training for exposed groups Country Manager training in progress Category Managers and Agents Digital compliance training tools Currently not used Incorporated towards relevant internal and external stakeholders Due diligence screening of third parties Systems and procedures incorporated in SOPs Increased due diligence screening of suppliers We accelerate the new Africa Missionpharma contributes to progress in Africa by strengthening tomorrow’s healthcare with intelligent solutions and trustful partnerships. Missionpharma A/S Vassingeroedvej 9 DK-3540 Lynge Denmark Tel.: +45 48 16 32 00 info@missionpharma.com www.missionpharma.com
