REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 CONTENT A word from the director 3 About the report 4 Overview of the company 5 Human rights 10 Work relations 12 Environment 21 Interlux in the society 23 Prevention of corruption 26 REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 A WORD FROM THE DIRECTOR In 2018, Interlux Group completed the structural development smoothly and transferred its values and ethic business model successfully to four subsidiary companies which are the cornerstone of the Interlux Group: UAB Laborama, UAB Medita, UAB Multilabo and UAB Sormedica. All Interlux Group companies observe the common Code of Conduct of the Interlux Group which involves the protection of all human rights and freedoms and culture of dispute and decision making, including foreseeing preventive measures and their implementation. Today, Interlux cannot be imagined without adherence to world standards, eﬀective quality management systems, social responsibility reports, transparency and publicity. All the companies of the Interlux Group are certi ed with ISO standard and follow the values of the parent company and stable business model. After overcoming the development-dictated challenges, we are stronger and more demanding today – foremost by raising requirements and expectations for ourselves. We assess our supply chain periodically and choose only reliable, global partners developing sustainable business and oﬀering highest-quality, safe, environmentally friendly and ecologic products and solutions. By guaranteeing a sustainable supply chain and certi ed process management, we won a long-lasting trust of customers and partners that encourages us to follow the way of socially responsible business development. In 2018 we also signi cantly invested in new personal data protection tools and campaigns of disease prevention that keep getting better and better results. Sustainable relations between the employees and the company are one of our main and most important priorities. By taking care of our employees' health, encouraging participation in socially responsible activities, by setting forth motivating values, favouring self-development and establishing uttermost sustainable environment, we create our relation with the personnel – particularly quali ed specialis ts that almost in one hundred percent have higher university education. These people are axis of the Interlux Group Interlux joined the United Nations Global Compact seven years ago and still attentively observes the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in the elds of human and employee rights, environmental protection and ght against corruption. As in the past, this year we responsibly declare that we will keep on observing our internal regulations and obligations to Ten Principle of the UN Global Compact in the elds of human and employee rights, environmental protection and ght against corruption and rmly support the initiatives of the United Nations Global Compact. Respectfully yours, Audrius Matuzevičius, MD, PhD CEO of lnterlux REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 ABOUT THE REPORT WE INVITE YOU KINDLY TO FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH THE 7TH report on the progress of social responsibility of Interlux overviewing the achievements of the Interlux Group in the elds of human rights, work relations, environmental protection and prevention of corruption as well as contribution to the creation of social initiatives in Lithuania 4 in 2018. We have been assessing our activity in the context of ssustainability and compiled reports on social responsibility since 2012, when Interlux joined the United Nations Global Compact and started following the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. Reports are compiled in Lithuanian and English. Electronic documents of the reports are published on the website www.interlux.lt/tvarumas as well as the website of the Global Compact www.globalcompact.org . This report on the progress of social responsibility is intended both for the audiences that are interested in the company's activity – partners, employees, shareholders, community and institutions, and all those that would like to familiarize themselves with Interlux more comprehensively. MAIN TRENDS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OF THE INTERLUX GROUP: · TRANSPARENT and responsible activity · SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE employment · Reduction of the NEGATIVE IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT · SUPPORT OF SOCIAL INITIATIVES in the elds of the healthy lifestyle, sport, art, safe medicine, scienti c progress, training of young scientists, ecology, protection of human rights, prevention of corruption and development of ethical and responsible business. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 ABOUT THE INTERLUX GROUP Interlux is an international company already for 25 years together with its subsidiary companies, providing innovative, top quality technologies and solutions for medicine, science and biotechnology industry to the customersof the Baltic region. The main segments of solutions provided by the Interlux Group are 5 conservative medicine, surgery and laboratory, imaging and functional disease diagnostics. We also develop the trade of wellness-fostering products. Our strength is a smooth „full solution partnership model – we implement certi ed, safe, environment-friendly, highest quality products and guarantee eﬀective trainings for user as well as professional 24/7 technical maintenance and service. The foundation of the Interlux Group consists of the UAB Interlux parent company and UAB Medita, UAB Sormedica, UAB Laborama, UAB Multilabo. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 ABOUT THE COMPANIES THAT BELONG TO INTERLUX GROUP The UAB Interlux (www.interlux.lt) parent company organizes and ensures the activity of the whole group of companies – smooth work of separate chain links starting with the ordering of goods and logistics, 6 technical maintenance and warranty service, all the way to accounting, marketing, search and employment of quali ed specialists – issues of the staﬀ of the Interlux Group. MEDITA (www.medita.lt) provides reliable, safe products of world-famous manufacturers that are most suitable for a modern oﬃce of a family doctor or rehabilitation centre as well as solutions for general practice, physiotherapy and medical rehabilitation. The basket of SORMEDICA (www.sormedica.lt) contains innovative, eﬀective technologies for surgery, therapy and diagnostics, radiotherapy, donation and transfusiology, surgical equipment and simulators that expand the range of possibilities in medicine. LABORAMA (www.laborama.lt) specializes in the segment of technologies for scienti c and laboratory tests by implementing innovative solutions of ow cytometry, clinical and industrial microbiology, molecular and cell biology. The company also provides diﬀerent commodities for scientists and users of advanced laboratory technologies. The MULTILABO company (www.multilabo.lt) is the youngest company in the Interlux Group that was established in 2018 on the grounds of the subdivisions of In Vitro Diagnostics (IVD) technologies and Industrial Diagnostics (AID) technologies of the Interlux parent company. These are innovative analytical and in vitro diagnostic solutions for eﬀective, reliable and exclusively accurate work for clinical and scienti c laboratories. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 For the convenience of customers from the neighbouring Baltic countries: Latvia and Estonia, there are local companies in place: 7 Interlux SIA (www.interlux.lv) and Interlux OÜ (www.interlux.ee), which closely cooperate with the Interlux Group and help to ensure eﬀective service for customers in the Baltic region. INTERLUX OÜ (www.interlux.ee) opened its doors in Tallinn in 2017 as a result of the Interlux Group implementing the plan of strategic development in the Baltic States and strengthening the sales in separate business elds in foreign countries. The Estonian team of Interlux grows and improves constantly and it accentuates quality over quantity. Like the other agencies of Interlux, Interlux OÜ guarantees not only smooth deliveries, but also trainings and consultations of customers as well as professional 24/7 technical maintenance and service. INTERLUX SIA (www.intrlux.lv) is in its second decade of activity in the Latvian market of medical devices and veterinary and laboratory diagnostics. It is a team of enthusiastic specialists, whose vision is to improve every person's life by oﬀering modern and innovative products for health care and science. Reliable professionals in their respective elds observe market innovations constantly and strive to oﬀer the newest and most eﬀective solutions to their customers. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 INTERLUX GROUP IN NUMBERS 8 The Interlux Group employs more more than 100 employees >100 We have more than 300 reliable businesses partners worldwide >300 We are trusted by over 1000 health care veterinary, scienti c and industrial companies institutions in Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia >1000 Income of Interlux Group in 2018 amounted to 19 million EUR ~19 mln. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 SUSTAINABLE ACTIVITY MODEL IMPLEMENTED IN THE INTERLUX GROUP Ÿ Responsible and sustainable human resources policy and socially responsible employment; 9 Ÿ Standardized activity – the Interlux Group was certi ed in accordance with the standard of the LST EN ISO 9001:2015 quality management system, proving that all included companies continuously improve the quality of service. The audit report contains the following advantages of the management system of the Interlux Group: · Attitude of the higher management and commitment to quality; · Understanding of the importance of customers' needs; · Competence of staﬀ; · Constant improvement of the system; · Identi cation and implementation of applicable standard requirements; · Reliable reputation of the company in the market. Ÿ Sustainable supply chain – socially responsible worldwide suppliers developing highest-quality, safe and environment-friendly solutions; Ÿ Ethical activity and active prevention of corruption and other misconduct. MISSION VISION To improve people's health, To be the rst choice of create the value for patients and customers and partners in the medical staﬀ and satisfy their implementation of medical and needs in the implementation of scienti c technologies in the Baltic new-generation, advanced, safe States. and eﬀective technologies. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 HUMAN RIGHTS THE INTERLUX GROUP and its employees are against any violations of human rights, discrimination, violence, abuse, forced and children's work and intolerance to diﬀerent opinions, lifestyle and health conditions. 10 Human rights are observed in the collectives of all companies of the Interlux Group and in communication with customers. These internal and external attitudes and principles of the activity are consolidated in the Code of Conduct of lnterlux as well as Codes of Conduct of its subsidiary companies and are observed by all employees of the Interlux Group. After the General Regulations of Data Protection (GRDP) came into force in the European Union, Interlux also revised the internal procedures related to personal data protection and updated them. In order to meet the requirements of the personal data protection eﬀectively, a new position of a data protection oﬃcial was established; who helps all responsible employees of Interlux to ensure to the maximum extent the human right to private data protection. The human rights are ensured in the documents de ning the human resources policy in the Interlux Group: Ÿ POLICY OF EQUAL POSSIBILITIES AND ITS IMPLEMENTATION. The goal of this policy is to ensure equal rights, possibilities and duties for all applying people or present employees, irrespective of their sex, race, nationality, language, origin, social position, faith, beliefs or lifestyle, age, sexual orientation, disability, ethnicity or religion. Ÿ REGULATIONS OF THE USE OF INFORMATION, COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGIES AND MONITORING, AND CONTROL OF EMPLOYEES IN THE PLACE OF WORK. The goal of these Regulations is to set the order of use of imaging, information and communication technologies and monitoring of e-communication of employees at UAB Interlux. Ÿ POLICY OF STORAGE OF THE PERSONAL DATA OF EMPLOYEES AND ORDER OF ITS IMPLEMENTATION. The goal of this policy is to set the rules protecting the safety of personal data of employees, regulate the management of personal data by ensuring implementation of the Labour Code of the Republic of Lithuania, Law on the Legal Protection of Personal Data of the Republic of Lithuania as well as other laws and legal acts on the personal data protection and regulate the personal data management procedures, implementation of rights of data subjects and technical and organizational measures of data safety. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 Ÿ RULES OF WORK OF UAB INTERLUX AND ITS SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES, which Section 14.2 foresees the following rights of an Employee: 14.2.1. to request the employer to create safe, healthy and non11 discriminatory work conditions; 14.2.2. to request the employer to provide, in the set order, work tools, personal protective measures and personal hygienic measures ; 14.2.3. to receive information about the substances harmful to the employee's health and other dangerous factors present in the work environment ; 14.2.4. to refuse to work in case of health or life hazard and in case the employee has not been trained to perform the work safely; 14.2.5. to request to compensate the damage to the employee's health because of unsafe or harmful work conditions, in the set order; 14.2.6. to make suggestions to the employer about the improvement (amendment) of the rules of work at the Company. There were no manifestations of discrimination and complaints of employees or appeals for the violations of human rights in the Interlux Group in 2018. There were no incompliances related with the principles of the Global Compact in 2018, either. The Interlux Group has an email address that can be used by any employee in order to inform the higher management about any form of discrimination or manifestation of violations of human rights. The Complaint Management Order was approved and communicated in public and it foresees a period of analysis of complaints about possible violations of human rights as well as appoints the person who is liable for the analysis of these complaints. The human rights are observed in the internal and external communication of the Interlux Group. Informative, promotional and other communicative material distributed by Interlux is strictly controlled and cannot be related with any form of video or audio discrimination or violence; it cannot encourage any discrimination or intolerance of attitudes, lifestyles and positions or states of health. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 WORK RELATIONS OVERVIEW OF STAFF 105 employees worked for the Interlux Group in 2018, four less than in 2017; 45,71 percent worked for UAB Interlux, 13,33 percent – for UAB 12 Medita, 16,2 percent – for UAB Sormedica, 9,5 percent – for UAB Laborama and 14,3 percent – for UAB Multilabo. According to the elds of activity, 22 administrative employees, 57 sales employees, 11 service employees, 7 nanciers and 8 supply employees worked for the Interlux Group in 2018. According to education, 99 percent of the staﬀ of the Interlux Group has higher university education and 1 percent of them has secondary or further education. 10% 47% 13% 14% 16% Sales employees 21% Administrative employees Service employees 54% 10% Financiers employees Supply employees 7% 8% REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYMENT Interlux Group pays a lot of attention to its employees. We strive to create trust and responsibility-based relation between the company 13 and the employee. Since the initial stage – stage of selection, we try to understand if the values of the employee and of the company coincide, because coinciding values of the staﬀ and of the company are one of the essential conditions of harmonious development of the company. The priorities of the policy on our staﬀ remain the same ones as last year: · values and knowledge-based selection; · absolute assurance of the employees' rights; · eﬀective motivation; · nurturance of loyalty of the employees and their con dence in the work for the company; · responsible employment. On signing of the work contract with a company belonging to the Interlux Group, every employee is familiarized with the following: · Registry journal of the introductory instructions for work safety and health and registration of instructions in the place of work; · Rules of work; · Code of Conduct; The employee lled the„Declaration of public-private interests for the assurance of transparency of the activity. Like every year, all the new employees received the „Novice's book that presents the company's structure, staﬀ's policy, organizational culture, values and traditions. We encourage the principles of responsibility and volunteering in our collective. For example, Interlux Group organized a blood donation campaign before Christmas in 2018. Employees of the National Blood Centre and all the employees of Interlux Group that wanted to donate blood were invited to the headquarters. We tried to create the most comfortable conditions of blood donation for these socially responsible employees. We are content with the results of the Christmas campaign – almost one fourth of the employees of the Interlux Group became donors. We hope this beautiful initiative will take root and become an annual Christmas goodness campaign. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT OF THE EMPLOYEES One of the main goals of the policy of the staﬀ of Interlux is to support professional growth of its employees. Interlux pursues all possibilities of 14 constant improvement for its employees. Main elds of professional growth of employees: · professional development; · team-buildings; · nurturance of emotional intellect. Like every year, in 2018 all the employees of the Interlux Group had a possibility to become more advanced in their special eld as they participated in diﬀerent professional seminars, classes and trainings organized by Lithuanian and foreign partners, and frequent international conferences. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 ATTENTION TO THE INTERNAL COMMUNICATION In 2018, the companies of the Interlux Group organized periodic team-building events and involved colleagues from 15 Latvia and Estonia. Moreover, there was the annual canoeing event of the Interlux Group organised, to which all the employees of the Interlux Group from Lithuania and from the agencies in Latvia and Estonia were invited. In this way we not only create conditions for all the employees to know about the activity and intended plans for the future of the company, but also meet colleagues, feel involved in the internal processes as much as possible and communicate with co-workers in an informal environment. The internal communication of the Interlux Group also takes place online, in the Linkedin.com platform on the company's account. By using other means of communication the company speaks out about the following : · structural, management-related, nancial and other internal changes and instructions at the company; · new-issued orders and policies; · news for staﬀ – noti cations about new employees and those ones the company says goodbye to; · internal communication, information about events etc. The above-mentioned information is also spread at meetings of the internal subdivisions of the company. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 THE EMPLOYEES ARE INVOLVED IN THE DECISION-MAKING 16 Interlux has had Council of Work meetings, like every year. The Council of Work is an independent body, which goal is strengthening of the dialogue between the employees and the higher management. The Council of Work meets at least once per month and on demand. The goal of the Council of Work is to encourage the personnel to communicate with the higher management and inform about any noticed violations of the Code of Conduct, possible violations of human rights or other problems. The mission of the Council of Work is also to suggest changes at the company, intermediate and represent the employees at the negotiations with the higher management. The members of the Council of Work communicate with the employees, raise the issues that are important for the collective at meetings of the Council and suggest changes to the higher management. The employees are also encouraged to state their opinion and make suggestions on the internal procedures as well as assessment and motivational systems at the company. Interlux Group companies carry out interviews of employees and conversations with them in order to ascertain the needs of the employees and involve them in the decision making process. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 FAIR, PERSONAL GROWTH ORIENTED ASSESSMENT OF WORK ACTIVITY 17 Like every year, in 2018 all the employees were assessed at the end of calendar year when the assessment of the activity of the employees of the Interlux Company was organized in the form of conversations between the employee and their direct supervisor. During the annual conversation, the goal is to ascertain the way the employee feels at the company, measure ful lment level of his/her needs, whether the employee felt discriminated or his/her rights were restricted at the organization. During this private conversation, clear and pre-agreed criteria are used and the achievements of the goals set for the previous period as well as competences and personal characteristics of the employee in question which aﬀect the performance at work are assessed. New work tasks and elds of improvement are also set for the next period. The activity of employees is assessed at UAB Interlux and companies of the Interlux Group: UAB Sormedica, UAB Medita, UAB Laborama, UAB Multilabo. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 MOTIVATION We understand motivation not only from the nancial point of view, but also as qualitative motivation– we create safe, comfortable and ergonomic conditions of work, 18 ensure all human rights and freedoms and guarantee honest possibilities of the career at the Interlux Group. We strive for every employee of the Interlux Group to feel valued and listened to, and we ensure that the employee can contribute to the development of tasks, determination of the organization's plans and its growth. · Motivation for merits Every year, the company honours and encourages the employees that carry out their duties especially well: sales managers with the best results, most enterprising employees and collective members with other distinctions. At the Interlux Group, prizes are also awarded for good work and they use the„LUX motivation system.„LUX is a premium with monetary value that is awarded by a direct supervisor to their employees for an appreciated and established contribution to the results of common work of the Interlux Group. Ÿ Flexible conditions of work and attention to the employee's needs Interlux creates conditions for its employees to coordinate work and family obligations. Here you can choose to work according to a exible schedule and coordinate work, personal and family obligations. Students have conditions to combine their studies and work. The employees of the Interlux Group are provided with extra social bene ts, for example, on the birth of an employee's child, death of a family member or on the occasion of the rst marriage. Employees with preschool-aged children are granted an extra health insurance. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 Ÿ Attention to the employees' health One of the main priorities of the Interlux Group is health and good well-being of its employees. 19 · Extra health insurance; Like for many consecutive years, the Interlux Group granted an extra health insurance to the employees that had worked for at least 3 months in 2018; it allows the employees to pay more attention to sport, fulledged vitamins-enriched nutrition or wellness procedures. · Neat juice; All the employees of the collective of the group of companies were constantly provided with healthy neat fruit juice to strengthen their organisms. Ÿ Prophylactic health check-up ; In 2018, Interlux also organized an annual health prophylactic check-up for all its employees as it signi cantly contributes to prophylaxis of diﬀerent diseases and the employees receive feedback about the health aspects they should pay attention to, or about symptoms of starting health disorders. · Vaccinations. Like every year, in 2018 all willing employees were vaccinated against u before the active u season. · Encouragement of active lifestyle Interlux takes care of health of all its employees and it largely depends on the active lifestyle. In order to encourage colleagues to do sport together, company granted a budget to support the corporate team of runners of the Interlux Group. The runners were given T-shirts with the company's symbols and the registration fees of sport events were paid for them. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 MONITORING OF EQUAL POSSIBILITIES Distribution of sexes in the group of companies: 105 people worked for the company in 2018: 20 · 59 men; · 47 women. Distribution of the managing staﬀ according to the sex: · 6 women; · 13 men. There were no employees with xed-term labour contracts. Interlux enables men and women to use their additional days oﬀ, for example, so-called „mother days and„father days , without hindrance. 165 mother days and father days were used in 2018. Interlux also encourages using diﬀerent holidays related to responsible maternity/paternity without hindrance, for example, the following were granted in 2018: · 1028 days of children's care holidays, · 94 days of paternity holidays. Women and men are granted equal sickness and patient's care holidays. It is to note the women are absent for more days because of sickness or patient's care; it is mostly related with the duties of a responsible mother to her child: · In 2018, the men were absent for 113 days and the women – for 219 days because of sickness, · The men were absent for 4 days and the women – for 36 days because of patient's care. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 ENVIRONMENT BUSINESS AND SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT The Interlux Group follows the highest principles of ethics and stability in the 21 business and social environment. Our main values are the following ones: · Eﬀectiveness and safety; · Quality; · Responsibility; · Rationality; · Progress. In the business environment, we follow the principles of stable development and, rstly, pay attention to the choice of partners. We only represent stable, world-established manufacturers developing eﬀective, reliable, safe, certi ed and environment-friendly solutions. We also control the provision of domestic services and articles carefully and prioritize the suppliers that provide ecologic substances or solutions. We also ensure the medical, scienti c and other institutions receive only high quality, employees and patients-safe technologies and devices and encourage the development of personalized medicine in Lithuania. In the communication with our customers, we observe an especially strict oﬃcial ethic code and carry out the anticorruption monitoring and preventive analysis. In order to obtain a stable relation with the social environment, we prepared promotional video, audio, electronic and other kinds of material and made sure the information about our products and services translated externally or other spread information is only correct, supported with scienti c proofs, substantiated, non-misleading, comprehensive and professional. We take part in the activity of the UN Global Compact actively and are members of other stable organizations that use the principles of transparency, reduction of the harmful impact on the environment, saving of resources, assurance of equal possibilities and prevention of corruption: MIGA (Lithuanian Association of Manufacturers of Medical Equipment) – membership since 2013; LAVA (Lithuanian Association of Responsible Business) – membership since 2013; LVK (Lithuanian Business Confederation) – membership since 2016; MPGA (Association of Manufacturers of Food Supplements) – membership since 2016. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 More responsible and stable conduct in business means a better social climate, fairer and more honest communication between business subjects and more qualitative relations with the environment. Trying to encourage our partners, rivals and all business subjects to use the principles of stable business, we feel responsibility and a 22 duty to share ideas of socially responsible business. One of the examples is an interview with the head of UAB Interlux in the main publication of Lithuanian business news „Verslo žinios about the coordination of the principles of the responsible activity with the developed business –„The card of stability can save you in the competitive ght . REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 WORK IN THE FIELD OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION We implement technological solutions with all necessary European and world certi cates, i.e., they are made in accordance with the highest 23 environmental requirements, so a direct impact of our group of companies on the environment is minimum. We only have a non-positive impact on the environment when we dispose of unnecessary packages or use our oﬃcial cars. Thus, we try to ensure safe disposal of packages without any harm to the nature and renew the park of the company's cars taking into account the characteristics of the impact of a new car (engine) on the environment. By taking care of the environment, we contribute to the reduction of the negative impact on the environment and try to reduce the air and environmental pollution, slow the climate alteration and preserve healthier environment for future generations. Saving of natural resources was still the priority goal of environmental protection for the Interlux Group in 2018. Interlux ensures the recycling of packages of all the articles sold by the companies of the group. We signed a contract with PTO (Package Disposal Organization) and pay for the number of packages sold to our customers. Payments for the packages sold for the recycling in 2018 (numbers in tons): · Plastic 4,50 t, · Paper 34,6 t, · Glass 3,5 t, · Wood 7,05 t, · Metal package 0,22 t, · PET 0,5 t, · Combined package 8,82 t, · Other package 5 t. The accumulators, batteries, electric and electronic equipment waste used for the needs of the activity of the Interlux Group are collected safely and transferred for the disposal to the Association of Manufacturers, Importers and Distributors of Electronics (EPA). We also restrict the use of paper at the oﬃce and encourage performing as many online procedures as possible or using recycled paper. Interlux keeps on participating in the procurements executed by the Central Information System of Public Procurements in the online and not paper way in order to save the paper used by the company. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 INTERLUX IN THE SOCIETY Ÿ Interlux contributed to the achievement that was important for Lithuanian science. 24 The team of students from Vilnius University „Vilnius-Lithuania iGEM participated in the prestigious international competition of synthetic biology „iGEM , overcame more than 300 strongest university teams the world over and won the main prize of this competition. It is a special achievement in the history of Lithuanian science and the Interlux company is proud it was able to contribute to it because it enabled the team of winners-students to try one of the newest oﬀered instruments for quick PCR (quantitative polymerase chain reaction) – MIC – and use it for their work. It is the Ÿ Young doctors – future of Lithuania. Support to education. Interlux supports various initiatives for the improvement of professional knowledge of employees of the medical sector; in 2018 it supported scienti c-practical events for future doctors, during which the residents and the medical students improved their abilities and obtained experience from foreign guests and colleagues. The Interlux Group also contributed to a few other scienti c educational events organized by the specialists of other medical elds for the professional development of doctors and formation of their skills. Ÿ Sport is health. The Interlux Group contributes to the events propagating the healthy lifestyle and physical activity. The Interlux Group supports federations and clubs of diﬀerent sports. Interlux contributes to the strengthening of biathlon, rowing, basketball, tennis and squash. worldrst real-time PCR thermocycler functioning according to the principles of magnetic induction. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 Ÿ We initiate and support the education of the society about prophylactic diagnostics. Every year, we contribute to social campaigns encouraging people to undergo periodic check-ups and not to forget prophylactic diagnostics – ground of a healthier society. 25 In 2018, we also contributed to publication of information material on the topics of health, encouraged undergoing prophylactic check-ups for oncologic diseases (cervical cancer, prostate cancer) and tried to educate the society about the importance of timely diagnostics of diseases. For example, we participated in the annual preventive campaign of cervical cancer organized by the State Pathology Centre in March „TAKE CARE OF YOURSELF, undergo the check-up for cervical cancer ; women were encouraged undergoing cythopathological PAP tests from liquid medium in order to detect cervical cancer with advanced methods. This campaign has been carried out for several years, women pay more and more attention to it every year and it helps to detect hundreds of pre-cancer stages and save women from the progress of this dangerous disease. We also published an educational book for children and their parents about tuberculosis, ways of contraction of this severe infectious disease and preventive ways as well as prophylactic check-ups by performing very exact blood IGRA tests that show if the person is a carrier of tuberculosis mycobacteria. In order to avoid installing any fear in our smallest readers, we used Aukse and Kvantis, heroes that accompany children in the informative trip about tuberculosis safely and snappily. Like every year, Interlux helps diabetes prophylaxis programs and people with this disease to be fulledged members of the society. Interlux also assesses socially responsibly and tries to contribute to the educational, training and preventive activity of the associations of patients with other diﬀerent diseases and medical unions. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 PREVENTION OF CORRUPTION The Interlux Group did not record any cases of violations of the Code of Conduct by the employees, including 26 corruption, in 2018 like in the previous years. The values of the Interlux Group and models and principles of the activity of transparent anti-corruption conduct are described in the Code of Conduct, for example: „We act in a transparent, reliable and honest way by separating public and private interests. We avoid con icts of interests . There are preventive procedures of the declaration of work and private interests lled out by all the employees of the Interlux Group – every new employee must ll out the declaration of public and private interests. In 2018, the companies of the groups enacted another new stable document in the eld of prevention of corruption – Instruction on the Implementation of the Compliance with the Competitive Legal Norms. This instruction on the implementation of the compliance with the competitive legal norms is for the employees of the Interlux Group. The goal of the instruction is to familiarize the employees of Interlux with the main legal requirements of competition and provide the rules of conduct in order to help to avoid any violations of competitive law. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 TRANSPARENT BUSINESS RELATIONS AND COMPETITION There were no cases of corruptive manifestation in the Interlux Group in 2018, like in the previous years. The companies of the Interlux 27 Group worked in an ethical and transparent way in 2018, did not violate any of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and will strive to keep the highest level of responsibility, reliability, stability and anti-corruption in the future perspective. The concept of transparency of Interlux involves the culture of transparent and ethical business, transparent relations with business partners and customers, transparent public procurements, transparent policy of wages and tax payment, transparent and honest competition and observation of the laws of competition. Thank you for your time and attention on reading the 7th report of social responsibility of the Interlux Group! REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018
