Nippon Paper Group Cover Photo Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. company-owned forest Photo: Yuji Itsumi Integrated Report 2019 NIPPON PAPER GROUP Integrated Report 2019 For the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2019 Shaping NIPPON PAPER INDUSTRIES CO., LTD. (Securities Code: 3863) The cost of the paper used in this report includes the Future with Trees a portion of expenses for the use of timber discarded 4-6, Kanda-Surugadai, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0062, Japan Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. in forests following tree thinning. Inquiries: Corporate Planning Department TEL +81-3-6665-1002 CSR Department TEL +81-3-6665-1015 Types of Paper Utilized in This Report • Cover: U-LITE (157.0 g/m2) produced by Nippon Website: Paper Industries Co., Ltd. https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/ • Contents: b7 Light (97.0 g/m2) produced by Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Printed in Japan Group Mission MISSION Innovative Chemical materials The Nippon Paper Group aims to contribute to better living and cultural progress everywhere it does business. Packaging VISION 1. Drive social sustainability through our business 2. Delight our customers 3. Instill pride in employees Household paper 4. Give back to society & healthcare Energy VALUES Lumber & Challenge: Embrace new challenges construction materials Fairness: Be fair Teamwork: Champion teamwork Paperboard SLOGAN Shaping the future with trees Contribute to Better Living and Cultural Progress The Nippon Paper Group produces a variety of materials from wood, a renewable resource, and develops a variety of businesses out of trees, including the paper and paperboard business, under its slogan of Paper “shaping the future with trees.” Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 1 Editorial Policy External Evaluations (Nippon Paper has been recognized by the following key ESG indices) Disclaimer Until FY2018/3, the Nippon Paper Group published its annual report and sustainability Statements in this report concerning plans, forecasts, strategies, beliefs, and other forward-looking report as separate documents. Beginning in FY2019/3, with Integrated Report 2019, the information related to Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. and companies comprising its corporate group, other Company will systematically combine financial and non-financial information into a single than those of historical fact, are forecasts of future business performance based on the judgments of integrated report. In this report, we will clarify our business model as well as the strengths management at Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. and Nippon Paper Group companies in light of of the Company. Furthermore, by presenting the Company’s efforts geared toward its growth currently available information. Accordingly, please refrain from making investment decisions based strategy and strengthening its management base, we will promote greater understanding solely on forecasts of business performance in this integrated report. Actual business performance may differ significantly from these forecasts due to among shareholders, investors, and other stakeholders on how the Company will achieve changes in a variety of factors. sustainable growth in the future. Publisher: Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. The Development Bank of Japan (DBJ) Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/ has awarded Nippon Paper its highest has awarded Nippon Paper the AAA ©Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. 2019 environmental rating, citing its particularly rating, its highest rating for ESG and This integrated report shall not be reproduced or 2018 advanced environmental initiatives. SDG evaluation-type financing. copied in any form or manner whatsoever without Environmental rating acquisition date: the prior written consent of the copyright holder or November 2018 as permitted by law. Contents 04 Business Model 4 The Nippon Paper Group, a Company That 16 Message from the Chairman 38 The Cornerstone of Our Growth 38 SDG Initiatives 73 Financial Section 74 Six-Year Financial Summary Shapes the Future with Trees 40 Research and Development 76 Financial Overview 6 8 The Characteristics of Wood Resources Technology and Expertise for Maximizing the Use of Trees 18 Message from the President 42 Special Feature: Initiatives to Expand Our Paper Business 78 80 Business and Other Risk Factors Consolidated Financial Statements 44 CSR Materiality at the Nippon Paper Group 10 Value Provided by the Nippon Paper Group 45 Corporate Governance 24 Business Overview 52 Risk Management 12 Overview of the Nippon Paper Group 12 The Nippon Paper Group at a Glance 24 26 28 Paper Business Paperboard Business Packaging Business 53 54 Compliance Directors and Statutory Auditors 88 Corporate Data 88 Consolidated Subsidiaries and 56 Procurement of Raw Materials Equity-Method Affiliates 14 Financial & Non-Financial Highlights 30 Household Paper and 60 Environment 90 Domestic Network Healthcare Business 32 Chemical Business 66 Customer Trust 92 Overseas Network 34 Energy Business 68 Respect for Human Rights 94 Company Profile / Stock Information 36 Wood Products and Construction 69 Human Resources Related Business 71 Occupational Safety and Health 37 Other Businesses 72 Coexistence with Local Communities and Society 2 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 3 Business Model The Nippon Paper Group, a Company That Developing a Variety of Businesses out of Trees Shareholders Shapes the Future with Trees and investors P.16, 18 Paper and paperboard Business business partners P.56 Daily-life products business Packaging Sustainable Customers forest Household management paper and healthcare P.66 Contribute to Chemical better living and Technology and cultural progress Sustainable expertise for around procurement of Innovative the world wood resources maximizing the materials P.10, 11 use of trees Wood Energy business resources P.8, 9 Wood products Employees Renewable Recycling of and construction P.68, 69, 71 Paper Products related business Biodegradable Carbon neutral Local Other businesses communities P.6, 7 P.72 Business Conditions • Shift away from the use of plastic due to the issue of marine plastic pollution • Move toward low-carbon society • Declining birthrate and 4 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 aging population • Digitalization Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 5 Business Model The Characteristics of Wood Resources 01 02 A Strong Affinity for Building a Sustainable Society Renewable resources Superior Recyclability Wood is a renewable resource unlike oil, minerals, and other Paper can be recycled to create new products through separaTrees sequester CO2 from the atmosphere as they grow, and forests can be sustainable if they are properly cultivated and managed. The use of exhaustible resources. Appropriate management of forests tion and collection after use. Wastepaper accounts for over wood resources, therefore, helps to fight global warming, and because wood resources are renewable, their use also prevents resource depletion. post-felling, such as planting and maintenance, enables its half of the raw materials used in paper products produced by When these resources are disposed of, they are returned to the environment and, therefore, burning them does not increase the amount of CO2 sustainable use. the Nippon Paper Group. in the air. In other words, the use of wood resources follows a carbon neutral philosophy in that the CO2 created is offset by the CO2 absorbed. Nippon Paper Industries possesses 173 thousand hectares In this way, wood resources have a strong affinity for building a sustainable society, a shared goal among humanity. of Company-owned forests in Japan and overseas, all of which The Nippon Paper Group nurtures and manages forests sustainably and effectively uses and recycles their biomass resources, wasting nothing Breakdown of raw materials used for are subject to proper forest management and maintain forest paper manufacturing (FY2019/3) in the process, to pursue a wide range of businesses, and in doing so, serves as a comprehensive biomass company that takes advantage of the certifications. characteristics of wood resources stated above. Company-owned forests worldwide 173 Wastepaper and Other wood pulp wastepaper pulp 47.8% 52.2% The Characteristics of Wood Resources and Building of a Sustainable Society thousand hectares CO2 emission from burning CO2 Total wood use 03 04 sequestered in wood Unprocessed wood Use as fuel Biodegradability Carbon Neutrality 01 Use as material Renewable resources In the best-case scenario, wood resources are recycled to the Trees absorb and hold CO2 from the atmosphere as they grow. highest degree possible. However, if these resources do get It is believed, therefore, that the release of CO2 when wood discarded, they can be broken down by microorganisms and resources are burned does not result in any net increase in 04 other means to be returned to nature. atmospheric CO2. The ongoing effective use of wood resources Use Harvesting In recent years, marine plastic pollution has become a from properly managed, sustainable forests constitutes a 03 and Use problem. The Nippon Paper Group is promoting the developcarbon-neutral cycle that adds no CO2 to the atmosphere. Carbon Neutrality Recycling of ment of products that contribute to resolving environmental Paper problems, driven by the slogan “let paper do what it can do.” Photosynthesis Sustainable Production of Products Separation and Biodegradability Forest recycled paper collection CO2 sequestered in Company-owned forests* Management Biodegradability Test Results for SHIELDPLUS® Square-Bottom Bags (as of the end of 2018) CO2 absorption and 32 02 Pulp production from sequestration CO2 million tons wastepaper Nurturing Planting absorption from growth of 1 day 10 days 20 days 30 days plants and Superior Recyclability trees * According to the rules of the Clean Development Mechanism included in the Kyoto Protocol, CO2 emissions are recorded at the time of logging. The volume of sequestered CO2 remains fixed as new planted saplings and forest stock increases compensate for CO2 emissions. 6 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 7 Business Model Technology and Expertise Example SHIELDPLUS® Series for Maximizing the Use of Trees While paper is easy to process, it does not offer gas or moisture barrier properties due to its large air gap. The Nippon Paper Group applies its coating paper production technology to form thin, uniform barrier layers by coating papers with signifiAs a comprehensive biomass company, the Nippon Paper Group endeavors to maximize the use of trees in all facets of its business. cantly uneven surfaces. In this way, the Group is promoting the We have also accumulated a diverse lineup of technologies for wood processing, pulping, papermaking and coating, biochemical, development of the SHIELDPLUS® series of barrier packaging power generation, and other processes. We will continue to leverage our existing technologies to advance forward with materials, which performs on a par with the variety of barrierfilm options available. the development of new technologies and products that maximize the use of trees. Trees and Forests Wood Products Business Lumber, construction materials, etc. Pulping Technology Papermaking and Coating Technology Paper and paperboard business, packaging business, household paper products and healthcare products business Through this technology, we remove cellulose, a fiber component, from Through this technology, we produce uniform sheets out of Newsprint, printing and business communication paper, wood. We also utilize the technology to make effective use of the wood pulp fiber and coat on top of it according to the type of paper. containerboards, packaging paper, household paper, etc. that is not utilized as building materials and mill ends (portion remaining after removal of pillar and other sections from lumber). Chemical Business Biochemical Technology Functional films Image of main wood composition Through this technology, we create chemical, raw material, Cellulose Hemicellulose Lignin Cellulose (blue): Fiber component and various other products from the three wood components. Cellulose: raw material for rayon and cellophane, Hemicellulose (green): food additives, filter aids, etc. Connects fibers and Lignin (red): fills any gap in between Example Cellulose Nanofiber CELLENPIA® Hemicellulose: nutritional source of fermentationNippon Paper is broadening its range of technology from related products, etc. pulping technology to nanosizing (miniaturization) techElectric Power Generation Technology nology and furthering its development of cellulose nanoLignin: approx. fiber materials. We have already begun operations of a Lignin: concrete admixture and dispersants, etc. Through this technology, we generate steam and electric 30% production test facility and mass production facility for Wood Cellulose: CELLENPIA® at our Iwakuni, Ishinomaki, Fuji, and Gotsu power by burning black liquor (lignin, etc.), a by-product of composition approx. 50% mills and its application on healthcare, cosmetic, food, the pulping process, with a boiler. Any unused wood and Hemicellulose: and other products. construction waste are also developed into biomass fuel. We Energy Business approx. also operate the solarand wind-power businesses. 20% Electric power Unused wood, construction waste, etc. 8 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 9 Business Model Value Provided by the Nippon Paper Group The Nippon Paper Group develops a variety of businesses out of trees in keeping with its corporate See pages 38–39 philosophy of contributing to “better living and cultural progress around the world.” Under this philosophy, “cultural progress” serves as the universal value and “better living” represents the value that enriches one's Promotion of Printing Culture Effective Distribution through lifestyle. Here are some examples of the value we provide. Reading / writing / communication Packaging Packaging / protection of contents / transport Key Products Key Products Reduction of Unique and elegant Linerboards, Newsprint corrugated mediums single-use plastics texture of paper Printing paper Packaging paper Better living Weight Value that enriches one’s lifestyle reduction Support for daily life Biomass power Creation of Environmentally Realization of Convenient and Innovative generation technology Friendly Packages Comfortable Lifestyles materials and operational know-how Preservation of quality and flavor / Cleanup / skin protection / reduction of single-use plastics support for daily life (food, daily necessities) Chemical Energy Key Products Key Products Skin Barrier packaging protection Contribute to Protection and cultivation of forests materials Long-length toilet rolls better living and Paper straws Healthcare products made of cellulose nanofiber (CNF) deodorant sheets Household paper & cultural progress Lumber & construction Warm and New-shape cartons High-performance Functional materials Cleanup healthcare around the world materials comfortable texture of wood with closures cellulose (CMC) Reduction of Reduction of CO2 Emissions single-use plastics Interaction with Weight reduction / support for daily life (automobiles) / trees and forests biomass power generation technology and Packaging Others operational know-how Preservation of Paper and Key Products quality and flavor paperboard Healthy and enriched lifestyles CNF Cultural progress High-performance cellulose (CMC) Transport Reading for lithium-ion batteries Universal value Protection of Writing Biomass fuels contents Packaging Communication 10 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 11 Overview of the Nippon Paper Group The Nippon Paper Group at a Glance Main Products and Services Ratio of Net Sales Ratio of Net Sales Main Products and Services Net Sales and Operating Income Paper and paperboard Paper Wholesale electric power sales ¥ billion 69.1 Energy business business 36.2 • Newsprint • Printing paper • Business communication paper % 24.0% 23.0% 21.8% • Industrial paper 17.8 3.4 14.6 7.9 Paperboard Net Sales and Operating Income (Loss) 3.5 4.1 • Containerboards • White paperboards ¥ billion % 2017/ 3 2018/ 3 2019/ 3 (FY) ■Net sales ■Operating income 722.5 741.7 738.5 Operating income margin Specialty paper ■ 0.1% 2.0% 1.8% Functional paper (0.8)% (1.1)% Ratio of Net Sales Main Products and Services Net Sales and Operating Income 0.5 (6.3) (8.1) Wood products and ¥ billion construction related Lumber and construction 63.5 59.8 2017/ 3 2018 / 3 2019/ 3 (FY) business materials 62.8 4.9 4.4 4.5 ■Net sales ■Operating income (loss) ■ Operating income margin • Lumber • Building materials 5.6 • Raw materials and fuel for 7.2% 8.2% 6.9% Main Products and Services Ratio of Net Sales paper manufacturing Daily-life products Packaging % Construction related 18.9 business • Liquid packaging boards 2017/ 3 2018/ 3 2019/ 3 (FY) ■Net sales ■Operating income • Liquid packaging cartons ■ Operating income margin % Household paper and healthcare • Facial tissue Ratio of Net Sales Main Products and Services Net Sales and Operating Income • Toilet paper rolls Net Sales and Operating Income ¥ billion • Products for mild incontinence ¥ billion Other businesses Warehousing and logistics • Adult diapers 31.7 32.5 Leisure facilities operation 30.9 7.8% 192.5 201.7 Chemical • Ski resorts 3.3 3.3 160.9 6.2% 2.9 • Dissolving pulp 5.8% • Bowling alleys 3.0 • Cellulose products 12.5 12.0 11.6 9.4% 10.4% 10.2% • Chemical products • Functional coating resin products • Functional films % 2017/ 3 2018/ 3 2019/ 3 (FY) 2017/ 3 2018 / 3 2019/ 3 (FY) ■Net sales ■Operating income ■Net sales ■Operating income ■ Operating income margin ■ Operating income margin * Segment sales and operating income for FY2017/3 are simplified estimates as the segment classification was changed on April 1, 2018. 12 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 13 Overview of the Nippon Paper Group Financial & Non-Financial Highlights Net Sales Operating Income & Operating Income Margin Greenhouse Gas Emission Volume (in Japan) Recycled Paper Utilization Rate (in Japan) ¥ billion ¥ billion % Million tonnes of CO2 % 1,052.5 1,007.1 1,046.5 1,068.7 992.4 92 23.7 22.6 23.8 7.18 7.12 7.17 6.99 6.83 89 89 89 88 19.6 2.4 17.6 2.2 2.2 38 38 38 35 34 1.7 1.8 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 (FY) 2015 /3 2016 /3 2017 /3 2018 /3 2019 /3 (FY) 2015 /3 2016 /3 2017 /3 2018 /3 2019 /3 (FY) 2015 /3 2016 /3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 (FY) ■ Operating income ■ Operating income margin ■ Paperboard ■ Paper Frequency Rate for Occupational Accidents Requiring Net Income (Loss)*1 & Net Income (Loss) per Share*1 ROE*2 / ROA*3 Percentage of Female Employees in Management Time Off From Work ¥ billion Yen % % % 23.2 1.16 20.4 200.27 5.1 2.0 2.6 1.9 2.2 23.2 20.95 8.4 7.8 17.8 (35.2) 2.2 2.0 1.8 0.77 15.9 2.4 0.5 0.66 14.4 0.60 72.57 67.80 2.47 0.44 0.40 0.59 2.14 2.47 1.90 2.39 0.40 1.81 2.29 (304.34) 0.31 (8.6) 0.10 1.57 1.86 1.60 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 (FY) 2015 /3 2016 /3 2017 /3 2018 /3 2019 /3 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Year) 2015 /3 2016 /3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 (FY) ■ Net income (loss) ■ Net income (loss) per share ■ ROE ■ ROA ■ Nippon Paper Group*4 ■ Nippon Paper Group (including affiliated companies) ■ Nippon Paper Industries ■ Nippon Paper Group (Japan)*5 ■ Nippon Paper Group (overseas)*6 Net Interest-Bearing Debt & Debt/Equity Ratio Cash Flow Research and Development Expenses (Including labor costs) Number of Patent Applications Filed ¥ billion Times ¥ billion ¥ million Number of patents 81.8 87.1 6,694 400 647.7 634.6 625.2 68.7 591.3 588.0 59.8 5,555 5,622 6,013 44.9 5,431 300 52.4 21.8 39.4 16.3 1.8 12.3 1.6 1.6 200 1.5 1.5 (17.8) 100 (42.5) (47.5) (65.3) (62.7) 0 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 (FY) 2015 /3 2016 /3 2017 /3 2018 /3 2019 /3 (FY) 2015 /3 2016 /3 2017 /3 2018 /3 2019 /3 (FY) 2014/3 2015 /3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 (FY) ■ Net interest-bearing debt ■ Debt/equity ratio ■ Cash flow from operating activities ■ Cash flow from investing activities ■ Paper and paperboard ■ Packaging ■ Household paper & healthcare ■ Free cash flow ■ Chemical ■ Innovative materials ■ Other *1 Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent *4 Manufacturing offices belonging to Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper Industries Papylia Co., Ltd., and Nippon Paper Liquid Package Product Co., Ltd. *2 Return on equity (ROE) = Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent / [Average of beginning and end of year (Shareholders’ equity + Accumulated other comprehensive income)] × 100 *5 Figures are for the Nippon Paper Group’s consolidated companies in Japan. *3 Return on assets (ROA) = (Ordinary income + Interest expense) / Total assets × 100 *6 Includes all managers of sections and higher level organizational units as of December 31 each year. 14 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 15 Message from the Chairman local materials, and therefore his abilities are indispensable for leading our Group, and this is what I hold in high regard. I believe he will steer the Group by making full use of the leadership he exerted during his five years as General Manager of the Corporate Planning Division, in which he demonstrated a breadth of knowledge and foresight and gained the trust of those around him. Under our new management team, My Mission as Chairman & Director we will ramp up our efforts to While the role of business execution has been assigned to Mr. Nozawa, my mission is to take a supervisory perspective over management to strengthen governance and increase unification in the transform our business structure Group by strongly connecting management to the front lines. The Company has worked continuously to strengthen its governance system, which includes and mutually unify the adopting an executive officer system and introducing outside directors in FY2014/3. Moreover, while establishing our new management, we have taken another step to make steady improveGroup companies as one. ments, increasing the number of outside directors by one to a total of three. As the Chairman of the Board of Directors, and someone who has willfully withdrawn representation rights, I will realize the transparent separation of management oversight and business execution to maintain higher objectivity of the Board of Directors, which will further strengthen governance. Fumio Manoshiro In 2015, we officially stated our corporate philosophy, driven by the belief that in order to Chairman & Director become a Group that is trusted by and necessary to society in the future, we need to clarify our Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. significance as a Group and share it with each employee. I am proud that under our slogan, “Shaping the future with trees,” we squarely face the challenges that stand in the way of a sustainable society. As pervasive as our philosophy is throughout the Group, top management will continue to frequently visit our mills and training facilities and instill the essence of it among our employees through comprehensive communication. As we continue to face a challenging business environment, I will closely work with Mr. Nozawa Launch of Our New Management Team to further accelerate our efforts, and thereby achieve sustainable growth for the Group as a whole. I I am reporting as Chairman & Director, having been newly elected at the Ordinary General Meeting of ask all of our stakeholders for their further understanding and support. Shareholders held in June 2019 and approved by the Board of Directors, alongside the newly elected President and Representative Director, Mr. Toru Nozawa. In FY2019/3, the first year of our Sixth Medium-Term Business Plan, the reorganization of production structure progressed on schedule, and we made multiple decisions related to investments in promising growth areas such as packaging, household paper products and healthcare products, and chemical products. These investments to date are showing steady results, and I am convinced that now the proper preparations have been made for Group growth. I came to the conclusion that the Company should have a new leader as I realized the time was right to refresh the management team and swiftly transform our business structure. Mr. Nozawa has many years of finance and accounting experience, which has made him highly Chairman & Director proficient at making precise readings of actual trends at the front lines of businesses from a financial Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. perspective. Top management has limited opportunities to make direct judgments on site or to assess 16 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 17 Message from the President My name is Toru Nozawa and I was recently appointed President and Representative Director of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. After entering the Company in 1981, I dedicated 33 years to its financial areas and then undertook corporate planning duties, including formulation of the medium-term business plan, as the General Manager of the Corporate Planning Division for five years. We will steadily work to “reorganize the production structure of the paper business and make maximum use of in-house facilities” and “expand business in growth areas and achieve early commercialization of new businesses,” the two themes adopted under our Sixth Medium-Term Business Plan. Through these efforts and by advancing the transformation of our business structure, we will accelerate growth of the entire Nippon Paper Group. We will swiftly forge Review of FY2019/3 ahead with measures under In FY2019/3, the first year of the Sixth Medium-Term Business Plan, we recorded net sales of ¥1,068.7 billion and operating income of ¥19.6 billion. While we realized improvements in both ends from the the Sixth Medium-Term previous year, we were not able to reach our operating income target of ¥25 billion as a result of the price hike in raw materials and decrease in sales volume of paper, which did not live up to our expectations. The Business Plan toward paper and paperboard business in particular has continued to face severe business conditions, with an operating deficit for two years in a row. In addition, production structure reorganization costs, impairment loss in the newsprint business, and allowance for environmental costs recognized as a part of total achieving our operating extraordinary loss resulted in a significant loss attributable to owners of parent of ¥35.2 billion in FY2019/3. We have determined that addressing the costs associated with reorganizating the production structure income target of ¥50 billion of the paper business and the impairment loss of the newsprint business are necessary for the Company to continue to grow in the future. While FY2019/3 was a year for steady implementation of sturdy as quickly as possible. measures toward future growth, in FY2020/3 we will make concerted efforts to drive our business performance upward. FY2019/3 Consolidated Financial Results and Sixth Medium-Term Business Plan Operating Targets (FY2021/3) FY2018/3 Results FY2019/3 Results FY2021/3 Targets Toru Nozawa President and Representative Director Net sales ¥1,046.5 billion ¥1,068.7 billion ¥1,115.0 billion Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Operating income ¥17.6 billion ¥19.6 billion ¥47.0 billion Ordinary income ¥18.6 billion ¥23.9 billion ― Net income (loss) *1 ¥7.8 billion ¥(35.2) billion ― EBITDA*2 ¥78.1 billion ¥82.5 billion ¥110.0 billion Debt/equity ratio 1.61 times 1.76 times 1.5 times or less ROA 1.9% 2.2% 3.8% ROE 1.8% (8.6)% At least 5% *1 Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent *2 EBITDA = Operating income + interest income + dividend income + depreciation 18 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 19 Message from the President Reorganizing the Production Structure of The energy business made its expected contributions to operating income through the stable operations of the biomass co-firing power generation facility of Nippon Paper Ishinomaki Energy Center, the Paper Business which commenced operations in March 2018. At the Hokkaido Mill (Yufutsu), we decided to utilize its land and facilities as well as the technologies and know-how cultivated through its paper production for Our ultimate goal for FY2020/3 is to finish reorganizing the production structure of the paper business. the establishment of the Yufutsu biomass power generation business. The business will commence Through this reorganization, we will achieve lower fixed costs and higher machine utilization rates, adjusting operations in January 2023. The biomass power generation business is also under consideration for the the business structure to the annually declining demand in order to boost our competitiveness. This Iwakuni Mill (Yamaguchi) as well. We will pursue stable, long-term growth in operating income by forging restructuring will reduce our annual paper production capacity by 760 thousand tonnes as a result of ahead with the establishment of the biomass power generation business in which we can fully leverage shutting down eight paper machines and two coating machines, moves we expect will lead to a ¥11 billion the Group’s capabilities. improvement in operating income for the paper business. While gaining the understanding of our customers, In the wood products and construction related business, we see the potential for synergy with the we will rebalance product grades across our production sites and complete the shutdown of machinery on energy business and biomass fuel sourcing. We will accelerate the expansion of our biomass fuel business schedule with the aim of moving the paper and paperboard business back into the black. centered on Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd., which handles a significant volume of domestic lumber products and has developed a robust network for the collection of wood chips. Our Initiatives in Growth Areas The Group has identified the packaging, household paper and healthcare, chemical, energy, and wood The Potential of Innovative Materials products businesses as its five growth areas and each business is demonstrating steady growth. In the Early commercialization and development of applications that leverage the functions and features of daily-life products business, we have decided to invest in increasing the capacity of our packaging, houseCELLENPIA®, a cellulose nanofiber (CNF) product, SHIELDPLUS®, Minerpa®, and other innovative materials hold paper products and healthcare products, and chemical businesses in preparation for the anticipated are our matters of priority at the moment. increase in demand going forward. FY2020/3 will be a year of preparation for advancing our construction CELLENPIA® is being gradually adopted in the use of food and cosmetic products. The Company’s work aimed at boosting production capacity in order to ensure that our capital investments come to strengths lie in its ability to create various CNFs, such as TEMPO-oxidized CNFs, carboxymethylated CNFs, fruition according to plan from FY2021/3. and CNF-reinforced plastic. By simply making small adjustments or changes to its process, it is possible to generate CNFs with completely different features. Going forward, we will expand the lineup of CNFs and offer finer solutions that cater to the needs of customers. Progress in Enhancing Competitiveness of Existing Businesses and Transforming Business Structure SHIELDPLUS® products, which are paper products with moistureand oxygen-barrier properties, have Operating Income (Loss) by Business Segment received extraordinary reviews since their release in 2017. We sense the trend toward reviewing the value of paper products due to marine plastic pollution, and we want SHIELDPLUS® to contribute to the creation Paper and paperboard business (¥ billion) Daily-life products business and other businesses (¥ billion) of a sustainable society by developing good applications together with our customers who understand the merits and value of paper. The day when using less plastics will change our daily lives is still down the line, To increase Complete reorganization of operating income again but the Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020 is a tremendous opportunity for us to let people around Make capital investments in production structure 14.0 the globe know what kinds of paper materials and packaging are used in Japan. We will do our utmost to 12.0 daily-life products business 38.0 and energy business 33.0 put various products on the market to take advantage of the opportunity presented by Tokyo 2020. 6.8 27.7 0.5 4.4 23.3 23.9 25.6 (6.3) 15.8 (8.1) 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2020/3 2021/3 Target (FY) 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2020/3 2021/3 Target (FY) Result Result Result Result Plan MTBP Result Result Result Result Plan MTBP 20 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 21 Message from the President The Driving Force behind Group Growth Realizing the Group Mission The Group’s human resources are the valuable assets and the driving force behind its ongoing initiatives Our corporate philosophy states that “The Nippon Paper Group aims to contribute to better living and toward continuous growth. All of our highly skilled employees challenge each and every task in earnest. cultural progress everywhere it does business.” The paperboard business and growth businesses are They are also fully aware of the spirit of Challenge, Fairness, and Teamwork—the values included in the contributing to materialize “better living” while the paper business is working to realize “cultural progress.” Group Mission. Going forward, I would like to emphasize the importance in awareness of timeliness. My By successfully operating these wood-based businesses, we believe that we can constantly offer new value desire is to establish an organization that promotes the active participation of women and allows our and contribute to the creation of a sustainable society. The realization of this Group Mission represents employees to further exhibit their individual strengths and fully utilizes the abilities of our employees, who exactly what the Group is trying to achieve. have a diverse sense of values. I believe the companies that can survive are the ones that proactively contribute to the creation of a On top of that, we produce a wide range of wood pulp and create not only paper products but also sustainable society, an urgent challenge for humankind. The Company participates in the United Nations chemicals and various other products from different types of wood pulp. These are our great strengths Global Compact and supports the 10 principles covering the four fields of human rights, labor, environand the accumulation of these technological capabilities is the key to our growth going forward. ment, and anti-corruption. Moreover, we will continue to take a cautious approach to environmentand safety-related matters in order to fulfill our corporate social responsibilities. We have to take additional measures from a safety perspective, aiming for zero occupational accidents. From an environmental point of view, it is imperative to complete PCB disposal. Through the management team’s strict management of and communication Message to Stakeholders with the mill managers, department managers, section managers, and section chiefs, we will desperately My No. 1 priority is to reach our operating income target of ¥50 billion, the goal we set out to achieve, as instill a sense of environmental protection and safety awareness in every employee. quickly as possible. We believe that this target is imperative for achieving stable growth and for providing returns that meet the expectations of shareholders, business partners, employees, and all other stakeholders. Meanwhile, due to the Company’s large amount of debt, we will remain carefully observant of financial discipline. We constantly revert to our Group Mission and let every employee come up with fresh ideas as a Group toward its realization. Ultimately, I want to evolve Nippon Paper into a corporate group that offers a diverse lineup of products and businesses to the extent where the kind of products Nippon Paper produces and specializes in will not be so obvious anymore. I ask all of our stakeholders, including shareholders and investors, for your continued understanding and support going forward. We will contribute to the creation of a sustainable society through the realization President and Representative Director Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. of our Group Mission. 22 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 23 Business Overview Paper Business Our Vision Our Strengths Our Challenges Amid declining demand, we will • Technological capabilities for • Increasing cost competitiveness of creating new products commoditized products • Production bases and sales (distribution) • Sales price stabilization pursue new paper-related possibilities network throughout Japan • A broad product lineup • Adjusting production, logistics, and inventory systems to small lot production and applications while establishing a for a variety of products stable profit structure. Printing paper Our Opportunities Our Threats • Increasing prevalence of digital printing • Reduced circulation of print media and growth in printer outsourcing • Shift to electronic media Kazumori Fukushima • Rising prevalence of cross-media advertising • Rising logistics unit costs and publishing Senior Managing Executive Officer • Shift from plastics to paper products General Manager Printing Paper Sales Division Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Business communication paper ● FY2019/3 Performance and Challenges In light of the soaring raw material prices and logistics costs, we ● Future Strategies The second is to achieve market stability. To do this, we must take also pursued efforts to revise the prices of business communication every measure possible to maintain a sound balance between supply Commencing Efforts to Reorganize the Production Focus on Realizing the Effects of paper and newsprint. We announced these price revisions in and demand, such as promoting a shift to exports and producing Structure of the Paper Business and Realizing Price November 2018 and made an early settlement, allowing us to reap Our Production Structure Reorganization and profitable products as necessary, while closely observing the market Revisions as Planned the benefits, mainly in the fourth quarter. We were also able to revise Stabilizing Market Conditions conditions in both Japan and overseas. In FY2019/3, the paper market continued to contract, mainly due to the price of newsprint. For export products, we gradually revised Since the domestic paper market is expected to continue to contract, We do not anticipate growth in demand for newsprint and printing the reduced circulation of newspapers and magazines and sluggish prices from the start of the fiscal year thanks to increased demands we will implement two major initiatives to secure stable profits. paper in both overseas and domestic markets. However, we do demand for printed advertisements. in the overseas market. However, because the sharp rise in raw The first is to thoroughly realize cost-reducing effects through expect solid demand for business communication paper and indusFacing an increasing gap between supply and demand, which material prices occurred before the effect of price revisions was production structure reorganization. In addition to cutting fixed costs, trial paper, such as labels and packaging paper. As awareness of resulted from stagnating demand over the long term, and sluggish realized, we posted unfavorable results in terms of profit. we must improve efficiency in a variety of other areas. While our marine plastic pollution grows around the world, we will expand our market conditions, it was an urgent task for us to drastically improve The production structure reorganization is progressing as planned. abundant product lineup is one of our strengths, after completing the sales of paper for packaging materials on a global basis. our profit structure. Under these circumstances, we commenced However, due to our lineup of numerous business communication reorganization, we will need to adapt larger facilities to small lot efforts to reorganize our production structure with the aim of optimizing and industrial paper products customized for our individual customproduction for a wide variety of products in an effective manner. We our production activities in anticipation of decreasing demand and ers, we need to be particularly cautious in confirming quality levels. will search for an optimal balance between production efficiency, reducing fixed costs and other expenses. Then, our competitors For newsprint, which is used every day, we need to not only confirm distribution efficiency, and inventory turnover as we strive to reduce made announcements to close and convert their facilities one after quality but also ensure a stable supply on a daily basis. In order not our overall costs. the other, leading to significant improvements in the supply–demand to inconvenience our customers, we are bringing together all of our balance, particularly in printing paper. In regard to the newsprint technological capabilities and will move forward toward successfully business, we recorded an impairment loss on fixed assets as we completing the reorganization. continued to face difficult conditions in our business environment. 24 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 25 Business Overview Paperboard Business Our Vision Our Strengths Our Challenges We will accurately capture users’ • Well-balanced deployment of mills across Japan • Price maintenance • Possession of linerboard machines using • Securing sales volume self-manufactured softwood kraft pulp • Reduction of sales cost needs and meet increasing demand • Substantial research and development capabilities • Long-standing relationships of trust with for containerboard through unique, containerbox manufacturers and end users • Sales capabilities to quickly propose solutions differentiated products. Our Opportunities Our Threats Containerboards • Expected growth in demand for • Sluggish market growth due to containerboard in Japan economic deceleration Satoru Muto • Exports to high-growth Asian markets • Soaring raw material and fuel prices President • Development of new products • Increasing logistics costs Nippon Tokai Industrial Paper Supply Co., Ltd. using new materials • Deterioration of supply–demand balance ● FY2019/3 Performance and Challenges had hoped. To address increasing logistics costs, we are leveraging ● Future Strategies For exports, we will move forward with efforts while monitoring our favorably located production bases across Japan to maximize the balance between supply and demand in Japan. For example, we Realizing Price Revisions as Planned Even in the logistics efficiency. Moving forward, we will strive to establish an Aim to Enter the E-Commerce Field and will continue to conduct sales emphasizing regular customers in Face of Soaring Raw Material and Fuel Prices optimal sales structure through such efforts as reviewing appropriate Developing New Products Southeast Asia. At the same time, we will strive to acquire new users In FY2019/3, with regard to domestic sales of containerboard, inventory levels at each production site and consumption area. Striving to maintain a stable supply of containerboards, we will and establish an agile export structure. our mainstay product, sales to end users who selected us as their In the paperboard business, profits are impacted greatly by promote a broad range of initiatives to be the preferred choice of We have positioned the development of new products that designated supplier were up, while sales to through-process manuprice fluctuations of waste containerboard, a key raw material. customers. Specifically, we will thoroughly analyze our customers’ ascertain the shift from plastic to paper products around the world as facturers and small and medium-sized containerbox manufacturers In addition, we are seeing a trend among competitors to increase preferences and pursue optimal product lineups to meet every an important strategy going forward. Developing new containerboard were down. Exports were solid due to the rise in demand for their containerboard capacity. We must reinforce our business struccustomer’s needs. Regarding domestic sales, under the assumption is also an urgent task. Under our Group research and development containerboard in Asia, particularly in China. ture to secure stable profit on a sustainable basis, even when the that we will be able to maintain our revised selling prices, we will structure, we will create new products with added value and new In terms of profit, we faced very difficult conditions due to the prices of raw materials drastically fluctuate or when there is an focus on incorporating the steadily rising demand for the e-commerce features through consistent development, production, and sales soaring prices of raw materials and fuel, such as wastepaper, which oversupply of paperboards. field. Through such efforts, we will expand sales to end users. By activities. In these ways, we will leverage our strengths as a specialized started in summer 2018. We announced price revisions in October utilizing our meticulous delivery response, one of our great strengths, containerboard manufacturer. The entire Group will come together 2018. These revisions were well received by our customers, as we we will promote sales activities with an awareness of being a trusted to ensure the success of these efforts. partner to our customers. 26 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 27 Business Overview Packaging Business Our Vision Our Strengths Our Challenges We will build our liquid packaging • Japan’s largest total system supplier for liquid • Development and sale of next-generation liquid packaging cartons with an eye on global markets packaging cartons and filling machines • Development of environmentally friendly barrier business into a world-class business. packaging leveraging Group strengths New-shape cartons with closures Our Opportunities Our Threats • Increased use of paper cartons for high• Intense competition due to entry of other compavalue-added beverages such as functional nies into paper carton market Yasuhito Obayashi beverages that contain solid particles and • Contraction of domestic beverage market due to Executive Officer long fibers declining of birthrate and aging population, etc. General Manager • Shift from plastic materials to environmentally friendly paper cartons Paper-Pak Sales Division Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. NSATOM® (product in development) ● FY2019/3 Performance and Challenges shaped paper packaging with closures. These machines and packaging ● Future Strategies Also, in the field of aseptic packaging, we are thoroughly analyzing are capable of handling solid particles, long fibers, and high-viscous customer needs and are gradually moving forward with the developIncreasing Revenue through Expanding Sales of Aim to Increase Sales by 30% through a Production products. The filling machines also enable preventive maintenance ment of NSATOM®, an aseptic filling system for paper packaging that is Paper Cartons with Attached Closures and through remote operation using IoT, while maintaining highly clean and Sales Structure That Addresses Market Needs expected to help replace plastic and metal containers with paper carFilling Machines conditions. Although we intend to launch NSATOM® from FY2020/3 Under the Sixth Medium-Term Business Plan, the trend of shifting to tons. Production of NSATOM® is slated to commence within FY2020/3. In FY2019/3, despite the impact of natural disasters such as the onward, we have already received a large number of inquiries from paper products, which has resulted from the growing issue of marine Moving forward, we anticipate an increase in functional beverages torrential rains in western Japan and the earthquake in Hokkaido, customers. We also simultaneously announced UPN-SEC14S, a plastic pollution presents a major business opportunity. On the other and shorter product life cycles at convenience stores. In response to sales in the packaging business increased 8% year on year. This state-of-the-art, high-speed chilled filling machine. In addition to hand, competition has been intensifying in the container market due these changes, we will build a structure that enables the production increase was due to various factors, including the launch of new-shape being highly sanitary, UPN-SEC14S can attach closures to the cartons in part to diversifying consumer trends and the declining birthrate of various products in small lots. We will also provide paper containmilk cartons with closures, increased sales of fruit juice cartons with and can make use of IoT. We have been receiving a high level of unit and aging population. ers and filling machines in accordance with customer needs. closures and tea cartons, expanded carton exports, and higher sales orders for this new product. In the field of chilled packaging, we have been developing paper Additionally, we will step up efforts in human resources developof filling machines. We were also able to steadily expand our domestic Meanwhile, overseas, Nippon Dynawave Packaging Co., which cartons with closures, which are highly convenient, and commenced ment, working to nurture talented people who can do business share in the field of chilled liquid packaging cartons. handles liquid packaging boards in North America, realized steady sales of such cartons for beverages and milk, our mainstay applicaglobally. At the same time, to address the issue of increasing workloads, Operating income declined compared with FY2018/3 as a result of growth in sales volumes by leveraging the strength of its stable tions. Our chilled filling machines, as previously mentioned, attach we will promote efforts to reduce work burden by introducing a new the rising prices of such raw materials as base paper and ink. customer base and supported by the positive impact of increased closures to the paper cartons and realize world-leading levels of system and transitioning to AI. In the container market, where innoContinuing on from the previous fiscal year, the price of base paper global demand for beverage cartons. In addition, in March 2019, cleanliness, functionality, and ease of operation. Many of our cusvation is constantly in demand, we are making concerted efforts across increased significantly. In addition, profit was impacted by rising costs we acquired 70% of shares in TS Plastics Sdn. Bhd. (TSP), a flexible tomers are making use of these filling machines, promoting the shift all departments to increase sales by 30% by FY2021/3, the final year of environmentally friendly ink, higher resin prices, and increased packaging company in Malaysia. Drawing on the insight TSP has toward our new cartons. of the Sixth Medium-Term Business Plan, compared with FY2018/3. transportation costs. Meanwhile, in our production department, we developed in the field of flexible packaging, we will work to expand achieved positive results such as improvement in the yield rate, our businesses in Asia, where the economy continues to develop. promotion of preventive maintenance, and reduction of downtime. At the same time, TSP will develop paper packaging products to serve In September 2018, we announced the development of NSATOM®, as the base for the Group’s increased focus on paper. the world’s first multi-functional aseptic filling machines and uniquely 28 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 29 Business Overview Household Paper and Healthcare Business Our Vision Our Strengths Our Challenges We will provide valuable products • Return of household product prices to • Beloved and trusted brands • Highly competitive mills appropriate levels • Differentiated, unique products • Use more pulp procured within the Group and brands that contribute to healthy • Healthcare products that utilize CNF • Prompt launch of new production facilities • Enhancement of logistics efficiency and clean lifestyles. SCOTTIE® Four-roll, “KLEENEX® Lotion Tissues triple-length “flower pack” HADA URURU soft pack 110 pull” Our Opportunities Our Threats • Inbound demand (overseas tourists visiting Japan • Oligopoly of pulp suppliers in South America for the Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020) • Facility expansion and reinforcement by Kazufumi Yamasaki • Aging population competitors President and Representative Director • Rapidly growing e-commerce market • Intense competition in growing healthcare market Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd. • Demand for replacing imported tissues with • Soaring logistics costs domestic tissue products to compensate for decline in such imports “Poise® Hada Care Pad” “Hada Care Acty®” ● FY2019/3 Performance and Challenges Despite achieving record-high sales, operating income declined ● Future Strategies complete the price revisions we are currently implementing and 50% compared with the previous fiscal year, as profit was significantly continue with efforts to strengthen our brand communication. Realizing Record-High Sales and Returning Prices to Strengthen Our Supply Structure in Accordance affected by rising pulp prices and higher logistics costs. We made the In these ways, we will reinforce our business foundation. Appropriate Levels announcement to revise prices at the start of FY2019/3. However, as with the Expanding Household Paper Product and In the healthcare business, amid market expansion brought about In FY2019/3, consumption volumes of household paper products we were not able to revise prices to the degree we had hoped, we Healthcare Market by the aging population, our sales continue to expand at a rate that and shipping volumes among domestic manufacturers were solid. have been carrying out additional revisions since spring 2019 in an As the supply–demand situation for household paper products is outpaces market growth. Leveraging the two newly installed processing However, imported volume of lower-priced household paper drastieffort to address rising costs. currently tightening in Japan, there continues to be a sense of tissue machines of the Kyoto Mill, we will strive to respond to demand cally decreased in Japan due to a price hike announced by overseas In terms of new products, “KLEENEX® Lotion Tissues HADA URURU shortage at stores. The main cause behind this scarcity is the decline increases in the future. suppliers, resulting in a strong sense of scarcity from the start of 2019. Soft Pack,” which was launched in 2018, received a high evaluation in supply, which resulted from such factors as the decrease in imported From a cost perspective, there are still concerns over high pulp In May 2018, paper machine No. 1 at Group company Crecia-Kasuga from the market. Additionally, sales of our unique, differentiated tissues and operational incidents at other domestic manufacturers. prices due to the oligopoly of pulp suppliers in South America, and Co., Ltd. commenced operations, thereby expanding our production products “SCOTTIE® Four-roll, triple-length flower pack,” “Poise® In FY2020/3, we anticipate a rush of purchasing prior to the consumption logistics prices are rising due to the shortage of transporters. capacity. However, sales volume also increased thanks to inbound Hada Care Pad,” and “Hada Care Acty®” were solid. Going forward, tax hike, and the current supply shortage will likely persist. Responding to these issues is therefore an urgent task for us. For demand, and we continued to find ourselves in a situation where it we will continue to strengthen our product development. To strengthen our production capacity, we decided to establish a pulp procurement, we are leveraging our Group strengths to expand was difficult to meet demand. second paper machine at Crecia-Kasuga, which is expected to begin the use of pulp supplied by Nippon Paper Industries. For logistics, we In the healthcare business, as we anticipate the insufficient supply operations in June 2020. At the same time, we will build a processing will introduce pallet-based distribution for household products, to continue due to a favorable sales environment, we decided to invest structure consisting of four mills in an effort to establish a proper which were previously transported through loading and unloading by in two processing machines, which began operation in May 2019. balance between supply and demand for facial tissues, toilet paper hand. Through this effort, we will enhance the efficiency of our rolls, paper towels, and commercial products. By doing so, we will transportation operations. help eliminate supply shortages of tissues in the market. We will also 30 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 31 Business Overview Chemical Business Our Vision Our Strengths Our Challenges We will provide unique products in • A diverse lineup of wood-based products • A group of unique products in niche markets • Enhancement of cost competitiveness of pulp products • Development of applications for yeast culture global niche markets. products and increasing their sales • Development of applications for wood-based products Example of carboxymethyl cellulose application Our Opportunities Our Threats • Growth in demand for renewable resources • Shrinking Japanese market due to re-evaluation of their value • Sharply rising raw material prices Yozo Igarashi • Growth of global automobile market • Incursion of overseas manufacturers Executive Officer • Increase in demand for textiles with rise in General Manager global population • Shift toward making plastic parts out of Chemical Sales Division mono-materials Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. • Rise in demand for high-performance films Example of functional coating resin application ● FY2019/3 Performance and Challenges functional films, sales volume of hard coated film, launched in 2017 ● Future Strategies parts made of mono-materials is progressing, which is more attractive for organic light-emitting diode (OLED) displays, was down year on from a simple recycling perspective. We anticipate increased demand Strong Demand for High-Performance Cellulose year. The sales volume of lignin, which is used in civil engineering or Expand Sales of Unique Wood-Derived Products in for functional resins as an indispensable ingredient for reinforcing (CMC) for Lithium-Ion Batteries as a binder agent, decreased slightly. Sales of functional coating resins, Global Niche Markets adhesion between PP substrates and ink layers. The Chemical Business comprises five product groups: dissolving on the other hand, were robust thanks to expanding worldwide We are aiming to expand earnings by providing unique products in We have decided to build a new facility to boost CMC capacity at pulp, a raw material for rayon, cellophane, and acetate; celluloseautomotive markets. The sales volume of carboxymethyl cellulose global niche markets and building trusted relationships with our the Gotsu Mill. We plan to invest ¥4.7 billion and the new facility is derived products; chemical products made of wood (CMC), a water-soluble polymer made of pulp, also increased for use customers, leading to the creation of new businesses. slated to begin operations in November 2020. We aim to shift toward materials; functional coating resins that are incorporated into paints in lithium-ion batteries. Sales of Stevia sweetener to leading soft drink One of our strengths lies in the fact that many of the products we high-value-added, high-quality product areas where demand is likely and inks to serve as adhesion promoters for polyolefin materials; manufacturers were steady. offer are made from wood—a renewable material. We differentiate to grow, such as for use in food products and lithium-ion batteries. and functional films with different functions depending on coating Looking ahead, we will introduce measures for improving earnings dissolving pulp, one of our wood-derived products, by maintaining its As the flat-panel display market continues to grow, we intend to formulations. of dissolving pulp. We also aim to stabilize production and promote high quality to meet customers’ needs. Lignin, the main constituent expand sales of our functional films by accurately grasping customers’ In FY2019/3, both sales and profit declined partly due to the sales for high-value-added applications. of the cooking liquor produced in the pulping process, is broadly needs and expanding our product lineup. impact of rising raw material and fuel prices. In dissolving pulp, used as an adhesive. We also apply our proprietary technologies to We will develop new high-performance products through our demand for rayon use was robust, but the torrential rain in western modify lignin and offer it for use in a wide range of fields as a proprietary technologies. At the same time, we will strive to ensure Japan forced us to reduce production, leading to reduced sales. In high-performance dispersant. stable operation at our production sites to meet demand growth and Demand increased for functional coating resins as adhesion aim to expand overseas sales. promoters for polypropylene (PP) substrates, which are employed on external automotive components to reduce vehicle weight. We also anticipate greater demand for use in inks. The shift toward plastic 32 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 33 Business Overview Energy Business Our Vision Our Strengths Our Challenges We will generate stable, long-term • Power generation technology developed through • Establishment of biomass co-firing technology paper manufacturing at a higher biomass ratio • Power generation capacity of 2,000 MW • Ongoing promotion of power generation and fuel earnings by expanding businesses uti• Bases in favorable locations throughout Japan • Global procurement network for wood resources businesses • Stabilization and strengthening of existing electric lizing renewable energy. and knowledge of biomass fuel power generation business Ishinomaki Hibarino power plant Our Opportunities Our Threats • Feed-in tariff (FIT) fixed-price system to promote • Soaring prices of biomass fuel renewable energy • Falling sales prices of electricity Mitsuhiro Sugino • Global CO2 emission control standards • Changes in energy systems according to Executive Officer government policy General Manager Energy Business Division Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Yufutsu biomass mono-firing electric power generation plant (rendered image of completion) ● FY2019/3 Performance and Challenges The Ishinomaki Hibarino Power Plant, operated by Nippon Paper ● Future Strategies and we will run it together with Sojitz Corporation. The construction Ishinomaki Energy Center Ltd., began commercial operation as a of this facility is slated to commence in March 2020 and operations Contributing to Earnings through the Nippon Paper Ensure Stable, Long-Term Earnings Focused on the biomass co-firing power generation facility (149 MW) in March 2018. are scheduled to start in January 2023. We will mainly utilize woodIshinomaki Energy Center As performance was extremely stable throughout the year, the plant Biomass Mono-Firing Business chips and palm kernel shell (PKS) from overseas as well as unused The Company revised its reportable segments in FY2019/3, and as a contributed substantially to earnings of this segment (sales of ¥36.2 We endeavor to reinforce earnings through the stable operation of domestic wood. Furthermore, we are also considering a biomass result, the Energy Business has been newly classified as a separate billion and operating income of ¥7.9 billion). For fuel, the plant employs our existing electric power generation business and the ongoing sale power generation facility at the Iwakuni Mill. segment. This business possesses the Ishinomaki Hibarino Power unused wood materials from the Tohoku region, chiefly in Miyagi of surplus electricity generated at our in-house facilities. Given the Through a series of pilot tests, we have been accumulating knowPlant and other facilities and includes the sale of surplus energy Prefecture, as well as wood pellets procured in North America and growing global demand for use of renewable energy, we will leverage how and technology to effectively utilize several biomass fuels. Taking produced at the in-house facilities of each mill. In addition to Asia. Moving forward, we aim to further increase the biomass ratio. our ability to source and utilize wood materials to develop new these advantages into account, we are now working to commercially Ishinomaki, we operate exclusive facilities such as the Akita wind Meanwhile, the number of large biomass power generation power generation and fuel businesses. succeed in the biomass energy business. power generation facility, the Otake solar power generation facility, facilities is growing in Japan and Europe. The limited supply of bioWhile we are striving to heighten the biomass ratio in terms of Amid the growing global call to reduce CO2 emissions and a the Komatsushima solar power generation facility, the Yatsushiro mass fuel is pushing up its prices. We will strive to stabilize procurefuel and maintain stable operation at the Ishinomaki Hibarino power changing resource-procurement situation, the external environment biomass generation facility, the Kushiro thermal power generation ment of biomass fuel by diversifying our suppliers. plant, our priority is on meeting the Sixth Medium-Term Business surrounding the Energy Business is experiencing drastic changes. facility, and the Suzukawa thermal power generation facility. Plan’s target of ¥7.5 billion in operating income as well as considering We are striving to respond appropriately to the national governnew renewable energy generation facilities that would help us realize ment’s energy policy and are undertaking initiatives to ensure stable, a higher operating income target of ¥10.0 billion. In May 2019, we long-term earnings in the biomass energy business by drawing on the approved a large-scale project to build another electric power genstrengths of the Company. eration facility on the site of the Hokkaido Mill (Yufutsu). Specifically, this will be a biomass mono-firing facility that can generate 74.95 MW, 34 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 35 Business Overview Wood Products and Construction Related Business Other Businesses Our Vision We will firmly entrench our position as the leading provider of domestic lumber by volume. Our Strengths Our Challenges • Leading procurement network and • Securing of domestic lumber and expansion infrastructure for paper materials and of sales channels in order to increase sales domestic lumber in Japan • Establishment of a procurement network to • Ownership of 90 thousand hectares of address increased demand for woody fuel domestic forestland Kunihiko Hayama Our Opportunities Our Threats President and Representative Director • Growth in demand for domestic lumber • Decrease in number of housing starts due to Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd. based on the Forest and Forestry falling birthrate and aging society Revitalization Plan • Impact of rise in electric power producers on • Growing demand for woody fuel in line with procurement of raw materials and fuel for increase in biomass boilers paper manufacturing Distribution business Leisure business ● FY2019/3 Performance and Challenges ● Future Strategies ● FY2019/3 Performance and Challenges / ● FY2019/3 Performance and Challenges / Solid Performance Based on Stable Market for Concentrate on Growing the Domestic Materials Future Strategies Future Strategies Wood Products Business and Expanding Supplies of Woody Fuel Focus on Ensuring Transport Capacity Bolstering the Appeal of Marunuma Highland and In FY2019/3, the number of housing starts rose slightly year on year, The outlook for this business remains uncertain, due to concerns that to Build a Stable Logistics System Developing New Businesses due in part to demand ahead of the scheduled consumption tax hike. demand would fall off following the October 2019 consumption tax In FY2019/3, the distribution business experienced rising personnel In FY2019/3, the leisure business was affected by early snowmelt, Wood products such as timber and lumber—our mainstay business hike. The operating environment is also affected by such factors as and fuel costs. Under this severe operating environment, we are which shortened spring ski season operations, and the unusually area—benefited from firm demand for plywood and stable market shrinking housing demand stemming from a falling birthrate and striving to secure transport capacity, including by responding to a sweltering weather reduced the number of visitors to golf driving conditions throughout the year, leading to solid segment sales and aging society and the shrinking paper market. shortage of truck drivers, in order to build a stable logistics system. ranges. However, sales were on a par with the previous year through income. The collection volume of domestic raw materials for paperGoing forward, we will focus on initiatives involving the growth of In the future, we intend to expand earnings by sharing operational higher revenues from café renovations. making fell, affected by the rising demand for woody fuel used in businesses that leverage our strength in domestic wood materials information among such Group companies as NIPPON PAPER We plan to expand our facilities at Marunuma Highland to boost biomass power generation, which itself is increasing in use. and increase the supply of woody fuel used in biomass power LOGISTICS, Nanko Unyu, and Kyokushin Transport; deepening coopits appeal as a resort area. Consequently, we expect to increase the generation. In domestic wood materials, by leveraging our existing eration across a broad region to facilitate the efficient transportation number of visitors and sales per visitor. infrastructure and expertise, we will strive to diversify our procureof Group products; and incorporating products from outside the In addition, we will strive to augment sales by developing new ment sources. To expand our supply of woody fuel, we will build a Group. We will also employ different measures, such as pursuing businesses such as chiropractic and osteopathic clinics in Tokyo and network for procuring unused resources and make a full-fledged joint logistics with other companies in our industry and building a Kyushu. move to provide fuel to new electric power producers. In addition, logistics system that takes business continuity planning into account. we will continue working to ensure the stable procurement of palm kernel shells (PKS) by nurturing overseas suppliers. 36 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 37 The Cornerstone of Our Growth SDG Initiatives We will link the resolution of social issues with value creation. In keeping with its mission of “to contribute to better living and cultural progress everywhere it does business,” the Nippon Paper Given its business model that leverages the characteristics of wood resources (see pages 4–11), the Nippon Paper Group believes it can leverage Group is working throughout the value chain to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)* and strengthen its positive impacts its dual-cycle value chain to make major contributions toward realizing the SDGs listed below and minimize the negative impact of its business on achieving this objective and reduce its negative impacts. activities toward that goal. Because of its economic, environmental, and social impact, these SDGs have particular relevance for the Nippon Paper Group, and we are contributing to their realization through our business activities. * Sustainable Development Goals: A set of 17 goals adopted by the United Nations as priorities to be addressed on a global scale by 2030. The SDGs with Particular Relevance for the Nippon Paper Group Strengthen Positive Impacts Reduce Negative Impacts Life on land (Raw material procurement) Reducing environmental impact and ensuring Raw material procurement Production good health and well-being (Production) Enable sustainable use to have a positive impact on the public functions of forests and the services of ecosystems by Prevent environmental pollution from Group manufacturing properly managing Company-owned forests. activities by reining in emissions or discharges of water, air, (See pages 56–59.) and soil contaminants. Also, take every possible measure to protect working people from disease and injury by impleHarvesting and Use menting extensive workplace safety measures and conducting thorough training and education. (See pages 62 and 71.) Shipping Photosynthesis Sustainable Recycling forest Recycling of management resources Disposal Reduce Negative Impacts CO2 absorption and Climate change initiatives (Raw material procurement, sequestration Production, Shipping, Sales and usage, Separation, Nurturing Planting Strengthen Positive Impacts collection, Recycling, Disposal) Separation, Help to reduce the loss of forests by strictly practicing collection Providing environmentally and socially conscious proper, legal procurement. Strive to rein in CO2 emissions in all products (Production, Sales and usage, Separation, business activities. (See pages 63–65.) collection, Recycling) Sales and usage Help to protect the environment and enhance the sustainability of resources through technical innovations making greater use of renewable biomass resources. (See pages 4–11.) 38 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 39 The Cornerstone of Our Growth Research and Development Basic Stance  Solidifying Our Intellectual Property Base The Intellectual Property Department of Nippon Paper Industries is strengthening the intellectual property base of the entire Group through the As a comprehensive biomass company shaping the future with trees,  Expand businesses in growth areas and achieve early discovery of new ideas, promotion of patent applications, and the development of patent networks for important technology. we will strive to gain further momentum with the transformation of commercialization of new businesses our business structure and the enhancement of competitiveness of  Strengthen profitability of existing businesses existing businesses. To that end, we will make maximum use of the  Implement intellectual property strategies early and effectively Key R&D Themes  Aim of using less plastic and more paper Nippon Paper Group’s research resources and forge ahead with  CELLENPIA® cellulose nanofiber (CNF) Paper is an environmentally friendly material that is renewable and research and development based on the following three key initiatives. CNF is a cutting-edge biomass resource generated by finely breaking has superior recyclable and biodegradable features. Guided by our fiber from wood into nano size. slogan of “let paper do what it can do,” we are making concerted efforts to broaden our domains for paper. R&D System and Key Initiatives  The Nippon Paper Group conducts its diverse research and developNippon Paper Industries’ Research and Development Division ment activities in the areas of afforested land, wood products, paper consists of the Research Laboratory, Packaging Research Laboratory, and pulp, and biomass use while drawing on its unique technologies Cellulose Nanofiber (CNF) Research Laboratory, Chemical Products Cellulose cultivated to date and promoting efficient research and development Research Laboratory, Functional Materials Development Laboratory, microfibrils (CNF) throughout its business from raw materials to products and recycling. and Intellectual Property Department. We have established the Width: 3-4nm SHIELDPLUS® Paper straws NSATOM® Length: 2-3μm (product in development) Containerboard Research Laboratory within the Research Laboratory Pulp fiber as part of our efforts to develop highly functional containerboards. In Width: 20-30μm addition, we have collaborated with Nippon Paper Crecia’s Healthcare For example, by applying its water coating technology cultivated Length: 1-3mm Household paper & healthcare Research Institute and Nippon Paper Papylia’s Research & over the years on paper, the Company is moving ahead with the Development Center to maximize the use of our research assets. development of the SHIELDPLUS® series of packaging materials with Paperboard & packaging Nippon Paper Industries has established a technology for the mass barrier properties, which performs on a par with the variety of Specialty paper Organization Structure of Nippon Paper Industries’ Research and production of TEMPO-oxidized CNF by incorporating a technology barrier-film options available. Printing / Development Division communication paper developed at Tokyo University. Also, by combining the healthcarePaper Biochemical Research and Research Laboratory related technology of Group company Nippon Paper Crecia, we  Development of new functional material Energy Development Division Pulp succeeded in launching the world’s first diaper with extra-deodorizing Through applying its unique technology, in 2017 the Company General Affairs Group Packaging Research Laboratory Wood Safety and Health functions utilizing CNF. developed MinerPa® as a functional material with densely bonded Cellulose Nanofiber (CNF) Control Group Research Laboratory Moreover, by applying the unique technologies of the Company’s inorganic particles on the surface of cellulose fiber. This allows us to Chemical Products chemical business into CNF, we aim to widen its use in food additives, provide new materials with the different features (deodorizing, Afforestation / biotechnology Research Laboratory which are used to maintain the stickiness of food and retain their shape, antibacterial, flame-retardancy, antiviral, etc.) of inorganic materials Functional Materials and cosmetics additives, which stabilize emulsions and dispersion. based on wood pulp. We will actively move forward with our search Development Laboratory General utilization of wood resources for promising business areas and our rapid development of applicaIntellectual Property Department tions for commercialization. Accelerating the Transformation of Our Business Structure the Group, we conduct joint research on useful technology with Through the sharing of weekly reports across research and developuniversities, national projects, companies, and public research ment centers and conducting periodic meetings together, Nippon institutions, and promote open innovation based on partnerships with Paper Industries is working to continue to cultivate its technologies industry, government, and academia. We are working to commercialize and introduce them to other sectors as well as speeding up the pace our useful technology and developed products as early as possible of its research and development activities. through the establishment of projects by the New Product With our Group companies, we conduct joint research by selecting Development Committee. research themes on a periodic basis. As for organizations outside of 40 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 41 The Cornerstone of Our Growth Special Feature: Initiatives to Expand Our Paper Business The ongoing issue of marine plastic pollution has been receiving growing attention in recent years. Accordingly, demand Expanding to European Markets for environmentally friendly materials that are reusable and biodegradable has been growing worldwide. Guided by its The Company has embarked on discussions on the production of the SHIELDPLUS® series at its Group company Jujo Thermal Oy (Finland). We are advancing our marketing efforts in Europe, and Examples of Sales Activities slogan of “let paper do what it can do,” the Nippon Paper Group is moving ahead with efforts to “paperise” toward resolving the various issues facing society. look to establish a presence in the environmentally conscious European market for the Letʼs create beautiful forests on this planet. SHIELDPLUS® series. The domestic market for plastic products has generated approximately ¥4.2 trillion,*1 of which plastic packaging and containers account for nearly ¥1.6 trillion.*2 In line with the needs of society, we will transition to paper that is renewExpanding to Asian Markets able and highly recyclable and biodegradable, with the aim of expanding our paper business. In March 2019, Nippon Paper Industries acquired a 70% stake in TS Plastics Sdn. Bhd. (hereinafter, *1 Plastic Products Statistics (2017), Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry TSP), which specializes in flexible packaging materials for the Malaysian market. *2 Statistics on the Scale of Japanese Packaging Industry in 2017, Japan Packaging Institute Two grades of SHIELDPLUS Founded on TSP’s more than 20 years of technological know-how and customer base cultivated through its flexible packaging business, Nippon Paper Industries will fully leverage its technological development capabilities and the Group’s sales network in order to expand into the highly thriving Product Development toward Expanding the Paper Business Asian market. By establishing TSP as a hub for rolling out our “paperising” efforts in Asia, we will • Paper bags • Paper cartons actively strive to develop new “paper” packaging materials to accompany our SHIELDPLUS® series. • Paper cups • SPOPS® replaceable containers • SHIELDPLUS® barrier • Paper straws Paper straws that are “soft on the mouth” packaging material • Paper trays Development of “NSATOM®,” • Heat sealable adhesive paper • Functional cardboard paper a New Aseptic Filling System for Paper Packaging  and paperboards • Paper packaging • Biodegradable and Nippon Paper Industries and Shikoku Kakoki Co., Ltd. have developed “NSATOM®,” an aseptic bioplastic products filling system for paper packaging based on new concepts that supports filling involving particles, long fibers, and high viscosity, and allows for ambient distribution. The two companies will introPerformance duce “NSATOM®” to the market in FY2020/3. Advantages In the beverage market, consumers have become increasingly health-conscious. They favor beverages whose contents have a genuine texture and demand products that include particles, Deploying the SHIELDPLUS® Series  long fibers, and high viscosity. Moreover, demand for packages that are easy to carry around has Commencing Supplies of SHIELDPLUS® PREMIER Comparison of Oxygen and . Water Vapor Barrier Properties been growing due to the diversifying lifestyles and consumption situations of consumers. In April 2019, Nippon Paper Industries began supplying samples of The newly developed “NSATOM®” satisfies these needs as the world’s first aseptic filling system Paper-based for paper packaging in ambient distribution that contributes to better hygiene with 6 log reducits new product line SHIELDPLUS® PREMIER. SHIELDPLUS® PREMIER Non-barrier film packaging material offers greater protection against moisture and was developed for the (PE, etc.) (PE coated paper tion*3 and automated cleaning of filling sections. Amid the worldwide trend for shifting away from and others) the use of plastic, we will widely propose these paper packages as an alternative to plastic-based SHIELDPLUS® series, which incorporates barrier properties into paper. packages. Nagaraen’s crackers wrapped in SHIELDPLUS®’s Going forward, we will accelerate the roll out of SHIELDPLUS® PREMIER flexible packaging to a wide variety of applications for food packaging, and seek to Barrier film *3 Log reduction is a figure indicating the sterilizing ability of packaging materials develop its application for a range of industries other than packaging. (EVOH, KOP, etc.) needed for aseptic filling. With commercial aseptic filling, the global standard is at SHIELDPLUS SHIELDPLUS® least 5 log reduction while a more stringent standard of at least 6 log reduction is required in Japan. Aluminum or inorganic deposition foil SHIELDPLUS SHIELDPLUS® PREMIERPremier Applications Aluminum foil NSATOM® (product in development) paper paper 42 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 43 The Cornerstone of Our Growth CSR Materiality at the Nippon Paper Group Corporate Governance CSR Materiality Items  Basic Stance  Based on its corporate philosophy of “to contribute to better living ISO 26000 Core Subjects Materiality Related Pages Corporate Governance Policy and cultural progress around the world,” the Nippon Paper Group established its Corporate Governance Policy in November 2015. The https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/ir/governance/ Organizational Governance, Fair Operating Practices • Thorough compliance P. 53 Company has also determined guidelines for its basic stance related governance_policy/E-CGP_20151105.pdf (Management Responsibility) • Dialogue with stakeholders — to corporate governance. These policy and guidelines are aimed at • Sustainable procurement of raw materials P. 56–59 achieving sustainable growth and mediumto long-term increases in The Environment • Climate change initiatives P. 63–65 corporate value for the Nippon Paper Group in ways that are consisInitiatives for Strengthening Corporate Governance (Forest Management, Raw Material Procurement, • Reduction of environmental impacts P. 62 tent with the Group Mission. FY2007/3 • Formulated the Basic Policy for Establishing the Internal Control System and Environmental Responsibility) • Preserving biodiversity P. 63 Our highest management priority is to achieve even greater • Shortened director terms to one year, from two Consumer Issues • Enhancement of product safety P. 66–67 transparency toward shareholders and other stakeholders and engage FY2014/3 • Adopted an executive officer system in fair business practices. The Company has adopted an executive • Began appointing independent outside directors (Responsibility to Customers) • Enhancement of product value P. 42–43 officer system and is working to strengthen the oversight function of FY2016/3 • Established the Corporate Governance Policy Human Rights, Labor Practices • Occupational safety and health P. 71 its Board of Directors to ensure the separation of business execution • Began evaluating the effectiveness of the Board of Directors (Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility) • Creation of a vigorous organization P. 69–70 and management oversight. In addition, as the leader of the Nippon FY2017/3 • Established the Personnel & Remuneration Advisory Committee Paper Group, the Company is implementing growth strategies, • Increased the number of independent outside directors to two Community Involvement and Development • Coexistence with local communities and P. 72 monitoring businesses under its control, and promoting compliance. FY2020/3 • Increased the number of independent outside directors to three (Responsibility to Communities) society at large Furthermore, the Company is acting in accordance with all of the • Introduced “Board Benefit Trust” as a stock compensation system fundamental principles of Japan’s Corporate Governance Code. The Nippon Paper Group, working from a foundation of sustainable Moreover, the opinions of our stakeholders serve as a valuable forest management, contributes to better living and cultural progress opportunity to grasp issues that are important for our coexistence as a comprehensive biomass company that recycles and makes full and sustainable growth with society. use of renewable wood resources. Therefore, the materiality items noted above are of particular Corporate Governance Structure  Proper sustainable forest management promotes the preservation importance among our initiatives to address CSR. These materiality of biodiversity and helps to fight global warming. And use of wood items are identified through investigation based on stakeholder Board of Directors Management Execution Committee resources increases the amount of CO2 sequestered throughout opinions, then finalized by the head of the Group’s CSR Division. The Board of Directors of Nippon Paper Industries determines basic In principle, the Management Execution Committee of Nippon Paper society and helps to prevent resource depletion. For details regarding the Company’s CSR activities, please visit the policies for the management of the Company and the Nippon Paper Industries meets once a week to deliberate on important management The Group, which is creating new products and expanding its CSR section of its website. Group, matters related to stipulations in laws, regulations, and the Articles related matters such as matters under the authority of the President. business as a comprehensive biomass company, manages and cultivates of Incorporation of the Company, and other important managerial Membership of the said committee is basically composed of the expansive forests and owns large-scale production sites. We, therefore, CSR site matters. The Board also supervises the business execution of the Group. President and other directors (excluding outside directors) and genhave a significant impact on local communities and the people who https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/csr/ The Company’s Board of Directors is composed of six directors, eral managers who do not serve as directors. work there. Coexisting with these communities, as well as reducing who are familiar with the Nippon Paper Group’s businesses, and In addition, the meetings of the Management Execution Committee, environmental impacts and securing the safety and health of our three independent outside directors. One outside director is a legal held once a month, are attended by outside directors and general employees at each site, therefore, are critical to our sustainability. expert, another has experience in corporate management after managers of the Company’s mills in order to share information on serving as a government official, and the other has practical working monthly financial results among the management. experience at accounting firms and tax accountant corporations. They are expected to supervise and advise in their objective capacity on the execution of duties of the Company’s directors by utilizing their specialized expertise and experience, wide knowledge, and international awareness. 44 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 45 The Cornerstone of Our Growth Corporate Governance Group Management Strategy Committee Personnel and Remuneration Advisory Committee Corporate Governance Structure (As of July 1, 2019) Nippon Paper Industries’ Group Management Strategy Committee The Personnel and Remuneration Advisory Committee of Nippon General Meeting of Shareholders meets as necessary to deliberate on management strategies by Paper Industries receives inquiries from the Board of Directors on business segment and other important matters related to the Group. matters such as the selection process, qualifications, and reasons for Appoint Appoint Cooperate Appoint Audit Audit Membership of the committee is composed of the Company nomination of director and statutory auditor candidates, the criteria Board of Statutory Auditors Board of Directors management and presidents of major companies of the Nippon for determining the independence of independent outside officers, (4 members including 2 outside statutory auditors) (9 directors including 3 outside directors) Accounting Auditors Paper Group. and the remuneration system for directors and statutory auditors. The committee responds to such inquiries after considering their Audit Personnel and Remuneration Advisory Committee Statutory Auditors and Board of Statutory Auditors appropriateness and taking into account its assessment of the The statutory auditors of Nippon Paper Industries attend important Company’s business performance and other factors. The committee Representative Directors Cooperate meetings such as meetings of the Board of Directors, the comprises the President and Representative Director, who serves as Cooperate Management Execution Committee, and the Management Strategy the chairman, the Director and General Manager of the Personnel & Management Execution Committee Management Strategy Committee Committee, strictly supervise directors’ business execution, and General Affairs Division, and outside directors. strictly audit the Company’s overall business activities to ensure their Management Audit Office legality and fairness. Structure and Functions of the Personnel and The Board of Statutory Auditors presides over the Nippon Paper Remuneration Advisory Committee Cooperate Group Statutory Auditor Liaison Committee and holds meetings CSR Division regularly to discuss audit policies and methods and exchange inforNippon Paper Group Board of Directors Statutory Auditor Liaison Committee CSR Dept. Compliance Office mation with corporate auditors at each Group company to reinforce Corporate Lawyer Cooperate the alliance and audit functions of the Group. Input Advice Monitoring (auditing/oversight) Cooperate Management Audit Office Matters addressed: officer candidates, officer remuneration, etc. Nippon Paper Industries’ Management Audit Office, which is directly Departments in charge of business execution, Group companies under the President’s control, conducts an internal audit of the Company and each Group company and a comprehensive evaluation of the maintenance and operation of the internal control system as it relates Corporate Governance Summary (As of July 1, 2019) to financial reporting. The internal audits are conducted in terms of Personnel and Remuneration Advisory Committee Structure: President and Representative Director, Director and General Manager Type of Organization Company with a Board of Statutory Auditors legality and appropriateness from fair and independent perspectives. of the Personnel & General Affairs Division independent directors Chairman of Board of Directors Fumio Manoshiro (Administration: Manager of the Human Resources Department) Number of Directors 9 (including 3 outside directors) Number of Statutory Auditors 4 (including 2 outside statutory auditors) Appointment of Independent Officers 5 (3 outside directors and 2 outside statutory auditors) Number of meetings: 13 Board of Directors’ Meetings in FY2019/3 Average rate of attendance by directors: 99.1% (outside directors: 100%) Average rate of attendance by statutory auditors: 98.1% (outside statutory auditors: 96.2%) Board of Statutory Auditors’ Meetings Number of meetings: 14 in FY2019/3 Average rate of attendance by statutory auditors: 100% Independent Accounting Auditor Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC 46 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 47 The Cornerstone of Our Growth Corporate Governance Outline of Results of Analysis and Evaluation in FY2019/3 Current Status Areas for Improvement As a result of conducting self-evaluations in the form of providing As an issue to focus on improving in FY2020/3, the Board of Directors questionnaires to each director and statutory auditor on the effechighlighted strengthening support to facilitate the activities of outside tiveness of the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors made a officers. The Board of Directors will make an effort to provide briefings current-state evaluation and identified issues to be improved in to outside directors on important matters with explanations of the Independent Officers  relation to FY2019/3 as follows. After conducting the current-state deliberation process, potential risks, etc. that take into account the The Company designates as independent officer, all outside officers provided by the Tokyo Stock Exchange and the requirements for evaluation from the five viewpoints of “Composition of the Board of needs of outside officers. The Board of Directors will enhance the who meet the requirements for an independent officer. When externality (having not served as director, employee, etc. of the Directors,” “Agenda items to be submitted to the Board of Directors’ content of the minutes taken at Board of Directors’ Meetings to better appointing candidates for outside director and outside statutory Company and its subsidiaries in the past) provided for by laws/ Meetings,” “Conduct of Board of Directors’ Meetings,” “Training of reflect details of discussions. With regard to industry information and auditor, the Company judges their independence by taking into regulations, in addition to considering the existence of any conflict directors and statutory auditors,” and “Information provision to and in-house meeting documents, the Board of Directors will provide files consideration whether they satisfy the independence criteria of interests with general shareholders. support system for outside directors,” the Board of Directors found of past information and documents as reference material to offices of that efforts based on each principle of the Corporate Governance Code outside officers, in addition to distributing hard copies. Outside Directors had been progressing continuously and were broadly appropriate on the whole. Particularly in terms of “Conduct of Board of Directors’ Yoshimitsu Aoyama Mr. Aoyama has been engaged in research and guidance in the area of law at the University of Tokyo, etc. for many years. In addition, he acted as Vice President of the University of Tokyo and Chairman of the Legislative Council of the Ministry of Justice. Although he has never Meetings,” the Board of Directors simplified explanations and provided been engaged in corporate management directly, he is expected to supervise and advise from an objective perspective on legal compliance materials in graph form, mainly for business performance reports, to and execution of duties of the Company’s other directors using his specialized knowledge and experience accumulated as a legal professional. make them easier to understand. Makoto Fujioka Mr. Fujioka was Assistant Vice-Minister of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (currently the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) and Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary stationed in the United Arab Emirates. He has also acted as an executive of a private company. He is expected to supervise and advise from an objective perspective on the execution of duties of the Company’s other Compensation for Directors  directors using his wide knowledge and international awareness gained through his experience in both the public and private sectors. The Board of Directors decides compensation for directors after Total Amount of Remuneration, Etc. for Directors and Statutory Yoko Hatta Although Ms. Hatta has never been engaged in corporate management directly, it is expected that she will draw on her broad work experience receiving a report from the Personnel and Remuneration Advisory Auditors for FY2019/3*1 at international accounting firms and considerable expertise in international tax practices, etc. and her experience as an outside statutory Committee (page 46). Total amount of Category Number of executives remuneration, etc. auditor of the Company (from June 2016 to June 2019) to supervise and advise from an objective perspective on the execution of duties by the Company’s other directors. Directors 10*2 ¥362 million Monthly Compensation Base monthly compensation for directors shall be decided according Statutory auditors 5*2 ¥56 million Outside Statutory Auditors to his/her job responsibilities in the Company. Of that, 70% shall be *1 Figures are rounded down to the nearest million yen. Seiichi Fusamura Although Mr. Fusamura has never been engaged in corporate management directly, the Company deems that he will utilize the abundant fixed and the remaining 30% shall be paid with increases or decreases *2 Includes one director and one statutory auditor who resigned during FY2019/3. experience and extensive knowledge he has accumulated as a legal professional in a judicial organization to act as an auditor of the Company. based on the preceding business year’s business performance. As a standard, 60% of the performance evaluation is based on Introduction of Stock Compensation Plan (from FY2020/3) Nanako Aono The Company determines that Ms. Aono’s experience in serving as a director and statutory auditor at private sector companies in a wide range of fields and the extensive knowledge she has accumulated as a certified public accountant will enable her to audit the execution of non-consolidated results (year-on-year increase/decrease in net The Company has introduced Board Benefit Trust (BBT) as a stock business activities by the Company’s directors from an independent and objective perspective and contribute to improving the soundness sales, ordinary income, and ROA), while 40% is based on the Group’s compensation plan. The objective of BBT is to further clarify the link and transparency of the Company’s management. consolidated performance (the degree to which net sales, operating between the compensation provided to directors and the Company’s income, and ROA meet Medium-Term Business Plan targets). share value and thereby increase directors’ motivation to contribute The Company does not provide bonuses or retirement benefits. to improving the Company’s mediumto long-term performance and In addition, a certain amount of the monthly compensation will be increasing its corporate value by sharing the benefits and risks associEvaluation of Effectiveness of the Board of Directors  allocated to the acquisition of the Company's shares through contriated with share price fluctuations with shareholders. (This resolution To continuously strengthen its functions, the Company’s Board of survey of the directors and statutory auditors regarding management butions to the executive shareholding association. The acquired shares was approved at the 95th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders Directors has been conducting self-evaluations of its effectiveness and the discussions held at its meetings. The Board of Directors will continue to be held during the director’s tenure in the Company. held on June 27, 2019.) since FY2016/3. analyzes and evaluates its effectiveness and works toward improveRegarding outside directors and outside statutory auditors, Once per year, the Secretariat of the Board of Directors conducts a ment based on the results thereof. monthly compensation shall be fixed. In light of their responsibilities, contributions to the executive shareholding association are on a voluntary basis. 48 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 49 The Cornerstone of Our Growth Corporate Governance (Reference) Overview of Internal Director Compensation (from FY2020/3) Message from an Outside Director—“Evaluation of Effectiveness of the Board of Directors”  Fixed Compensation Performance-Based Compensation Board Benefit Trust (from FY2020/3) Method Cash payment Points granted Payment concerning outside directors. The responses that take into account the needs of outside ¥7 million per year 25,000 points per year (1 point = 1 share) Allowance were based on a four-step rating system directors, improved content of minutes Payment Period Monthly (no bonuses or retirement benefits) Director resignation including “adequate,” “slightly adequate,” taken at Board of Directors’ Meetings, and (cumulative points are converted to shares) “not so adequate,” and “inadequate,” and the provision of more information and Determined according to their Determined according to their respective responsibilities Calculation respective responsibilities in the in the Company, with 30% of the amount to be Points to be granted based on directors’ all members were encouraged to freely documents were declared as the three Method Company, with 70% of the amount varied depending on the business results of the respective positions express their opinions. points for improvement to be taken. On a to be paid as a fixed amount preceding fiscal year different note, one female director and one 60%: non-consolidated performance Performance (net sales, ordinary income, ROA) Answers to Questionnaire female statutory auditor were appointed at ― ― Standards 40%: consolidated performance For this questionnaire, I responded to all the Company’s General Meeting of (net sales, operating income, ROA) 18 items, with “adequate” for eight items, Shareholders held in June 2019. This has Others Fixed amount contributed to Nippon Paper Industries Directors’ Shareholding Association ― Yoshimitsu Aoyama “fairly adequate” for seven items, and “not resulted in a better gender balance with six Note: Monthly compensation is fixed for outside directors and corporate auditors. Outside Director so adequate” for three items, and offered internal directors and three outside direcmy assessment on a number of these. tors (of whom, one female director) and Methods for Assessing Effectiveness of My “not so adequate” responses were for two internal statutory auditors and two the Board of Directors the three items of “the composition of the outside statutory auditors (of whom, one Cultivation of Successors to the President and Directors  Since FY2016/3, Nippon Paper Industries Board of Directors (including diversity),” female statutory auditor). Successors to the President Cultivation of Director Candidates has been conducting questionnaires each year “timing of submission of reports to the Board Nippon Paper Industries cultivates candidates for succession to From the standpoint of securing human resources capable of managing with all directors and statutory auditors of Directors’ Meetings,” and “content of Future Issues President by placing them in increasingly important roles as directors, the Company in the future, we make a point of exposing employees— (currently 13 members in total) to enhance minutes taken at Board of Directors’ Meetings,” In these ways, the Company strives to executive officers, and other important executive positions. particularly those in career-track positions—to various positions and the effectiveness of the meetings of the and my assessments included “improvements enhance the effectiveness of the Board of Personnel matters related to directors and executive officers who are rotation to different offices. We also make an effort to appoint Board of Directors. The results of these need to be made with the current situation Directors by reviewing the results of the future presidential candidates are deliberated by the Personnel and employees as early as possible to positions as managers and other questionnaires are compiled and reported whereby all nine directors are male,” “the questionnaire on a yearly basis. Though this Remuneration Advisory Committee, which is an advisory body that important posts and positions in which they assist management, such at the Board of Directors’ Meetings and any reports should be reviewed prior to the Board is just a personal opinion on my part, in reports to the Board of Directors. Upon receiving this report, the as the top management of affiliated companies and overseas subsidiaries. issues identified as a result are used toward of Directors’ Meetings,” and “the minutes addition to institutional evaluations, the Board of Directors screens and deliberates the report, and then In this manner, we strive to develop a robust base of employees with improvements in the following fiscal year. should include not only the resolutions but Company should consider introducing decides on candidates. highly sophisticated expertise and work experience, cultivating them The evaluation of the effectiveness of also details on the type of discussions that functional evaluations that assess the various Through this process, the Board of Directors supervises the for selection as the next generation of director candidates. the Board of Directors conducted by the were conducted for important matters.” functions to be fulfilled by the Board of cultivation of candidates to become the next President in a systematic Company is a so-called institutional evaluaDirectors, such as management planning, and ongoing manner. Policy for Training Directors tion that takes into account the Board of Improvements Based on management strategies, compliance, risk The process for appointment and dismissal of the President is the To support directors’ execution of duties, the Company provides Directors’ Meetings as a whole. The most Questionnaire Results management, sustainability, nomination and same as the decision on candidates for directors, in that the directors with information on matters necessary for their roles and recent survey, conducted in January 2019, The other officers also offered their candid compensation of directors, and succession Personnel and Remuneration Advisory Committee conducts a review functions (such as economic conditions, industry trends, legal compliconsisted of a total of 18 items, including 13 responses to the questionnaire and its results planning for top management. In addition, and submits a report based on consultations with the Board of Directors. ance, corporate governance, finance and accounting) on an ongoing items applicable to all members regarding were compiled and reported at the Board of I believe the Company would benefit from basis. We also ensure opportunities to participate in external training the composition of the Board of Directors, Directors’ Meeting held in March 2019. having a reputable external organization based on the desires of individual directors. agenda items to be submitted to the Board Moreover, “strengthening support to facilitate evaluate the effectiveness of its Board of of Directors’ Meetings, conduct of Board of the activities of outside directors” was put Directors from an outside perspective once Directors’ Meetings, and training of directors forth as an issue to improve on in FY2020/3 every few years. and statutory auditors, as well as five items and, accordingly, the provision of briefings 50 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 51 The Cornerstone of Our Growth Risk Management Compliance Please refer to the following website https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/ csr/npg_csrr2019_e_management.pdf#page=8 Risk Management Structure  Basic Stance  Regarding risks associated with the execution of the Nippon Paper Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. formulated its Basic Policy on The Nippon Paper Group has formulated “The Nippon Paper Group’s Group’s business, the necessary regulations and guidelines have been Prevention of Bribery to Public Officials and Group Basic Policy on Action Charter,” which states that “We shall abide by the letter and The Nippon Paper Group’s Action Charter established at each division according to the contents of each risk, Compliance with Competition Laws. In addition, through the preparation the spirit of laws and regulations, and comply with the highest ethical 1. We shall pursue a sustainable growth for the future to contribute to including legal compliance, corporate ethics, safety and disaster of its action guidelines and conducting employee training, the Company standards and social codes of conduct, both in Japan and abroad.” society through our business activities. 2. We shall abide by the letter and the spirit of laws and regulations, and prevention, product safety, environmental conservation, human is working to strengthen and enhance its risk management structure. Based on this charter, the Nippon Paper Group also believes that comply with the highest ethical standards and social codes of conduct, rights, and labor standards. Further, we will work to prevent risks Moreover, to further its risk management activities throughout “Compliance goes beyond laws and regulations to include decency, both in Japan and abroad. through measures such as education and training based on manuals, the entire Group, the Nippon Paper Group has established its common sense, customs, and other rules and ‘social norms’ that are 3. We shall conduct our business in a fair, transparent and liberal manner. 4. We shall win the trust of customers through the development and and, in the event that such risks occur, we have in place a necessary Environment Committee, Safety and Disaster Prevention Committee, expected by society in general, and we are called upon to respond to provision of socially useful and safe products and services. structure that minimizes the losses resulting from these risks, and and Product Safety Committee. Each committee is chaired by a the expectations and trust of society.” Based on this understanding, 5. We shall disclose corporate information positively and fairly to all prevents losses incurred by the Group from expanding through the member of management and has in place a framework for sharing we strive to raise awareness through compliance training, and we stakeholders of the Group. integration of the entire Group. For instance, in November 2017 important information. endeavor to conduct our business activities in compliance with laws, 6. We shall actively address environmental issues, and shall endeavor to conserve and enhance the environmental state of our planet. regulations, and social norms. 7. We shall maintain consistency between corporate development and the personal contentment of individual employees, and create a company Risk Management Initiatives  filled with dream and hope. Addressing Risks from Natural Disasters necessitate emergency response to such duties as confirming the (Nippon Paper Industries headquarters and individual mills) safety status of employees and the status of each company, accountCompliance Structure  The Nippon Paper Group, having learned much from past natural ing and payment duties, client response, and mill production plans. disasters, is developing practical guidelines for addressing natural The CSR Division of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. serves as a Office actively hosts Group Compliance Liaison Meetings to provide disaster risks. Working from these guidelines, each mill and plant has Business Continuity Management System facilitator and driving force behind efforts to achieve and reinforce all employees in charge of compliance with information on important examined its natural disaster response measures and revised its (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Paper-Pak Sales Division) understanding of compliance throughout the Nippon Paper Group. policies and measures, opportunities to share information, and disaster response manual. Nippon Paper Industries’ Paper-Pak Sales Division has developed its Each Group company appoints a person to be in charge of compliadvice on education and training activities. For its part, Nippon Paper Industries, in preparation for a major disaster own business continuity guidelines and established its own manageance within its organization, and Nippon Paper Industries’ Compliance that could disable its headquarters, has established a backup facility ment system, so that it can maintain production even in times of that could immediately take over headquarters functions. The backup emergency. The division is moving ahead with the selection of priority facility was set up in preparation for a major disaster could items for emergencies and procurement of key raw materials from Group Internal Whistleblower System  multiple manufacturers. It has also diversified its production across multiple production sites to lower its disaster risk exposure. The Nippon Paper Group has established a helpline system to allow Number of Reportings to Helpline any employee of the Group to provide direct notification of, or seek FY2016/3 FY2017/3 FY2018/3 FY2019/3 Emergency Manuals (Newsprint) advice outside the chain-of-command on, any action in the workNewspapers are a highly public information medium, so the need for place that could violate laws, social norms, or corporate ethics. The 19 11 32 33 the stable supply of newsprint is especially strong. The paper indusCompliance Office located within Nippon Paper Industries’ CSR try, therefore, has prepared regional emergency manuals for use Department serves as a point of contact within the Group. We have when supply operations cannot be conducted in the usual manner. In also established points of contact outside the Group for use by the event of a disruption to communication and transportation systems employees as appropriate. as a result of a major disaster, paper companies follow these manuals The helpline system guarantees the privacy of whistleblowers and to ensure the smooth supply of newsprint. takes steps to ensure that they do not suffer due to the reporting of questionable activity or seeking advice. Backup facility (Kita-ku, Tokyo) 52 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 53 The Cornerstone of Our Growth Directors and Statutory Auditors (As of June 27, 2019) Directors Number of Company Shares Held Number of Company Shares Held Number of Company Shares Held 26,707 shares 9,594 shares 0 shares Brief History Brief History Brief History 1953 Born 1959 Born 1952 Born 1975 Joined Jujo Paper Co., Ltd. 1981 Joined Jujo Paper Co., Ltd. 1997 Partner, KPMG LLP New York Office 2006 Appointed Director, NPI 2014 Appointed Director, NPI 2002 Partner, KPMG Peat Marwick Tax Corporation 2014 Appointed President and Representative Director, NPI 2019 Appointed President and Representative Director, (currently KPMG Tax Corporation) (until 2014) 2019 Appointed Chairman, NPI (current position) NPI (current position) 2008 Auditor, International Christian University (current position) 2015 Outside Statutory Auditor, Kobayashi Pharmaceutical Co., Responsibilities and Important Positions Ltd. (current position) • Chief Executive Officer 2016 Outside Auditor, IHI Corporation (current position) Fumio Manoshiro Toru Nozawa Yoko Hatta Appointed Outside Statutory Auditor, NPI (until 2019) Chairman President and Representative Director Outside Director 2019 Appointed Outside Director, NPI (current position) Important Positions • Auditor, International Christian University • Outside Statutory Auditor, Kobayashi Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. • Outside Auditor, IHI Corporation Number of Company Shares Held Number of Company Shares Held 19,200 shares 9,239 shares Brief History Brief History 1955 Born 1956 Born 1980 Joined Sanyo-Kokusaku Pulp Co., Ltd. 1979 Joined Jujo Paper Co., Ltd. 2010 Appointed Director, NPI 2015 Appointed Director, NPI (current position) 2017 Appointed Executive Vice President and Responsibilities and Important Positions Representative Director, NPI (current position) Responsibilities and Important Positions • Senior Management Executive Officer • General Manager, Personnel & General Affairs Division Statutory Auditors • Executive Vice President Kazufumi Yamasaki • President, Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd. Akihiro Utsumi Number of Company Shares Held Number of Company Shares Held Executive Vice President and Director 9,402 shares 626 shares Representative Director Brief History Brief History 1955 Born 1960 Born 1987 Joined Sanyo-Kokusaku Pulp Co., Ltd. 1983 Joined Jujo Paper Co., Ltd. 2015 Appointed Director, NPI 2019 Appointed Statutory Auditor, NPI (current position) Number of Company Shares Held Number of Company Shares Held 2018 Appointed Statutory Auditor, NPI (current position) Important Positions 8,222 shares 4,426 shares Important Positions • Statutory Auditor, NP Trading Co., Ltd. Brief History Brief History • Statutory Auditor, Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd. 1957 Born 1960 Born 1981 Joined Jujo Paper Co., Ltd. 1984 Joined Jujo Paper Co., Ltd. Hirofumi Fujimori Kazunari Tatsu 2018 Appointed Director, NPI (current position) 2019 Appointed Director, NPI (current position) Statutory Auditor Statutory Auditor Responsibilities and Important Positions Responsibilities and Important Positions • Executive Officer • Executive Officer, General Manager of Corporate Planning Division, • General Manager, Sales Management & Planning Division in charge of subsidiaries and affiliated companies • President, Nippon Paper Logistics Co., Ltd. • Director, Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd. Takeo Konno Masanobu Iizuka • Outside Director, Lintec Corporation Number of Company Shares Held Number of Company Shares Held Director Director 0 shares 0 shares Brief History Brief History 1947 Born 1962 Born 1971 Assistant Judge, Kyoto District Court 1995 Joined Chuo Aoyama Audit Corporation 1998 Director-General of Judicial System and Research Dept., 2005 Director of BUSICOM Co., Ltd. (now OAG BUSICOM Co., Ltd.) Number of Company Shares Held Number of Company Shares Held Minister’s Secretariat, Ministry of Justice 2008 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, DUSKIN CO., 0 shares 1,000 shares 2001 Director-General, the Civil Affairs Bureau, Ministry of Justice LTD. (until 2016) Brief History Brief History 2006 President, Saitama District Court 2010 Representative Director and President, GEN Co., Ltd. 1939 Born 1950 Born 2009 Chief Justice, Sendai High Court (current position) 2011 Chief Justice, Nagoya High Court 2017 Outside Corporate Auditor, MISUMI Group Inc. (current 1999 Vice President, The University of Tokyo 1996 Deputy Director-General for Trade and Economy, Ministry of Seiichi Fusamura 2012 Appointed Statutory Auditor, NPI (current position) Nanako Aono position) 2007 Chairman, Legislative Council, Ministry of Justice (until 2011) Economy, Trade and Industry (then the Ministry of Outside Statutory Auditor Outside Statutory Auditor 2009 Head Director, Public Interest Incorporated Foundation International Trade and Industry) Registered as attorney (Daini Tokyo Bar Association) 2019 Appointed Outside Statutory Auditor, NPI (current position) “Automotive Dispute Resolution Center” (current position) 2001 Ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary to the 2013 Chairman, Public Security Examination Commission Important Positions 2013 Appointed Outside Director, NPI (current position) United Arab Emirates (current position) • Representative Director and President, GEN Co., Ltd. 2018 Representative Director, The Japan International Dispute 2013 Director, Executive Vice President, and Senior Executive Chairman, Bureau of Labor Relations Commission, • Outside Corporate Auditor, MISUMI Group Inc. Resolution Center (current position) Officer, Nippon Light Metal Co., Ltd. (until 2015) Tokyo Metropolitan Government (current position) Yoshimitsu Aoyama Makoto Fujioka 2015 Senior Director, Japan Association for Chemical Innovation Important Positions Important Positions Outside Director Outside Director 2016 Outside Director, Eagle Industry Co., Ltd. (current position) •C hairman, Public Interest Incorporated Foundation “Automotive • Chairman, Public Security Examination Commission Outside Director, NOK CORPORATION (current position) • Chairman, Bureau of Labor Relations Commission, Tokyo Dispute Resolution Center” Appointed Outside Director, NPI (current position) Metropolitan Government • Chairman, The Japan International Dispute Resolution Center Important Positions • Senior Director, Japan Association for Chemical Innovation • Outside Director, Eagle Industry Co., Ltd. • Outside Director, NOK CORPORATION * The above “Number of Company Shares Held” is as of March 31, 2019, and includes shares held by the Nippon Paper Industries Directors’ Shareholding Association. 54 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 55 The Cornerstone of Our Growth Procurement of Raw Materials Please refer to the following website https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/ csr/npg_csrr2019_e_procurement.pdf Basic Stance  In addition to suppliers in Japan and overseas, a number of people We have established enhancing the traceability of wood from including local communities and government institutions are involved overseas and the promoting trade association certifications for the The Nippon Paper Group is engaged primarily in the manufacture of in the procurement of wood materials. Given this intersection with legality of woodchips produced in Japan as the pillars of our paper products, the raw materials for which include wood chips, Philosophy and Basic Policy Concerning Raw Materials society and the environment, we believe it is important to create a activities. To ensure sustainability, each year we conduct surveys and Procurement (Excerpt) wastepaper, and other wood resources. To ensure the long-term (formulated on October 5, 2005) sustainable supply chain while working with suppliers to take into interviews targeting our suppliers of materials overseas. sustainability and growth of our business, we have created a system for Philosophy consideration local forest ecosystems and communities, as well as the ongoing procurement of woody biomass generated through We are committed to establishing a reliable raw materials procurement system through occupational safety and health and other factors. Details of Supplier Surveys sustainable forest management. global supply chain management in consideration of the environment and society. In addition to the legality of wood materials, we formulate and In 2005, we established our Philosophy and Basic Policy Concerning • Basic information on the forests from which materials were sourced Basic Policy execute action plans for resource procurement that take into Raw Materials Procurement. Based on this philosophy and basic policy, • Status on obtaining forest certifications 1. Environmentally friendly raw materials procurement consideration human rights, labor, local communities, and the we use supply-chain management to practice sustainable raw material (1) Procurement from forests under sustainable forest management • Establishment of systems for implementing human rights preservation of biodiversity. (2) Support the eradication of illegal logging and labor policies procurement. Moreover, we promote dialogue with stakeholders with (3) Active use of recycled materials the intention of taking our environmentally and socially conscious raw (4) Compliance with relevant laws and regulations on chemical substances • Implementation of biodiversity efforts, etc. Action Plan for Wood-Based Raw Material Procurement material procurement to greater heights. (5) Build traceability systems 2. Socially aware raw materials procurement https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/csr/download/ Fair deals with suppliers and appropriate human rights and labor practices action_plan_for_wood-based_raw_material_procurement.html In addition, we received annual forest certification audits and Philosophy and Basic Policy Concerning Raw Materials Procurement 3. Promotion of dialogues with stakeholders third-party verification through a due-diligence system for verifying Dialogues with stakeholders and proactive disclosure https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/csr/policies/ legality under the Clean Wood Act, which was introduced in Japan in 2017. In FY2019/3, all of the wood raw materials we used for Nippon Paper Industries’ Action Plans for Procurement of paper were approved under forest certification systems (including Wood Resources controlled material and controlled wood). Management of Suppliers  Procurement 410 chip suppliers, 4 pulp suppliers Breakdown of Main Raw Materials Used in the Nippon Paper Group’s in Japan (implemented for all suppliers) Key Points in the Group’s Procurement of Wood Resources Paper Manufacturing*1 • Sourcing from sustainable forests (sustainability) Procurement 24 chip suppliers, 10 pulp suppliers • Clearly identifying the origin of timber (traceability) overseas (implemented for all suppliers) • Maintaining full accountability (accountability) Other pulp (wood resources) FY2019/3 Wastepaper pulp 47.8% 52.2%* 2 Initiatives for Procuring Stable Supplies of Wastepaper More than 60% of the wood raw materials (chips) Nippon Paper Industries uses as paper material comes from overseas. To ensure the sound cultivation of domestic forests and encourage the active use Recycled wastepaper comprises more than half of the raw materials wastepaper. While maintaining this stable supply structure, of forests, we also promote the use of materials produced in Japan. used by the Nippon Paper Group. we are prompting a shift toward paper in light of recently mounting *1 Consolidated Group companies in Japan As such, we are working to increase the percentage of domestically *2 Includes purchased wastepaper pulp Wastepaper is a “star student” of recycling. In Japan, wastepaper concerns over plastic pollution. We are using this hidden urban produced materials used in paper. is an indispensable resource, comprising more than half of the resource, which includes such items as used paper cups, to build raw materials used in the Japanese papermaking sector. Working a new circle of recycling, helping to maintain and expand the Geographic Breakdown of Wood Raw Materials (Chips) Procured by Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. (FY2019/3) for many years with the wastepaper industry, the Nippon Paper recycling system. (Bone dry units, kt = kilotonnes) Group has built up a system for the steady procurement of Overseas 65% (2,784 kt) Japan 35% (1,509 kt) Hardwood Softwood Hardwood Softwood 58% 7% 13% 22% (2,500 kt) (284 kt) (554 kt) (956 kt) 56 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 57 The Cornerstone of Our Growth Procurement of Raw Materials Sustainable Forest Management  The Nippon Paper Group sources sustainable wood raw materials from Forests under Nippon Paper third parties and cultivates its own forest resources in Japan and overseas. Group management overseas 83 When conducting forest management, in addition to taking economic sustainability into consideration, the Company emphasizes social and environmental sustainability. Based on our Philosophy and Overview of Overseas Forests Basic Policy Concerning Raw Materials Procurement, the Company under Nippon Paper Group Management Hokkaido conducts sustainable forest management, thereby preserving the multiple functions that forests have to offer, contributing to the 43 thousand hectares (As of December 31, 2018) thousand environment and society. Australia Afforested area: 10 thousand hectares hectares The Company manages 173 thousand hectares of forests in Japan Company name: Nippon Paper Resources Australia and overseas. All of our forests have obtained forest certifications, Brazil Pty. Ltd. (NPR) receiving third-party verification for sustainable forest management. Background: Wholly owned subsidiary of Afforested area: 53 thousand hectares In Japan, we own around 90 thousand hectares of forests in some Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Company name: Amapá Florestal e Celulose S.A. (AMCEL) 400 locations. Taking the biodiversity of our forest resources into Background: Wholly owned subsidiary of consideration, we have designated our forest holdings into two types: Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. commercial forest areas, which produce lumber, and environmental Tohoku forest areas, which do not produce lumber but instead provide 11 thousand hectares environmental functions, such as biodiversity and watershed conservation. Environmental forest areas account for approximately 20% of Company-owned forests, or 18 thousand hectares, and are home to South Africa Chile a wide variety of plant and animal species. Afforested area: 8 thousand hectares Afforested area: 12 thousand hectares Company name: Forest Resources (Pty) Ltd. (Forestco) Company name: Volterra S.A. Background: Joint-venture company established by Nippon Background: Joint-venture company established by Nippon Paper Distribution of Company-Owned Forests in Japan Paper Industries Co., Ltd., Sumitomo Corporation, Industries Co., Ltd., Sumitomo Corporation, and Mitsui (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) and BayFibre O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. (As of December 31, 2018) Kanto Chubu 5 thousand Chugoku 5 thousand hectares hectares The Company currently oversees 83 thousand hectares of afforested In afforested regions overseas, when using forest resources we 5 thousand hectares Kinki areas in Brazil, Chile, Australia, and South Africa. These forests protake into consideration the cultures and traditions of each region, as 2 thousand duce resources and ensure a steady supply of wood raw materials for well as local communities, the natural environment, and ecosystems. hectares the Nippon Paper Group. Considerable effort is also placed on promoting educational activities Shikoku and creating employment opportunities within local communities. 1 thousand hectares Forests owned in Japan 90 Kyushu Examples of Our Efforts to Coexist with Local Communities in Afforested Regions Overseas and Preserve Biodiversity 18 thousand hectares • Protection of aboriginal sites discovered on forested land in Australia • Preservation of habitat for and distribution of herbs grown in Company-owned forests in Chile to local residents for use thousand • Holding of annual training sessions at an afforestation operating company in Brazil on topics of interest to local residents related to work or daily life hectares • Conducting of biodiversity surveys in protected areas established at properties belonging to afforestation operating companies in Chile and Brazil 58 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 59 The Cornerstone of Our Growth Environment Please refer to the following website https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/ csr/npg_csrr2019_e_environment.pdf Basic Stance  Enhancing Our Environmental Management Systems  The Nippon Paper Group promotes the effective use of trees, a The Nippon Paper Group has introduced environmental management production processes from a unique perspective, confirming legal renewable resource, and supplies a wide range of products and The Nippon Paper Group Environmental Charter systems that meet the standards of certifying bodies such as ISO compliance, and identifying problems, we are working to avoid (Established on March 30, 2001, and revised on March 30, 2007) services to society. However, such corporate activities consume large 14001 and Eco Action 21 as a measure to promote environmental environmental law violations and accidents in a preventative manner. Philosophy amounts of energy and water. We believe that one of the major The Nippon Paper Group is committed to helping preserve the global environment over the management. The acquisition rate of ISO 14001 certification at major Furthermore, we are working to strengthen the systems by having responsibilities of a company is to lessen the environmental impact long term and contributing to the development of a recycling based society by carrying out production bases of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. and consolidated Group companies conduct environmental audits among one another. its corporate activities in recognition of the importance of biodiversity. of such activities, and thereby work to resolve global warming and subsidiaries is 71%. other social issues. Basic Policy In addition, environmental audits are conducted by the Conditions Regarding ISO 14001 and Eco-Action 21 Certifications To help build a sustainable, recycling-oriented society, the Nippon 1. Act to counter global warming Environment & Safety Department at each Group company based on https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/csr/2019.3_ISO14001_e.pdf 2. Protect and develop forest resources Paper Group acts in accordance with The Nippon Paper Group guidelines issued by the Japanese government. By observing complex 3. Increase use of recycled resources Environmental Charter to conduct activities throughout the entire 4. Comply with environmental statutes and work to minimize our environmental impact value chain with consideration for the environment. 5. Develop environmentally friendly technologies and products 6. Engage in active environmental communication The Nippon Paper Group Environmental Action Plan (Green Action Plan 2020) Progress Report (Excerpt)  Environmental Action Plan (Green Action Plan)  Global Warming Countermeasures Recycling of Resources The Nippon Paper Group has established its Environmental Action Framework for Achieving Objectives Target: Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 10% compared with FY2014/3* Target: Increase waste recycling rate to at least 98%* Progress: Reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 6.2% compared with FY2014/3 Progress: Achieved waste recycling rate of 98.2% Plan (the Green Action Plan) in accordance with the six basic policies The Nippon Paper Group Environmental Charter expressed in its Environmental Charter. Each Group company has Volume of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Waste Generated and Final Disposal Volume established its own specific environmental action plan to reflect its The Nippon Paper Group’s Environmental Action Plan (Green Action Plan) Million t-CO2 1,000t own business circumstances based on the GAP. Their efforts are Period Covered by Green Action Plan 2020 enhancing our ability to accomplish the GAP. Environmental action plans of Group companies 762 745 704 690 7.28 638 7.18 7.12 7.17 6.99 6.83 6.2% reduction vs. Environmental Management Promotion Structure  FY2014/3 level 6.55 The Management Execution Committee (MEC) makes environmental The Nippon Paper Group’s Environmental Management Promotion 14 17 11 9 13 strategy decisions for the Nippon Paper Group, and leads the Group’s Structure (As of March 31, 2019) 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2021/3 (FY) 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 (FY) (Base fiscal year) (Target fiscal year) ■ Waste generated ■ Final waste disposal environmental activities. The Environmental Charter constitutes the Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. President and Representative Director environmental management principles of individual Group companies. The Nippon Paper Group Environment Committee manages progress Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Management Execution Committee Protection and Development of Development of Eco-Friendly Technologies in implementing the charter’s philosophy and policies under the Report Approve Forest Resources and Products Environmental Action Plan and reports to the MEC. The MEC makes The Nippon Paper Group Environment Committee Target: Maintain forest certifications for all Target: Reduce environmental load through provision of decisions on Companywide policies related to environmental issues Chairperson: Executive officer responsible for environmental management proprietary forests, both domestically eco-friendly products and services at Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. and new initiatives to lead the Group’s environmental activities and and internationally Progress: Promoted shift to paper packaging to address promote ongoing improvement. Progress: Maintained certification for 90 marine plastic pollution. Executive officer, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. thousand hectares of Company-owned Began sales of paper straws from April 2019 Environment & Safety Department forests in Japan and 83 thousand hectares overseas * Production sites in Japan Group companies in Japan Group companies outside of Japan 60 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 61 The Cornerstone of Our Growth Environment Reduction of Environmental Impacts  Effective Use of Water Resources  It is impossible to completely eliminate the environmental impacts of Response to Feedback and Complaints The manufacture of paper requires large amounts of water. The Nippon Paper Group’s papermaking process efficiently and effectively uses water the business activities that lead to the supply of our products and The Nippon Paper Group receives complaints and inquiries via its resources, which are a form of natural capital. One example is the wet end of the papermaking process, in which pulp fiber is dispersed in water services. Nevertheless, we believe that companies can contribute to website and at each of its mills. In addition, the Group also holds risk to eventually create thin sheets. The “white water” generated from this process, which contains very fine pulp fibers, is recovered and recycled the building of a sustainable society through continuous efforts to communication meetings and employs an environmental monitoring into the papermaking process. minimize these impacts. system that encourages input from local residents. The Group reflects Water Recycling System Pulp fiber flow Water flow When manufacturing products, energy and water are used, this feedback in its efforts to reduce environmental impact. White water White greenhouse gases and other air pollutants are generated from boiler When a complaint is received, we move swiftly to determine water White water Recovered treatment plant silo combustion, and drainage containing water pollutants and waste are possible causes, and implement emergency and permanent pulp fiber (water containing pulp fibers) Recycled use generated from production processes. To minimize its negative measures. We also explain to the person who lodged the complaint Mechanical pulp environmental impacts, the Nippon Paper Group uses equipment and the cause of the complaint in question and our actions to resolve the Wet end Dryer section situation to ensure his/her satisfaction with our approach. Chemical pulp Blending chest Product technologies that reduce the amount of these substances released into (forms fibers into sheets) (dries sheets) the environment. Environment-Related Complaints (FY2019/3) Wastepaper pulp Number of Number of Matter of complaint complaints Complaint complaints Key Environmental Data Noise 5 Vibration 0 https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/csr/ Dust and mist dispersal 9 Smoke 0 Preserving Biodiversity  2019_DATA_SECTION_e.pdf Odor 0 Other 2 The business activities of the Nippon Paper Group entail the In pursuing sustainable forest management, the Nippon Paper Total: 16 cultivation and utilization of forests and, therefore, have an Group conducts biodiversity surveys in Company-owned forests. inherently significant and wide-ranging impact on forest biodiversity. We also strive to reduce our impact on biodiversity by, for example, We recognize that the sustainable use of forests is an ongoing treating wastewater and controlling greenhouse gas emissions in our concern as a matter fundamental to our existence and development. manufacturing processes. Controlling Chemical Substances  The basic philosophy of The Nippon Paper Group Environmental The Nippon Paper Group examines the chemical substances it uses in * The Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) is a system for monitoring the movement of Charter states that the Nippon Paper Group will engage in corporate Basic Policy on the Preservation of Biodiversity chemical substances posing risks to human health or ecosystems. Under the PRTR system, its production processes in accordance with its Chemical Substance activities that recognize the importance of biodiversity. Our Basic https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/csr/policies/ businesses track the amounts of chemicals released into the environment or transferred to other Management Guidelines. We do this in exercising risk management business locations and report this information to government authorities. Policy on the Preservation of Biodiversity, established in April 2016, to monitor how much of these substances are used and released into provides guidance for the pursuit of such activities. the environment. We disclose our release and transfer of PRTR*Amount of Release and Transfer of Substances Subject to PRTR Law controlled substances to local stakeholders through risk https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/csr/2019.3_PRTR_e.pdf communication at each of our mills and other production sites. Initiatives to Mitigate Climate Change  The problem of climate change is tied to a high degree of uncertainty, Realizing a low-carbon society and proves to be a difficult task requiring long-term commitment. To realize a low-carbon society, the Nippon Paper Group is taking a Long-term perspective Medium-term perspective variety of angles that include both a medium-term perspective for steadily reducing greenhouse gases and a long-term perspective for • Introduce innovative technology • Introduce latest technology more ambitious approaches to reducing emissions. • Reduce levels by utilizing proprietary • Reduce levels in supply chain technology 62 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 63 The Cornerstone of Our Growth Environment Risks and Opportunities Related to Climate Change The Three Pillars to Achieving Our Goal Development of Alternative Fuel for Coal In order to grow as a company while keeping pace with the Paris To achieve the objectives of our Environmental Action Plan—Green Agreement and the national policy against global warming—a problem Action Plan 2020—we are (1) converting to non-fossil energy, (2) that is expected to become increasingly dire in the future—we are conserving energy in each of our production and logistics processes, As trees absorb CO2 from the atmosphere, the burning of woody Torrefaction technology uses relatively low heat to carbonize looking into approaches from various perspectives in order to mitigate and (3) managing proprietary forests properly to ensure CO2 biomass fuel does not result in any net impact on atmospheric woody biomass. This produces fuel that retains most of the the risks while seizing the opportunities presented by climate change. absorption/sequestration, all of which will reduce greenhouse gas CO2—woody biomass fuel, in other words, is carbon neutral. pre-processing heating value, offers good grindability, and is emissions across every stage of our value chain. Nippon Paper Industries is developing torrefaction technology sufficiently water-resistant for outside storage. Woody biomass Risks as a method for turning biomass solid fuel into an alternative to fuel produced through torrefaction technology can be used as a The Nippon Paper Group’s Environmental Initiatives coal for thermal power generation. This approach is the product substitute for coal in firing existing thermal power plants and, • Efficiency of raw material procurement may be negatively affected by possible delays in tree growth or tree death caused by storms, droughts, Prevention of global warming of the Company’s wealth of afforestation, forest management, therefore, help to reduce greenhouse gases. and other meteorological disasters stemming from climate change and woody biomass collection experience. • Financial performance may be negatively affected by ongoing carbon Reduction of CO2 emissions from operations Sequestration of CO2 in proprietary forests pricing, emissions trading system, and introduction of other factors Fuel conversion Energy saving Carbon sequestration Energy Efficiency in Logistics Comparison of Modal Shift Rates Opportunities The Nippon Paper Group makes efforts to promote green logistics, • As renewable energy becomes more prevalent, opportunities for our Fuel Conversion Initiatives based mainly on the two core initiatives of improving its loading Paper manufacturing power generation-related businesses (woody biomass, etc.) will expand. industry average The Nippon Paper Group actively applies woody biomass fuel from efficiency and shortening transportation distances. (FY2018/3: Data released by 77 • The growing social movement toward forest protection will raise the sources such as black liquor (generated in the pulp production process) the Japan Paper Association) value of our products that use only sustainable wood resources. Logistics-Related Initiatives and construction waste. The amount consumed accounts for up to 5%* Nippon Paper Industries of non-fossil energy (excluding nuclear and hydroelectric power) used Co., Ltd. 87 Green logistics Medium-Term Initiatives in Japan. In addition, the Group is actively promoting the use of waste (FY2019/3 paper operations) The Nippon Paper Group has established its medium-term fuel, having installed boilers capable of burning used tires and other Environmental Action Plan—Green Action Plan—under which the Improvement of Shortening of 0 20 40 60 80 100% waste fuels and equipment that solidifies these wastes into fuel. loading efficiency transportation distances Group is working to reduce greenhouse gases and meet reduction As a result of energy-saving activities and fuel conversion, the targets that are set in five-year intervals. Group’s fossil energy usage ratio (in terms of heating value) in Japan Absorbing and Sequestering CO2 through Proper Management of fell to 52% in FY2019/3, compared with 66% in FY1991/3. Company-Owned Forests Long-Term Initiatives CO2 in the atmosphere is absorbed and sequestered through proper Change in fossil energy usage ratio (calories)(Japan) To realize a low-carbon society, we must achieve significant reductions management of forests and utilization of trees. in greenhouse gases. The Nippon Paper Group will continue to take Non-fossil Non-fossil As trees grow, they absorb and sequester CO2 from the energy energy Promote modal shift to rail Pursue direct delivery and active steps to increase production efficiency and develop and introor marine transportation joint delivery atmosphere. As a result, trees are often called “carbon storehouses.” duce new technology to this end. Looking at the long term, we will 34% 48% The Nippon Paper Group owns 173 thousand hectares of forest in incorporate innovative technologies to reduce emissions and take on The Nippon Paper Group is advancing its use of modal shift Japan and overseas. Through proper management of these forests, FY1991/3 FY2019/3 challenges that contribute to reducing greenhouse gases and realizing transport, which reduces CO2 emissions from long-distance shipping. from the perspective of sustainability, the Group maintains the CO2 a low-carbon society. In addition to reducing emissions from each Group Fossil Fossil We are doing this by using mainly rail and domestic marine transport absorption and sequestration capabilities of its trees. company through their respective production and distribution proenergy energy to move large volumes of cargo with every trip. At 87% in FY2019/3, These forests continuously sequester approximately 32 million cesses, we will contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gases across 66% 52% Nippon Paper Industries continues to maintain a high modal shift rate*. tonnes of CO2. society by providing cellulose nanofibers and other new materials. * Estimate by Nippon Paper Industries based on Primary Energy Trends in Domestic Energy Supply * Modal shift rate: The percentage of rail or marine (including coastal shipping and ferries) for Fiscal 2017 reported by Agency for Natural Resources and Energy transport among general cargo transported over 500 kilometers. 64 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 65 The Cornerstone of Our Growth Customer Trust Please refer to the following website https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/ csr/npg_csrr2019_e_customer.pdf Basic Stance  Example Initiative for Stabilizing Operations The Nippon Paper Group offers a diverse lineup of products and services, such as paper, healthcare, and chemical products, derived from wood resources that are indispensable to daily life. We will continue to maintain the trust of customers by identifying their needs, ensuring quality and The paper and pulp industry is a typical example of the process equipment through a wireless sensor. Through this technology, safety, and providing stable supplies of our products. industry, and the stable operation of equipment is directly we are able to actively prevent equipment problems from linked to the stable supply and quality of its products. Nippon occuring and stabilize operations. Paper and Nippon Paper Unitec Co., LTD. joined forces to develop In addition to rolling out this system to all of our domestic the “e-musen junkai® (e-wireless patrol)” system, a remote mills and working aggressively to promote sales outside of the Quality Control  monitoring system that detects abnormal signs from machinery Group, we have commenced sales in Thailand from 2019. The Group’s quality control process is conducted in a manner that The Paper-Pak Sales Division tailors to the characteristics of its products and services. strives to achieve quality improve“e-musen junkai®” (e-wireless patrol) system webpage (Japanese only) https://www.sakurai.co.jp/landing/e-musen/index.html For example, the paper and paperboard business has a system in ments by holding quality-related place whereby as part of the printing and manufacturing process, service meetings and conducting product engineers (SE)—technical staff in charge of paper production—visit safety audits for its liquid package the sites where our paper is being used and acquire feedback directly carton producer, Nippon Paper Efforts on Product Safety  from customers. In the case of a product defect, a member of the Liquid Package Product Co., Ltd. Product safety audits conducted by the sales division in charge of engineering acts as a point of contact with once a year as well as through the Paper-Pak Sales Division The Nippon Paper Group makes concerted efforts to continue to works to ensure product safety by employing management approaches the customer. The issue is handled swiftly through the use of a datasharing of material issues related improve the safety of its products in line with its Philosophy and Basic adapted to the characteristics of particular operations and products. base containing details on quality-related accidents as well as to food safety. Policy on Product Safety, in pursuit of quality that will continue to Further, in line with the Basic Guidelines for Management of through the cooperation of mills and head office divisions. earn the trust of customers. Product Safety, the Company has established a product safety risk Moreover, Nippon Paper The Group has established the Nippon Paper Group Product Safety management system for new products to be launched that cannot be Product Defect Response System (Paper and paperboard business) Crecia Co., Ltd., which supplies Committee, which is chaired by the General Manager of Nippon managed under the current system. Customer products to individual customers, Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s Technical & Engineering Division. The prints contact details regarding its Product Safety Management System committee oversees all activities concerning product safety, including Problem Report Relevant Customer Service Office on all of its deliberating and determining important matters concerning product Nippon Paper Group Departments products, as well as providing online safety policies and activities. Production Product Safety Committee advisory services on its website. Customer Service Office Under the Product Safety Committee, the Group has established Sales Department Collaboration Chairperson: General Manager of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s (Including technical Product Safety the Product Safety Subcommittee to monitor and manage activities experts) Technical & Engineering Division Use of a database Office at each Group company. Drawing on information and the exchange of Constituent General managers of related departments within and other tools Research opinions between Group companies, the subcommittee also delibermembers: Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. and general managers Request Report investigation investigation Laboratory ates optimal responses to matters of concern and submits its findings responsible for product safety at each subsidiary or affiliate to the Product Safety Committee. In addition, each Group company Mill Product Safety Subcommittee establishes its own product safety committee and implements activities to promote product safety. Acting in compliance with laws, including Japanese laws such as Individual Group Companies Stable Product Supply  the Act on the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation of (Eight companies*) Their Manufacture, PRTR Law, and Food Sanitation Act, the Group Product Safety Committees The Nippon Paper Group is committed to providing stable supplies of its products by steadily procuring raw materials and maintaining and upgrading its mills on a systematic basis. Moreover, the sales and production departments have collaborated to establish a flexible and efficient * Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper Papylia Co., Ltd., Philosophy and Basic Policy on Product Safety production plan that allows us to manage inventory in an optimal manner and provide stable supplies of our products to customers. Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd., Nippon Seitai Corporation, NP Trading Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/csr/policies/ Development Co., Ltd., Akita Jujo Chemicals Co., Ltd. (As of March 31, 2019) 66 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 67 The Cornerstone of Our Growth Respect for Human Rights Human Resources Please refer to the following website Please refer to the following website https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/ https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/ csr/npg_csrr2019_e_humanrights.pdf#page=2 csr/npg_csrr2019_e_humanrights.pdf#page=8 Basic Stance  Basic Stance  As put forth in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human The Nippon Paper Group aims to be a dynamic organization where each of its diverse human resources—the driving force behind corporate Rights, companies are obligated to bear responsibility for human Philosophy and Basic Policy on Human Rights, activities—has a high sense of ethics and exceptional capabilities, and can fully demonstrate those capabilities. rights. In recent years, human rights issues have borne an increasing Employment and Labor impact on business. https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/csr/policies/ The Nippon Paper Group formulated its Philosophy and Basic Policy Our Vision for Human Resources Development  on Human Rights, Employment and Labor in 2004. In line with this philosophy and basic policy, we are working to respect human rights The Nippon Paper Group emphasizes the values of Challenge, Initiatives Aimed at Developing Human Resources not only within the Company, but throughout the entire value chain. Fairness, and Teamwork in its Group Mission. Furthermore, initiatives The Nippon Paper Group supports employee self-development and under the Sixth Medium-Term Business Plan are pursued under two voluntary skill acquisition through means such as Group training, themes: to reorganize the production structure of the paper business distance learning, and rewards for acquiring professional and make maximum use of in-house facilities; and expand business in qualifications. In addition, stratified education, such as that for new Initiatives on Respect for Human Rights  hires and new managers, is conducted jointly by Group members to growth areas and commercialize new businesses early on. In 2014, Nippon Paper Industries met with Amnesty International In managing forests, the Group devotes significant attention to We are also working to strengthen the cultivation of leaders who promote the development of employees throughout the Group. And Japan to share opinions. As a product of this meeting, we embarked protecting the culture and traditions of residents in each region of its push for these changes. When hiring employees, we look for people training is pursued from a broad perspective; stratified education at on the examination of human rights conditions at subcontractors in afforestation operations overseas. with the ability to keep taking on new challenges, the ability to make mills, for example, is conducted not just for each mill but together Japan and at overseas chip suppliers from 2015. Based on our examifair judgments and act accordingly, the ability to work in a team and with neighboring mills. Inspections of Suppliers in Vietnam (Excerpt) nation results, we are working toward improvements by employing incorporate surrounding personnel, and the mental fortitude to PDCA cycles while continuing our dialogue with Amnesty overcome hardships. To develop employees into leaders, we are International Japan. working to enhance our human resources development system to create “autonomous human resources” who can determine how to Assessing Human Rights Issues at Affiliated Companies in Japan approach a challenge and then take action to overcome it, while also Since 2015, Nippon Paper Industries has been conducting surveys on seeking new challenges from a global perspective. human rights issues at its affiliated companies in Japan, with emphasis on ensuring compliance with labor and safety laws and regulations. Confirmation of garbage collection points Confirmation of truck driver rest areas Our Leader Development System The results of these surveys are provided to the human resources We cultivate managerial-track employees through a mix of on-the-job managers of each mill, and used to consider ways for improvement. training, scheduled transfers, and off-the-job training (stratified education and optional training). Concern for Human Rights across the Supply Chain Scheduled rotation to internal and external departments as well as Concern for human rights and labor across the entire supply chain affiliated companies fosters the ability to see matters from a wide Internal training session is clearly defined in the Nippon Paper Group’s Philosophy and Basic variety of perspectives without being tied to a single one. Our offPolicy Concerning Raw Materials Procurement. The Group audits the-job training is a career development program that provides Confirmation of first aid supplies Confirmation of work safety (helmet use, etc.) suppliers through surveys and conducts interviews with them stratified education prior to managerial appointments while also regarding these concerns (see pages 56–57). In addition, in FY2019/3 comprising a dispatch system to overseas bases. After employees are employees responsible for procurement performed on-site inspections appointed to managerial positions, we also provide training at the of suppliers in Vietnam and Chile. These were supplemented with time of appointment and promotion and offer elective training for interviews covering matters such as health, hygiene, safety, disaster cultivating candidates for executive positions. preparedness, and local environmental concerns. 68 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 69 The Cornerstone of Our Growth Human Resources Occupational Safety and Health Please refer to the following website https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/ csr/npg_csrr2019_e_humanrights.pdf#page=4 Promoting Diversity  Basic Stance  Our Stance on Promoting Diversity Efforts to Promote the Advancement of Women We cannot expect workplaces to be completely free of risk. For that Basic Policy on Safety and Health Measures and all employees and The Nippon Paper Group works to promote diversity in line with its The need for organizational invigoration and to secure human reason, it is imperative that we continue to work to discover and members of management unite as one to engage in efforts to ensure view that the creation of workplaces wherein a wide range of people resources against the backdrop of a declining birthrate are indicative reduce risks on a daily basis. Moreover, striving to maintain and occupational safety and disaster preparedness. can express their individuality is essential to the continuous developof the growing importance for providing women with opportunities improve the health of employees and build a pleasant and comfortable ment of a company. to succeed in the workplace. In working to create an environment workplace is critical for honoring the trust of our employees and Philosophy and Basic Policy on Safety and Health Measures that enables women to advance their careers, in April 2016 Nippon engaging in sound management. Based on this awareness, we estabhttps://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/csr/policies/ Paper Industries Co., Ltd. established its Action Plan Based on the lished a labor safety and health system under our Philosophy and Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace. Occupational Safety and Health Assurance System  Action Plan Based on the Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace The Safety and Disaster Prevention Committee, which works to The Company has also set up and stipulated a communication (Adopted by Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. in April 2016) ensure the safety and disaster preparedness of the entire Company, system whereby in the case of a disaster, communication can be 1. Have women account for at least 25% of new graduate hires for career-track positions. constantly works to prevent accidents and provide safe, pleasant maintained between the mills and the head office as well as with the 2. F or career-track female employees hired 8 to 12 fiscal years ago,* achieve an average continuous employment rate that is at least 80% working environments throughout the Group. respective departments within the head office. In this way, we have that of men. At Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., we hold a labor and manageput in place a framework that enables critical information to be 3. T o expand the range of roles performed by women at production sites, identify issues that could arise with the assignment of women to ment occupational safety and health meeting once a year with the shared with the Safety and Disaster Prevention Committee and each workplace, consider solutions to these issues, and develop concrete plans for the workplaces to which women will be assigned. members in charge of safety and health assurance at the head office, management. * Women who joined the Company between FY2005/3 and FY2009/3. mills, and labor unions; a safety and health assurance leaders’ meetSafety and Disaster Prevention Committee (manages the entire Group) ing twice a year with the members in charge of safety at the head office and mills; and a meeting of General Managers at Safety & Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Group companies Environmental Control Departments once a year in order to discuss and formulate safety and health assurance policies, the annual occuExample of a mill’s safety and health organization structure pational safety and health management plan, and measures related Mill Manager Safety and Health Committee to safety and health for the entire Group. In addition, we have in Safety and Health Promotion Council Liaison council at each company place separate safety and health committees and safety and health (consisting of mills and liaison council) promotion councils at each of our mills and business sites. Occupational Safety and Health Management System  In 2009, the Group established its own occupational safety and policies and measures on safety and health assurance. The NPSS is health management system (NPSS*) in order to continuously pursue helping improve occupational health and safety standards by preventing occupational safety and health management activities at the labor-related accidents, improving employee health, and providing a organization level. Within the NPSS we have incorporated specific, comfortable and pleasant work environment. continuous, and voluntary activities into a health and safety assurance * Nippon Paper Occupational Safety and Health Management System plan for each mill and business site that are in line with the Group’s 70 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 71 The Cornerstone of Our Growth Coexistence with Please refer to the following website https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/ Local Communities and Society csr/npg_csrr2019_e_communities.pdf Basic Stance and Promotion System  The Nippon Paper Group cultivates and manages large forests and Social contribution activities are conducted throughout the Group has a large-scale production base, bestowing upon the Group a strong centered on Nippon Paper Industries’ CSR Division. The mills and influence on the region and local workers. Therefore, coexistence Group companies conduct a variety of their own activities as well so with local communities is essential to the sustainability of the Group. that they too can exist in harmony with local communities and society. As a member of society, the Group strives to contribute to the development of society as a whole. Accordingly, we will continue to Philosophy and Principles for Social Contribution Activities provide indispensable products while adding to our list of activities https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/csr/policies/ that protect the environment, develop culture, and build local communities. These efforts contribute to building trust with society and lead to corporate activities that can be conducted in harmony with local communities. The Nippon Paper Group’s Main Social Contribution Activities (Japanese only) https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/csr/society/activity/ 73 Marunuma Highland Tree-Planting 2019 Financial Section Nippon Paper Industries is advancing initiatives aimed at leaving thriving forests for future generations. As part of this effort, the Company has been holding yearly tree-planting activities at its Sugenuma Forest (Marunuma Highland) in Gunma Prefecture since May 74 Six-Year Financial Summary 2010. The eighth iteration of this activity—the Marunuma Highland Tree Planting 2019— 76 Financial Overview took place in May 2019. The number of participants, mainly from Tokyo, came to about 78 Business and Other Risk Factors 90 in all, and included those from both inside and outside of the Nippon Paper Group. 80 Consolidated Financial Statements Under the guidance of the event staff, participants used hoes to plant a total of 80 Consolidated Balance Sheets 350 seedlings for five different types of trees, including beech and mizunara oak. Participants planting trees 82 Consolidated Statements of Operations 83 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Conducting the Annual School of Friendship for Forests and Paper 84 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets 86 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows The School of Friendship for Forests and Paper is a hands-on course on the natural environment utilizing forests (approximately 90,000 hectares) owned by Nippon Paper Industries in Japan. With the aim of introducing participants to the beauty and abundance of forests owned by the company, the school is also an opportunity to experience the connection between forests and paper, an essential item for everyday life. This initiative was first launched in the Sugenuma Forest of Gunma Prefecture in October 2006. As of FY2019/3, the school has been conducted 23 times, for a total of 767 participants, including parents and children, and students from local schools. Children listening to staff instructions Since FY2008/3, the Toyono School of Friendship for Forests and Paper has been held annually at Nippon Paper Industries’ Toyono Forest in Kumamoto Prefecture. Organized mainly by the Company’s Yatsushiro Mill, particular emphasis is placed on activities deeply rooted in the local community. 72 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 73 Financial Section Six-Year Financial Summary Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Fiscal Years Ended March 31 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars* FY2014/3 FY2015/3 FY2016/3 FY2017/3 FY2018/3 FY2019/3 FY2019/3 Fiscal year Net sales ¥1,081,277 ¥1,052,491 ¥1,007,097 ¥992,428 ¥1,046,499 ¥1,068,703 $9,627,955 Cost of sales 844,603 825,576 800,185 787,464 846,109 871,218 7,848,811 Operating income 28,536 23,656 22,623 23,764 17,613 19,615 176,712 Ordinary income 28,188 23,204 17,123 26,994 18,649 23,901 215,324 Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent 22,770 23,183 2,424 8,399 7,847 (35,220) (317,297) Capital investment 47,162 48,518 46,899 51,289 72,765 60,338 543,586 Depreciation 63,181 61,374 57,672 55,083 57,892 60,422 544,342 Free cash flow 50,902 39,363 68,689 21,809 (17,787) 12,299 110,802 End of fiscal year Total assets ¥1,480,894 ¥1,495,622 ¥1,390,918 ¥1,388,885 ¥1,429,892 ¥1,390,814 $12,529,856 Total current assets 505,417 484,498 502,912 486,205 490,479 515,407 4,643,306 Total property, plant and equipment 729,179 715,406 669,298 686,813 717,927 677,613 6,104,622 Other noncurrent assets 246,297 295,716 218,707 215,867 221,484 197,792 1,781,910 Total liabilities 1,054,309 1,005,881 966,233 953,974 986,493 995,470 8,968,198 Total net assets 426,584 489,740 424,685 434,911 443,398 395,343 3,561,649 Interest-bearing debt 775,597 731,834 703,831 678,504 693,562 688,703 6,204,532 Per share data Yen U.S. dollars* Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent ¥ 196.67 ¥ 200.27 ¥ 20.95 ¥ 72.57 ¥ 67.80 ¥ (304.34) $ (2.74) Net assets 3,652.76 4,198.10 3,645.87 3,714.63 3,776.26 3,328.28 29.98 Cash dividends 40.00 50.00 60.00 60.00 60.00 30.00 0.27 Ratios and number of employees % Operating income margin 2.6% 2.2% 2.2% 2.4% 1.7% 1.8% Net profit (loss) margin 2.1 2.2 0.2 0.8 0.7 (3.3) Equity ratio 28.6 32.5 30.3 31.0 30.6 27.7 Return on equity (ROE) 5.6 5.1 0.5 2.0 1.8 (8.6) Return on invested capital (ROIC) 3.3 2.8 2.4 3.2 2.3 2.9 Return on assets (ROA) 2.7 2.2 2.0 2.6 1.9 2.2 Debt/equity ratio (times) 1.7 1.6 1.5 1.5 1.6 1.8 Number of employees 13,107 12,771 11,741 13,057 12,881 12,943 * Amounts in U.S. dollars are included solely for convenience and are translated at the rate of ¥111 = US$1.00, the approximate rate of exchange on March 31, 2019. • Interest-bearing debt = Short-term borrowings + Long-term debt • Free cash flow = Cash flows from operating activities + Cash flows from investing activities • Return on equity (ROE) = Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent / [Average of beginning and end of year (Shareholders’ equity + Accumulated other comprehensive income)] × 100 • Return on invested capital (ROIC) = (Ordinary income + Interest expense) / (Year-end shareholders’ equity + Year-end accumulated other comprehensive income + Year-end balance of interest-bearing debt) × 100 • Return on assets (ROA) = (Ordinary income + Interest expense) / Total assets × 100 • Debt/equity ratio = (Interest-bearing debt – Cash and deposits) / Shareholders’ equity 74 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 75 Financial Section Financial Overview Financial Position Cash Flows Consolidated total assets at the end of FY2019/3 were ¥1,390.8 Consolidated cash and cash equivalents (“cash”) increased ¥4.4 billion Net Interest-Bearing Debt and Debt/Equity Ratio ROE billion, a decrease of ¥39.0 billion from ¥1,429.8 billion at the end of compared with the end of FY2018/3, to ¥63.4 billion at the end ¥ billion Times % FY2018/3. The fall was mainly due to a ¥40.3 billion decline in propof FY2019/3. 5.1 erty, plant and equipment, attributable to such factors as the reorganiNet cash provided by operating activities increased ¥14.8 billion 647.7 634.6 625.2 591.3 588.0 zation of the paper business production structure and the posting of from FY2018/3, to ¥59.7 billion. The main factors were depreciation 2.0 1.8 0.5 an impairment loss in the newsprint business, as well as a ¥19.3 of ¥60.4 billion and net cash outflows of ¥22.7 billion due to changes billion decrease in investments in securities. This reduction stemmed in working capital (total changes in receivables, inventories, and 1.8 1.8 from the sale of shares in Daishowa-Marubeni International Ltd., an payables). 1.6 1.5 1.5 1.6 overseas equity-method affiliate. Notes and accounts receivable– Net cash used in investing activities decreased ¥15.2 billion from trade, on the other hand, rose ¥13.9 billion. FY2018/3, to ¥47.4 billion. The main factors behind this result were (8.6) Total liabilities increased ¥8.9 billion from ¥986.4 billion at the end ¥72.0 billion in purchases of noncurrent assets and ¥22.5 billion in 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 (FY) 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 (FY) of FY2018/3, to ¥995.4 billion. The main reason was the new discovproceeds from sales of investment securities. ■ Net interest-bearing debt ■ Debt/equity ratio ery of polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) waste being stored by the Net cash used in financing activities decreased ¥5.8 billion from Company and the ensuing posting of an allowance for environmental FY2018/3, to ¥6.7 billion, mainly reflecting cash dividends paid. costs as processing expenses. Trends in the Nippon Paper Group’s cash flow indicators are ROIC / ROA Equity Ratio Total net assets decreased ¥48.0 billion from ¥443.3 billion at the presented below. % % end of FY2018/3, to ¥395.3 billion. This was mainly caused by a decrease in retained earnings due to the posting of net loss attributable to owners of the parent, as well as a decline in translation 32.5 adjustments due to yen appreciation. 3.2 31.0 As a result, the equity ratio decreased to 27.7% from 30.6% at the 2.8 2.9 30.6 2.4 2.3 end of FY2018/3. 1.8 1.8 2.6 30.3 2.2 2.0 1.9 2.2 27.7 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 (FY) 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 (FY) ■ ROIC ■ ROA Cash Flow Indicators (FY) 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 Notes: 1. All indicators are calculated based on consolidated financial figures. Equity ratio (%) 32.5 30.3 31.0 30.6 27.7 2. Market capitalization is calculated by multiplying the closing share price at year-end by the number of shares outstanding at year-end, not including treasury shares. 3. C  alculations that include operating cash flow use cash flow from operating activities as recorded in the consolidated statements of cash flows. Interest-bearing debt includes all liabilities recorded on the Equity ratio based on market capitalization (%) 14.0 16.7 16.7 16.0 19.0 consolidated balance sheets on which the Company is paying interest. Calculations that include interest paid use interest expense as recorded in the consolidated statements of cash flows. • Equity ratio = (Year-end shareholders’ equity + Year-end accumulated other comprehensive income) / Year-end total assets × 100 Interest-bearing debt / Cash flow (times) 8.9 13.4 7.8 15.4 11.5 • Equity ratio based on market capitalization = Market capitalization / Year-end total assets × 100 • Interest-bearing debt / Cash flow = Interest-bearing debt / Operating cash flow Interest coverage ratio (times) 7.7 5.3 9.5 5.8 7.9 • Interest coverage ratio = Operating cash flow / Interest paid 76 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 77 Financial Section Business and Other Risk Factors The Nippon Paper Group has identified the following factors as risks Raw Material and Fuel Prices Litigation Environment-Related Legal Risk that could affect its business performance and financial position: The Nippon Paper Group purchases raw materials and fuel such as The Nippon Paper Group takes the utmost care to comply with laws The Group is obligated to apply environment-related regulations wood chips, waste paper, heavy oil, coal, and chemicals to manufacand regulations in the course of doing business, but is nonetheless in the course of doing business. Revisions and amendments to such Product Demand and Market Conditions ture and sell products including paper, pulp, and others. The Group is at risk of litigation associated with criminal or civil affairs, taxation, regulations could limit production activities and result in additional The Nippon Paper Group engages in its mainstay paper and thus at risk of input price fluctuations in domestic and international antitrust law, product liability law, intellectual property rights, and costs, affecting the Group’s operating performance and financial paperboard business, livelihood-related business, energy business, markets. Such fluctuations could affect the Group’s business perforenvironmental and labor issues. As a result, such litigation could condition. and wood products and construction related business. The Group is mance and financial position. affect the Group’s business performance and financial position. at risk of fluctuations in demand for its products and product prices Other Risks Associated with Changes in in the context of economic conditions and other factors. Such Stock Prices Impairment of Fixed Assets Business Conditions, etc. fluctuations could affect the Group’s business performance and The Nippon Paper Group holds marketable shares in partner and The Nippon Paper Group owns fixed assets such as production The Nippon Paper Group is subject to the risk of changes in business financial position. affiliated companies and is thus at risk of share price fluctuations that facilities and land and is at risk of a decline in the value of these and economic conditions and other similar circumstances arising could affect the Group’s business performance and financial position. assets, which could affect the Group’s business performance and from contingencies, which could affect the Group’s business Manufacturing Conditions Such fluctuations could also affect retirement benefit expenses financial position. performance and financial position. The Nippon Paper Group’s production activity is based on the because of their impact on pension assets. estimated demand and production capacity of existing facilities. Natural Disasters The Group carries out regular preventive inspections and other Interest Rates In the wake of major natural disasters, including earthquakes, maintenance checks, but is at risk of a reduction in supply capability The Nippon Paper Group is at risk of interest rate fluctuations occurring near production and sales sites, the Nippon Paper Group’s due to fires, accidents, and other problems occurring at facilities, and affecting its interest expense regarding interest-bearing debt, etc. performance and financial position could be negatively affected by interruptions in procurement, as well as the delivery of raw materials Such fluctuations could affect the Group’s business performance and unanticipated costs associated with repairing damage to production and fuel. Such fluctuations could affect the Group’s business perforfinancial position. equipment or facilities and distribution infrastructure, as well as mance and financial position. opportunity losses from production shutdowns and damage to Overseas Business products, merchandise, and raw materials. Foreign Exchange The Nippon Paper Group manufactures pulp and paper and operates The Nippon Paper Group is at risk of foreign exchange rate fluctuaforestry plantations and other businesses in North America, South Credit Risk tions associated with import and export transactions. Because the America, Scandinavia, China, Southeast Asia, Australia, and other overThe Nippon Paper Group takes care to limit its credit risk, but tardy Group’s imports of raw materials and fuel such as wood chips, waste seas locations. Although the Group takes the utmost care to minimize or uncollectible receivables due to deterioration in the financial paper, heavy oil, coal, and chemicals, exceed its product exports, yen overseas business risk, unforeseen circumstances in those locations condition or bankruptcy of customers could affect the Group’s depreciation against the U.S. dollar has a negative impact on business could affect the Group’s business performance and financial position. business performance and financial position. performance. The Group hedges against this risk by means such as forward contracts. 78 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 79 Financial Section Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheets As of March 31, 2018 and 2019 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars FY2018/3 FY2019/3 FY2019/3 FY2018/3 FY2019/3 FY2019/3 Assets Liabilities Current assets Current liabilities Cash and deposits ¥ 59,003 ¥ 63,455 $ 571,667 Notes and account payable–trade ¥ 142,275 ¥ 145,132 $ 1,307,495 Notes and accounts receivable–trade 220,766 234,671 2,114,153 Short-term loans payable 288,063 224,227 2,020,063 Merchandise and finished goods 82,180 87,025 784,009 Current portion of bonds ― 10,000 90,090 Work in process 17,176 20,518 184,847 Accrued income taxes 1,968 5,156 46,450 Raw materials and supplies 66,541 70,351 633,793 Other 97,409 93,349 840,982 Other 45,323 39,933 359,757 Allowance for doubtful receivables (511) (550) (4,955) Total current liabilities 529,717 477,866 4,305,099 Total current assets 490,479 515,407 4,643,306 Long-term liabilities Bonds payable 60,000 50,000 450,450 Noncurrent assets Long-term loans payable 343,334 401,474 3,616,883 Property, plant and equipment Deferred tax liability 29,565 27,600 248,649 Buildings and structures 499,132 504,094 4,541,387 Allowance for environmental costs 314 14,780 133,153 Accumulated depreciation (360,867) (368,097) (3,316,189) Net defined benefit liability 12,925 13,776 124,108 Buildings and structures, net 138,264 135,997 1,225,198 Other 10,635 9,970 89,820 Machinery, equipment and vehicles 2,224,884 2,217,462 19,977,135 Total long-term liabilities 456,776 517,603 4,663,090 Accumulated depreciation (1,912,493) (1,930,080) (17,388,108) Total liabilities 986,493 995,470 8,968,198 Machinery, equipment and vehicles, net 312,390 287,382 2,589,027 Net assets Land 218,318 199,435 1,796,712 Mountain forests and plantations 27,508 26,146 235,550 Shareholders’ equity Construction in progress 15,721 22,096 199,063 Common stock 104,873 104,873 944,802 Other 45,823 47,230 425,495 Capital surplus 216,420 216,414 1,949,676 Accumulated depreciation (40,099) (40,674) (366,432) Retained earnings 73,506 35,265 317,703 Other, net 5,724 6,555 59,054 Treasury stock, at cost (1,414) (1,427) (12,856) Total property, plant and equipment 717,927 677,613 6,104,622 Total shareholders’ equity 393,386 355,125 3,199,324 Intangible assets 13,868 11,137 100,333 Accumulated other comprehensive income Investments and other assets Net unrealized holding gain on other securities 23,243 21,274 191,658 Investments in securities 178,550 159,198 1,434,216 Net deferred gain (loss) on hedges (1,566) (2,283) (20,568) Net defined benefit assets 6,048 6,215 55,991 Translation adjustments 23,338 15,419 138,910 Deferred tax assets 5,508 4,492 40,468 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (1,376) (4,377) (39,432) Other 18,034 17,452 157,225 Allowance for doubtful receivables (524) (703) (6,333) Total accumulated other comprehensive income 43,638 30,033 270,568 Total investments and other assets 207,616 186,655 1,681,577 Non-controlling interests 6,373 10,184 91,748 Total noncurrent assets 939,412 875,406 7,886,541 Total net assets 443,398 395,343 3,561,649 Total assets ¥ 1,429,892 ¥ 1,390,814 $ 12,529,856 Total liabilities and net assets ¥1,429,892 ¥1,390,814 $12,529,856 80 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 81 Financial Section Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Operations Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Fiscal Years Ended March 31, 2018 and 2019 Fiscal Years Ended March 31, 2018 and 2019 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars FY2018/3 FY2019/3 FY2019/3 FY2018/3 FY2019/3 FY2019/3 Net sales ¥1,046,499 ¥1,068,703 $9,627,955 Income (loss) before minority interests ¥ 6,795 ¥(32,742) $(294,973) Cost of sales 846,109 871,218 7,848,811 Other comprehensive income (loss) Gross profit 200,390 197,485 1,779,144 Selling, general and administrative expenses Net unrealized holding gain (loss) on other securities 792 (1,718) (15,477) Freightage related expenses 66,670 66,169 596,117 Net deferred gain (loss) on hedges (1,167) (189) (1,703) Sales related expenses 53,429 49,571 446,586 Translation adjustments 1,734 (7,124) (64,180) Salaries and allowances 36,232 34,499 310,802 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans, net of tax 5,349 (3,000) (27,027) Other 26,444 27,629 248,910 Share of other comprehensive income of affiliates accounted Total selling, general and administrative expenses 182,776 177,870 1,602,432 for using the equity method 1,781 (1,062) (9,568) Operating income 17,613 19,615 176,712 Other income Total other comprehensive income (loss) 8,489 (13,096) (117,982) Interest income 528 444 4,000 Comprehensive income (loss) ¥15,285 ¥(45,838) $(412,955) Dividend income 2,055 2,066 18,613 (Details) Equity in earnings of affiliates 5,731 10,641 95,865 Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to owners of parent ¥16,255 ¥(48,825) $(439,865) Commissioning electricity sales revenue 2,709 ― ― Other 4,246 4,501 40,550 Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to (970) 2,986 26,901 Total other income 15,271 17,655 159,054 non-controlling interests Other expenses Interest expenses 7,826 7,391 66,586 Foreign exchange losses 838 1,707 15,378 Commissioning costs 2,448 ― ― Other 3,121 4,269 38,459 Total other expenses 14,235 13,368 120,432 Ordinary income 18,649 23,901 215,324 Extraordinary income Gain on sales of investment securities 2,414 3,106 27,982 Gain on sales of property, plant and equipment 2,637 1,987 17,901 Gain on contribution of securities to retirement benefit trust 6,923 ― ― Other 80 90 811 Total extraordinary income 12,055 5,185 46,712 Extraordinary loss Loss on reorganization of production structure ― 18,330 165,135 Impairment loss 4,797 14,252 128,396 Provision for environmental measures ― 13,700 123,423 Loss on retirement of noncurrent assets 2,433 2,088 18,811 Other 5,142 8,359 75,306 Total extraordinary loss 12,373 56,730 511,081 Profit (loss) before income taxes 18,332 (27,644) (249,045) Income taxes–current 1,106 4,454 40,126 Income taxes–deferred 10,430 644 5,802 Total income taxes 11,536 5,098 45,928 Income (loss) before minority interests 6,795 (32,742) (294,973) Profit (loss) attribute able to non-controlling interests (1,051) 2,477 22,315 Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent ¥ 7,847 ¥ (35,220) $ (317,297) 82 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 83 Financial Section Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets Fiscal Years Ended March 31, 2018 and 2019 Millions of yen Number of shares of Shareholders’ equity Accumulated other comprehensive income issued common stock Non-controlling interests Total net assets Total shareholders’ Net unrealized holding gain on Net deferred gain (loss) Remeasurements of defined Total accumulated other (Shares) Common stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury stock, at cost Translation adjustments equity other securities on hedges benefit plans, net of tax comprehensive income Balance at April 1, 2017 116,254,892 ¥104,873 ¥216,531 ¥ 73,479 ¥(1,398) ¥393,486 ¥22,249 ¥ 626 ¥20,260 ¥(6,702) ¥ 36,434 ¥ 4,990 ¥434,911 Changes of items during the period Cash dividends paid (6,946) (6,946) (6,946) Profit attributable to owners of parent 7,847 7,847 7,847 Purchase of treasury stock (18) (18) (18) Disposition of treasury stock (0) 1 1 1 Changes in scope of consolidation (1,201) (1,201) (1,201) Change in scope of equity method 328 328 328 Change in ownership interest of parent due to (110) (110) (110) transactions with non-controlling interests Changes in items other than shareholders’ equity, net 993 (2,192) 3,077 5,325 7,204 1,382 8,587 Total changes of items during the period (110) 27 (16) (100) 993 (2,192) 3,077 5,325 7,204 1,382 8,486 Balance at March 31, 2018 116,254,892 ¥104,873 ¥216,420 ¥ 73,506 ¥(1,414) ¥393,386 ¥23,243 ¥(1,566) ¥23,338 ¥(1,376) ¥ 43,638 ¥ 6,373 ¥443,398 Balance at April 1, 2018 116,254,892 ¥104,873 ¥216,420 ¥ 73,506 ¥(1,414) ¥393,386 ¥23,243 ¥(1,566) ¥23,338 ¥(1,376) ¥ 43,638 ¥ 6,373 ¥443,398 Changes of items during the period Cash dividends paid (3,473) (3,473) (3,473) Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent (35,220) (35,220) (35,220) Purchase of treasury stock (13) (13) (13) Disposition of treasury stock (0) 0 0 0 Changes in scope of consolidation 452 452 452 Change in ownership interest of parent due to 0 0 0 transactions with non-controlling interests Change in treasury stock due to changes in equity (6) (6) (6) in affiliates accounted for by equity method Changes in items other than shareholders’ equity, net (1,968) (717) (7,918) (3,000) (13,605) 3,811 (9,793) Total changes of items during the period ― (6) (38,240) (13) (38,260) (1,968) (717) (7,918) (3,000) (13,605) 3,811 (48,054) Balance at March 31, 2019 116,254,892 ¥104,873 ¥216,414 ¥ 35,265 ¥(1,427) ¥355,125 ¥21,274 ¥(2,283) ¥15,419 ¥(4,377) ¥ 30,033 ¥10,184 ¥395,343 Thousands of U.S. dollars Shareholders’ equity Accumulated other comprehensive income Total shareholders’ Net unrealized holding gain on Net deferred gain (loss) Remeasurements of defined Total accumulated other Non-controlling interests Total net assets Common stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury stock, at cost Translation adjustments equity other securities on hedges benefit plans, net of tax comprehensive income Balance at April 1, 2018 $944,802 $1,949,730 $ 662,216 $(12,739) $3,544,018 $209,396 $(14,108) $210,252 $(12,396) $ 393,135 $57,414 $3,994,577 Changes of items during the period Cash dividends paid (31,288) (31,288) (31,288) Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent (317,297) (317,297) (317,297) Purchase of treasury stock (117) (117) (117) Disposition of treasury stock (0) 0 0 0 Changes in scope of consolidation 4,072 4,072 4,072 Change in ownership interest of parent due to transactions with 0 0 0 non-controlling interests Change in treasury stock due to changes in equity in affiliates accounted for (54) (54) (54) by equity method Changes in items other than shareholders’ equity, net (17,730) (6,459) (71,333) (27,027) (122,568) 34,333 (88,225) Total changes of items during the period — (54) (344,505) (117) (344,685) (17,730) (6,459) (71,333) (27,027) (122,568) 34,333 (432,919) Balance at March 31, 2019 $944,802 $1,949,676 $ 317,703 $(12,856) $3,199,324 $191,658 $(20,568) $138,910 $(39,432) $ 270,568 $91,748 $3,561,649 84 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 85 Financial Section Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Fiscal Years Ended March 31, 2018 and 2019 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars FY2018/3 FY2019/3 FY2019/3 FY2018/3 FY2019/3 FY2019/3 Operating activities Investing activities Profit (loss) before income taxes ¥ 18,332 ¥(27,644) $(249,045) Purchases of noncurrent assets ¥(67,981) ¥(72,022) $ (648,847) Depreciation 57,892 60,422 544,342 Proceeds from sales of noncurrent assets 4,214 3,813 34,351 Amortization of goodwill 2,049 2,036 18,342 Purchases of investments in other securities (1,493) (1,294) (11,658) Increase (decrease) in allowance for doubtful receivables (143) 100 901 Proceeds from sales of investments securities 10,319 22,559 203,234 Increase (decrease) in net defined benefit liability (1,822) (3,763) (33,901) Payments for business withdrawal (6,890) (90) (811) Increase (decrease) in allowance for environmental costs (66) 14,466 130,324 Decrease (increase) in short-term loans receivable (150) 413 3,721 Interest and dividend income (2,583) (2,511) (22,622) Payments of long-term loans receivable (96) (699) (6,297) Interest expense 7,826 7,391 66,586 Collection of long-term loans receivable 132 130 1,171 Equity in (earnings) losses of affiliates (5,731) (10,641) (95,865) Other (785) (271) (2,441) Loss (gain) on foreign exchange (216) 2,673 24,081 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (62,731) (47,461) (427,577) Loss (gain) on sales of investment securities (2,414) (3,106) (27,982) Financing activities Loss (gain) on valuation of investment securities 1,731 625 5,631 Increase (decrease) in short-term loans payable (778) (62,133) (559,757) Gain on contribution of securities to retirement benefit trust (6,923) ― ― Proceeds from long-term loans payable 53,556 129,239 1,164,315 Impairment loss 4,797 14,252 128,396 Repayment of long-term loans payable (58,396) (70,030) (630,901) Loss on disposal of noncurrent assets 2,433 2,088 18,811 Proceeds from issuance of bonds 10,000 ― ― Loss on reorganization of production structure ― 18,330 165,135 Redemption of bonds (10,000) ― ― Decrease (increase) in receivables (19,641) (13,594) (122,468) Purchase of treasury shares (18) (13) (117) Decrease (increase) in inventories (6,808) (11,821) (106,495) Proceeds from share issuance to non-controlling shareholders 930 660 5,946 Increase (decrease) in payables 12,942 2,633 23,721 Cash dividends paid (6,939) (3,480) (31,351) Other (1,755) 7,824 70,486 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (0) (2) (18) Subtotal 59,896 59,761 538,387 Finance lease principal payments (898) (959) (8,640) Interest and dividends received 4,524 5,072 45,694 Other (3) (0) (0) Interest paid (7,800) (7,606) (68,523) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (12,548) (6,720) (60,541) Payments for supplementary retirement benefits ― (389) (3,505) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (1,305) (1,135) (10,225) Income taxes paid (11,677) 2,923 26,333 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (31,641) 4,443 40,027 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities ¥ 44,944 ¥ 59,760 $ 538,378 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 90,514 59,003 531,559 Increase due to inclusion of certain subsidiaries in consolidation 130 8 72 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period ¥ 59,003 ¥ 63,455 $ 571,667 86 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 87 Corporate Data Consolidated Subsidiaries and Equity-Method Affiliates (As of March 31, 2019) Consolidated Subsidiaries Wood products and construction related business Capital or Investment (¥ million) Location Share of Voting Rights (%) Paper and paperboard business Capital or Investment (¥ million) Location Share of Voting Rights (%) Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd. 440 Japan 100.00 Nippon Tokai Industrial Paper Supply Co., Ltd. 350 Japan 65.00 N&E Co., Ltd. 450 Japan 70.00 Nippon Paper Papylia Co., Ltd. 3,949 Japan 100.00 Daishowa Uniboard Co., Ltd. 490 Japan 100.00 (AUD1,000) Nanei Co., Ltd. 30 Japan 100.00 Paper Australia Pty. Ltd. (and its seven subsidiaries) Australia 100.00 662,280 Nichimoku Fancy Materials Co., Ltd. 50 Japan 100.00 (EUR1,000) (BRL1,000) Jujo Thermal Oy Finland 100.00 Amapá Florestal e Celulose S.A. (and its one subsidiary) Brazil 100.00 7,651 329,144 (THB1,000) (AUD1,000) Siam Nippon Industrial Paper Co., Ltd. Thailand 55.00 Nippon Paper Resources Australia Pty. Ltd. Australia 100.00 1,100,000 26,500 (CAD1,000) IWAKUNI-KAIUN CO., LTD. 20 Japan 100.00 Daishowa North America Corporation Canada 100.00 165,800 NIPPON PAPER UNITEC CO., LTD. 40 Japan 100.00 (USD1,000) Kokusaku Kiko Co., Ltd. 60 Japan 100.00 Nippon Paper Industries USA Co., Ltd. U.S.A. 100.00 53 Nippon Paper Ishinomaki Technology Co., Ltd. 40 Japan 100.00 NP Trading Co., Ltd. 1,000 Japan 100.00 Kitakami Paper Co., Ltd. 300 Japan 99.85 Kokuei Paper Co., Ltd. 100 Japan 100.00 Other businesses Capital or Investment (¥ million) Location Share of Voting Rights (%) SUN-OAK CO., LTD. 75 Japan 100.00 Nippon Paper Logistics Co., Ltd. 10 Japan 100.00 (HKD1,000) The British Cayman NIPPON PAPER LOGISTICS CO., LTD. 70 Japan 100.00 Dyna Wave Holding Asia 100.00 1 Islands Nanko Unyu Co., Ltd. 160 Japan 100.00 Kyokushin Transport Corporation 80 Japan 100.00 Daily-life products business Capital or Investment (¥ million) Location Share of Voting Rights (%) Sakurai Co., Ltd. 120 Japan 54.77 Hotoku Co., Ltd. 25 Japan 100.00 Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd. 3,067 Japan 100.00 GAC CO., LTD. 48 Japan 100.00 Crecia-Kasuga Co., Ltd. 450 Japan 80.00 Nippon Paper Development Co., Ltd. 710 Japan 100.00 (USD1,000) Nippon Dynawave Packaging Company, LCC U.S.A. 100.00 200,000 Flowric Co., Ltd. 172 Japan 100.00 Equity-Method Affiliates Nippon Seitai Corporation 424 Japan 100.00 Capital or Investment (¥ million) Location Share of Voting Rights (%) Kyouei Seitai K.K. 40 Japan 60.19 Shin Tokai Paper Co., Ltd. 3,135 Japan 35.00 KYODO PAPER HOLDINGS CO., LTD. 2,381 Japan 31.05 Energy business Capital or Investment (¥ million) Location Share of Voting Rights (%) (THB1,000) Phoenix Pulp & Paper Public Company Ltd. Thailand 30.00 2,462,811 Nippon Paper Ishinomaki Energy Center Ltd. 6,000 Japan 70.00 Daishowa Paper Converting Co., Ltd. 235 Japan 44.68 DIXIE JAPAN LTD. 100 Japan 44.41 Nippon Tokan Package Co., Ltd. 700 Japan 45.00 LINTEC Corporation 23,220 Japan 30.98 Nippon Paper Mega Solar Komatsushima, LLC 1 Japan 50.00 Suzukawa Energy Center Ltd. 1,298 Japan 20.00 CHIYODA SVAC CO., LTD. 200 Japan 32.50 88 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 89 Corporate Data Domestic Network Major Subsidiaries and Manufacturing Bases ❷A Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. ❶ Kushiro Mill (Hokkaido) ❼ Kanto Mill (Tochigi / Saitama) (As of July 1, 2019) 4-6, Kanda-Surugadai, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo ❷H okkaido Mill (Hokkaido) A Ashikaga B Soka ❶ 101-0062, Japan AAsahikawa BYufutsu CShiraoi ❽ Fuji Mill (Shizuoka) ❷C ❷B Tel: +81-3-6665-1111 Fax: +81-3-6665-0300 ❸ Akita Mill (Akita) ❾ Gotsu Mill (Shimane) ❹ Ishinomaki Mill (Miyagi) ❿ Otake Mill (Hiroshima) ❺ Iwanuma Mill (Miyagi) ⓫ Iwakuni Mill (Yamaguchi) ❻ Nakoso Mill (Fukushima) ⓬ Yatsushiro Mill (Kumamoto) Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. ⓭ Higashimatsuyama Mill (Saitama) Chemical Sales Division ❸ Nippon Paper Liquid Package Product Co., Ltd. ⓮ Ishioka Mill (Ibaraki) ⓯ Egawa Mill (Ibaraki) ⓰ Miki Mill (Hyogo) ❹ ❺ Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd. ⓱ Tokyo Mill (Saitama) 4-6, Kanda-Surugadai, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo ⓲ Kaisei Mill (Kanagawa) 101-0062, Japan ❻ ⓳ Koyo Mill (Shizuoka) Tel: +81-3-6665-5300 Fax: +81-3-6665-0370 ⓴ Kyoto Mill (Kyoto) Nippon Paper Papylia Co., Ltd. Harada Mill (Shizuoka) 4-6, Kanda-Surugadai, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Suita Mill (Osaka) ⓴ 101-0062, Japan ❾ Kochi Mill (Kochi) ⓰ Tel: +81-3-6665-5800 Fax: +81-3-3251-1878 ❿ ⓫ ⓮ ❼A  NP Trading Co., Ltd. ⓭ ⓯ 4-6, Kanda-Surugadai, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0062, Japan ⓬ ⓱ Tel: +81-3-6665-7032 ❼B Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. 4-6, Kanda-Surugadai, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0062, Japan  ⓲ Tel: +81-3-6665-7500 Fax: +81-3-6665-0390 ⓳❽ Nippon Paper Development Co., Ltd. 1-1-9, Horifune, Kita-ku, Tokyo 114-8555, Japan Tel: +81-3-3914-6161 Fax: +81-3-3914-3706 90 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 91 Corporate Data Overseas Network Major Overseas Subsidiaries and Affiliates (As of July 1, 2019) Asia ⓫Siam Nippon Industrial Paper Co., Ltd. North and South America Europe Ban Pong, Thailand ❸ ⓬Ky Vy Corporation Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam ❶❷ ⓭Nippon Paper Viet Hoa My JSC Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam ❼ ⓮Nippon Paper Foodpac Pvt. Ltd. ❷ ⓮ ❻❽ ❶ ❶ Mumbai, India ❸ ⓫❾ ⓯TS Plastics Sdn. Bhd. ⓬⓭ Perak, Malaysia ⓯ ❷ ❺❹ ❿ Oceania ❺ ❶ Everwealth Paper Industries (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. ❶ Jujo Thermal Oy Shanghai, China Kauttua, Finland Nippon Paper Industries Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. ❷ Paper Products Marketing Europe GmbH ❷ Shanghai Office ❸ Beijing Office Neuss, Germany Shanghai, China Beijing, China ❹Paper Products Marketing (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. ❹ Singapore ❺Paper Products Marketing (Malaysia Branch) Pte. Ltd. ❸ Selangor, Malaysia ❶❷ ❻Paper Products Marketing (Hong Kong) Ltd. Hong Kong ❼Paper Products Marketing (Taiwan) Ltd. ❶ Nippon Dynawave Packaging Co. Taipei, Taiwan Longview, WA, U.S.A. ❶ Nippon Paper Resources Australia Pty. Ltd. ❽NP Trading Co., (H.K.) Ltd. Mt Waverley, Victoria, Australia ❷ Daishowa North America Corporation Hong Kong Vancouver, B.C., Canada ❷ Paper Australia Pty. Ltd. ❾NP Trading (Bangkok) Co., Ltd. Mt Waverley, Victoria, Australia ❸ Paper Products Marketing (USA) Inc. Bangkok, Thailand Portland, OR, U.S.A. ❸ Paper Products Marketing Pty. Ltd. ❿NP INTERNATIONAL (S) PTE. LTD. Mt Waverley, Victoria, Australia ❹Volterra S.A. Singapore Concepción, Chile ❺Amapá Florestal e Celulose S.A. Santana, Amapá, Brazil 92 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 93 Corporate Data Company Profile / Stock Information (As of March 31, 2019) Company Name Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Major Shareholders Overview of Our Disclosure System Head Office 4-6, Kanda-Surugadai, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Shareholding Ratio Name Shares Held (%)* This report contains a summary of information of particularly high importance on the corporate value of the Nippon Paper Group. 101-0062, Japan More detailed information is provided on our website. Ichigo Trust Pte. Ltd. 11,739,700 10.13 Establishment August 1, 1949 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 10,411,674 8.98 Number of 5,671 non-consolidated Employees The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 7,111,800 6.14 12,943 consolidated Mizuho Bank, Ltd. 4,341,855 3.75 Detailed Financial Information Integrated Report 2019 Detailed Non-Financial Information Capital ¥104,873 million Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Employee Share Ownership 3,039,229 2.62 Shares Number of shares authorized to be issued Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 9) 2,724,300 2.35 Securities Report (Japanese only) CSR 300,000,000 shares EDINET (EDINET code: E11873) Nippon Paper Group Number of shares issued Nippon Life Insurance Company 2,473,165 2.13 https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/ csr/ Integrated Report 2019 116,254,892 shares Mitsui Life Insurance Company Limited 2,258,900 1.95 (including 343,458 shares of treasury stock) Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation 1,993,846 1.72 NIPPON PAPER GROUP Number of 82,192 Integrated Report 2019 Corporate Governance Report Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 5) 1,840,400 1.59 For the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2019 Shareholders https://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/ * The shareholding ratio was calculated after deducting 343,458 shares of treasury stock. Shaping ir/20190703ECGC.pdf Percentage of Shares Held by Shareholder Type the Future 0 20 40 60 80 ■ 2.67% ■ 0.02% ■ 0.29% 100 Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. with Trees 2019/3 44.50% 25.58% 19.34% 7.60% ■ 1.79% ■ 0.02% ■ 0.29% 2018/3 43.70% 23.99% 22.11% 8.10% ■ 1.78% ■ 0.02% ■ 0.28% 2017/3 42.32% 24.73% 20.93% 9.94% 0 20 40 60 80 100 ■ Financial institutions ■ Foreign investors ■ Individuals and others ■ Other domestic corporations ■ Securities companies ■ Government and municipalities ■ Treasury stock Stock Price and Trading Volume Trends ■ Stock price (left) ■ Trading volume (right) Stock price (¥) Trading volume (thousand shares) 2,500 40,000 2,250 35,000 2,000 30,000 1,750 25,000 1,500 20,000 1,250 15,000 1,000 10,000 750 5,000 0 0 Apr. May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. 2018 2019 94 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 Nippon Paper Group Integrated Report 2019 95
