CULTIVATING tomorrow 2018 Sustainability Report MESSAGE Safety remains paramount at FMC, and employees continue to demonstrate their commitment to a safe and from our Chief Executive Officer secure workplace. We ended 2018 with an injury rate of 0.11, the lowest rate ever for FMC. Our employees believe that a zero-injury workplace is highly achievable, and Our Journey to An Agricultural they are committed to proving it every day. Sciences Company Sustainability, a core value at both FMC and at the During the last 10 years, we took several important actions acquired DuPont crop protection business, continues to to transform FMC from a highly diversified chemical inform and guide our company. As you will read in this company into an enterprise focused on crop protection. We report, we focus primarily on three areas: launched a Plant Health platform that extended our portfolio into crop nutrition, seed treatment and biologicals; we ▶▶ Creating innovative solutions while preserving increased investments in technology and R&D to strengthen the environment for tomorrow. and expand our product pipeline; we opened new innovation centers around the world; and we made several strategic ▶▶ Making a positive impact on the communities acquisitions to broaden our agricultural sciences business. where we live and work. Acquiring DuPont’s crop protection assets in late 2017 was a ▶▶ Stewarding the responsible use of our products. final, critical step in our journey. Following the transaction, we invest nearly $2 billion in R&D over the next five years Respect for People is a business imperative at FMC. and expect to grow our company more than twice the moved quickly to integrate the regional commercial teams, We embrace, leverage and respect the diversity of our anticipated growth rate of the crop protection market R&D, regulatory and other functions. We have been very workforce, our customers and our communities. In during the same period. pleased with the pace and results of our integration efforts. 2018, we created a new senior leadership role to oversee Diversity and Inclusion to ensure we have strategic focus We have made great progress to transform FMC into an FMC Values on driving actions that foster an inclusive culture. agricultural sciences company. All of us are proud to be a In a year marked with integration-related changes, part of this next exciting chapter. our employees remained true to what makes FMC a Separating the Lithium Business special company. Our six Core Values define who we Our Lithium business began trading as Livent Corporation are and how we do business: Integrity, Safety, on the New York Stock Exchange on October 11, 2018. Sustainability, Respect for People, Agility Full separation of Livent was completed in March 2019. and Customer Centricity. Collectively, We wish our Livent colleagues continued success as an these values guide us as individuals independent company. and as a team of 6,500 people around the world. You can learn more about our Core Values in this report and at Growing Our Future FMC.com. I will comment briefly on Today’s FMC has the right technologies, products, Pierre R. Brondeau three of them. market focus and global infrastructure to grow to a Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board $6 billion crop protection leader by 2023, focused on FMC CORPORATION Rapeseed (Canola), advanced synthetic chemistries and biologicals. We will Brassica napus TABLE OF CONTENTS Organizational Profile 02 Our Products 24 Update on Our Goals 03 ▶▶ Benefits of crop protection products ▶▶ 2018 progress on innovation goals 2018 Progress Report and 2019 Commitments 04 ▶▶ From R&D to the grower Q+A with Mark Douglas, our President and Chief Operating Officer 05 ▶▶ Examples of technologies in our sustainable portfolio Our Purpose 06 ▶▶ Product stewardship ▶▶ FMC core business principles, values and areas of focus Our Progress 32 ▶▶ Integration update ▶▶ 2018 progress on community engagement goals ▶▶ Materiality assessment ▶▶ Redevelopment of one of our remediation sites ▶▶ Stakeholder engagement ▶▶ Reducing transportation emissions Our Processes 10 ▶▶ A sustainable supply chain ▶▶ Sustainability governance ▶▶ External sustainability advisory council ▶▶ Testing and registration process ▶▶ 2018 progress on environmental goals ▶▶ Business process modernization Assurance Statement 38 ▶▶ Ethics and compliance Board of Directors, Chairman’s Committee and FMC Officers 39 Our People 14 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 40 ▶▶ 2018 progress on safety goals ▶▶ Safety awards and programs ▶▶ Talent management ▶▶ Diversity and inclusion EXPLORE FMCSUSTAINABILITY.COM We invite you to explore our website for more information and data that highlight ABOUT THIS REPORT how we are Cultivating Tomorrow through our commitment to sustainability. The online data center lets you visualize and interact with our data to understand FMC’s impacts. You can explore our resources to access FMC reports and videos related GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE to our sustainability programs as well as FMC policies and statements on several This report and our web-based content at www.FMCsustainability.com has been important topics including climate change, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Please find the detailed human rights, supplier code of conduct and animal welfare. GRI Content Index on the website. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE FMC CORPORATION: Livent through a spinoff of the remaining approximately 2018 Financial AN AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES COMPANY 84 percent to FMC shareholders in the form of a dividend Performance Summary of Livent shares was completed in March 2019. FMC has transformed from a highly diversified chemical For the year ending December 31, 2018, company into an enterprise focused on crop protection. FMC Corporation recorded the FMC REPORTING AND following results: Acquiring DuPont’s Crop Protection assets was the largest transaction in FMC’s history, transforming our CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES 2 product portfolio. The acquisition returned our company The environmental and safety data in this report include FMC AGRICULTURAL SOLUTIONS to discovery research, expanded our innovation all sites under FMC’s operational control in the 2018 • Full-year segment revenue: $4.3 billion infrastructure, strengthened our R&D pipeline and calendar year, including Lithium sites and sites acquired • Full-year segment EBITDA: $1.2 billion significantly enhanced our capabilities to develop from DuPont in 2017 as well as environmental data proprietary active ingredients. supplied by active ingredient contract manufacturers FMC LITHIUM (except where noted). • Full-year segment revenue: $443 million FMC LITHIUM • Full-year segment EBITDA: $196 million The Lithium business began trading as Livent Revenue by Region Corporation on the New York Stock Exchange on October 11, 2018. The successful Initial Public Offering of $ 4.7 $ 1.3* $ 6.29* approximately 16 percent of Livent was the culmination 25% 23% ANNUAL ADJUSTED ADJUSTED of intensive year-long preparations. Full separation of North Europe, SALES EBITDA EARNINGS America Middle East (billions) (billions) Per Share + Africa 16.6*% $ 3.69 $ 512 28% 24% RETURN ON INVESTED GAAP EARNINGS GAAP NET INCOME Latin Asia Pacific CAPITAL Per Share (millions) America Almonds, Prunus dulcis *Represents a Non-GAAP financial term. For definitions and other information, please refer to our website. FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE ON Progress on our goals reported below reflects only legacy FMC Agricultural Solutions entities (except where noted). OUR GOALS New sustainability goals will be announced in 2019 and will be inclusive of both legacy FMC and DuPont. 2018 Results toward 2020 Goals 2018 2018 2018 PROGRESS PROGRESS PROGRESS *Includes safety data from newly acquired sites 3 2018 Results toward METRIC 2025 GOAL (vs. 2013 Baseline) 2018 RESULTS 2025 Goals Energy Intensity Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Intensity Waste Disposed Intensity Water Intensity in High Risk Locations 2018 Progress toward UNITED NATIONS SDG FMC INITIATIVES the United Nations • Products that increase crop yields Sustainable Development SDG 2 – Zero Hunger • Products that ensure a quality food supply Goals (SDGs) • Technologies that contribute to resilient agricultural practices • Technologies that save water and fuel and reduce GHG emissions and soil compaction • Products that increase crop yields thus preserving land from being SDG 15 – Life on Land converted to farmland • Targeted and low application products • Biological products • Continued commitment to R&D spending on developing sustainable products CULTIVATING TOMORROW Progress Report completed in progress not started yet postponed on our 2018 Commitments Align FMC’s approach to the Major Global Reset innovation, business practice and operations Expand the Diversity and Inclusion plan to Challenges with the UN SDGs and prioritize two goals and targets as FMC Agricultural Solutions promote talent development and increased of the goals to ensure we make positive impact. and Lithium become two separate businesses as employee engagement. we continue our sustainability journey. Merge product stewardship and sustainability Reduce FMC’s non-renewable energy assessment tools from FMC and DuPont’s Crop Continue to measure our global logistics dependency by exploring options for renewable Protection businesses to ensure sustainable footprint to better understand and reduce our energy sourcing. innovation of new products. impacts and risks. Implement a sustainability program for the 4 Conduct pre-assurance of key environmental and Complete sustainability training for Lithium and Lithium business as it continues its progress as safety data from newly acquired DuPont sites as North America Agricultural Solutions commercial a standalone company. part of integration. teams, providing sustainability tools and resources they can use with our customers. Conduct Life Cycle Assessments of lithium Implement pilot employee engagement hydroxide to better inform our customers of the programs in Asia to help embed sustainability in Continue utilizing the External Sustainability advantages of FMC supply. everyday activities across our global offices. Advisory Council to help shape FMC’s global sustainability strategy. 2019 Commitments Update innovation, business practice and Reduce FMC’s non-renewable energy Conduct Life Cycle Assessments for newly operations goals and targets for FMC. dependency by exploring options for renewable acquired active ingredients (e.g. Rynaxypyr® energy sourcing. active ingredient, Cyazypyr® active ingredient Continue utilizing the External Sustainability and indoxacarb). Advisory Council to help shape FMC’s global Identify opportunities to improve our sustainability strategy. sustainability reporting in line with CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) and other Continue to measure our global logistics reporting frameworks. footprint to better understand and reduce our impacts and risks. Incorporate sustainability matrices in the Capital Deployment Plan. Support Diversity and Inclusion efforts both internally (through Employee Resource Groups) Conduct initial Scope 3 GHG emissions assessment. and externally (through corporate affiliate groups Corn, and academia). Zea mays FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Q+A with Mark Douglas, our President and Chief Operating Officer How are you integrating sustainability into How is climate change affecting your amount of time. Through Rynaxypyr® active ingredient FMC’s strategic growth plan? business and how are you addressing it? use, smallholder farmers have had life-changing crop yield increases, in some cases allowing them to build Sustainability is a core value for FMC. We are growing We see that global weather patterns are new homes for their families and invest in the future the company at a strong rate, and we’re doing it different and more extreme than what growers of their farms. with sustainable development at the forefront. Our have experienced over past generations. The singular focus on agricultural sciences means that FMC extremes of flooding and drought are impacting I look forward to partnering with smallholder can further impact the United Nations Sustainable our growers more frequently, and pest farmers as we introduce new precision Development Goal of “zero hunger.” Every day, our teams pressures are also shifting as a result. agriculture crop protection solutions. Many 5 work to deliver solutions to farmers that help them of the emerging technologies will enable protect and increase their crop yields. To support growers’ changing needs, we growers to be much more efficient with carefully track pest pressures to facilitate their time and resources, which can make Are you resetting your sustainability goals products that can help with emerging a major difference in a family’s farm now that you’re a focused Agricultural diseases and pests. For example, we income and quality of life. Sciences company? have years of historical data about how soybean rust is evolving in Brazil, which What do you see in the future I am very proud of the progress we’ve made on our is immensely valuable in our efforts to of agriculture? innovation, safety, community engagement and combat that damaging disease in all environmental goals over the past four years. For parts of the world. Emerging technologies in precision example, we’ve significantly reduced our environmental agriculture offer growers highly detailed footprint from our manufacturing sites and we’re How does FMC help smallholder data about their fields, allowing them to committed to continuing to drive improvement. farmers be successful? make better informed and more customized decisions than ever before. I’m excited about Over the past several months we have been working to Farmers all over the world use our portfolio the future of biological crop protection and update our sustainability targets to reflect the longof products containing Rynaxypyr® active plant health. Farmers are increasingly able term goals of our new business and product portfolio. ingredient. These products are highly effective to augment their synthetic crop protection We will be announcing our new 2025 and 2030 targets at controlling some of the most damaging programs with biological options that are highly later in 2019. pests, like stem borers and leaf miners that can selective, and support resistance management devastate crops on a small farm in a very short and sustainable agriculture. Mark Douglas President and Chief Operating Officer FMC CORPORATION CULTIVATING TOMORROW our FMC is an agricultural sciences company that advances farming through innovative and sustainable crop protection technologies. From our industry-leading discovery pipeline to our cutting-edge application systems and modern biological products, PURPOSE we are passionate about bringing new solutions to growers around the world. For more than 130 years, we have been rooted in agriculture and innovation. Today’s FMC continues to earn the trust of growers and industry partners to maximize their productivity, profitability and sustainability. “ ...let us commit to a world without hunger, a world in which every person has access to a healthy, nutritious diet. Zero Hunger is about joining forces. Countries and companies, institutions and individuals: we must each do our part towards sustainable food systems.” –António Guterres | United Nations Secretary-General FMC is a company driven by innovation and committed to Our Core Values and Behaviors discovering new active ingredients, product formulations FMC’s core values and behaviors are the foundation of our organization. and application technologies. We are guided by core business principles: 1▶▶ Discover and develop sustainable technology to solve evolving crop protection needs. INTEGRITY SAFETY SUSTAINABILITY 2▶▶ Commit to exceed customer expectations through collaboration, speed and agility. • We do things the right way – • Every action we take is • We create innovative solutions ethically and in compliance with guided by our TH!NK. SAFE. while preserving the environment 3▶▶ Doing business with us should be simple and easy. laws – regardless of circumstances Manifesto for tomorrow 4▶▶ Operate with strict financial rigor for the benefit of our • We keep our commitments, building • We empower employees to • We make a positive impact on customers, employees and investors. trust with customers, shareholders, always put safety first the communities where we live the community and each other and work • We help others to be safe INTEGRATION OF FMC & DUPONT • We take responsibility for our actions, regardless of the outcome – at work, at home and on the road • We steward the responsible use of our products 7 Throughout 2018 we continued to integrate business processes, commercial teams and various functions from both legacy FMC and DuPont. Integration efforts focused on pace of work, RESPECT FOR CUSTOMER breadth and depth of roles and combining our complementary PEOPLE AGILITY CENTRICITY strengths around marketing and customer intimacy. A working team of senior leaders across the company developed • We empower informed risk-taking, • We are action-oriented, • We cultivate long-term customer celebrating successes and learning delivering results without relationships and put their needs our core values and behaviors based on the input gathered from mistakes sacrificing safety or quality at the center of everything we do through a cultural assessment survey from employees of • We develop the knowledge and • We pursue continuous • We understand our customers’ both legacy FMC and DuPont. Senior leaders gathered small abilities of our people to best serve innovation not only in our business, and provide solutions to groups of employees, including change champions across the their careers and our customers products and processes, but their most pressing challenges world, to get feedback on how the values and behaviors would in the experiences we deliver • We create an inclusive environment • We measure our success in terms resonate with our workforce. We have developed a 2019 plan to where diverse views, backgrounds and • We are collaborative, fast of our customers’ success communicate with and engage employees on our core values experiences are key to our success and nimble as part of the new FMC narrative. Over the next five years, we will succeed by focusing on five priorities: FOCUS ON MARKET-DRIVEN EMPOWERED TECHNOLOGY CHEMISTRY INNOVATION COUNTRIES SIMPLICITY Aggressively promote our Invest significantly in R&D Engage customers and Operate a globally aligned, Ensure our tools, processes and current portfolio and accelerate to discover and develop new partners to identify, develop regionally focused business organizational structure allow new active ingredients and technologies in chemical and and deliver solutions that meet model where local commercial us to be agile, efficient and easy formulations to meet growers’ biological crop protection the unique needs of a specific strategy and execution is directed to do business with evolving needs region or country at the regionand country-level CULTIVATING TOMORROW RESULTS OF OUR 2018 FMC Materiality Assessment MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT Product safety & The results of our materiality assessment which define Product communications stewardship topics that are most important for our agricultural INCREASING IMPORTANCE TO EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS business are indicated in the matrix to the right. This Employee health, safety & well-being assessment was accomplished through a series of Corporate governance Process safety interviews, meetings and surveys with internal and Workplace & accident/ environment Sustainable Ethics & emergency external stakeholders. Internal stakeholders included & culture innovation & R&D corruption management Global food people from the following groups: executives, legal supply Environmental Resilience Public access compliance counsel, environment, health and safety, commercial, planning Water sourcing & safety Transparency & use & reporting human resources, enterprise risk, finance, sustainability, Waste & effluent management Biodiversity impacts & conservation Community procurement, facilities and communications. External relations Stakeholder Security practices engagement Air quality stakeholders included representatives from customers, 8 academia, investors, consultants, government, trade Climate change mitigation (GHG emissions) Materials sourcing & Employee education Diversity, equity Human & training rights efficiency & inclusion associations and non-government organizations. We Supplier policies & assessments Energy analyzed 32 potential material topics grouped into the type & use five categories (marketplace, operations, workplace, Labor rights Public policy & relations environment and community). & lobbying Land & Corporate citizenship indigenous rights & philanthropy Land use Wheat, Triticum aestivum INCREASING IMPORTANCE TO INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS The key topics indicated in TOPIC CATEGORIES the top right section of the matrix were identified as Marketplace the most important for FMC Operations with both strong internal Workplace and external stakeholder alignment. Throughout this Environment report, details are provided Community on actions we are taking to positively impact these topics. FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT STAKEHOLDER CHANNELS OF ENGAGEMENT FREQUENCY KEY TOPICS COVERED GROUP Stakeholder engagement is essential to identify Town Hall meetings Quarterly important initiatives, issues and trends for FMC. Reports, email blasts, videos Monthly • Integration of legacy FMC and DuPont employees We regularly meet with several stakeholder Employees Surveys Annually and processes groups. Taking their feedback into account is vital Training Annually • Safety as FMC continues to evolve and grow. The table to Social media Weekly the right indicates our main stakeholder groups, Sustainability Report Annually how we engage them and examples of key topics. Prospective • Sustainability is highly regarded when considering Annual Report Annually employees employment at FMC Social media Weekly Meetings Quarterly • Innovation Customers Innovation collaboration Quarterly • Pollinator safety Industry partnerships Quarterly • Product stewardship 9 Supplier audits Biannually • Fair wages and labor Suppliers Supplier surveys Quarterly • Sustainability goals Code of Conduct Monthly • Responsible care Ratings/rankings and indices Annually • The new FMC and our strategic growth plan Conference calls Quarterly Investors • The benefits of pesticides Surveys Annually • The sustainability of new products Investor Day Biannually Donations to local organizations Quarterly • Hunger Local communities Employee volunteers Monthly • Motorcycle safety in Asia Community Advisory Panels Quarterly • Clean drinking water systems • Endangered species Regulators and public Meetings Monthly • Product stewardship policy makers Risk assessments and studies Regularly • Science-based evaluations • Safety and environmental standards In-person meetings/conference calls As needed • Biodiversity decline Non-government Survey responses Bi-annually • Secondary standards organizations (NGOs) Onion, Policies and best practices As needed • UN Sustainable Development Goals Allium cepa Leading/participating on committees Bi-monthly • Responsible care Industry associations and working groups • Product stewardship Advocacy As needed • Sustainability • Climate change Wharton Initiative for Global As needed • Innovation Academia Environmental Leadership • Efficacy Studies As needed • Biodiversity CULTIVATING TOMORROW our PROCESSES Corporate governance and processes form the foundation of our work at FMC. As a global company, we believe these elements are essential in guiding organizational and employee behavior across the world to achieve our goals. “ The quest for food security can be the common thread that links the different challenges we face and helps build a sustainable future.” –José Graziano da Silva | United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) Director-General “ FMC has strong sustainability governance and robust Testing & Regulation of Pesticides Pesticides are among the processes that drive our success and the sustainability of our most tested and regulated product portfolio. We continue to integrate processes from products in the world.” legacy DuPont and FMC and to develop new standards to THEN THEY support our businesses and functions. This section describes CONDUCT MORE THAN our governance and some of our key processes. 150 STUDIES OVERALL, IT TAKES ROUGHLY 11 YEARS SCIENTISTS SCREEN AN AVERAGE OF designed and validated SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AT FMC Our sustainability governance structure consists of two 160,000 by regulatory authorities TO ENSURE THE MOLECULE + $286 MILLION USD IS DEVELOPED INTO A main bodies — the Board of Directors Sustainability MO L E CU L E S PRODUCT THAT IS Committee and the Executive Sustainability Steering Team. They meet three to four times per year to review JUST TO FIND ONE with the RIGHT PROPERTIES SAFE + EFFECTIVE. of RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT to address a pest to bring a pesticide to market. progress on goals, new initiatives, commitments and problem and meet Then products must be RE-REGISTERED 11 challenges. They recommend actions, as necessary, international REGULARLY to stay in line with regulations. requirements. to ensure continuous performance improvement and alignment with constituent expectations (both internal and external). In addition to these formal committees, communication is encouraged throughout the organization to help drive progress. Learn more at www.PesticideFacts.org TESTING AND REGISTRATION PROCESS FOR CROP PROTECTION PRODUCTS (e.g., pregnant or nursing women, the very young or very Today’s pesticides are the results of many years of old), ensuring high margins of safety. scientific research and testing. To bring a new pesticide to market, it takes roughly $286 million USD and 11 years These tests, based on internationally accepted regulatory Apples, of research and development. Manufacturers must follow guidelines, are sufficiently robust to support regulatory Malus stringent product development criteria, whereby an risk assessments. Products are only approved by average of 160,000 chemical molecules are analyzed to authorities and placed on the market if thorough testing find the best product that is safe for use. and evaluation show they do not pose unacceptable risks. Once approved, these products often require Pesticides are among the most tested and regulated re-registration about every 10 years or when new products in the world. In fact, more tests are required scientific information becomes available. for pesticides than for pharmaceuticals. They are tested extensively to ensure their safety for people, wildlife Scientists are constantly developing new products and reand the environment. The tests take into account evaluating existing products based on safety and efficacy. the potential for sensitive windows of exposure (e.g., Older products that had high risk with normal use, which pregnancy and puberty) and vulnerable populations could not be mitigated, have been voluntarily restricted or withdrawn from the marketplace. CULTIVATING TOMORROW New pesticides are selected from discovery to be more environmentally friendly than their decades-old predecessors. Newer molecules do not persist in the Critical Areas of Protection environment or bioaccumulate in the human body or wildlife. that we investigate when developing a new product: To the right are Critical Areas of Protection that we investigate when developing a new product: TOXICOLOGY ECOTOXICOLOGY Studies the adverse effects of the Looks at the effects the substance may BUSINESS PROCESS MODERNIZATION substance in mammals to assess have (either directly or indirectly) on potential effects in humans. While animal testing is organisms in the environment. Organisms include: The Business Process Modernization (BPM) program is required under many global regulations to ensure birds, fish, mammals, non-target plants, pollinators, transforming FMC’s business processes and systems to sound knowledge of the substance and its safety non-target arthropods, earthworms, Collembola, soil follow best-in-class industry standards. The BPM team is to humans, we follow a strict Animal Welfare Policy microbes, Daphnia, shrimp, oysters, etc. 12 implementing an intelligent enterprise resource planning to minimize animal testing whenever possible and (ERP) solution that will enable FMC to capture greater opportunity in today’s digital world. Below are the main ensure the welfare of the animals according to strict OCCUPATIONAL + objectives of BPM: global guidelines. BYSTANDER EXPOSURE Evaluates the potential to workers and ▶▶Scalability and DIETARY SAFETY bystanders resulting from the manufacture and flexibility | Creating a use of substances and determines the necessary Evaluate the exposure to the human landscape that works protective equipment needed to ensure safety. population, including sensitive efficiently today while populations (e.g., infants, children) from potential having the flexibility for growth for tomorrow. residues of substances (including metabolites and PRODUCT CHEMISTRY impurities) in food and drinking water to ensure the Determines the physical chemical ▶▶Simplicity | Using levels, if any, are safe to consumers. Residue data can properties of the substance (e.g., the industry-standard include food crops, processed commodities, rotational solubility, partitioning, volatility, etc.) that aid in processes that are crops, animal feed, pollen, nectar and honey. THAISA HUGENNEYER, understanding the nature of the substance as well as proven to streamline DIRECTOR, BPM ensuring safe storage, transport, use and disposal of the way FMC works. “The BPM program is a journey toward ENVIRONMENTAL FATE the substance. building a truly modern company. It ▶▶Reliable, real-time Studies the fate and behavior, will ensure that our employees have the right tools and processes to enable data | Driving data metabolism and distribution of BIOLOGY AND USE success and growth. It’s a very exciting excellence through substances in the environment and looks at its DIRECTIONS time for FMC.” safeguards and master effect on soil/sediment,water, groundwater and air. Determines how a product should be data governance. We also evaluate the substance’s movement inthe used in the field to ensure efficacy and crop safety. environment such as runoff, leaching and drift. ▶▶ Faster, better decision-making | Delivering reporting Includes assessment of potential for resistance and and analytics that will better inform leadership on proposed mitigations to reduce the potential. key decisions and supporting an agile business. FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE In late 2018, we launched the inaugural FMC Ethics FMC Ethics and Compliance and Compliance Achievement Awards. The FMC FMC has a longstanding commitment to ethics and Ethics Office received almost 80 nominations from all Achievement Award Winners compliance. During 2018, FMC’s Ethics and Compliance around the world. The nominations demonstrated very team focused on increased and deeper communications encouraging and enthusiastic support for ethics and IRENE DIP supporting that commitment, as well as strengthening (North America) compliance across FMC and identified true champions our compliance processes. Awareness campaigns were of good behavior throughout the company. For establishing new processes for the conducted that emphasized Data Privacy, Conflicts of Registration, Evaluation, Authorization Interest and Anti-Corruption. To broaden engagement and Restrictions of Chemicals (REACH) In 2019, FMC’s Ethics and Compliance Team is leading and Toxic Substances Control Act and communications, we formed a global team of several initiatives including: (TSCA) compliance. Ethics and Compliance ambassadors who are leaders from all regions of the world. The ambassadors support ▶▶ A new and improved Global Ethics and Compliance ANALBERY CORREA FMC’s Law Department to drive messaging deeper Learning Management System. (Latin America) into local organizations, provide feedback to the Ethics Office on local concerns, and advocate for ethics and ▶▶ Awareness and training campaigns focusing For revising agreements not in 13 accordance with FMC policies and for compliance locally. on Anti-Trust Compliance, Sexual Harassment, speaking up in support of FMC internal Careful Communications, and Intellectual policies and when she saw disrespect Property Protection. in the workplace. ▶▶ Updating key FMC policies. ERIN LIU ▶▶ Enhancement of the FMC Policies and (Co-Winner Asia-Pacif ic) Standards platform. For helping to keep financial compliance top-of-mind and ▶▶ Providing internal FMC Ethics and increasing employees’ awareness of policies and procedures. Compliance news. VISKANTO ADI PRABOWO Corn, (Co-Winner Asia-Pacif ic) Zea mays For setting a strong tone at-the-top as the leader of the Surabaya, Indonesia plant site and demonstrating a commitment to the highest standards of ethical behavior. KATHRYN PEOVER (EMEA) For taking several actions in support of ethics and compliance, including raffling small gifts received from vendors to employees. CULTIVATING TOMORROW our PEOPLE FMC’s success comes from our most important resource our people. We create an environment where employees flourish and can achieve their highest potential. The backbone of this responsibility is our commitment to safety. At FMC, we foster a culture that provides a safe and secure workplace. “ I’m very conscious of the fact that you can’t do it alone. It’s teamwork. When you do it alone you run the risk that when you are no longer there nobody else will do it.” –Wangari Maathai | Founder of the Green Belt Movement and 2004 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate SAFETY TRIR Results 2020 BY YEAR Safety is a core value for FMC. Throughout 2018, our GOAL employees continued to demonstrate their commitment (.30) Grapes, to a safe and secure workplace. Our Total Recordable Vitis vinifera Incident Rate (TRIR) in 2018 was 0.11, the lowest rate ever for FMC and well below our 2020 goal. We are proud to be TRIR one of the safest companies among our industry peers. .51 .51 .22 .18 .11 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 FMC Safety Awards and Accomplishments 15 The FMC Site Excellence Award recognizes sites that have achieved zero recordable injuries, zero critical process safety incidences, zero environmental notices of violation and positive EHS compliance audit results in the calendar year. In 2018, 39 sites were award recipients. In addition, eight sites have achieved 10 or more years without a recordable safety incident. 10+ YEARS WITHOUT A RECORDABLE CALGARY COPHENHAGEN SAFETY INCIDENT AS OF 2018 FLINTSHIRE CHEBOKSARY STADE MIDDLEPORT CORK NAMBSHEIM ▶▶ Bangpoo, Thailand UFFHOLTZ ▶▶ Barra Mansa, Brazil SAN COLOMBANO PHILADELPHIA MADRID LAHORE * ▶▶ Calgary, Canada PUDONG MOBILE SUZHOU SHANGHAI ▶▶ Lahore, Pakistan GUADALAJARA SAVLI JINSHAN ▶▶ Pudong, China HYDERABAD HONG KONG KEY MUMBAI BANGPOO ▶▶ Song Than, Vietnam 2018 Site Excellence MANILA ▶▶ Surabaya, Indonesia Award recipients BANGALORE SONG THAN ▶▶ Ungaran, Indonesia TUAS 10+ years without UNGARAN a recordable safety JAKARTA SURABAYA incident in 2018 PASURUAN UBERABA PAULINIA BARRA MANSA *Both the Lahore manufacturing site and CAMPINAS regional office won site excellence awards WYONG SYDNEY CULTIVATING TOMORROW Environmental Stewardship culture of safety. Under the umbrella of TH!NK. SAFE., Contractor Safety FMC organized activities and programs throughout 2018 Our commitment to safety extends beyond our Award for Mobile to increase awareness and improve performance. employees to the wider FMC family including contractors. Third-party contractors form a significant Our Mobile, Alabama, manufacturing plant was part of our workforce – approximately 2,000 contractors recognized by the Partners for Environmental work at FMC in any given month. Progress and awarded the Environmental Stewardship Award for having a significant In 2018, FMC updated requirements for selection positive contribution to environmental health Spreading FMC’s Safety Culture and management of contract companies and their in the Gulf Coast region. The team achieved Integrating a strong safety culture into FMC’s newly employees working at FMC sites. The purpose is to this through safe and successful process acquired sites was a key focus in 2018. Across each of the protect FMC and contract employees from injuries and recycle optimization projects, which delivered newly acquired sites, we organized activities and events prevent process safety incidents. a significant reduction in hazardous waste which showcased our commitment to a safe and secure generation and raw material consumption 16 and decreased GHG emissions from reduced work environment and encouraged our new colleagues Emergency Response Team at FMC Tower to live these values. transportation of waste and raw materials. FMC is committed to the safety and well-being of all employees and visitors at our headquarters The “TH!NK. SAFE. Tuesday” campaign was launched in Philadelphia. The Emergency Response Team company-wide with videos each Tuesday to familiarize (ERT) is a group of 23 individuals trained in first aid, our newly acquired sites with FMC’s commitment to cardiopulmonary resuscitation and automated external safety. Prior to the video series, we distributed a digital defibrillator usage who serve as the bridge to first library of downloadable TH!NK. SAFE. materials to responders. In the event of a medical emergency, introduce new employees to TH!NK. SAFE. ERT members are dispatched via text message to the location with the reported emergency. They evaluate Spotlight on Savli, India: the situation and render care until professional help Our Savli site conducted a series of activities in arrives. In addition, they serve as emergency directors, January 2018 to kick off TH!NK. SAFE. for their ensuring people respond properly to fire alarms and site. Activities included learning and onboarding shelter-in-place instructions. sessions, a public TH!NK. SAFE. manifesto pledge PICTURED ABOVE FROM LEFT TO RIGHT: Jordan Edwards, FMC Unit for employees to sign and distribution of Global Regulatory Affairs Safety Program Technology Leader; Perkins Fendley, President, PEP Board of Directors; and TH!NK. SAFE. welcome packs including a pocketFMC’s Global Regulatory Affairs team based in Chris McFarland, FMC Unit Technology Leader. sized manifesto. Philadelphia initiated a safety program that includes monthly safety meetings with presentations on safety topics as well as “walkabouts” to identify and address FMC SAFETY PROGRAMS IN 2018 unsafe conditions and behaviors. Since this initiative FMC’s TH!NK. SAFE. manifesto is the heart of our began, employees from other teams have joined the Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) programs. TH!NK. meetings and have spread the word about the program. SAFE. aims to change employee thinking and actions through interactive EHS programs which build a strong FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Focus 60 Days PROCESS SAFETY Process Hazard Level (PHL) Many injuries occur from the use of inadequate Screening – PHL screening Process Safety Management (PSM) is critically important uses an internally developed tools and equipment. To combat this FMC launched to FMC. We are dedicated to developing and enforcing methodology to identify the a “Focus 60 Days” campaign to share best safety robust systems and procedures for our employees across hazards of a process and practices. As part of this campaign, leaders and all global sites. Below are four initiatives FMC addressed then “right-size” the PSM employees participated in weekly dialogs and in 2018 across the organization. systems to ensure identified opportunities for improvement. This reduced the number of misused tools as well as improved both effective and Process Safety Information (PSI) – PSI contains employees’ hazard recognition skills and prompted efficient control of Tomatoes, details about materials, equipment and process Solanum lycopersicum action to reduce future incidents. process hazards. technology. This information is used to support all other During 2018, we elements of PSM. applied this tool to the legacy Cheminova sites and Process Hazard Analysis (PHA) – PHA is the systemic added this data to that generated for legacy FMC sites. review of a process to identify and evaluate process This helps us prioritize our process safety work. 17 hazards. We conducted PHAs for many legacy External PSM Assessment – In 2018 we conducted FMC processes including several at our largest an external PSM assessment for four newly acquired manufacturing facility in Denmark. In addition, we active ingredient sites from DuPont to ensure PSM revalidated several PHAs at our newly acquired sites. management systems were in place and fully functional. We reviewed the quality of execution of several key process safety elements, including Management of Change, Process Safety Information, Process Hazard Analysis, Asset Integrity and Safe Work Practices. Spotlight on Wyong, Australia: Through the “Focus 60 Days” campaign, our Reporting Standard Wyong site made over 100 observations, of RESPONSIBLE CARE FMC’s EHS Incident Reporting Standard was which 55 were reported into the Safety Initiative revised in 2018 to align with the American As a member of the American Management System with appropriate actions Chemistry Council’s use of the American Chemistry Council (ACC), FMC has and follow-up. Observations ranged from Petroleum Institute’s “Process Safety been an active participant in the inappropriate storage of kitchen knives to Performance Indicators for the Refining and Responsible Care® program since inadequate safety signage. Employees at Wyong Petrochemical Industries” standard. New its inception. Responsible Care found the program to be a novel approach to definitions and thresholds were incorporated is the chemical industry’s worldsafety and felt it had a positive impact on their for each of the FMC Process Safety Incident class Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security (EHS&S) site’s safety culture. categories. This change allows FMC to performance initiative. It helps member companies compare process safety performance with enhance their EHS&S performance, discover new other industry members both domestically business opportunities, and build a strong foundation for and globally. All FMC sites will report process the ACC’s advocacy on behalf of the industry. safety incidents using the revised standard starting in 2019. CULTIVATING TOMORROW Participation in Responsible Care is a commitment to: TALENT MANAGEMENT ENGINEERING Our People: Employees are FMC’s most valuable DEVELOPMENT ▶▶ Improve Environmental, Health and asset. Ensuring a safe and inclusive work environment PROGRAM Safety performance. where they can bring their whole selves to work is one FMC’s Technical ▶▶ Use resources efficiently. of the company’s most important priorities. We help Engineering and empower our employees to develop their skills in ▶▶ Engage with stakeholders. alignment with their career aspirations. Development Program (EDP) is ▶▶ Report on progress, openly and transparently. designed to develop LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS the next generation ▶▶ Effectively manage chemical products. of engineering FMC is committed to attracting, developing and retaining and operations As part of FMC’s commitment to the program, we a diverse and talented workforce. In 2018, we designed professionals in our conduct annual internal Responsible Care Management and developed a three-tier leadership development 18 System (RCMS) audits at each of our U.S. locations, program which is being rolled out globally. PICTURED ABOVE (FROM LEFT organization. In 2018, we expanded the which includes our Philadelphia headquarters at FMC TO RIGHT): Kate McIntyre, Gregory Tower, Stine Research Center, and the Middleport, ▶▶ The Science of Leadership | Designed for individual VanOmmeren, Marianna Tymocz and focus of the program contributors or future/new people managers. Roisin Breen by leveraging EDP Wyoming, Mobile and Manati manufacturing locations. support across External certification of our RCMS program is conducted ▶▶ The Art of Leadership | Designed for experienced multiple areas within operations including active every three years at selected locations. people managers seeking to enhance their ingredients, formulations and packaging, and process leadership acumen. safety management. ▶▶ The Keys to Leadership | Designed to develop Sugar beets, highly effective leaders in the organization. Beta vulgaris 2018 FMC Total Workforce BY REGION + GENDER Females Males 34% 32% 24% 25% North Latin Asia EMEA America America Pacific 66% 68% 76% 75% 1,535 employees 1,488 employees 834 employees 2,426 employees FMC supports a global and diverse workforce. Our total workforce includes 6,283 full-time regular employees globally as of December 31, 2018. FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION awards. In support of our Ambition Statement, we have Our 2019 D&I Action Plan: developed a comprehensive D&I strategy. Our strategy Ambition Statement: has four key focus areas: See yourself in FMC, Be yourself in FMC VALIDATE METRICS + MEASUREMENTS At FMC, we strive to be an inclusive workplace where ▶▶ Inclusive Workplace | Create a workplace where our employees reflect the community, are valued, find everyone is valued and has an opportunity to reach purpose in their work, and grow and contribute to their their full potential. ENHANCE DIVERSE • Baseline Data CANDIDATE POOLS fullest potential. ▶▶ Workforce Diversity | Establish programs and • Diversity Dashboard processes that systematically attract, develop and • Diverse Slate OUR STRATEGY retain diverse talent. of Candidates • Diverse Before 2014, FMC’s Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) efforts ▶▶ Inclusive Leadership | Build the competency of Interview were primarily focused on compliance within the U.S. our leaders, managers and employees to advocate Panel In 2014, employee affinity groups began to evolve with inclusive behaviors. INCREASE AWARENESS THROUGH 19 the launch of the Women’s Initiative Network. Since EDUCATION CAMPAIGNS then, affinity groups have been rebranded as Employee ▶▶ Business Impact | Position FMC as a great company Resource Groups (ERGs) and have continued to grow for diverse, top talent and share best practices and thrive within the organization globally. Benefits internally and externally. • International Women’s Day continue to broaden and in 2016 we introduced D&I CONDUCT INCLUSIVE LEADERSHIP TRAINING • Inclusion Week • Target People Managers New Global Director of • Incorporating D&I elements in learning programs • Deploy in All EVOLVE EMPLOYEE and talent acquisition strategies Diversity and Inclusion Regions RESOURCES GROUPS • Defining metrics to measure the impact of In September 2018, Subarna Malakar joined FMC our D&I strategy • Executive as the Director of Diversity & Inclusion. Subarna is Sponsorship responsible for developing the D&I roadmap. As • Expand part of his role, Subarna will be: Globally • Aligning D&I priorities with executive leaders • Implementing new practices and programs that accelerate inclusiveness • Engaging global stakeholders and driving accountability across the organization Subarna Malakar, Director, Diversity & Inclusion CULTIVATING TOMORROW EVOLUTION OF OUR EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS In 2018, we evolved our affinity groups to Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) to better align the ERG business plans and initiatives to our global D&I strategy. We also created a comprehensive ERG guideline with clear budgets, communications and activities. Additionally, we included the roles and responsibilities of the Executive Sponsors, Chairs and Workstream Leaders to support the missions of the ERGs. Below is information about our ERGs. WOMEN’S INITIATIVE NETWORK WOMEN IN ENGINEERING NEW GENERATION Mission: To raise the Mission: To engage and Mission: To create a D&I profile of women at FMC enable women to reach their culture within Cork Shared encouraging wellbeing, fullest potential as engineers Services. Centered on core education, development and and leaders. To expand the values and committed to 20 networking in the workplace. image of the engineering inclusion and excellence. profession and demonstrate the value of diversity. 2018 Highlights: 2018 Highlights: ▶▶ Hosted a half-day Clifton Strengths Workshop 2018 Highlights: ▶▶ Celebrated International Women’s Day. for women in Philadelphia, Stine and Ewing sites to learn about developing their own ▶▶ Participated in Affinity Day Celebrations. ▶▶ Organized Women’s Day Event at offsite location with guest speakers and a video unique strengths. ▶▶ Hosted “Chalk it up to Science” session for Take produced by FMC Cork, Ireland site ▶▶ Hosted a Women In Leadership Panel Your Kids to Work Day. highlighting the inspirational women in Discussion: The event featured a keynote the lives of FMC employees. address from Bethwyn Todd, Vice President ▶▶ Hosted a Women in Engineering Panel. ▶▶ Held annual charity event co-organized and FMC Asia President, and a panel ▶▶ Joined the Society of Women Engineers. with Cope Foundation (an organization that discussion moderated by Amy O’Shea, Vice President and Business Director, North ▶▶ Attended the joint Association of Latino enhances and supports the lives of people Professionals for America and National Association with an intellectual disability and/or autism). America. Panelists were Kathy Shelton, Vice of Asian American Professionals 2018 ERG Summit. Employees spent time painting, cleaning and President and Chief Technology Officer; Diane gardening with Cope members. Allemang, Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer; and Susanne Lingard, Vice President Regulatory Affairs. WOMEN IN ENGINEERING EVENT IN LATIN AMERICA FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THE BRIDGE SPECTRUM I-GEN Mission: To showcase and Mission: To increase the Mission: To leverage multiprovide a community for visibility of LGBTQ+ issues generational differences and the various ethnic cultures within FMC through commonalities for personal and across FMC, which in turn education and awareness professional growth to attract helps recruit and retain initiatives. Encourage and retain talent that enhances talent. To bring awareness to the FMC workforce on fellowship through dialogue and an inclusive FMC’s strength in diversity and the business cultures in regions where we operate understanding of LGBTQ+ identity by formal and inclusion in the marketplace. and provide insight into best practices when working informal interactions and engagement with the FMC Thereby, the i-Gen Network will serve to develop, with various cultures. community at large. connect and empower employees from all generations to have a voice and cultivate leadership within FMC. 2018 Highlights: 2018 Highlights: Highlights: 21 ▶▶ Hosted quarterly “Taste of FMC” culinary ▶▶ Organized movie screenings for employees of (Launched in early 2019) events to celebrate and acknowledge diverse Kinky Boots and Love, Simon in Philadelphia. food culture. ▶▶ Organized i-Gen launch party that included a ▶▶ Celebrated Pride Month in Philadelphia and the talk about different generations in the workplace ▶▶ Organized a Fireside Chat during Black History Stine and Ewing Research Centers. from Subarna Malakar (Director, Diversity and Month to discuss topics on the background, work behavior dynamics, challenges and ▶▶ Hosted Parents and Friends of LGBTQ+ and Inclusion), and activities/skits that celebrated Spectrum Core Team meet and greet sessions cross generational collaboration and differences. solutions to overcome stereotypes and biases in Philadelphia and Stine Research Center. often faced by people of color. ▶▶ Hosted a presentation about Dr. Erin Myers’ book, “The Culture Map: Navigating Cultural Differences in Business”, that helped FMC Pride Month Celebration employees learn ways to navigate through the To raise awareness and celebrate PRIDE different cultural realities of how people think month, Spectrum hosted keynote speaker Kenji and get things done in global business. Yoshino who spoke about the issue of “Covering ▶▶ Established partnerships with the Association in the Workplace”. Kenji is the Chief Justice of Latin Professionals For America (Philadelphia Earl Warren Professor of Constitutional Law at Chapter) and National Association of Asian NYU School of Law. In his remarks, Kenji shared American Professionals (Philadelphia Chapter). that “To cover is to downplay a disfavored PICTURED FROM LEFT TO RIGHT AT THE I-GEN LAUNCH: trait to blend into the mainstream. Because Linda Froelich, Global Sustainability Director; Karen Totland, i-Gen all of us possess stigmatized attributes, we all Executive Sponsor and VP of Global Procurement, Global Facilities and encounter pressure to cover in our daily lives”. Sustainability; Julie Boss, i-GEN Co-Chair; Gabriel Olchin, i-GEN Co-Chair; He provided employees with valuable insights Pierre Brondeau, Chief Executive Officer; Margarita Giavis, i-GEN Treasurer; Ragine Williams, D&I Intern; and Mark Douglas, Chief Operating Officer. and tools to recognize and overcome covering. CULTIVATING TOMORROW WOMEN LEADING THE WAY CropLife Asia, the regional voice of the plant science Lisa Hoffman, Technical Manager, Discovery Biology at industry, elected Bethwyn Todd, Vice President and FMC FMC Stine Research Center, has been nominated to the Asia President, as CropLife Asia President. In addition, The 2019 STEP Ahead Awards by the National Association of Australia China Alumni Association recognized Bethwyn with Manufacturers in Washington, DC. The STEP Ahead Awards the Australian Ambassador’s Award for Women in Leadership celebrate women in Science, Technology, Engineering which celebrates achievements of leading female graduates and Production careers who have made outstanding of Australian universities who inspire other women through achievements in their companies and communities. The their dedication, accomplishments and commitment to the STEP Ahead Awards recognizes women at all levels of a Australia-China relationship. manufacturing organization, from the factory floor to the C-suite. Lisa is one of 130 nominees from 101 companies. 22 2018 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION HIGHLIGHTS: Transgender Inclusion Benefits Domestic Partner Benefits Effective January 2019, FMC offers transgender-inclusive FMC Denmark Wins healthcare coverage as part of our U.S. benefit plan. Effective January 2019, FMC offers domestic partner These benefits include support for mental health and Engagement with People healthcare coverage to U.S. same-sex and opposite-sex hormonal therapies, as well as surgical procedures. with Disabilities Award partners and their dependents. While FMC has offered domestic partner healthcare coverage in the past, this FMC’s manufacturing site in Rønland, Disabilities Awareness Month coverage was thought to be unnecessary when the Denmark, received the Disability Award of the As part of our Disability Awareness month activities Year from the local municipality. This award U.S. Supreme Court legalized same-sex marriage in in October 2018, we hosted a luncheon with keynote recognizes an association, private person or 2015. However, many state jurisdictions continue to lack speaker David Harrell. David is an international company that has made a special effort to clear, fully-inclusive protections for domestic partners, award-winning actor, speaker and disability advocate. enable citizens with disabilities to participate and we have since determined that there are He talked to employees about how to in community life on equal terms. FMC some states today where it can be difficult or understand the challenges someone with received the award for its training of local burdensome for same-sex partners to marry. a disability may face and ideas to promote residents with disabilities who are struggling a disabled-friendly workplace. to gain a foothold in the labor market and may not be prepared for higher education. Since its launch in 2014, 118 local residents Soybeans, have participated in the program. Many of Glycine max them are currently employed while others are pursuing further education. FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Women in Senior Management FMC China Certified 2018 Results: While we have increased the percentage Top Employer 2019 of women in senior management year-over-year since FMC was certified in 2019 as a Top Employer in 2016, we have more work to do. With our D&I strategy, China by the Top Employers Institute, a certification commitment from our leaders, and critical actions plans, program that recognizes leading employers in more we will be able to increase the number of women in than 115 countries around the world that provide management at FMC. exceptional working environments. % OF WOMEN 26.1 26.7 28.0 23 2016 2017 2018 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Women in STEM Award LEADERSHIP AWARDS Recognizes talent at any level, from manufacturing to executives, who have made contributions in STEM. In 2018, we continued our D&I Leadership Award Program Award winners were: to recognize employees who are champions of D&I. This year, we had a total of nine award winners, spread across Lisa Hoffman – North America three different categories: Emerging Leaders in STEM, Women in STEM and Change Leader. Poonam Nangalia – North America Emerging Leaders in STEM Award Change Leader Award Recognizes employees who have made significant Recognizes employees, who through their actions, contributions in STEM and excelled early in their career. perseverance and engagement, made the workplace Award winners were: more welcoming and inclusive. Award winners were: Lauren Markell – North America Joshua Hoff – North America Maureen Anyanwu – North America Karina Daugaard – EMEA AWARD WINNERS PICTURED ABOVE FROM LEFT TO RIGHT: Naresh Bolla, Karina Daugaard, Yang Yuan, Roxanne Gutschenritter, Yang Yuan – North America Naresh Bolla – Asia Pacific Lauren Markell, Lisa Hoffman and Poonam Nangalia. Roxanne Gutschenritter – North America CULTIVATING TOMORROW our Farmers around the world face major productivity challenges. Demand for food is sharply increasing due to a rising population and growing middle class. This, along with climate pressures, PRODUCTS results in fewer acres of arable land per capita. To meet the nutritional needs of our growing global population, it is essential that we continually improve crop yields on a relatively stable environmental footprint. FMC is committed to addressing these challenges within our current portfolio and in our R&D pipeline. “ To raise new questions, new possibilities, to regard old problems from a new angle, requires creative imagination and marks real advance in science.” –Albert Einstein | Theoretical Physicist and Recipient of the 1921 Nobel Prize in Physics The need for the introduction, adaptation and Hunger Statistics: implementation of good farming practices has never been more urgent to maintain local and international • Approximately 1 billion people worldwide go to food security and livelihoods in sustainable ways. bed hungry each night. According to the UN Food and Agriculture Organization, there has been a rise in hunger for the third year in a row. • Small farmers, herders, and fishermen produce about 70 percent of the global food supply, yet The population of undernourished people increased to they are especially vulnerable to food insecurity nearly 821 million in 2017 from 784 million in 2014. – poverty and hunger are most acute among Without crop protection products there would be rural populations. epidemics of destructive insects, weeds and diseases • Approximately 9 million people die of hunger that could cause major crop failures. Farmers have been each year according to world hunger statistics; INNOVATION GOALS able to sustainably grow more crops on less land using more than the death toll for malaria, AIDS and crop protection products, thus significantly increasing tuberculosis combined. FMC R&D Spend on 25 crop yields. Additional benefits of using crop protection • Over 60 percent of the world’s hungry are Sustainably Advantaged Products products include: BY YEAR women, who have limited access to resources 2020 GOAL (80%) ▶▶ Lower cost of food. because of the patriarchal societies in which they live. ▶▶ Quality food supply. • Because of the prevalence of hunger in women ▶▶ Consistent food supply. in developing countries, malnutrition is a leading cause of death for children. Over 3 million PERCENT ▶▶ Land conservation. children die of hunger each year. ▶▶ More widely available grains, milk and proteins necessary for childhood development. R&D SPEND ▶▶ More abundant fruits and vegetables which provide 67% 76% 82% 87% essential nutrients for human health. 2015 2016 2017 2018 ▶▶ Increased profits for farmers by maximizing valuable agricultural inputs such as fertilizers, In 2018, we dedicated 87 percent of our R&D water resources and high-quality seeds. budget to develop sustainably advantaged products, surpassing our 2020 goal of 80 Pesticides also help protect consumers and their property percent. A sustainably advantaged product is from a wide variety of problems. They help keep homes free one that positively impacts at least one of the of termites, disease-carrying insects and other unsanitary six major Global Challenges: Food Expectations, pests such as bed bugs and cockroaches. Insecticides help Health and Safety Expectations, Environmental keep people safe from insect bites that may carry diseases Consciousness, Climate Change, Scarce like the West Nile virus, Lyme disease, Zika virus and Resources and Land Competition, but does not malaria, which are significant public health concerns. retreat in any of the five other areas. CULTIVATING TOMORROW FROM R&D TO THE GROWER ▶▶ Testing for requirements to support registrations to sell the molecule FMC R&D is fully integrated today with complementary organizations combining the legacy DuPont Discovery ▶▶ Testing the molecule in the field to develop organization and the FMC Development organization. a label for the use of the product Together, we are stronger. ▶▶ Developing formulations for specific crops FMC has 22 field stations, allowing us to test new and regions YEAR 1 products and formulations around the world. Through this expanded presence, our regional R&D teams ▶▶ Developing a manufacturing process Chemistry Research  transmit what is going on in local markets back to & Development  The Development stage can take seven to 10 years to Planning Stage our global Discovery and Development teams. This progress through definition, validation, development, broadens our reach, helping us to better understand and finally the launch of the new product. unique local needs and opportunities. It is this kind of 26 deep knowledge that leads to the solutions that make a difference for growers. DISCOVERY PIPELINE STAGE GATE PROCESS We currently have 15 innovative chemistry areas in our The process of creating new crop protection products Discovery Pipeline which we will continue to test. Due is divided into two activities: Discovery and to stringent testing requirements, only a few molecules Development. Work in Discovery and Development will advance to the next stage. Some of these feature is very different, but they both follow a rigorous stage new modes of action, which are very important for gate process to ensure we advance the best and most successful molecules. sustainable molecules to commercialization. The work of Discovery is to imagine and create brand new molecules that the world has never seen. This stage typically lasts two to three years. We screen more than Why Are New Modes of 60,000 compounds annually, and we make and test Sugarcane, Action Important? thousands of molecules in Discovery each year. Our goal Saccharum officinarum is to move one compound from the Discovery Pipeline New mode of action pesticides control pests to the Development Pipeline each year. that are resistant to products on the market today. They also maintain product efficacy When a molecule is in the Development Pipeline, we longer because growers have a new tool that test and develop all the components needed for a allows them to rotate different modes of action commercial molecule. This includes: during a season. This rotation, part of Integrated Pest Management, limits resistance from occurring for as long as possible and is integral to sustainable agricultural practices. FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT YEARS 2 5 YEARS 6 8 YEARS 9 11 Lab & Greenhouse Additional Product Development, Screening & Field Trials– Field Trials & Product Product Introduction & Proof of Concept Stage Definition Stage Commercialization Stage 27 New Discoveries DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE Bixafen Fungicide Our late-stage Discovery Pipeline includes a broadWe have several active ingredients in our development Bixafen has completed the stage gate process in the U.S. spectrum herbicide molecule that can control pipleline. Some examples of them are outlined below. and has recently launched. The lead product is Lucento™ glyphosate-resistant weeds, a growing challenge for fungicide which contains a mixture of bixafen plus FMC’s farmers. It controls both grass and broadleaf weeds, and Fluindapyr Fungicide proprietary fungicide flutriafol. Lucento™ fungicide is is safe to use on corn, soybean and cereals, as well as Fluindapyr controls a variety of key diseases in row and an important part of FMC’s U.S. fungicide portfolio and other key crops. It is effective either as a pre-emergent or specialty crops around the world including rusts, leaf spots, provides a differentiated solution to a wide range of post-emergent application, giving the grower flexibility in powdery mildews, scab and anthracnose. We anticipate diseases on corn, soybeans and peanuts. Like flutriafol, both timing as well as mixture partners. launch in the U.S. in 2021, China in 2022, the EU and Argentina it is absorbed into leaf and stem tissues, and has both in 2023, and Brazil in 2024. Key crops include soybeans, corn, translaminar and systemic activity. Since both fungicides in A novel insecticide that has demonstrated outstanding this product are taken up in the plant, and do not just coat cotton, cereals, oilseed rape, fruits and vegetables, tree nuts control of key aphids has recently moved from late stage the leaf surface, the whole plant is protected from diseases. and peanuts, as well as turf and ornamentals. discovery into our development pipleline. This insecticide is systemic so when it is applied either through sprays Bixlozone Herbicide on the leaves or with irrigation, it is taken up in the plant, Bixlozone is an herbicide with a new mode of action Cabbage, Brassica oleracea Rotational Products providing protection to the entire plant. This insecticide against grass weeds in cereals. It will also be used in Rotational products are beneficial to both will have the potential to meet oilseed rape, sugarcane, rice and corn. Bixlozone farmers and the environment. If one product is the market need in vegetables as provides growers a new rotational product for used season after season, there is an increased well as corn, cotton and potato likelihood that the product is no longer resistance management across a wide range of crops worldwide. effective against the pest. Integrating a smart agronomic practices. In addition to controlling resistant weeds, bixlozone demonstrates rotational cycle with a variety of products decreases the likelihood of resistance. Potatoes, long duration control of key grass weeds, Solanum tuberosum including crabgrass, goose grass, and ryegrass. CULTIVATING TOMORROW Grower Standard Altacor® Insecticide EXAMPLES OF TECHNOLOGIES IN RYNAXYPYR® AND CYAZYPYR® OUR SUSTAINABLE PORTFOLIO ACTIVE INGREDIENTS PLANT HEALTH These sustainable active ingredients belong to the diamide class of insect control products, and are highly Biological offerings in our Plant Health platform complement selective chemistries that only target certain classes of synthetic molecules. We continue to invest in the discovery pests. This was a new mode of action for insect control and development of bio-stimulants, bio-fungicides, when the Rynaxypyr® active ingredient brand was first bio-insecticides, and bio-nematicides, which are unique introduced in 2008. Rynaxypyr® and Cyazypyr® active ALTACOR® INSECTICIDE IN SUGARCANE (BRAZIL) technologies that protect plants and their root systems ingredients are not the only diamides on the market, but against pests and disease, leading to improved crop yields. they have proven to be superior to the others and to all ▶▶ Growers in Brazil can see a 15 to 25 percent yield other competing classes of chemistry. There are many One biological product in our Plant Health development improvement for sugarcane versus current features about their performance and characteristics that pipeline can be applied as a seed treatment for soil diseases, products on the market. The positive impact from 28 as well as protection against nematodes. Both soil fungi led to their rapid adoption by farmers around the world. this improvement can be an increase of $3,500 to and nematodes attack the roots of plants, leading to poor ▶▶ Both active ingredients are unique in their combination $8,000 of revenue per acre. of fast action, low dose rate and residual control. This growth and yield. Nematodes are parasitic microscopic combination results in almost immediate and continued ▶▶ In India, these products have had a significant creatures that damage roots of many types of vegetable impact on the lives of small-scale farmers in and legume plants, grains and grasses and the stems and prevention of direct and indirect pest damage. There are protecting their crops and thus, their livelihoods. leaves of some flowering plants. In the U.S. alone, crop losses extensive data showing that this superior and prolonged due to nematodes are in the billions (US$). Our product insect control directly leads to vigorous growth, has demonstrated nematode protection in Brazil, North improved yield and higher quality crops. America and Europe. In addition, it controls diseases such ▶▶ In China, growers can see a yield increase of 10 to 15 as Rhizoctonia sp. and Fusarium sp. and has indications percent for rice versus competitive products. For a that it outperforms current bio-fungicide seed treatment rice farmer, this translates to an increase of $1,500 standards when added to a chemical-based seed treatment. to $4,000 per acre, which is a life-changing increase for many Asian farmers. In June 2018, we extended our collaboration with Chr. Hansen for an additional five years to develop and Grower Standard Coragen® Insecticide commercialize natural solutions for the agricultural industry. The collaboration, which has resulted in the launch of several natural products over the last five years such as Quartzo® nematicide and Presence® nematicide in Brazil, has enabled both Chr. Hansen and FMC to join resources and expertise to accelerate entry into the rapidly growing biological crop protection market. The newly extended agreement continues to leverage the resources and expertise of both companies. PICTURED ABOVE: A letter received from a farmer describing how our Rynaxypyr® active ingredient product (Coragen® insecticide) significantly CORAGEN® INSECTICIDE IN RICE (CHINA) increased his sugarcane crop yield and improved his family’s quality of life. FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PRECISION AGRICULTURE PrecisionPac® Technology The benefits of this technology include: FMC’s PrecisionPac application ® Agriculture is transforming at a rapid pace technology is a revolutionary ▶▶ Saved costs – from being able to purchase the through new technologies that allow growers exact amount needed for their acreage. herbicide dispensing system to make site-specific decisions based on highly detailed data. FMC cares about the downstream that matches the right amount ▶▶ Reduced waste – the product is delivered into and blend of products (from custom pouches, reducing packaging materials. environmental impact of our products and 12 different herbicide blends) strives to create innovative solutions that use to agronomic needs. This ▶▶ Reduced applicator exposure – eliminates growers fewer resources and are safer for growers having to measure herbicides in the field. The technology allows farmers in and applicators. 3RIVE 3D® and PrecisionPac® product is in a sealed pouch that can be directly North America the flexibility of application technologies are two examples added to sprayers. purchasing the exact amount within FMC’s portfolio that advance precision they need. agriculture. In the future, we anticipate ▶▶ Reduced environmental impact – purchasing integrating data streams to add greater precision the right amount prevents the over application 29 to the capabilities of these technologies. of products. 3RIVE 3D® Technology The benefits of this technology include: ▶▶ Minimizes worker exposure. 3RIVE 3D application technology is a revolutionary ▶▶ Increases application efficiency by delivering ® at-plant crop protection delivery platform. This ▶▶ Uses 90 to 95 percent less water than traditional product directly in-furrow. technology ensures the product is evenly distributed liquid systems, which means fewer refills and a throughout the entire solution with the introduction reduced risk of runoff; beneficial for areas facing of air in the application system. Therefore, when the water challenges. product is applied to the soil furrow, seeds are protected ▶▶ Carries 50 percent less weight than granular from pests regardless of seed placement. While this systems, which reduces soil compaction. technology was originally designed with efficiency in mind, the positive environmental impacts of 3RIVE 3D® ▶▶ Reduces potential pollinator impact due to dustapplication technology has made it a mainstay in our free formulations and immediate soil row cover portfolio and continues to inspire us to further push the upon application. boundaries of its use. Harvesting cotton CULTIVATING CULTIVATING TOMORROW PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP protective equipment in rural areas. FMC strives for currently on the market. This assessment, along with an open and transparent communication about the other stewardship processes and tools, ensures the successes and challenges facing product stewardship, as introduction and continued use of environmentally this is a fundamental component in identifying successful sustainable agricultural solutions. solutions. An example of the leadership commitment to stewardship at FMC is the Stewardship Advisory Council, Assessment questions are answered in comparison to an internal forum composed of key leaders who provide a benchmark product and the results are indicated in guidance for the development of long-term strategies. a Sustainability Matrix diagram (see facing page for example). A product is considered sustainable if it is better than the benchmark in at least one area, but it SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENT TOOL cannot retreat in any of the five other areas. If a product MARCELLO GIANNUZZI Product Stewardship Director FMC developed and utilizes the Sustainability is not considered sustainable because its attributes Assessment Tool to determine the sustainability of are not as good as the benchmark, then FMC works to 30 At FMC we promote stewardship at each stage of the new active ingredients and formulated products mitigate the area of concern. product life cycle, and stewardship priorities are built into being developed in R&D and to evaluate products the core of R&D, portfolio and marketing strategies for a truly proactive approach. The company is a member of CropLife International’s Product Stewardship Committee to help drive positive progress in agriculture, especially WHAT IS PRODUCT STRATEGIC PILLARS in terms of safe and responsible use of crop protection STEWARDSHIP? Processes products. This includes labeling schemes in support of Stewardship is about the safe and Define processes, priorities and opportunities for value resistance management, guidelines for the adoption responsible use of our products creation to ensure proper governance of our new and of new technologies such as drones, best practices for along the product life cycle. existing products through proactive stewardship. handling empty containers and availability of personal PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP Engagement Sorghum seeds, AT FMC Raise the profile of stewardship within the organization. Sorghum bicolor Stewardship priorities are built into Define priorities and needs for stewardship training within the heart of R&D, portfolio and the organization. marketing strategies. Develop engagement strategies with key external stakeholders. STRATEGY Enhance leadership within CropLife International to We enhance the sustainability of influence priorities and outcomes. our business by taking proactive stewardship actions at each stage Measure and Monitor of the product life cycle. Develop metrics to monitor implementation and impact of stewardship initiatives on the responsible use of our products and commercial strategies. FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FMC Sustainability Matrix Example Conservation at Stine Research Center In 1995, Stine Research Center in Delaware received its FOOD EXPECTATIONS first recognition as a certified Wildlife Habitat Site. The site consists of approximately 500 acres of woodland, farmland and grassland habitats. ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH & SAFETY CONSCIOUSNESS EXPECTATIONS The Wildlife Improvement of Stine Habitat (WISH) team currently manages many habitat enhancement programs. These include the monitoring of 45 nest boxes for bluebirds, wood ducks and a variety of other native birds, maintaining butterfly and hummingbird gardens, supporting a program for Eastern Painted Turtles and a reforestation project. In LAND SCARCE 2017, Stine Research Center achieved Gold Conservation 31 Certification status from the Wildlife Habitat Council. COMPETITION RESOURCES Benchmark Active ingredient CLIMATE CHANGE or product HIGHLY HAZARDOUS PESTICIDES FMC is committed to introducing products that control only target pests and promote human and ecosystem health. We continue to phase out Highly Hazardous Pesticides (HHPs) as classif ied by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization from our product portfolio. To ensure that no inert ingredients classified as HHPS are used in new product development, our Formulations team consults a toolbox of recommended additives. In addition, our Regulatory teams double-check the inert ingredients in each new product prior to submitting it for registration. Strawberries, PICTURED ABOVE: Wildlife sightings at Stine Research Center and the WISH team’s Fragaria × ananassa on-site reforestation efforts CULTIVATING TOMORROW our PROGRESS At FMC, we understand the impact our manufacturing processes have on the environment and the communities that surround them. We are committed to increasing the transparency of our progress towards strengthening relationships with our communities and reducing our environmental impact. “ Climate change is destroying our path to sustainability. Ours is a world of looming challenges and increasingly limited resources. Sustainable development offers the best chance to adjust our course.” –Ban Ki-moon | Former United Nations Secretary-General A Snapshot of FMC’s EUROPE Community Activities STORIE DI ALTERNANZA – SAN COLOMBANO, ITALY THE GIVING SPIRIT THRIVES – MIDDLEPORT, NEW YORK ASIA The “Storie di Alternanza” Award is an FMC Middleport employees donated more than 600 initiative promoted by pounds of food to the Middleport Area Community TRESNA WERDHA NURSING HOME – PASURUAN, INDONESIA the Italian Chambers Food Pantry. “Throughout the year and especially during of Commerce to the holiday season, it is important to help those in our FMC employees at increase collaboration community who are in need,” said Roberta Kloda, our Pasuruan Plant between schools plant manager. donated food, clothes, and corporations. THE LEUKEMIA & LYMPHOMA SOCIETY – diapers and cleaning Students who participated in internships with businesses PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA 34 materials to the Tresna were encouraged to share learnings with the wider Werdha Nursing Home, community through video essays. FMC collaborated with As part of our longstanding partnership with the Eastern located approximately students from the A. Cesaris School, who won the first Pennsylvania Chapter of The Leukemia & Lymphoma 20 km from the plant. prize for their winning video about how FMC’s strong Society®, FMC became the Safety Spotlight Sponsor for The facility is home safety culture helped change people’s behavior. Light the Night fundraising walk. We were also a premier to over 100 elderly residents who do not have a family sponsor for “Big Climb”, a stair climb fitness event that support system to take care of their personal and medical NORTH AMERICA was held at FMC Tower. needs. During FMC’s visit to the nursing home in May 2018, employees were also able to spend time connecting with the residents. FEED THE GULF COAST – MOBILE, ALABAMA LATIN AMERICA Our Mobile site’s Feed the Gulf Coast backpack program DONATION OF WATER COOLERS – SAVLI, INDIA HOSPITAL VOLUNTEERING – UBERABA, BRAZIL helped meet the needs of chronically hungry children by providing them with nutritious and easy-to prepare food In April, our Uberaba site Employees at our Savli to take home on weekends and during school vacations employees visited the Plant donated water when other resources were not available. Hospital de Clínicas da coolers to four schools in their community. Water Universidade Federal do “ADOPT A FAMILY” PROGRAM – STINE RESEARCH coolers are essential to Triângulo Mineiro and CENTER, NEWARK, DELAWARE give children access to organized fun interactive clean, cold water to cool FMC Stine employees have participated in an annual activities such dancing, off on a hot day. The Adopt A Family Program sponsored by Children & balloon sculpturing and program benefited over Families First in Wilmington, Delaware, for over 15 years. magic shows to lift the 870 students. This program ensures that each “adopted” child receives spirits of patients of all a winter coat, hat and gloves along with other requested ages and their families. clothing and toys. Other essential items are given to the children’s mother to help support the family. FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REDEVELOPMENT OF ONE OF REDUCING TRANSPORTATION EMISSIONS Given our large number of suppliers, we have partnered OUR REMEDIATION SITES FMC is committed to increasing transparency of our with Sedex, a not-for-profit risk management membership organization, to assist in assessing and global logistics impact. In 2018, we established a auditing our current raw material suppliers. We have a partnership with BDP international, Inc. and the Smart similar partnership program with Avetta for significant Freight Centre to pilot a Logistics Emissions Accounting contractors in North America. This program was expanded and Reduction Network (LEARN) project. The pilot in 2018 to include the newly acquired sites from DuPont. calculated carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions for select routes within our supply chain. From there, alternative routes were identified, CO2e emissions EXTERNAL SUSTAINABILITY measured and compared to existing routes to assess the potential for reduced transportation emissions. We ADVISORY COUNCIL determined that if the alternative routes with the lowest FMC’s External Sustainability Advisory Council, CO2e emissions were chosen, we could realize emission established in late 2017, is continuing to help us drive reduction by up to 38 percent. Moving forward we plan progress on our sustainability journey. In-person 35 The conceptual design (above) represents the to expand this pilot study to additional routes within our meetings are held twice a year and have focused on planned residential redevelopment on a portion of a supply chain and apply these findings to our broader key areas such as innovation, sustainable agriculture, former FMC property in Alameda County, California. GHG emissions reduction strategy. stakeholder engagement, materiality, diversity Redevelopment of the entire FMC property into a mixedand inclusion, issues management use area, including residential buildings, retail space, a strategy, ethics/compliance, A SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN safety and product neighborhood park and a transportation hub is part of a broader development plan established by the city. FMC Suppliers are vital to ensuring a responsible supply stewardship. Members of is performing the remediation of the property in phases chain. Several years ago, we launched a formal Supplier the council represent to expedite redevelopment and support the city’s plan. Selection and Approval Process that screens all new academia, think tanks, We completed soil remediation to meet residential use significant contractors and raw material suppliers for industry and investors. standards in late 2017 on a portion of the property and their adherence to quality, safety, human rights standards received approval of the remediation from the local and sustainability. In 2018, we expanded our process environmental regulatory agency in 2018, thus paving the to support the additional screening of new vendors for way for the first phase of future redevelopment. Investing sanctions and Foreign Corrupt Practices Act compliance. in remediation to residential use standards, which are This program is vital to managing and mitigating typically more stringent than those for industrial or supplier risk. The Supplier Selection and Approval commercial use, will allow for beneficial reuse of this process training is incorporated into our new employee brownfield site to help meet the growing demand for onboarding program in Procurement. housing in the San Francisco Bay Area. Rice, Oryza sativat CULTIVATING TOMORROW 2018 | Environmental Results FMC measures and reports our environmental footprint Note: The data in this table does not include the newly on an intensity basis – i.e., energy (gigajoule), GHG acquired assets from DuPont from November 2017. emissions (tonne CO2 equivalent), waste disposed Livent expects to separately report on its goals and 2025 Goal (tonne), and water use at high risk locations (cubic targets starting in 2019. FMC Corporation Legacy (vs. 2013 Lithium Metric FMC meter) per tonne of product. The table to the left Baseline) shows progress towards our environmental reduction The charts below include environmental metrics for targets for both legacy FMC and for Livent at the legacy FMC owned sites, active ingredient contract Energy intensity -15% -18% -21% end of 2018. Significant reductions were achieved manufacturing sites, all newly acquired sites from GHG emissions for both companies versus the 2013 baseline year, DuPont as well as Livent. -15% -12% -27% intensity already exceeding the 2025 targets in most areas. This For further details on our environmental progress, Waste disposed was primarily due to efficiency improvements in our -15% -29% -20% please visit ww.FMCsustainability.com intensity processes and changes to cleaner burning fuels. Water use intensity 36 at high risk locations -20% -25% -21% Global Energy Use Global GHG Emissions Global Waste Disposed Global High Risk Water Use 7 80 600 3.5 80 400 4000 180 HIGH RISK WATER USE, MILLION CUBIC METERS HIGH RISK WATER USE INTENSITY, CUBIC METER/MT 70 70 350 3500 160 6 3.0 TOTAL WASTE DISPOSED, K-TONNES WASTE DISPOSED INTENSITY, KG/MT 500 GHG INTENSITY, TONNES CO2E/MT 140 60 60 300 3000 TOTAL ENERGY USE, TJ ENERGY INTENSITY, GJ/MT 5 2.5 GHG, K-TONNES CO2E 400 120 50 50 250 2500 4 2.0 100 40 300 40 200 2000 3 1.5 80 30 30 150 1500 200 60 2 1.0 20 20 100 1000 40 100 1 10 0.5 10 50 500 20 0 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Notes about Environmental Data: 1. In 2018, energy, GHG emissions and water data for legacy FMC and legacy DuPont were externally assured. 2. Throughout 2018, Livent Corporation reported its data along with FMC’s Agricultural business. Livent’s energy, GHG emissions and Legacy FMC Legacy DuPont Legacy FMC water data was externally assured along with that of FMC’s Agricultural Solutions business. Intensity 3. In 2018, the external assurance did not include the active ingredient contract manufacturing sites. Active Ingredient Lithium Contract Lithium 4. In 2018, we revised our accounting practice for reporting Lithium production that resulted in changes to Lithium intensities Intensity Manufacturing ranging from 1-6 percent. FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FMC local farmers without heat recovery. If FMC were LITHIUM (NOW KNOWN AS LIVENT) to replace the briquette use with natural gas, we FMC’s manufacturing sites synthesize active ingredients The FMC Lithium business, which is now Livent Corporation, could reduce our GHG emissions at Panoli by (AIs) and perform the final steps of product formulation, also achieved significant reductions in intensities about 34 percent. But on a life cycle basis, total mixing and packaging. Additionally, we obtain AIs GHG emissions to the environment would not be compared to the baseline. Since 2013, the business has through contract manufacturers. The synthesis of reduced due to the extra natural gas combustion seen considerable growth in production volume, yet due these complex chemicals has a material environmental needed to meet the energy demand of the site. to increased operational efficiencies, it has reduced the footprint; therefore, we work with both FMC-owned intensities across all its environmental metrics. sites and contract manufacturers to monitor and 3▶▶ Waste – In 2018, FMC reduced absolute waste reduce these impacts. As growers’ needs change and disposed by 39 percent and waste disposed 1▶▶ Energy – Even though production increased by 23 intensity by 29 percent versus the 2013 baseline. percent in 2018, energy use remained flat due to pest pressures increase, we adjust our AI product mix This was accomplished through process efficiencies implementation of energy improvement projects. to address these challenges. In some cases, these and phasing out highly waste intensive products. This resulted in a decrease in energy intensity of 21 adjustments result in producing AIs that are more percent compared to 2013 baseline. resource intensive. We are committed to minimizing 4▶▶ Water – In 2018 we reassessed our sites that fall in our impacts and collaborating with our contract the mediumto high-risk locations as defined by 2▶▶ GHG – Since 2013, due to energy efficiency projects 37 manufacturers to measure and reduce their impacts. the World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct Tool. and conversion to natural gas fired boilers, GHG WRI uses 12 key water indicators to assess the risk intensity was reduced by 27 percent. FMC-OWNED MANUFACTURING SITES level of a site. Twelve of our manufacturing sites (including newly acquired sites from DuPont) fall 3▶▶ Waste – By repurposing several waste streams to within the mediumto high-risk zones based on valuable by-products, Lithium reduced the waste 1▶▶ Energy – We are continuously investing in disposal intensity by 20 percent since 2013. the key water indicators. Through better process energy efficient equipment and replacing our boilers for efficient use of our energy. We have control, and treatment for water reuse we have 4▶▶ Water – Lithium utilizes water as a portion of achieved 40 percent reduction in absolute water its extraction process. Through responsible use also undertaken energy audits at select plants use and 25 percent reduction in water intensity at and recycling of this valuable resource, Lithium that resulted in energy savings. The efforts have these high-risk sites. reduced water intensity at high risk sites by 21 resulted in reduced absolute energy use by 31 percent and energy intensity by 18 percent percent since 2013. compared to the 2013 baseline. FMC ACTIVE INGREDIENT CONTRACT MANUFACTURING SITES CONTINUED PROGRESS 2▶▶ GHG – The energy efficiency projects at our plants have also helped reduce our absolute GHG 1▶▶ Energy – Since 2013, the energy intensity at our Making progress on our goals requires identification and emissions by 26 percent and GHG intensity by 12 contract manufacturing partners increased by 6 implementation of projects to reduce our environmental percent versus our 2013 baseline. It is important percent due to change in product mix. footprint. In 2019 FMC will reset its environmental goals to note that the continued use of briquettes as an energy source at our Panoli, India, site is a 2▶▶ GHG – Due to the change in fuel mix, the GHG to reflect our current business, including the legacy intensity decreased 3 percent compared to the DuPont manufacturing sites, using a 2018 baseline. large source of GHG emissions. However, the use of briquettes is tied to the local economy and 2013 baseline. positively contributes to the socio-economic 3▶▶ Waste – Waste disposed intensity at our sustainability of the community. Briquettes are contract manufacturing sites was reduced by made from an agricultural byproduct (groundnut 24 percent compared to the 2013 baseline. shells) that would otherwise be combusted by CULTIVATING TOMORROW ASSURANCE STATEMENT We planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations that we believe were necessary to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions. A multi-disciplinary team of EHS and assurance specialists performed the following activities: INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT TO FMC CORPORATION • Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems and ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by FMC Corporation (FMC) processes (including systems and internal review processes) used for collecting and reporting to provide limited assurance in relation to specified 2018 environmental and safety data in the the data for the specified indicators; FMC Sustainability Report 2018 (‘the Report’) as set out below. • A review of the internal indicator definitions and conversion factors; ENGAGEMENT SUMMARY • Visits to three sites (Flintshire, UK; Newark-Stine, DE, USA; Middleport, NY, USA) and two Whether the FMC total and BU level 2018 data for the following environmental (absolute virtual site visits (Tuas South, Singapore; Mobile, AL, USA) to review local reporting processes and intensity) and safety indicators presented on pages 15 and 36, and on FMC’s and consistency of reported annual data with selected underlying source data for each sustainability website (fmcsustainability.com/data-gri/) are fairly presented in all material respects, with the reporting criteria: indicator. We interviewed relevant staff, reviewed site data capture and reporting methods, • Scope 1 GHG Emissions (from direct energy use) [Kilotonnes CO2e] checked calculations and assessed the local internal quality and assurance processes; • Scope 2 GHG Emissions (location-based method) [Kilotonnes CO2e] 38 Scope of our • Total GHG Emissions [Kilotonnes CO2e] • A desk-based review of source data for four sites (Manati, Puerto Rico; Ronland, Denmark; assurance engagement • GHG Intensity [Tonnes CO2e/Tonne of Production] Panoli, India; and Salvi, India); • Total Energy Use [Terajoules] • Energy Intensity [GJ/Tonne of Production] • An analytical review of the data from all sites and a check on the completeness and accuracy • Total Water Use [Million Cubic Meters] of the corporate data consolidation; • Total High Risk Water Use [Million Cubic Meters] • High Risk Water Intensity [Cubic Meters/Tonne of Production] • Year-end assurance activities at corporate level including the results of internal review • Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) procedures and the completeness and accuracy of the consolidation of the data for the Reporting The WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004) for the Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions (excluding specified indicators from the site data; and criteria refrigerants) and FMC’s internal reporting criteria and definitions for the other indicators. • A review of the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the Report to Assurance ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance ensure consistency with our findings. standard Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised). Assurance Limited assurance. THE LIMITATIONS OF OUR ENGAGEMENT level The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available FMC is responsible for preparing the data and for its correct presentation in reporting to Respective third parties, including disclosure of the reporting criteria and boundary. methods for determining, calculating or estimating the underlying information. It is important to responsibilities ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the understand our assurance conclusions in this context. assurance activities performed and exercising our professional judgement. OUR CONCLUSIONS Jennifer Iansen-Rogers Head of Corporate Assurance Services Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the 2018 data for the 21 May 2019 specified indicators, as listed above, are not fairly presented, in all material respects, with the reporting criteria. ERM Certification and Verification Services, London | www.ermcvs.com; email: post@ermcvs.com OUR ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES ERM CVS IS A MEMBER OF THE ERM GROUP. THE WORK THAT ERM CVS CONDUCTS FOR CLIENTS IS SOLELY RELATED TO INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES AND AUDITOR TRAINING. OUR PROCESSES ARE DESIGNED AND IMPLEMENTED TO ENSURE THAT THE WORK WE UNDERTAKE WITH CLIENTS IS FREE FROM BIAS AND CONFLICT OF Our objective was to assess whether the 2018 data for the specified indicators are reported in INTEREST. ERM CVS AND THE ERM STAFF THAT HAVE UNDERTAKEN THIS ENGAGEMENT WORK HAVE PROVIDED NO accordance with the principles of completeness, comparability (across the organisation) and CONSULTANCY RELATED SERVICES TO FMC IN ANY RESPECT. accuracy (including calculations, use of appropriate conversion factors and consolidation). FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS Pierre R. Brondeau K’Lynne Johnson Margareth Øvrum Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Former Chief Executive Officer, President and Executive Chair, Executive Vice President, Development & Production, Brazil, FMC Corporation Elevance Renewable Sciences Inc. Equinor ASA Eduardo E. Cordeiro Dirk A. Kempthorne Robert C. Pallash Former Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Retired President and Chief Executive Officer, Retired President, Global Customer, President, Americas Region, Cabot Corporation American Council of Life Insurers Group and Senior Vice President, Visteon Corporation G. Peter D’Aloia Paul J. Norris William H. Powell Former Managing Director and Member of the Board of Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Directors, Ascend Performance Materials Holdings, Inc. W. R. Grace & Co. National Starch and Chemical Company C. Scott Greer Vincent R. Volpe, Jr. Principal, Greer and Associates Chairman, CEO, President and Principal, LeHavre Athletic Club 39 CHAIRMAN’S COMMITTEE Pierre R. Brondeau Andrew D. Sandifer Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mark A. Douglas Michael F. Reilly President and Chief Operating Officer Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer FMC OFFICERS Diane Allemang David A. Kotch Nicholas L. Pfeiffer Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer Vice President, Chief Information Officer Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer Brian P. Angeli Susanne M. Lingard Vice President, Corporate Strategy, Treasurer Vice President, Regulatory Affairs Kathleen A. Shelton, Ph.D. Vice President, Chief Technology Officer William F. Chester Kyle Matthews Vice President, Global Tax Vice President, Human Resources and Bethwyn Todd Chief Human Resources Officer President, FMC Asia, Vice President and Business Director, Barry J. Crawford FMC Agricultural Solutions, Asia Vice President, Operations Amy G. O’Shea Vice President and Business Director, Karen M. Totland Kenneth A. Gedaka FMC Agricultural Solutions, North America Vice President, Global Procurement, Vice President, Communications and Public Affairs Global Facilities and Corporate Sustainability Ronaldo Pereira Marc L. Hullebroeck President, FMC Latin America, Vice President and Business Shawn R. Whitman President, FMC EMEA, Vice President and Director, FMC Agricultural Solutions, Latin America Vice President, Government Affairs Business Director, FMC Agricultural Solutions, EMEA CULTIVATING TOMORROW UNITED NATIONS FMC became a signatory of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in 2015. This is our fourth Communication on Progress indicating our activities and management systems in support GLOBAL COMPACT of the UNGC principles. More information on our initiatives to support the UNGC principles can be found on Communication on Progress www.FMCsustainability.com WE SUPPORT TOPIC UNGC PRINCIPLE FMC’S INITIATIVES TO SUPPORT UNGC PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the • Human rights policy • Human Rights in the Supply • Supplier code of conduct protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct Chain training • Supplier screening process Human Rights Principle 2: Make sure that businesses are not • Human rights policy • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of 40 association and the effective recognition of the right • Human rights policy • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and • Human rights policy • Supplier code of conduct • Supplier screenings compulsory labor. • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct Labor • Human rights policy Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor. • Supplier Code of Conduct • Supplier screenings • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct • Revision of FMC policies to be • Human rights policy • New D&I strategy Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in more inclusive • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct • Domestic partner and transgender respect of employment and occupation. • Hired new Director of Diversity and • FMC Employee Resource Groups benefits (U.S.) Inclusion (D&I) Principle 7: Businesses should support a • CDP climate change module submission • Risk assessments for • Adherence to stringent precautionary approach to environmental challenges. • Climate change statement agricultural products regulatory frameworks Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater • CDP climate change module submission • 2025 environmental goals and progress • Product Stewardship programs Environment environmental responsibility. • Responsible Care • Seed treatment products Principle 9: Encourage the development and • Precision agriculture (3RIVE 3D® and • Evalio® AgroSystems • Product Stewardship and Sustainability diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. PrecisionPAC® application technologies) • Plant health products Assessment tool • Ethics on-line training course Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption • Training of FMC organization and FMC’s • FCPA audits Anti Corruption • The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. key third parties • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct compliance standard process Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements made in this report that are forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties concerning specific factors described in FMC Corporation’s 2018 Form 10-K and other SEC filings. Such information contained herein represents management’s best judgment as of the date hereof based on information currently available. FMC Corporation does not intend to update this information and disclaims any legal obligation to the contrary. Historical information is not necessarily indicative of future performance. FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 41 “ The greatest threat to our planet is the belief that someone else will save it.” –Robert Swan | Author and Polar Explorer CULTIVATING TOMORROW FMC Corporation FMC Tower at Cira Centre South 2929 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA FMC.com 42 Printed on Rolland Enviro Print, 80 lb Text. This paper contains 100% post-consumer fiber, is manufactured using renewable energy Biogas and processed chlorine free. It is FSC® certified, Rainforest AllianceTM and Ancient Forest FriendlyTM certified. COPYRIGHT © 2019, FMC CORPORATION. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
