Stepping on the gas toward our energy future Sustainability Report 2018 The energy for a better life. OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Welcome to OMV’s 2018 Sustainability Report Overview About this Report ­ ssurance statement on pages 117-118). a 3 CEO Statement Our disclosures focus on the topics that 5 Report of the Supervisory Board This report covers the operations of the have been deemed most material to our 6 OMV at a Glance OMV Group, headquartered in Vienna, business during the materiality analysis 11 Sustainability at OMV Austria, for the 2018 business year. ­performed in 2017 and reviewed in 2018 18 Risk and Opportunities Management (please see page 21). 19 Stakeholder Map 20 Environmental, Social, and Governance Ratings Report Scope and Boundaries, The data presented in the Report is consoli21 Reporting on Materiality ­Material Topics dated at Group level. All of the Health, Safety, Security, and Environment (HSSE) data is OMV’s 2018 Sustainability Report, a docucollected for activities where OMV is the Material ­Focus Areas ment published annually (most recent Susoperator, or where OMV has a stake of more tainability Report published on April 26, than 50% and exerts a controlling influence. 24 Health, Safety, Security, and Environment 2018), was prepared in accordance with the This approach follows industry best practice 46 Carbon Efficiency Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and is aligned with IPIECA oil and gas indus56 Innovation Core option, in line with the Austrian Nachtry guidance on voluntary sustainability 65 Employees haltigkeitsund Diversitätsverbesserungsreporting. 74 Business Principles and Social Responsibility gesetz (Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act), and guided by Oil and Gas Sector This boundary applies to all material topics, Disclosures presented following the launch of unless clearly indicated otherwise for a Performance in Detail the GRI G4 Guidelines. The 2018 Report ­particular material topic in the text of this describes our management and performance ­Sustainability Report. 96 Stakeholders’ Engagement Details of the material environmental, social, and 99 Additional Performance Figures governance issues for our Company. The document also serves as our CommunicaIt also includes external assurance on key tion on Progress for the UN Global Compact. topics (for more information, see the Further Information 117 Assurance Statement 119 Abbreviations 121 Definitions  More information about OMV can be 122 Memberships found in the OMV Annual Report 2018, 124 GRI Content Index in the OMV Factbook and on our website 132 Contacts and Imprint www.omv.com GRI 2016: 102-1, 102-3, 102-12, 102-46, 102-50, 102-54 1 [3] CEO Statement [5] Report of the Supervisory Board [6] OMV at a Glance Overview [11] Sustainability at OMV [18] Risk and Opportunities Management [19] Stakeholder Map [20] Environmental, Social, and Governance Ratings [21] Reporting on Materiality OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION CEO Statement In 2018, our achievements underlined our commitment to sustainability and “The energy for a better life.” Following the successful restructuring of our business in previous years and the implementation of our growth strategy, we are now perfectly positioned. We owe this to our first-class team of more than 20,000 employees, who every day devote their energy to making a better life for people in 23 countries. The global energy landscape is shaped by the foundation for responsibly ensuring the products such as petrochemicals. This will growing energy demands. Only if we suclong-term success of our Company. help us achieve our 2025 goal of reducing ceed in meeting this need without neglectthe carbon intensity of our product portfolio ing the protection of our environment can Safety is our top priority. We engage both by 4% compared to 2010. we ensure the sustainable development of our employees and our contractors through the global economy. As a socially responsiour Group-wide safety culture program. Our We support the transition to lower-carbon ble company, we must strike the right balincreased efforts to improve safety are energy sources and are continuously workance between affordable energy, security of reflected in a 12% reduction in the Lost-Time ing on the introduction of innovative techsupply, and climate protection. We are firmly Injury Rate in 2018 relative to 2017. Despite nologies and digital solutions to reduce the convinced that the responsible use of oil this, we had a tragic accident in Kazakhstan, environmental impact of our activities. and the increased use of gas will contribute in which one of our colleagues and two of When it comes to innovation, we are com­significantly to the transition toward a our contractors lost their lives. We took mitted to investing up to EUR 500 mn in the ­­lower-carbon future. immediate action and conducted full investiimplementation of two new technologies by gations, establishing measures throughout 2025. ReOil is an outstanding example of Our Sustainability Strategy 2025 is an intethe Company to prevent any serious accicircular economy – this plant converts plasgral part of our Corporate Strategy. As a susdents like this in the future. tic waste into synthetic crude oil. tainable player in the oil and gas sector, we ­Co-Processing integrates biogenic oil into strive for delivering “oil & gas at its best.” OMV is committed to climate protection and our processes and improves the quality of We are a reliable supplier of affordable enerto responsible resource management. Our such fuels. gy and petrochemical products, and demonstrategic goal is to reduce the carbon intenstrate responsibility toward our stakeholders sity of our operations by 19% until 2025. The By working with our communities in all and the environment. The safety of our gradual elimination of routine flaring and countries where we do business, we are workforce and assets is always our top priorventing of associated gas by 2030 will make ­creating long-term value for society. More ity, and we contribute to the sustainable a significant contribution here. Furthermore, than 900,000 people in 17 countries benefit development of society. The 15 measurable in the future we will produce more gas than from our investment of EUR 9 mn in educatargets of our Sustainability Strategy form oil and process more oil into higher-value tion, self-employment, and infrastructure. GRI 2016: 102-14 3 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION In Libya, for example, OMV supported In this 14th Sustainability Report, I would access to clean water by providing water like to share with you the achievements of pumps and supplying the laboratory equipwhich we are proud, along with the challengment at a college for renewable energies. es we are continuously working to overcome as we strive toward sustainability. At all We are proud that our environmental, social, times, the entire OMV team focuses on the and governance efforts are recognized by goal of covering the increasing energy needs leading international rating agencies. We are in a safe, responsible, and carbon-efficient the only Austrian company to be included in manner. the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI World) in 2018. With a prime rating of ISS-oekom, we are one of the top four comRainer Seele panies in the oil and gas sector out of 148 rated international entities. Chief Executive Officer GRI 2016: 102-14 4 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Report of the Supervisory Board Dear Shareholders, OMV is committed to implementing its growth strategy in a safe, responsible, and carbon-efficient manner. The Sustainability Strategy 2025 is firmly established in OMV’s Corporate Strategy and addresses five focus areas with 15 measurable targets. These targets underscore the commitment OMV has made. I am very pleased to report that OMV’s financial disclosures as a separate consolidat­comprehensive approach to sustainability ed non-financial report (sustainability report). has been recognized by independent rating The consolidated non-financial report that is agencies and that OMV was included in the presented pursuant to Section 96(1) of the internationally renowned Dow Jones Stock Corporation Act was subject to a com­Sustainability Index (DJSI World) in 2018. prehensive audit and discussion by the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board. The OMV has opted to make use of the option to Supervisory Board found no issues during prepare its mandatory consolidated non-­ the audit and approved this report. Vienna, April 16, 2019 For the Supervisory Board Peter Löscher m.p. Chairman of the Supervisory Board GRI 2016: 102-14 5 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION OMV at a Glance OMV produces and markets oil and Our Foundation gas, innovative energy, and high-end To support OMV’s business strategy and petrochemical solutions – in a responevolve our culture, we clearly articulated our sible way. OMV Foundation, which answers the questions: Why does OMV exist? What are we doing? How are we working together? With Group sales of EUR 23 bn and a workforce of more than 20,000 employees in Our Purpose: The energy for a better life. 2018, OMV Aktiengesellschaft is one of Energy is part of our lives: Conventional and Austria’s largest listed industrial companies. alternative fuels enable mobility. Natural gas In Upstream, OMV has a strong base in heats homes. Petrochemical products form Romania and Austria as part of the Central the basis for plastics we use everywhere – and Eastern Europe core region as well as a from everyday products (e.g., cables and balanced international portfolio, with Russia, package material) to high-tech applications the North Sea, the Middle East and Africa as (e.g., medical consumables and materials for well as Asia-Pacific as further core regions. the automotive industry). Daily production in 2018 stood at approximately 427,000 boe/d. In Downstream, OMV Behind all of these products is OMV energy: operates three refineries with a total annual energy bringing more convenience and processing capacity of 17.8 mn tons and more comfort to life. Along the entire value Our Business Reason: OMV produces and ciency, process sustainability, and product more than 2,000 filling stations in ten counchain, OMV contributes expertise, technologmarkets oil and gas, innovative energy, and value. OMV’s innovative capacity and techtries. OMV runs gas storage facilities in ical know-how, and innovations to improve high-end petrochemical solutions – in a nological expertise safeguard energy for a Austria and Germany; its subsidiary Gas the quality of people’s lives. Safe. Secure. responsible way. better life. Connect Austria GmbH operates a gas pipeResponsible. And Profitable. Today and line network in Austria. In 2018, gas sales tomorrow. Oil and gas have been – and will continue to Our Principles – Team Spirit, Accountability, volumes amounted to 114 TWh. be – the backbone of the global energy supPassion, Pioneering Spirit, and Performance – ply. This is why OMV has been investing in describe what we can expect from each modern technologies for greater plant effi­other and how we want to work together. Information on OMV Strategy can be found in the Annual Report 2018 GRI 2016: 102-5, 102-16 6 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Economic Performance In the year 2018, OMV was able to improve Clean CCS Operating Result 1 Free cash flow after dividends Dividend per share 2 the clean CCS Operating Result significantly in EUR mn in EUR mn in EUR 3,646 1,013 1.75 to EUR 3.6 bn. Driven by strong results in both Upstream and Downstream business segments and the successful implementation of the cost reduction program, this remark2,958 1.5 able result and an operating cash flow of ­ EUR 4.4 bn was achieved. Free cash flow after 615 1.2 dividends amounted to EUR 0.3 bn after major acquisitions and a record dividend. 1,535 263 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Reserve Replacement Rate Clean CCS ROACE 1 Clean CCS Earnings per share 1 in % in % in EUR 191 180 14 13 4.97 4.88 3.05 101 7  More information about OMV’s economic performance can be found in Annual 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Report 2018. 1 Adjusted for special items. Clean CCS figures exclude inventory holding gains/losses (CCS effects) resulting from the fuels refineries and OMV Petrol Ofisi. 2 2018: As proposed by the Executive Board and confirmed by the ­Supervisory Board, subject to confirmation by the Annual General Meeting 2019. GRI 2016: 102-7, 102-10 7 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Our Value Chain In the Upstream business segment, OMV 900 km natural gas pipeline network. The Downstream together with Upstream finfocuses on the exploration, development, Central European Gas Hub (CEGH) is a ished an Oil Business Continuity Plan for and production of oil and gas in its five core well-established gas-trading platform. The Austria, which ensures the supply to the regions of Central and Eastern Europe, Rusnode in Baumgarten (Austria) is Central Austrian market customers in case of downsia, the North Sea, Middle East and Africa, Europe’s largest entry and distribution point time of the refinery. and Asia-Pacific. At the end of 2018, OMV for Russian gas. OMV operates a gas-fired had proven reserves (1P) of 1.27 bn boe and power plant in Romania. proven and probable reserves (2P) of 2.16 bn boe. The Reserve Replacement Rate (RRR) was 180% in 2018. Daily production was 427 kboe/d in 2018 (2017: 348 kboe/d), which equals a total production of 156 mn boe. While gas production accounted for 57% of production, oil amounted to 43%. Upstream Onshore and offshore exploration The Downstream business segment consists and production of the Downstream Oil and the Downstream Gas businesses. Downstream Oil operates Downstream Oil three refineries: Schwechat (Austria) and Burghausen (Germany), both of which feature integrated petrochemical production, and the Petrobrazi refinery (Romania), which mainly processes Romanian crude. OMV has an annual processing capacity of 17.8 mn t. Supply Refining Storage Transportation Domestic Filling Industry The total refined product sales were and distribution stations 20.26 mn t in 2018 (2017: 23.82 mn t). The and services retail network consists of 2,064 filling staPetrotions in ten countries with a strong multichemicals brand portfolio. Industry In Downstream Gas, the natural gas sales Downstream Gas volume was 113.8 TWh in 2018 (2017: 113.4 TWh). OMV owns gas storages facilities with a capacity of 30 TWh and a 51% share in Gas Connect Austria, operating a Pipeline Storage Pipeline Domestic Gas-fired Industry power plants GRI 2016: 102-2, 102-9, 102-10; OG1 Sector Supplement 8 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Upstream Business Segment Annual production per country 2018 (in mn boe) Central and Eastern Europe Austria Bulgaria Kazakhstan Romania Russia North Sea Norway Russia Kazakhstan 36.4 Middle East and Africa Norway 2.5 Kurdistan Region of Iraq Romania Libya 27.3 55.8 Madagascar Pakistan 1 Austria Tunisia United Arab Emirates 9.4 Yemen Tunisia Pakistan1 Asia-Pacific 1.8 Kurdistan 1.3 Australia Region of Iraq United Malaysia 2 2.8 Arab Emirates New Zealand 1.8 Libya 10.9 Yemen 1.1 Malaysia2 New Zealand 4.8 1 The Upstream business in Pakistan was divested on June 28, 2018. 2 On January 31, 2019, OMV acquired a 50% interest in SapuraOMV Upstream Sdn. Bhd. In addition to the Malaysian footprint, SapuraOMV Upstream has exploration assets in New Zealand, Australia and Mexico. GRI 2016: 102-2, 102-4, 102-6, 102-7, 102-10 9 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Downstream Business Segment Downstream presence in 2018 Downstream Oil & Gas market OMV Austria refineries Germany Hungary Number of filling stations Romania Slovenia Equity gas Downstream Oil market Bulgaria Gas storage Czech Republic Moldova 139 92 197 Gas Serbia pipelines Slovakia Gas-fired power plant Downstream Gas market 558 Netherlands 82 LNG Turkey terminal 294 430 118 61 93 1 1 OMV divested the Samsun power plant in Turkey on September 6, 2018. GRI 2016: 102-2, 102-4, 102-6, 102-7, 102-10 10 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Sustainability at OMV OMV aims to provide secure supply of affordable energy for the sustainable Health, Safety, Security, development of society and the econand Environment omy while respecting the environment. Conducting business sustainably is Carbon Efficiency crucial for OMV in creating and proInnovation tecting value in the long term, in buildEmployees Business Principles and Social Responsibility ing trusting partnerships, and in attracting customers as well as the best suppliers, investors, and employees. GRI 2016: 102-16 11 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION OMV delivers energy responsibly to improve people’s lives. Sustainability for OMV means creating long-term value for our customers and shareholders by being innovative and an employer of choice. We conduct our business in a responsible way, respecting the environment and adding value to the societies in which we operate. Sustainability Strategy Growing demand for energy and accelerating climate change pose immense challenges for the energy sector. The key lies in finding the balance between climate protection efforts, affordable energy, and reliable supply. The economy needs alternative energy systems as well as economically viable and scalable technologies to satisfy the growing demand for energy. Here, OMV will make a significant contribution to the sustainable energy supply for future generations. To realize its mission of providing energy for a and Social Responsibility. The Sustainability and the increased weight of petrochemicals, a responsible business player. In line with better life, OMV is committed to exploring Strategy 2025 constitutes an integral part of where oil is used as a raw material rather our approach to shaping the future of energy the full potential of oil and gas at its best by the Corporate Strategy 2025, and is the susthan fuel. The reduction of the carbon intenin a sustainable way, OMV intends to allofollowing a responsible approach in productainable component of OMV’s business sity of operations is based on the plan to cate significant resources to the implemening, processing, and marketing oil and gas development ambitions. The targets of the optimize production through innovative tation of the Sustainability Strategy 2025. and petrochemical products. OMV’s responSustainability Strategy relating to OMV’s technical measures, to further enhance the For example, up to EUR 500 mn will be sible approach to business addresses operations and products are aligned with the energy efficiency of operations, and to elimiinvested in innovative energy solutions such 15 measurable targets of the Sustainability production, sales, and product portfolio nate routine flaring and venting. The targets as ReOil and Co-Processing. (For more inforStrategy 2025. The targets are set in the five plans set by the Corporate Strategy. Thus, related to focus areas that are linked to the mation on ReOil and Co-Processing, see focus areas: Health, Safety, Security, and for example, reducing the carbon intensity social dimension of sustainability – HSSE, Innovation.) Environment (HSSE); Carbon Efficiency; of the product portfolio is based on the Employees, Business Principles and Social Innovation; Employees; Business Principles planned increase in the share of natural gas Responsibility – round out OMV’s mission as GRI 2016: 102-11 12 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION FOCUS AREA COMMITMENTS TARGETS 2025 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) SUPPORTED Health, Safety, Security, ff Health, safety, security, and protection of Achieve zero work-related fatalities SDG 3 – Good health and well-being and Environment (HSSE) the environment have the highest priority in all activities. Stabilize Lost-Time Injury Rate at below 0.30 SDG 6 – Clean water and sanitation (per 1 million hours worked) ff Proactive risk management is essential SDG 8 – Decent work and economic growth for realizing OMV’s HSSE Vision of Keep leading position in Process Safety “ZERO harm – NO losses.” Event Rate Carbon Efficiency ff OMV focuses on improving the carbon Reduce the carbon intensity of OMV’s SDG 7 – Affordable and clean energy efficiency of its operations and product ­operations3 by 19% by 2025 (vs. 2010) portfolio. SDG 13 – Climate action Reduce the carbon intensity of OMV’s ff OMV is fully committed to acting on ­product portfolio4 by 4% by 2025 (vs. 2010) climate change mitigation and responsible resource management. Achieve zero routine flaring and venting of associated gas by 2030 Innovation ff OMV’s innovation efforts focus on Develop ReOil into a commercially viable, SDG 7 – Affordable and clean energy optimizing production, exploring highindustrial-scale process (unit size of end petrochemical solutions, developing ~200,000 t per year) SDG 8 – Decent work and economic growth innovative energy solutions, and embracing digital technologies. Raise the share of sustainable feedstock SDG 9 – Industry, innovation, and ­infrastructure co-processed in the refineries to ~200,000 t ff Innovation is supported by investment per year by 2025 SDG 12 – Responsible consumption and and partnerships in research and ­production development. Increase the recovery factor in the CEE region in selected fields by 5-15 percentage SDG 13 – Climate action points by 2025 through innovative Enhanced Oil Recovery methods 3 CO2 equivalent emissions produced to generate a certain business output using the following business-specific metric – Upstream: t CO2 equivalent/toe produced, refineries: t CO2 equivalent/t throughput, power: t CO2 equivalent/MWh produced – consolidated into an OMV Group Carbon Intensity Operations Index, based on weighted average of the business segments’ carbon intensity 4 The carbon intensity of OMV’s product portfolio measures the CO₂ equivalent emissions generated by the use of OMV’s products sold to third parties in t CO₂ equivalent/toe sold. GRI 2016: 102-11 13 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION FOCUS AREA COMMITMENTS TARGETS 2025 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) SUPPORTED Employees ff OMV is committed to building and Increase share of women at management SDG 5 – Gender equality retaining a talented expert team for level5 to 25% by 2025 international and integrated growth. SDG 10 – Reduced inequalities Keep high share of executives with internaff OMV is committed to its diversity strategy tional experience6 at 75% with a focus on gender equality and internationality. Business Principles and ff OMV strives to uphold equally high Promote awareness of ethical values and SDG 4 – Quality education Social Responsibility ethical standards at all locations. principles: conduct in-person or online ­business ethics trainings for all employees SDG 8 – Decent work and economic growth ff OMV is a signatory to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact, is fully committed Assess Community Grievance Mechanisms SDG 10 Reduced Inequalities to the UN Guiding Principles on Business of all sites against UN Effectiveness Criteria7 and Human Rights, and aims to contribute by 2025 SDG 16 – Peace, justice, and strong to the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable institutions Development. Conduct human rights trainings for all employees exposed to human rights risks8 by 2025 Increase the number of supplier audits ­covering sustainability elements to >20 per year by 2025 5 Management level: executives and advanced career level 6 Equal to or greater than three years of living and working abroad 7 Legitimate, accessible, predictable, equitable, transparent, rights-compatible, a source of continuous learning, based on engagement and dialogue 8 1,059 employees in corporate functions managing human rights risks and in the corresponding functions in countries with elevated human rights risks GRI 2016: 102-11 14 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Sustainability Governance Sustainability-related topics (including issues relating to climate change mitigation) are Supervisory Board fully integrated into the overall governance structure of the Company. These topics have Presidential and Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Portfolio and Project Committee the same weight as any other business consideration and, following the Company’s responsible approach to business, are integrated into the daily operation and management processes of the Company. Executive Board CEO, CFO, Upstream, Downstream In the diagram, we map the coverage of the five OMV Sustainability Strategy focus areas S TA K E H O L D E R S (HSSE, Carbon Efficiency, Innovation, Risk Committee Business and Other Group Functions Employees, Business Principles and Social Leadership team Responsibility) by corresponding Group functions. Group functions continuously develop and steer the processes relevant to the implementation of activities relating to social and environmental performance, and Group functions responsible for sustainability focus area propose an action plan to functional experts in related business units on the ground. The functional experts remain in continuous Corporate HSSE Human Compliance Procurement Strategy Affairs Resources communication regarding progress on the Health-, Safety-, Compliance with Supplier compliInnovation; carbon Relationships with Securityand EnviEmployees: business ethics and ance with sustainefficiency of planned implementation. Each Group funcand development ronment-related ­development and anti-corruption able supply chain product portfolio tion reports directly to the Executive Board of local communitopics; carbon and diversity policies requirements ties; human rights energy efficiency of on the relevant social and environmental operations issues. They include reporting on progress in the implementation of sustainability strategy targets, presenting important events with regard to the material topics, and submitting for approval the implementation of Network of functional experts in the business units/countries and local management team with topic accountability sustainability initiatives. GRI 2016: 102-11, 102-18, 102-19, 102-20, 102-26, 102-27, 102-29, 102-30, 102-31, 102-32, 102-33 15 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION The Business and Other Group Functions able remuneration – the Long Term Incentive With the support of external sustainability leadership team has a general overview and Plan (LTIP) and the annual bonus – includes experts, OMV has developed a perspective control over the implementation of all Comperformance criteria related to the Compaon the further development of the OMV suspany functions on the ground, and ensures ny’s sustainability performance. The sustaintainability approach in line with international that environmental and social aspects are ability multiplier as part of the annual bonus best practices in the sector. This process integrated into the business activities. The is determined at the discretion of the Superraised the awareness of OMV’s management Executive Board reports to the Supervisory visory Board based on a predefined set of about sustainability risks and opportunities. Board on a regular and ad-hoc basis. Memcriteria that are selected due to their imporbers of the leadership team also comprise tance for OMV’s sustainability performance. The process of consultation with internal the Risk Committee, chaired by the CFO, These criteria include, but are not limited to, and external stakeholders is implemented which ensures that material financial and the Lost-Time Injury Rate, the number of via various engagement channels across non-financial risks are properly identified work-related fatalities of employees and different levels of the governance structure. and managed. (For more information on the contractors, the number and volume of oil Additional information on the engagement risk management process, see the Annual spills, and the Reserve Replacement Rate. channels is provided in the Stakeholders’ Report under Risk Management.) The LTIP includes a Health, Safety, Security, Engagement Details. or Environmental (HSSE) malus that may be The Executive Board is the highest managapplied to the overall target achievement. In In 2018, the Executive Board and senior ing body of the Company. The Supervisory situations where a severe health, safety, management developed the Sustainability Board appoints members of the Executive security, or environmental breach has Strategy and targets during several workBoard, monitors and supervises its decioccurred, the Supervisory Board can reexshops and meetings. The Executive Board sions, and advises the Executive Board on amine the level of the LTIP payout and, and Supervisory Board approved the Comstrategy development. The Executive Board depending on the extent of the infraction, pany’s Sustainability Report. approves the Sustainability Strategy as part reduce it at its reasonable discretion, if necof the Corporate Strategy 2025 and is essary to zero. An external audit of the actuThe Investor Relations department coordiaccountable to the Supervisory Board for its al target achievement is performed by the nates the communication of OMV’s sustainimplementation. (For more information on Company’s Group Auditor, and the results able performance and strategy at the request the functions and composition of the Execuare communicated to the Remuneration of socially responsible investors with the tive Board and Supervisory Board, see the Committee and Supervisory Board. More Sustainability & Reporting department. Annual Report under Consolidated Corpodetails on the remuneration structure and rate Governance Report.) the complete list of performance criteria are provided in the Annual Report. The Supervisory Board appoints among its members qualified expert committees that The Sustainability & Reporting department support the decision making of the Superviis part of Corporate Affairs and has a Groupsory Board. The Remuneration Committee is wide coordination function. It is responsible authorized to determine the Executive for steering, providing advice on, and reportBoard’s remuneration, including the strucing on sustainability-related topics to interture of the remuneration system and the nal and external stakeholders. Sustainability actual target achievement. The Executive & Reporting steers and coordinates the Board remuneration consists of fixed and development and the implementation of the variable remuneration elements. The variSustainability Strategy. GRI 2016: 102-11, 102-18, 102-19, 102-20, 102-26, 102-27, 102-28, 102-29, 102-30, 102-31, 102-32, 102-33,102-35, 102-36 16 MNE1 OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES MNE2 OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTER GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL OECD GUIDELINES OECD MNE3 FOR MULTINATIONAL OECD GUIDELINES ENTERPRISES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES Our commitment to international OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTER ­s ustainable development standards OECD GUIDELINES OMV is a signatory to the United Nations OMV recognizesFOR MULTINATIONAL that climate change is one ENTERPRISES (UN) Global Compact and is fully committed of the most important global challenges OECD GUIDELINES and FOR MULTINATIONAL to the UN Guiding Principles on Business acknowledges the goals set forth by the and Human Rights. OMV adheres to the rec­Paris Climate Change Agreement and the EU ommendations of the OECD Guidelines for OECD climate targets forGUIDELINES 2030. As part of our carFOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES Multinational Enterprises – the only bon strategy, we have endorsed the internagovernment-­supported international instrutional World Bank initiative “Zero routine ment for responsible business conduct with flaring by 2030” to end the routine flaring an integrated grievance mechanism. The recand venting of associated gas during oil proommendations relate mainly to information duction by 2030. OECD In line with the FORRecommenGUIDELINES MULTINATIONAL ENTER ­disclosure, human rights, employment, dations of the Task Force on Climate-related ­environment, and anti-corruption. Financial Disclosures (TCFD), we disclose, OECD GUIDELINES where possible, climate-change-related FOR MULTINATIONAL conWe continue to support the UN Sustainable siderations ENTERPRISES in the operational elements of Development Goals (SDGs) through our governance, strategy, risk management, and projects and initiatives. The key SDGs supmetrics andOECD targets. The TCFD Index, pubGUIDELINES ported by OMV through its activities are: FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES lished at www.omv.com/sustainability, outSDG 7 – Affordable and clean energy; SDG lines disclosures throughout this report that 13 – ­Climate action; SDG 8 – Decent work illustrate our compliance with TCFD Recomand economic growth; and SDG 16 – Peace, mendations. justice, and strong institutions. OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES GRI 2016: 102-12 17 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Risk and Opportunities Management The risks that have long prevailed in the oil one is aware of the risks related to their jobs Senior management evaluates top-down The role of the Risk Committee is to: and gas industry, such as volatile oil prices, and implements risk management practices risks against a long-term time horizon of geopolitical risks threatening the security of on a daily basis, is the most effective way to three to seven years. Together, they provide ff oversee the alignment of the governance supply, as well as access to oil and gas avoid a negative impact. To this end, our a strategic perspective of risks across a framework with best risk management reserves, and regulatory risks are now comprehensive Enterprise-Wide Risk Man­longer time horizon. practice and regulatory requirements; joined by an emerging set of risk factors in agement (EWRM) program is driven by the medium to long term. Among these are senior management and cascades to every The full spectrum of risks relating to OMV’s ff support the continuous update of the risks related to climate change. Their profile employee of the Company. It ensures greater business, including economic, environmental, Company’s risk appetite in the context of is growing in light of the need to reduce awareness and focus on risks that might and social issues, are analyzed by quantifying implementing the Corporate Strategy; greenhouse gas emissions to which the affect the Company’s objectives. and prioritizing them using a special risk-rankentire oil and gas industry is a significant ing tool – the OMV Risk Matrix. The resulting ff ensure that appropriate risk policies, contributor. At OMV, we focus on assessing Risk prevention is deeply integrated into the corporate risk profile provides a holistic view procedures, and tools are firmly the potential impact of issues related to decision-making processes of everyday busiof topics that could affect Company perforembedded in the organization by ­climate change (e.g., water deficiency, ness activities at every level of our organizamance in the medium and long term, and it is reviewing compliance with OMV’s droughts, etc.) and climate change mitigation. The Executive Board sets, communitherefore integrated into the strategic decifinancial risk limit structure and the tion activities (e.g., carbon tax, emission regcates, and implements our risk management sion-making process. The business strategy is respective management response in the ulations, etc.) on our business. We introduce culture throughout the Group. The risk mantested in a hypothetical scenario of its impleevent of compliance breaches. measures in line with the global action agement process, implemented through mentation against risks inherent to the busiagainst climate change. (For more informaOMV’s EWRM framework, combines bottom­ness (e.g., oil prices and FX rates, operational The OMV Risk Committee supports the Exection on climate change risk management, up and top-down processes, with every sincomplexity and technical risks, climate change utive Board in performing risk oversight and see Carbon Efficiency. Additional informagle employee responsible for managing the and carbon intensity, the political, legal, and determining whether management is followtion on major financial and non-financial risks within their sphere of responsibilities. regulatory environment). ing a rigorous process for assessing, managrisks is included in the Annual Report [DirecPaying attention to every risk makes risk ing, monitoring, and reporting the relevant tors Report, Risk Management section]). management a holistic process. We use The identified risks are aggregated and risks within the OMV Group. The Operational common risk terminology and language ranked depending on their impact and then Risk Committee meets at least twice a year, Our risk management process is based on a across OMV in order to facilitate effective presented to the Risk Committee for review. or may be convened by any member of the precautionary, systematic approach, aimed risk communication and management. The OMV Chief Financial Officer is Chair of Risk Committee when necessary. at timely identification and management of the Committee and joins other senior manrisks in order to avoid a possible negative The risks identified in the bottom-up risk proagement members in addressing a strucimpact on our business or reputation. We cess by operational staff during day-to-day tured risk agenda. believe that creating a risk-aware culture business management are assessed against a throughout the organization, where everymid-term time horizon of three years. GRI 2016: 102-11, 102-15, 102-29, 102-30 18 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Stakeholder Customers Map Suppliers and contractors Scientific institutions OMV is committed to stakeholder engagement and convinced that mutual respect, transparent behavior, and open dialogue are the best foundations for a good relationship with Employees Society the various stakeholders we interact with. In our stakeholder engagement approach, we identify and manage relationships with persons, groups, or organizations who might be impacted by our activities or who may have an Capital market OMV Governmental impact on our business. participants authorities Industry associations/ Peer companies networks Please see Stakeholders’ Engagement Details for more detailed information on Media NGOs / NPOs stakeholders and the mechanisms for dialogue and inclusion of their views in OMV’s approach. GRI 2016: 102-40 19 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Environmental, Social, and Governance Ratings OMV actively engages with EnvironRecognition of OMV performance mental, Social, and Governance (ESG) ­reflected in ESG ratings rating agencies and socially responsiOMV has achieved a Climate Change score ble investors to ensure that we disOMV attained Prime Status according to the of A(Leadership) based on its reporting to CDP. This positions OMV among the top 11 close the information investors need ISS-oekom rating with a score of B-, which companies in the global oil and gas sector. OMV was added to the Dow Jones Sustainpositions the Company among the top 5% to evaluate sustainability risks and ability Index (DJSI World), the only Austrian oil and gas companies with the best ESG opportunities related to our perforcompany included. The DJSI World represents performance. mance. The continuous evolution of the gold standard for corporate sustainability and is the first global index to track the leadour business toward sustainability ing sustainability-driven companies. OMV is and an increase in the transparency thus ranked among the top 10% of the largest of information we provide on our 2,500 companies in the S&P Global Broad Based on the assessment by Sustainalytics, Market Index9 in terms of sustainability leadOMV is listed in two MSCI ESG Indexes: OMV maintained its inclusion in the STOXX® activities resulted in a year-over-year ership, based on an assessment of long-term MSCI ACWI ESG Leaders Index and MSCI Global ESG Leaders index. increase in our ESG ranking. These economic, environmental, and social criteria. ACWI SRI Index. The Company received the rankings are important for the highest score (AAA) from MSCI for the sixth ­decision-making of investors. year in a row. This score places OMV among Sustainability performance of OMV the best 11% oil and gas companies in terms as a supplier of ESG performance.11 OMV was recognized as an Industry Mover in the RobecoSAM10 Sustainability Yearbook 2019, demonstrating the largest proportional improvement in its sustainability performance OMV’s sustainability performance has been compared to the previous year within the top evaluated by using external sustainability 15% of the integrated oil and gas industry. assessment platforms (EcoVadis and NQCOMV has been reconfirmed as a participant BMW) as part of a supply chain assessment. in the FTSE4Good Index Series for the fourth These platforms cover a wide range of criteconsecutive year. The FTSE4Good indexes ria, including policies for child and forced are used by a wide variety of capital market labor as well as social, environmental, health, OMV was reconfirmed as a member of ECPI® participants to structure responsible investand safety performance. OMV was assessed Indices. ment funds. by EcoVadis and received Silver CSR status as a supplier. 9 S&P Dow Jones Indices – the largest global resource for essential index-based concepts 10 RobecoSAM is the investment specialist in sustainability investment, proving analysis of financially material Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) factors for Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. 11 The inclusion of OMV in any MSCI index, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks, or index names herein do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement, or promotion of OMV by MSCI or any of its affiliates. The MSCI indexes are the exclusive property of MSCI. MSCI and the MSCI index names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI or its affiliates. GRI 2016: 102-29 20 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Reporting on OMV identifies material content for the Sustainability Report in an extenThe full-scale process of consultation and analysis is repeated every three years, with the most recent one taking place in 2017. material topics identified previously against best industry practices, and also in light of the Environmental, Social, and Governance Materiality sive and structured process of consultation with the Company’s external and internal stakeholders. A detailed description of the materiality identi­fication process is published separately on OMV’s website. In 2018, we reviewed highly (ESG) performance issues of interest to ESG rating agencies and socially responsible investors. Water Business ethics management and anti-corruption Supply chain Emissions from Biodiversity operations Waste management Diversity Spills Employment and management skill development Material topics of major importance for stakeholders and on which Other topics reported Secure energy additionally that are Economic Low-carbon OMV’s business activities Energy important for OMV and product performance products are likely to have the efficiency supply biggest impacts Local Environmental communities compliance Product responsibility IT security Innovation Health, Safety & Human rights Security GRI 2016: 102-47 21 [24] Health, Safety, Security, Material and Environment [46] Carbon Efficiency [56] ­Focus Areas Innovation [65] Employees [74] Business Principles and Social Responsibility OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Highlights 2018 Carbon Business Principles and New Sustainability Strategy 2025 Efficiency Social Responsibility was launched with 15 targets OMV was added to the Emission savings Share of natural Dow Jones Sustainability from implemented gas in the CDP Climate Change projects in kt CO2 ­Upstream Index (DJSI World) Leadership Aequivalent ­portfolio 371 57% Innovation Employees participated in business ethics trainings Health, Safety, Security, and Environment (HSSE) 1,384 ReOil pilot plant began Recovery rate Spent on R&D operating reached in EUR 40 mn 100 kg/h Matzen field, AT Supplier audits covering processing capacity 55% sustainability elements 9 Occupational health examinations Human rights risks 132,469 assessments at country level Employees 30 Decrease in Lost-Time Injury Rate 12% Share of Executives with Training hours women at international People that benefitted from 191 community development initiatives in 17 countries 437,233 management level experience Energy savings from imple19% 86% >900,000 mented projects in refineries 470 TJ 23 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Health, Safety, Security, and Environment Health, safety, security, and protection of the environment (HSSE) are core values that constitute an integral part of our commitment to conducting our business in a responsible way. The essence of prioritizing HSSE is expressed in OMV’s HSSE Vision of “ZERO harm – NO losses.” The Vision establishes the dependence of OMV’s long-term business success on our ability to continually improve the quality of our business activities while protecting people, the environment, assets, and our reputation. The integrity of OMV operating facilities, loss prevention, 0.30 Lost-Time Injury Rate and proactive risk management are essential per mn hours worked for achieving OMV’s HSSE Vision. 0.78 Total Recordable Injury Rate Achieve Group-wide per mn hours worked Vision ZERO Harm – NO Losses 127.4 PJ energy consumption The Vision is embedded in the HSSE Policy. The full text of the HSSE Policy Protect People, Assets, Mission is available on OMV’s website. the Environment GRI 2016: 102-11 24 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Due to a high degree of interdependence Core aspects of HSSE management between health, safety, security, and the environment, these concepts are grouped into one single management focus: HSSE. HSSE management is governed by the HSSE 12 Audit and Review Continuous Directive, which defines key expectations in Improvements 1 Leadership and compliance with internal HSSE regulations Commitment at various levels of the organizational structure, as well as across Group and local func11 Stakeholder Dialogue tions. The Directive sets out the principles and Information Review and Act Commitment and and rules for the management of HSSE-­ Management Improvement Policy 2 Organization related risks and activities throughout the life cycle of Group business and activities, including capital projects, mergers, and acquisitions. The Directive also defines key HSSE responsibilities for all OMV Group Check Plan employees, partners, and contractors. Besides, it outlines the Major Accident Prevention Policy and stipulates the continuous 9 Incidents and improvement of HSSE performance. Accidents 3 People, Competency, Measurement and Behavior Planning The HSSE Directive defines core aspects of and Evaluation Do HSSE management, grouped into twelve ele8 Planning and ments revolving around the “Plan-Do-Check4 Risk Management Cost Management Act” cycle. For each element, the HSSE Directive defines the approach to follow for effective HSSE management. The HSSE Strategy and its implementation 10 Emergency and Implementation 5 Engineering and are aligned and fully embedded into the Corporate Strategy and the corporate goverCrisis Control Project Management nance structure. Its goals were updated in 2018 to reflect the focus on business growth. 7 Contracted Services 6 Operations and Performance Management GRI 2016: Health, Safety, and Security (Occupational Health and Safety): 103-1, 103-2 25 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Executive Board CEO CFO Executive Board Executive Board Member Member Upstream Downstream Safety Carbon Process Safety Contractor HSSE Culture Program Management through Management Value-Creating Projects Based on the HSSE Strategy, a business-­ sentatives (trade unions) as a channel of specific HSSE Plan was developed for 2019 engagement regarding issues that are particbased on cross-functional and subject-matter ularly important and necessary for improvegoals. Leadership responsibility is assigned ment. Health, Safety, Security, and Environto the members of the Executive Board. ment (HSSE) Days are organized by the HSSE department for OMV’s various units to OMV’s HSSE management system includes inform employees about HSSE topics. interaction with employees or their repreGRI 2016: Health, Safety, and Security (Occupational Health and Safety): 103-2, 103-3 26 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Health Health management preparedness, health programs and all clinics and medical partners be audited s­ pecific medical topics, such as healthy lifetrainings; every three years, and clinics also report on style, cardiovascular awareness promotion, The well-being and physical and mental a self-conducted audit every year. In 2018, ­ cancer prevention, etc. In 2018, OMV orgahealth of our employees are the foundations ff checks and audits of medical suppliers 17 clinics in 8 countries were audited, and 41 nized a breast cancer awareness session for for a successful company, since they affect (laboratories, partner clinics, pharmacies), clinics in 13 countries reported on self-perits employees in partnership with the NOUthe performance levels of our Company’s hygiene in food facilities, customer formed audit results. Audit results serve as RANE association in Tunisia, which specializes core asset – human capital. We have estabsatisfaction; the basis for identifying areas for further in the prevention of cancer. Around 40 particilished a Group-wide health care standard to improvement and analyzing the effectivepants attended the event, which aimed to ensure a high level of care for our employff reporting; ness of our health management approach. inform employees about prevention and the ees’ health across the Company. The standanger of disregarding it. We believe that raisdard includes preventive initiatives such as ff collaboration with contractors and Health promotion activities ing awareness among employees will have a targeted health promotion campaigns, a syssubcontractors on health and safety. multiplier effect on their families and friends, tematic assessment of health risk mitigation, Health promotion activities must take into and therefore spread knowledge of health-­ and curative care. For example, in the health care standard we account local needs. Every year, local health related issues throughout the community. have defined the minimum equipment and care providers organize health hours on Health management at OMV is both a stratematerials for our clinics – both on land and gic and an operational system. Its success offshore – like ECG, defibrillators, suction depends on leadership, commitment, and units, rescue devices, and emergency participation at all levels and functions in the ­medication. It also supplements local legal organization, and on the part of medical sperequirements, allowing us to establish a harcialists and partners as well as employees. monized level of health care services and The OMV Group Standard for Health access to medical facilities at all OMV sites. describes the main principles, roles and responsibilities, and lines of communication OMV applies its own risk management within the OMV Group. The Standard prostand­ard including a thorough assessment vides a framework for managing preventive of possible risks, including health-related health measures and curative health care, as risks. We have therefore developed guidewell as collaboration among HSSE specialists. lines – based on international guidelines from IOGP/IPIECA – for health risk assessThe Standard regulates the work of Operament that cover such health risks as harm tive Medical Service Providers in relation to from chemical agents, psychological strain, providers in the following areas: physical injuries, and others. ff planning of human resources, medical A special health audit program developed by facilities and services, and local health the Corporate Health Management departplans; ment serves as evaluation tool to ensure that our common corporate health care stanff implementation of operational health risk dard is implemented and followed throughassessment and management, emergency out the Group. The program stipulates that GRI 2016: 102-12; GRI 2018: 403-1, 403-6 27 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Another example of employee interaction Medical facilities with the health management system is the Health Circle organized in Gänserndorf, OMV runs or works with a total of 43 mediAustria. Twice a year employees gather to cal units at all locations where we have address work-related health issues and creoperating facilities. The presence of OMV ate customized solutions in collaboration first aid facilities benefits the local populawith the local health team. In 2018, the toption, as it often provides necessary medical ics included action needed to improve prehelp in remote areas where medical services ventive care, collaboration on HSSE Days, might not be easily accessible quickly (partraining and refresher courses on resuscitaticularly in Yemen and Kazakhstan). In 2018, tion and defibrillator use, and other OMV first aid facilities assisted around 1,000 health-related concerns. individuals in need of urgent care among the local population. From this perspective, our To prevent occupational health risks, our assistance to the local population provides a medical staff carries out specific preventive positive impact outside OMV’s operational examinations in accordance with the legal boundaries, thereby contributing to building regulations of the countries in which we a good relationship with our neighbors. operate. These exams include blood tests for employees working with specific hazardous In 2018, we developed a training program substances and hearing tests for employees under the guidance of Prof. Guy Ahonen, an exposed to noise. internationally recognized specialist, on “training the trainer”. We offer also general health screenings for our employees. We run seasonal campaigns to provide free vaccinations against flu and tick-borne encephalitis in affected areas. In 2018, 41,236 voluntary health screenings, 4,895 vaccinations, 119,800 curative medical consultations, and 132,469 occupational health examinations were performed and/or organized by OMV medical staff. OMV runs or works with a total of 43 medical units at all locations where we have operating facilities. GRI 2018: 403-3, 403-4, 403-6 28 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Safety of People and Processes Occupational safety management nizing that such major accidents can have business decisions and activities. They are Our aim here was to increase awareness severe consequences for the environment required to demonstrate commitment and regarding CARE entries to boost their quality OMV aims to adhere to the highest stand­ and affected persons, OMV firmly believes leadership by acting as role models and and transparency and to improve data ownards to provide its employees and contracthat a strong safety culture is the foundation undertaking appropriate measures to control er accountability. tors a safe workplace. Our Safety Managefor all of its operations and relationships and manage all HSSE risks in their spheres ment System is based on the OMV Group’s with ­contractors. of responsibility. During 2018, 101,889 (2017: 108,025) unsafe HSSE Policy, the HSSE Directive, and corpoconditions and behavior reports were colrate regulations such as HSSE Risk ManageMajor risks and the respective mitigation All staff is required to be familiar with the lected in our reporting system. ment, Contractor HSSE Management, measures are documented, evaluated, and HSSE Policy, internal HSSE regulations, and ­Management of Hazardous Substances, monitored in a Group-wide database (Active the relevant legislation. They actively conLast year, we also kicked off implementation ­Personnel Transportation, and Reporting, Risk Manager System; ARMS), which is tribute to and further develop HSSE awareof the new Reporting, Investigation, and Investigation, and Classification of Incidents, updated biannually. Senior management is ness as part of the corporate culture, stop Classification of Incidents standard that was which provide the framework for safety directly involved in the review of risks identiand report unsafe or irresponsible acts and issued in 2017. We organized training ses­management. OMV sites employing 29% of fied as a top priority. conditions, and report any incidents and sions with the Investigation Team Leaders, OMV’s workforce have been certified to non-compliance. OMV employees at all levinvolving a third-party company specializing OHSAS 18001. Currently, our special focus is ensuring the els are regularly trained on their roles and in this field to provide the necessary traincompleteness of the information on sites responsibilities. Moreover, Golden Rules, ing. This ensures that our Company has We establish feasible and viable mitigation with the potential for Major Accident Events including Stop Work, are presented and skilled and knowledgeable people available measures to prevent accidents and to mini(MAEs) in this central database. Among such ­discussed during awareness programs, to find root causes and establish suitable mize the negative impact on people and the sites are OMV facilities operating under workshops, management walk-arounds, and and necessary measures to prevent the environment when incidents occur. Our regSafety Case Regime in non-EU countries, safety walks, and even at the start of various occurrence of severe incidents or incidents ulations stipulate mandatory risk assessfacilities that are regulated by (or meet the meetings. with a high potential for loss. ments for non-routine work, any changes, criteria of) the Seveso-III-Directive of the and projects as well as regular reviews of European Union – the Directive on the conAll employees and contractors are encourWe continued integrating technical experts the risk assessments of existing installatrol of major accident hazards involving danaged to report unsafe conditions and behavinto the investigation teams to better undertions, and Last-Minute Risk Analysis (e.g., gerous chemical substances –, high-risk iors in order to identify and resolve potential stand and address the root causes of techniin the course of toolbox meetings) prior to pipelines and flowlines, high-integrity risk issues that might otherwise lead to future cally complex incidents. At the same time, every job. wells, and offshore facilities. The goal is to accidents. we remained focused on verifying the effecprevent major accidents and limit the consetiveness of actions implemented after severe The Major Accident12 Prevention Policy, quences of any accidents that may occur. We have a central reporting tool in place incidents and High-Potential Incidents which is part of the HSSE Directive, sets out The scenarios for MAEs, including the risk (CARE) where all incidents, findings, and (HiPos) in previous years, including process the overall aims and guidelines for concontrol barriers for these facilities, will be defined actions are reported and tracked. safety incidents. trolling the risk of a major accident as part of completed in ARMS in 2019. In 2018, we improved the usability of the OMV Group operations and activities for reporting tool and cleaned up data entry A common platform was set up to ensure achieving those aims. Acknowledging that In line with the HSSE Directive, clear roles fields and reports. Bundle reports regarding knowledge and takeaways from incidents the risks of major accidents in onshore or and responsibilities are defined for all staff, ­Incidents and Near Misses, Findings and are shared Company-wide. A complete coloffshore operations related to oil and gas line management, and senior management. Hazards, CARE Express, Action Items, and lection of case studies and information on extraction, transportation, refining, and disLine management is responsible for ensurAssessments were set up and made availincidents from Upstream and Downstream tribution activities are significant, and recoging that HSSE issues are integrated into all able to all users throughout the Group. (2013-2018 data) was made available at 12 Major Accident refers to an incident involving an explosion, fire, loss of well control, release of oil, gas, or dangerous substances, serious damage to the installation or connected infrastructure, involving or with a significant potential to cause fatalities or serious personal injury or environmental damage within a large area outside the boundaries, as well as any other incident leading to fatalities or serious injury to five or more persons. GRI 2018: 403-1, 403-2; GRI 2016: 102-12 29 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Group level for use and communication during safety moments, in toolbox talks, or at HSSE trainings. We believe that promoting open dialogue and establishing a culture in which health The health and safety of the and safety are integrated into every employpeople who work for us are ­ ee’s role are effective ways to empower people to work safely. Workers are engaged in key priorities at OMV. launching, operating, evaluating, and improving health and safety programs. They Despite our efforts, we regretfully work closely with their managers to find report the tragic loss of three of our joint solutions to common problems, which colleagues, one of whom was an helps managers pinpoint issues, while workemployee and two of whom were ers are motivated and encouraged to workers contracted to perform operimprove their own safety. In 2018, 173 formal ations at a well in Komsomolskoye, joint health and safety committees comprisKazakhstan. On May 19, 2018, there ing management and worker representatives was an explosion followed by a fire were organized at OMV Group sites. during a routine workover operation. The accident also injured In 2018, the Lost-Time Injury Rate (LTIR)13 for Education and training are important tools another person. our own employees and contractors (comfor informing workers and managers about bined) per million hours worked was 0.30 Employees workplace hazards and controls so they can We took immediate action and imple(2017: 0.34). Our combined Total Recordable Contractors work more safely and be more productive. mented measures to prevent such an Injury Rate (TRIR)14 was 0.78 (2017: 0.79). Total Training topics are defined in part based on incident from occurring again. Folanalyses of incident root causes and contriblowing this accident, OMV Petrom Lost-Time Injury Rate Total Recordable Injury Rate uting factors, and findings from various established a Safety Committee with HSSE assessments. During 2018, we orgathe participation of the Executive nized awareness trainings as well as trainBoard and management. The Safety ings on HSSE roles and responsibilities, hazCommittee will meet on a quarterly ard identification, and controls. The trainings basis to discuss issues of major safe0.40 0.79 0.78 were related to the hazards of slip, trip, fall, ty importance. For example, among 0.34 0.73 0.70 fall from heights, and explosion. Also, hazthe issues discussed at the first 0.30 ards which are creating risks with high conmeeting were promoting a safety 0.27 sequences (such as work at height, excavaculture and transparent reporting. In tions, transportations) were covered during the future, operational experts will be the rollout of the Golden Rules and life-­ included in committee meetings to saving rules. ensure a hands-on approach in looking into critical HSSE issues. 0.26 0.28 0.37 0.42 0.24 0.39 0.29 0.31 0.59 0.79 0.66 0.72 0.73 0.82 0.88 0.74 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 13 See Definitions for details 14 See Definitions for details GRI 2018: 403-3, 403-4, 403-5, 403-7 30 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Achieve zero work-related fatalities We continued to concentrate on quality over 2025 TARGETS quantity in terms of reporting, management Stabilize Lost-Time Injury Rate at below 0.30 walk-arounds, safety walks, and action close(per 1 million hours worked) out as well as putting our efforts toward bringing safety closer to the hearts and minds of our colleagues. We are focusing more attention on conduct and dialogue, and improving our management walkPERFORMANCE TO DATE 2018: arounds and safety walks, which promotes understanding of the challenges in the operWork-related fatalities: 3 ating fields and further increases trust Lost-Time Injury Rate: 0.30 between the workforce and management. Upstream continued to emphasize audits and spot checks of high-risk activities, especially activities that caused severe incidents ACTION PLAN TO ACHIEVE WITH A FOCUS ON CONTRACTOR ff Recognize good performance in HSSE in the past. This year the focus was on elecTHE TARGETS ­M ANAGEMENT reporting by business units trical safety, process safety, risk assessment, and permits to work. Strengths and weakff Issue a comprehensive Group Standard ff Organize HSSE trainings for employees nesses were identified and addressed in on Contractor HSSE Management and managers with a focus on safety ­solid action programs. Furthermore, we leadership, Golden Rules and life-saving expanded computer-based training on proff Improve oversight of contractor activities rules cess safety with seven new modules and by reviewing HSSE performance of key have trained the personnel for whom this contractors, organizing quarterly service WITH A FOCUS ON INCIDENT content is relevant. quality meetings with HSSE as its integral ­I NVESTIGATION part In 2018, Downstream continually focused on ff Continue incident investigator training verifying the effectiveness of actions impleff Perform contractor HSSE audits with a mented after severe incidents and HiPos in focus on subcontractors ff Continue sharing experience at Group previous years. Most of the activities level through the central platform involved in the comprehensive “7 Safety WITH A FOCUS ON THE SAFETY CULTURE Actions” safety improvement program PROGRAM ff Follow up on actions derived from launched in 2017 were pursued as part of the incident investigations through audits regular HSSE plan throughout 2018. ff Enhance dialogue in HSSE walk-arounds/ safety walks ff Develop hazard-awareness activities linked to the HSSE Golden Rules, lifesaving rules, and Last-Minute Risk Analysis (LMRA) GRI 2018: 403-9; GRI 2016: Health, Safety, and Security (Occupational Health and Safety): 103-3 31 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Focus on contractor safety initiate change and strive for the best in an coworkers and contractors in the field on recenvironment where safe behavior is a preognizing hazards and assessing risks on the The safety of our contractors is just as requisite for good safety performance. job. Based on the takeaways from this pilot, important as the safety of our own employ­Program coordinators from all the divisions the same activities will be conducted at other ees. For this reason, we have established attended the same workshop, sharing knowloperating facilities during 2019. processes that require contractors to work edge and experience, with one common according to our standards. goal – implementing an effective safety culture. Under the umbrella of the Safety Culture Program, Downstream introduced the Hazard Our Contractor HSSE Management Process At our headquarters in Vienna, we held four Awareness Campaign aimed at adequately begins when we issue the scope of work open dialogue sessions that were dedicated addressing and managing specific risks. The with information about HSSE requirements to hazard awareness. Our colleagues in the campaign will continue in all Downstream and the HSSE Key Performance Indicators office there committed to contributing to an business units in 2019. (KPIs). The process continues through the effective safety culture through their persontender stage with HSSE prequalification and al actions. We also launched a campaign on For 2019, we cascaded the following actions capability assessment. During the contract, promoting the use of handrails to encourage and targets related to the implementation of we monitor our contractors by way of audits, safety on stairs. the Safety Culture Program into all local inspections, joint management walk-arounds HSSE plans: and safety walks, service quality meetings, Under the auspices of the Safety Culture Proforums, and workshops, using the outcomes gram, OMV’s Golden Rules were expanded ff HSSE walk-arounds, safety walks, and to share experience and encourage improveto include supplementary life-saving rules for dialogues on site ment of our HSSE performance as a team. activities that carry the greatest potential for serious injury and death. Simple rules that ff Coaching and feedback on performing In 2018, we continued to integrate contractor guide our employees and contractors to proHSSE walk-arounds organizations into our HSSE audit program tect their lives and the lives of their coworkand also conducted a gap analysis between ers were and continue to be rolled out across ff Hazard awareness activities, such as the requirements of the Contractor HSSE the entire Group through trainings and workinformative sessions in working groups, Management Standard and the way the shops worldwide. workshops, or trainings linked to the Standard is applied. In parallel, a working HSSE Golden Rules, supplementary lifegroup was created to review and simplify A pilot project at the Upstream Asset IX site in saving rules, and Last-Minute Risk the entire package of HSSE regulations Romania aimed to move forward in updating Analysis applicable to contractors. the Safety Culture Program. The management team spearheaded this drive. Local employff Target on achieving a close-out rate of Safety promotion activities ees from various disciplines were organized actions coming from (or related to) ­ into a working group assigned to improve level 3+ incidents and HiPos >80%16 In 2018, we continued to run the Group-wide implementation of a defined life-saving rules Safety Culture Program in all three of the and to ensure safe behaviors related to it. The All of these activities and related indicators Group’s business divisions: Corporate, local coordinator of the Program and multipliwill be monitored and evaluated on a quarUpstream, and Downstream. The goal was to ers15 continued training and coaching other terly basis. 15 See the Health section for an explanation of the concept of a “multiplier.” 16 AIRR represents the action items resulting from investigations of incidents with the severity level of 3+ (out of a total of six levels of severity to humans and environment, where level 0 incidents bear no impact, up to level 5 ­incident with a massive impact) and incidents with potential severity 4 and 5 (HiPos), completed in time, within the reporting period divided by the total number of action items assigned to be completed during the reporting period above 80%. The purpose is to ensure timely closure of actions resulting from severe and potentially severe incidents. GRI 2018: 403-1 32 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Process safety management ter assessment of the critical barriers at facilevent classification allows more detailed qualifications, and constant monitoring of ities level we are reporting and monitoring investigation and continuous learning. In process safety performance using a compreProcess safety management is the proactive Tier 3 events. Upstream, we continue to focus our process hensive set of leading and lagging process identification, analysis, evaluation, and safesafety efforts on monitoring the maintesafety performance indicators. This also guarding of releases of hazardous substancThe monitoring and reporting of Tier 3 nance of safety-critical elements, the ratio of includes an assessment of the effectiveness es and process accidents that could occur as events give us an overview of the weaknesspreventive to corrective maintenance, and of process-safety-relevant regulations in the a result of failures in process technology, es in critical barriers at facility level. In 2018, completing regulatory inspections. Our field and an internal process safety assessprocedures, or equipment. It is applicable to the number of Tier 3 Process Safety Events operations achieved significant improvement performed by an interdisciplinary the management of hazards associated with reported was 5,329 (2017: 5,612). The numments in 2018: We completed almost 100% cross-refinery team at the Burghausen refinthe chemical and physical properties of the ber of Tier 1 events remained the same in of work orders, the ratio of preventive to ery, which showed remarkable improvesubstances we handle in our oil, gas, and 2018 as in 2017 – 4 events. corrective maintenance increased by over ments in several areas compared to the last energy activities. The number of Tier 2 events increased in 60%, and we completed all regulatory assessment. 2018 relatively to 2017, from 6 to 12.17 This inspections. Tier 1 and Tier 2 Key Performance Indicators increase is attributed to more thorough and Product safety management are providing baseline performance informastricter monitoring of initial classification of In Downstream, we are developing our protion and they are retained year by year to the degree of Process Safety Event severity. cess safety management activities in the We have established adequate processes have a consistent overview of the Company Thus, some Tier 3 events were reclassified operating units based primarily on process and workflows to secure our compliance performance. In addition to those for a betinto Tier 2 events. A stricter approach to safety information and awareness, employee with the EU regulations on Registration, Evaluation, and Authorization of Chemicals (REACH) and on Classification, Labeling, and Packaging (CLP) of substances and mixtures. Within this continuously evolving regulatory SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Keep leading position in Process Safety Process safety events, Tier 1 and Tier 2 environment, we are committed to maintain2025 TARGET Event Rate in number of events ing and updating our mandatory registrations so as to keep up with relevant regula16 tory developments. To this end, we closely follow the guidance published by the EuroPERFORMANCE TO DATE 0.2918 pean Chemicals Agency and participate in 12 12 the REACH consortia (Concawe, Lower Olefins and Aromatics, Fuel Ethers, Renewable 9 Fuels, etc.), as well as in working groups ACTION PLAN TO ACHIEVE C  onsolidating Major Accident Event (MAE) through oil and chemical industry trade THE TARGET scenarios for Seveso/offshore facilities, 6 associations. Safety data sheets are availhigh-risk pipelines/flowlines, and high-in4 4 able on www.omv.com/en/products/onlinetegrity risk wells in Active Risk Manager 2 tools/product-information. These documents System (ARMS) tool; identifying and conare regulated under REACH and include solidating key risk control barriers in ARMS; comprehensive information on potential identifying and including MAE scenarios for 2015 2016 2017 2018 health, safety, and environmental. In addifacilities other than Seveso in ARMS tion, they inform customers and employees Tier 1 about how to handle and use our products Tier 2 safely. 17 A Tier 1 Process Safety Event (PSE) is a Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC) with the greatest consequence. A Tier 2 PSE is an LOPC with lesser consequence. A Tier 3 PSE is a so-called “near miss” not leading to actual consequences, or is not classified as Tier 1 or Tier 2. For a more detailed definition of Tier 1, Tier 2, and Tier 3 PSEs, see Definitions. 18 The scope of the Process Safety Event Rate performance is limited to events and working hours from entities in the Upstream segment: Austria, Kazakhstan, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Romania, Tunisia, and Yemen; in the Downstream segment: Refining and Petrochemicals, Gas Connect Austria, Samsun CCPP. GRI 2016: 102-11, 102-12; OG13 Sector Supplement 33 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Security Security management The Integrated Travel Security Platform engagement strategies are tightly integratIn the first quarter 2018, OMV Security led the incorporates all OMV ventures and is used ed, promoting effective policies, mutual first “expat” field visit into Block S2, in The role of OMV’s Security function is to to monitor all international and domestic respect, and transparency with all local Yemen, since its evacuation in 2015. A securiprotect the OMV Group’s personnel, assets, business travel for security-related events. stakeholders. They, in turn, directly contribty risk assessment and review were successinformation, operations, value, and reputaMitigation procedures and evacuation conute to OMV’s stable and secure operating fully conducted along with a technical evalution against any intentional and malicious tingencies are adapted or activated dependenvironment. This cooperation encourages a ation of the operational status of the facility threats. A volatile geopolitical environment ing on known or emerging threats. precautionary approach in early detection prior to resumption following the recommiscombined with enduring regional conflicts and resolution of local grievances. sioning of the Block 4 export pipeline. resulted in the 2018 Security and Resilience OMV also utilizes a comprehensive range of emphasis remaining on the OMV assets security regulations, plans, procedures, Security initiatives A dedicated Joint Project Team (JPT) was located the Middle East and North Africa. measures, and systems as part of a Security formed at the end of last year at the Vienna Notwithstanding the challenges of operating Management Standard. This document utilizIn 2018, the OMV Security function actively headquarters to work on special projects securely in Yemen, Tunisia, and Libya, the es IOGP best practice guidelines and other helped enable several business initiatives in with the aim of rehabilitating processing threat and reality of terrorist attacks in industry best practice (ASIS and UK Security high-risk or semipermissible environments. facilities in OMV’s Eastern Libya assets in Europe and elsewhere increased significantInstitute) to enable OMV to more effectively ly. In addition to this emerging phenomedetect, deter, protect, prevent, record, and non, political extremism, criminality, and investigate threats. cyber threats have required the Security & Resilience department to adapt a robust, but All of the above platforms and components flexible security strategy to enable OMV to form a unique, agile, and proven Security continue operating in such dynamic environManagement System (SMS) that is regularly ments. reviewed, changed, or enhanced as the situation requires. The philosophy of using information and Protective Intelligence as a preventive secuIn 2018, operational support continued to be rity instrument remains a key principle of delivered to OMV ventures and, where appliour strategy. It affords the ability to anticicable, regional and venture security capabilipate or instantly respond to a broad specty was encouraged in order to assume a trum of geopolitical events, regional more locally delivered model. As the busi­conflicts, or isolated incidents. Interacting ness continues to evolve in the Middle East effectively with government agencies also and Africa region, this will remain a permaaugments this approach through valid cornent commitment for 2019. roboration of facts. OMV’s human rights policies remain crucial The Security Risk Assessment Platform conin terms of security. Effective community tinues to deliver tangible results, providing engagement is a powerful security mitigareal-time oversight of OMV asset risk expotion measure in regions experiencing consure levels, and can be quickly readjusted in flict or instability. In high-risk countries, response to geopolitical or security events. OMV’s local security and community GRI 2016: 102-12; GRI 2016: Health, Safety, and Security (Occupational Health and Safety): 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 34 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Nafoora and Zueitina. In November, OMV OMV’s resilience and crisis management Information security management was finally able to deploy an eight-person capability during low-probability/high-­impact technical inspection team to the Nafoora and events was tested in the fourth quarter 2018. With the rapid increase of digitalization, Zueitina sites via Benghazi. A robust security The Upstream Crisis Management exercise/ there are also risks to the non-physical secuand emergency response plan provided the workshop was centered around a complex rity of operations that can threaten business necessary assurance and mitigation measecurity event in Libya, while the Downcontinuity. OMV invests in information secusures required so that this critical six-day stream exercise involved a challenging prodrity to minimize disruptions, to secure our technical review could be completed for uct supply chain situation triggered by an critical assets, and to avoid monetary loss Upstream. The goal in 2019 is to further incident in Trieste harbor. All of the lessons resulting from unauthorized access to our improve this security concept to enable learned from these exercises are captured systems or data. ­longer visits in the future. and incorporated into relevant procedures. The Information Security 4.0 Program has been set up to embed information security as an integral part of the OMV Group (including Upstream, Downstream, and Group functions). The Program covers both information (IT) and operational technologies (OT). It also features multiple subprojects directed at developing the capabilities of our technology, of our organization, and of our employees so that we can resist cyber security threats. These projects will help OMV adopt new technologies in the future while still managing the risks posed by malicious actors. We regularly assess the maturity of our information security system using standards and directives based on ISO/IEC standards, and the COBIT, NIST, and NIS frameworks, as well as industry best practices. GRI 2016: 102-12; GRI 2016: Health, Safety, and Security (Occupational Health and Safety): 103-1 35 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION OMV implements projects and establishes initiatives aimed at enhancing information security in three main focus areas: RISK-RESILIENT AND SECURE TECHNOLOGY ORGANIZATION INDIVIDUAL WORKPLACE WITH MINIMUM DISRUPTION ff OUR ORGANIZATION: work, we are aligning security managecommunication and help employees provide feedback, which is then We build the foundation for a secure ment, developing security standards, adapt and use the tools and processes implemented on a regular basis. ­environment on clear and actionable detailing security requirements, executing introduced as part of the Information stand­ards and processes, supported by methodologies and tools for security risk Security 4.0 Program. Such learning OUR TECHNOLOGY: ff well-defined organizational responsibiliassessment, and setting up contract and channels include our intranet and a We provide technology and solutions in ties. This includes defining and impleincident management. combination of mandatory and optional order to prevent and mitigate security menting organizational and governance trainings. One level of learning activities risks. An example of an activity targeted structures for an integrated IT and OT ff OUR EMPLOYEES: is targeted at all employees to help them at mitigating security risks is imposing Security Framework across both We equip the workforce, including tackle common problems such as secure Identity and Access Management Upstream and Downstream activities. The contractors, with the appropriate level of phishing or ransomware attempts, while (IAM) governance and architecture for Security Framework provides a foundarisk awareness and expectations with the second is directed at employees who identity management, authentication, and tion for revising, further defining, and regard to promoting information security need to use specific advanced authorization. establishing processes for information in our everyday business. Our learning information security solutions and security. As part of the Security Framechannels promote regular two-way processes. Employees are encouraged to GRI 2016: Health, Safety, and Security (Occupational Health and Safety): 103-2, 103-3 36 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Environment In striving to minimize the impact of our reduction of emissions, efficient use of enerBy 2020, OMV aims to achieve 100% compliff OMV Tunisia is certified according to operations, we particularly emphasize issues gy and natural resources, and avoiding bioance by all operational sites with the OMV ISO 14001 and ISO 50001. of material importance to both OMV and our diversity disruption is an integral part of the Group Environmental Management stakeholders: spills, energy efficiency, greenOMV HSSE Policy. In particular, our focus on ­Standard as well as the requirements of ISO ff OMV Petrom Upstream Romania is house gas (GHG) emissions, water and climate change mitigation as part of our envi14001 and ISO 50001. To reach the intermecertified according to ISO 14001, waste management. ronmental policy led to the inclusion of three diary step of 70% compliance by the end of ISO 9001, and OHSAS 18001 for its related targets in the Sustainability Strategy 2019, we have developed and rolled out a Maintenance and Gas Pipeline All topics of material importance related to 2025. (For more information on targets relatself-assessment tool and have defined the Management System. our environmental impact are managed ed to reducing GHG emissions, see Carbon units that will undergo the assessment to through a single management approach, Efficiency.) determine where there are gaps with ff The OMV Petrom Group’s Energy governed by general and topic-specific respect to the system and standards. FolManagement System is certified Group regulations, and reported to manageThe principles and rules for environmental lowing the analysis, the units undergoing according to ISO 50001, and the ment accordingly. Specifics regarding the management are set out in the OMV Group’s the assessment will be required to implecertification covers all Upstream and definition of the scope and management of HSSE Directive and the OMV Group Environment compliance plans defining how they Downstream business activities. each environmental topic are provided in the mental Management Standard. The HSSE will close the identified gaps. corresponding sections: Energy efficiency, Directive defines the “environment” as “an ff Samsun CCPP is certified according to Spills management, Water management. organization’s natural and human surroundThe Central Integrated Management System ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 50001, and Reporting on the management of GHG emisings. An organization’s environment extends (C-IMS) of OMV’s Downstream business is OHSAS 18001. sions can be found in the Carbon Efficiency from within the organization itself to the certified according to ISO 14001, ISO 9001, section, since this is a separate focus area of global system and includes air, water, land, ISO 50001, and OHSAS 18001. The OMV ff OMV Petrom Marketing S.R.L.’s OMV our Sustainability Strategy. As mentioned in flora, fauna, and human beings.” Refining and Petrochemicals business, branded filling stations; OMV Petrom the Reporting on Materiality section, we also including OMV Petrom power plants and the S.A.’s supply, marketing, and trading cover the topics of biodiversity and waste The OMV Group Environmental ManagePetrobrazi refinery, are covered by the C-IMS. activity; and OMV Petrom Gas S.R.L.’s gas management, as these are also important to ment Standard requires that all relevant delivery activity are certified according to OMV. OMV businesses and activities (including EMSs of other OMV business units are ISO 14001. investment, acquisitions, and divestment) externally certified according to the followOMV tracks environmental performance in implement an Environmental Management ing international EMS standards: The Executive Board members are informed all relevant areas through an annual camSystem (EMS) consistent with ISO 14001 and regularly, at least quarterly, about present paign using suitable IT tools for collecting, adhering to the minimum requirements listff OMV Deutschland GmbH holds and upcoming environmental, climate, and validating, and analyzing environmental ed. All relevant OMV businesses are required certification according to EMAS III energy-related policies and regulations; data. Based on the results of the reporting, to review and update the EMS at least once (Eco Management and Audit Scheme). related developments in the fuels and gas OMV can evaluate where our operations per year, while a full EMS audit must be carmarket; the financial implications of CO2 have the greatest potential for improvement. ried out either by an external independent ff Gas Connect Austria is certified according emissions trading obligations; the status of Detailed information on the performance of auditor or OMV corporate environmental to ISO 14001, ISO 9001, ISO 50001, and innovation project implementation; and selected environmental indicators is presentexperts every three years for sites not certiOHSAS 18001. progress on achieving sustainability-related ed under Performance in Detail. fied to ISO 14001. Internal EMS audits are targets. (For more detailed description of performed at the local level at least once a ff OMV Upstream Pakistan is certified sustainability governance, see Sustainability Minimizing environmental impacts by way year to identify improvement measures. according to ISO 14001. Governance.) Overall responsibility for enviof water and soil pollution prevention, ronmental management in the business GRI 2016: Energy, Water, Emissions, Effluents, Environmental Compliance: 103-2, 103-3; GRI 2016: 102-12 37 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION s­ egments lies with the Executive Board Environmental risks and opportunities Before undertaking new operational activisavings resulting from reduced energy members responsible for the Upstream and include regulatory, operational, reputational, ties or entering new countries, we perform consumption and lower production costs Downstream business, respectively. and financial drivers and specifically relate environmental risk assessments, including to issues such as climate change, availability evaluations of local legislation, the potential ff NGOs/NPOs: reduced impact of our Management of environmental and quality of water used for operations, impact of our activities on sensitive and prooperations on the environment ­c ompliance and the impact of energy, climate, and water tected areas, and the effects on endangered policies. The management of environment-­ species. Each subsequent phase of project The OMV Group Environmental ManageOMV is liable for the impact that our activirelated risks is part of OMV’s Enterprise-­ implementation is accompanied by a ment Standard requires that all OMV busities have on the environment. Breaching Wide Risk Management (EWRM) activities as detailed assessment of environmental risks. nesses and activities use energy responsibly, environmental regulations on a national and described in the Risk and Opportunities conserve primary energy resources, and international level results in both monetary Management section. Energy efficiency implement energy management plans in losses and harm to our reputation. Our accordance with ISO 50001. The potential for license to operate depends on compliance Digital technologies are used in monitoring As an integrated oil and gas company, OMV reducing energy use is identified in annual with regulations relating to environmental and managing environmental risks through a operates large facilities and is also a major campaigns encouraging improved environprotection, which is also of particular imporspecial risk management IT tool – the Active energy consumer. The amount of energy we mental performance, including energy contance to governmental authorities, shareRisk Manager System (ARMS). We continued use creates a significant impact on the envisumption. For example, we have set targets holders, and stakeholders such as the public to roll out ARMS in 2018. This tool allows us ronment. Effective management of energy for refineries to reach certain energy index and environmental NGOs and NPOs. to better integrate environmental risk scenariconsumption reduces the environmental ratings through annual monitoring camos with other HSSE and business risks. Identicost of our operations, increases financial paigns. Based on their energy index rating, The OMV Group Environmental Managefied and assessed risks are controlled and savings thanks to energy efficiency, prevents we identify and assess areas for improvement Standard requires compliance with all mitigated at all organizational levels thanks to non-compliance with regulatory requirement in energy efficiency. Subsequently, we applicable environmental laws and regulaclearly defined risk policies and responsibiliments on energy use, and mitigates the decide which measures to implement to tions, identification of legal and other ties. Strategic risks and opportunities (e.g., ­climate effects of GHG emissions. improve energy consumption as part of our requirements, development and mainterelated to climate change or water stress) are environmental governance process. (For nance of appropriate legal compliance dataassessed in a top-down process, while a botEnergy efficiency measures therefore have a more information on activities aimed at bases, and alignment with internationally tom-up process with a standardized methodconsiderable effect on issues relating to enhancing environmental performance as accepted best practices as part of our EMS. ology is used to assess environmental energy consumption of interest to stakepart of sustainability governance, see According to the Standard, we must also aspects, impacts, and risks, including legal holders: ­Sustainability Governance.) establish programs to prevent non-complicompliance risks, in our operations. ance to avoid monetary losses. The OMV ff Governmental authorities: compliance Group Environmental Management StanIn 2018, we continued to roll out the framewith EU Emissions Trading System dard stipulates an assessment of environwork and methodology for our coordinated (EU ETS) regulations relating to the mental impacts and risks, and adherence to Group-Wide Environmental Risk Assessment. submission of emissions allowances environmental performance requirements in The framework is based on best practice within EU ETS, compliance with the EU terms of energy use, emissions into the standards, meets ISO 14001 requirements, Energy Efficiency Directive requiring atmosphere, water use and discharge, the and ensures the consistent qualitative assessgreater energy efficiency in all stages of use of raw materials, waste management, ment of operational risks and impacts related the energy value chain hazardous substance handling, and biodiverto the environment. The resulting environsity and ecosystem protection. mental risk database includes information on ff Shareholders and other stakeholders with existing controls for environmental risks as a direct financial interest in OMV: financial well as future actions required. GRI 102-11, 102-15; GRI 2016 Energy Efficiency (Energy): 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; GRI 2016 Environmental Compliance: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 38 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Energy efficiency activities Energy efficiency measures in OMV operafar delivered a total reduction of ­­ tions are closely linked with technical 0.7 mn t in CO2 equivalent. improvements directed at reducing energy use while achieving the same operational In 2018, projects to measure and decrease output. Process optimization and increasing energy use in operations at the Petrobrazi energy efficiency to save costs and reduce refinery produced annual energy savings of CO2 emissions is a strong focus of our refinaround 77,000 GJ and decreased emissions eries. Energy efficiency measures impleby over 13,000 t CO2 equivalent.19 mented in our three refineries in 2018 led to an annual decrease of more than 34,621 t in In 2018, our total energy consumption was CO2 equivalent and energy savings of 470 TJ. 127.4 PJ (2017: 130.8 PJ). Of this figure, 3% GHG reduction projects implemented in our was energy consumed from purchased refineries between 2009 and 2018 have so ­electricity and heat. Energy consumption in PJ 137.8 130.8 126.8 127.4 2015 2016 2017 2018 19 Savings are based on site calculations with specific data and methodology. GRI 2016: Energy Efficiency (Energy): 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; GRI 2016: 302-1, 302-4 39 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION In Austria and Romania, we have imple­ Spills management ff Emergency response and contingency spills, we continued to perform emergency mented the following projects resulting in plans including materials and equipment drills, including pollution scenarios. reduced energy consumption: Oil spills20 are a critical environmental issue for spill intervention for our industry. Spills management is In 2018, we recorded two major hydrocarff Gas production in Thann (Austria): The defined as the prevention of spills in operaff Cleanup and remediation procedures bon spills in Romania (2017: one major old gas-powered compressors in the gas tions and other spills (e.g., caused by sabospill). storage facility were replaced with new tage or natural hazards), and the manageThe majority of our oil spills involve OMV electrical wellhead compressors. The ment and remediation of spills resulting Petrom Upstream, where we concentrate our At OMV Petrom Asset II, an oil pipeline conresulting energy savings are expected to from an incident. efforts to safeguard our infrastructure in the necting the Brădeşti production sector and be as high as 60%. Simultaneously, CO2 interest of reducing the number of spills the Gherceşti tank farm leaked near the emissions were reduced by almost 90%. Stakeholders with major concerns relating occurring on a yearly basis. Amaradia River due to external corrosion. to potential impacts stemming from spills Approximately 720 liters of oil and 80 liters ff Gas processing plant in Aderklaa are as follows: The remuneration of the Company’s execuof salt water flowed onto the ground and (Austria): Due to the ONE Aderklaa mode tive management is linked to OMV’s oil spill partly down the Amaradia River toward the of operation and the decrease in sales gas ff Government authorities: potential performance. The number and volume of oil Jiu River. Pipeline operations were stopped pressure, we were able to decrease breaches of environmental regulations spills constitute a part of the sustainability immediately, and the isolation valves were combustion gas by approximately 20%, multiplier that impacts their annual bonus as closed. A number of barriers were erected leading to the reduction of approximately ff Employees and contractors: potential decided by the Supervisory Board. Hydroalong both the Amaradia and Jiu Rivers, 10,000 t CO2 pear year. health and safety issues arising from carbon spills are documented and reported including absorbent pads, floating booms, accidents and damage to the environment using OMV’s incident reporting tool. The and dams. Oil was recovered by vacuum ff OMV Petrom Energy Efficiency Program and society data input for the sustainability multiplier, trucks, and contaminated soil was removed (Romania): In 2018, two new gas-to-power including the number of spills and their and transported to a bioremediation plant. (G2P) plants have been initiated in Asset I ff NGOs/NPOs: potential damage to the ­volume, is audited externally as part of the The authorities were informed immediately with implementation planned for 2019. environment and society scope of the sustainability report audit. and decontamination efforts have been Within the framework of the Energy (More information is provided in the coordinated with them. Efficiency Program, a total of 36 G2P/CHP ff Society: damage to the surrounding ­Sustainability Governance section.) power plants were built by the end of 2018 environment At OMV Petrom Asset VIII, an oil pipeline with a total capacity of 77 MW. Spill remediation connecting the Tazlău production sector and ff Shareholders: direct financial losses due the Albotești tank farm leaked due to exterto the costs of remediation measures and Hydrocarbon spills are assessed and cleaned nal corrosion. Approximately 450 liters of reputational risks up immediately after their occurrence in oil and 50 liters of salt water leaked onto accordance with internal procedures governthe ground on private property. Pipeline Spill prevention ing spill remediation. Leaks are repaired operations were stopped immediately, and immediately or within defined time frames the isolation valves were closed. The Spill prevention and control measures in accordance with the site’s maintenance authorities were informed immediately. include: processes and based on the risk assessment Absorbent barriers were installed so that outcome and other factors, such as feasibilithe affected surface area could be limited to ff Hazard identification and risk assessment ty of repair during operation. approximately 200 square meters. Liquid oil was collected by vacuum trucks; contamiff Preventive measures and maintenance to In order to strengthen our response to and nated soil was excavated and transported to avoid leaks reduce the environmental impact of oil a bioremediation plant. 20 Oil spills are defined as hydrocarbon liquid spills that reach the environment. GRI 2016: Spills management (Effluents): 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; GRI 2016: 102-11 40 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION In addition, 2,182 minor releases occurred in personnel, equipment, or the environment. 2018 (2017: 2,402). Total hydrocarbon spillSo far, 200 facilities have participated, and age was around 36.9 m3 (2017: around 40 more facilities are scheduled to be 173.9 m3). Spills and leaks were mainly due ­included in the HAZOP study in 2019. to the corrosion of aging infrastructure. Water management OMV has developed a Corrosion Management Framework (CMF) to provide a proacOMV Upstream and Downstream operations tive and consistent approach to corrosion both affect water resources. OMV uses signifmonitoring and management across the icant amounts of water for its operations in entire OMV Group and the OMV Petrom Upstream as well as in Downstream activiUpstream business. Covering the full life ties. Freshwater is used, for example, for cycle of the equipment exposed to the risk of drilling, steam generation, and cooling, corrosion in both oil and gas facilities from among other processes. Smaller amounts of the well to the sales point, this framework water are also used for non-industrial purencompasses the entire value chain of our poses. Some water used in operations is business. A team of 30 in-house experts with recycled back for reinjection to pressurize multidisciplinary and multicultural backhydrocarbon reservoirs in order to optimize grounds will work to embed CMF principles the extraction rate. into everyday operations. Desalinated water is used in some offshore In 2018, we continued to implement the operations. Refineries and various other OMV Petrom Pipeline Integrity Management operating facilities also use brackish and/or Program, which demonstrated significant recycled water for various operational purff NGOs/NPOs: environmental preservation The key targets of our water results from multi-year data collection and poses. The Samsun power plant uses sea and water resource conservation management activities are to software implementation. Risks are prioriwater directly for cooling purposes. Some of tized using the software, thereby ensuring OMV’s operating facilities are located in ff Local water utilities: supply of freshwater reduce water consumption, to that our pipeline integrity efforts focus on water stress areas.21 (for OMV operations) utilize water resources effithe locations with the greatest need. As a ciently, and to treat waste­ result of the Pipeline Integrity Management Our impact on water resources is material to Program, OMV Petrom also increased the stakeholders as follows: water appropriately. use of non-metallic pipeline materials in new projects to prevent corrosion and the risk of ff Government authorities (regulatory and pipeline-related spills. river basin management authorities): compliance with water use rules and The Hazard and Operability (HAZOP) Proenvironmental parameters relating to gram at OMV Petrom also continued in 2018, wastewater generated resulting in completion of 40 studies reviewing and updating all of the required technical ff Local communities: sharing of local water documentation in order to identify operaresources and the quality of discharged tional risks carrying potential hazards for wastewater 21 Water stress areas are areas where the demand for water exceeds the available amount during a certain period or when poor quality restricts its use. In such areas, water stress ­causes deterioration of freshwater resources in terms of quantity (aquifer over-exploitation, dry rivers, etc.) and quality (eutrophication, organic matter pollution, saline intrusion, etc.). Source: European Environmental Agency www.eea.europa.eu/themes/water/glossary GRI 2016: Water Management (Water):103-1, 103-2; GRI 2018: 303-1; GRI 2016: 306-3; GRI 2016 Spills management (Effluents): 103-2, 103-3; GRI 2016: 102-11 41 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION The Company’s commitment to water manative Water Stress Index. The Water Risk Filspills with significant impact on marine agement is based on OMV’s Water Ambition ter (WRF) supplement to the GWT provides water resources and ecosystems. The Statement.22 OMV with a clearer picture of current or response strategy aims to minimize the probpotential future water constraints, and creability of such risks and maximize readiness OMV’s Group-wide Water Strategy was ates facility-specific heat maps that also conso that we can provide timely remediation Water Ambition Statement implemented in 2014 and is based on five tain information on physical risks like water strategic pillars: scarcity and pollution. Operating facilities located in places that are affected or are likeff We respect water as a precious ff Transparency ly to be affected by water scarcity issues, and limited resource and focus on its operations utilizing significant water resourcsustainable use. ff Risks and opportunities es (i.e., Tunisia), are prioritized when developing and implementing water management ff We are committed to meeting all ff Water efficiency and treatment plans. These plans aim to allow sustainable applicable legislative requirements or long-term production with minimal effects on our OMV regulations – whichever is ff Training and awareness the environment. Since OMV’s Water StrateRehabilitation of industrial more stringent. gy was implemented, 75% of priority sites water distribution system at ff Stakeholder engagement have completed water management plans, ff Water management is a key compowith the development of plans in progress at Suplac in Upstream, Asset I nent of our social license to operate. In line with the high importance of the water the remaining sites. We cooperate with local communities management material topic, we keep our In 2018, the industrial water distriand prove to be responsible partners. plan to establish targets related to the A bottom-up approach in the assessment of bution system was rehabilitated in enhancement of water consumption effi­ water-related risks is taken in accordance four parks (16, 24, 31, and 49) at ff We are committed to transparency ciency. For the Sustainability Strategy 2025, with the OMV’s Group-wide Environmental Suplac in Upstream, Asset I. The when it comes to our impact on water however, we have prioritized safety-related Risk Assessment (ERA) guideline to ensure old hydrant networks were resources. targets in the focus area of HSSE. Environconsistent qualitative assessments of operareplaced, and around 730 meters of ment-related targets were incorporated as tional risks and impacts related to the envinew pipe were installed at a cost of ff Every OMV employee is responsible part of the Carbon Efficiency focus area. ronment, including water. Significant risks around EUR 1.24 mn. Project benefor minimizing the impact of our Water management targets will make part are integrated into OMV’s Enterprise-Wide fits include avoiding water losses activities on water resources. of the Water Strategy that we plan to review Risk Management (EWRM) system. from old water hydrant networks in 2019. and pipelines, as well as improved When entering a new country or considering safety in operations. High-level water-related risk screening is pernew operational activities, OMV primarily formed at Group level every five years, with uses the World Resources Institute’s (WRI) the next one planned for 2019. OMV uses Aqueduct and Verisk Maplecroft indexes to international tools such as the IPIECA Global identify future potential water-related conWater Tool (GWT) to identify operations in straints such as baseline water stress, areas affected by water scarcity and water groundwater stress, and seasonal variability. stress. The GWT provides information on the Annual Renewable Water Supply at country Water-management-related risks are closely level, the Annual Relative Water Stress Index linked with the material topic of spill prevenat watershed level, and the Mean Annual Reltion. Offshore operations may lead to oil 22 Available on OMV website: www.omv.com/sustainability GRI 2016: Water Management (Water):103-2, 103-3; GRI 2016: 102-12 42 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION measures in the unlikely event of an oil spill. water management practices are local comimplemented in cooperation with internaOMV allocates significant resources to premunities, neighboring industrial facilities, tional NGOs or agencies. The latter help initivention and mitigation measures. Any new NGOs, regulators, and river basin manageate dialogue with local communities so that or existing offshore drilling activity is accomment authorities. OMV can identify and plan community develpanied by a third-party analysis evaluating opment activities in accordance with local the magnitude of a major event and its possiOMV water management activities pursue needs. On a larger scale, OMV regularly ble consequences. As part of the biannual socially equitable water use. One of the holds stakeholder dialogue meetings with Group-wide EWRM process, water-related essential rights defined in OMV’s Human NGOs to seek their opinions and views on Commissioning of new gas risks and mitigation measures are assessed Rights Matrix is “Support access to water sustainability and environmental topics. ­separation station at Madulari in a larger strategic context, while a systemand food in the immediate surroundings of atic approach is taken in day-to-day operaour operations.” This applies not only to our Local regulatory and river basin authorities in Upstream, Asset II tions to monitoring and managing high-­ own operations but also to those of our supare involved whenever needed to ensure that impact/low-probability risks such as pliers that sign and commit to following the OMV is in compliance with local environmenIn 2018, a new gas separation stablow-outs during offshore drilling. OMV Code of Conduct. As indicated in the tal regulations and has obtained all of the tion was commissioned at Madulari Supply Chain section, OMV regularly carries required permits for freshwater usage and in Upstream, Asset II, by way of an OMV adheres to the requirements laid down out supplier audits to ensure compliance wastewater discharge. investment amounting to in local legislation when setting standards with our human rights requirements. EUR 66.8 mn. The new facility for effluent discharge quality. The OMV Water efficiency activities replaced an old tank farm, a Group Environmental Management Standard To ensure that the interests of local commugas-drying facility, and a compresrequires all OMV businesses and activities to nities are known and taken into account In 2018, a study to evaluate water risks was sor station. Water use decreased minimize the impact of effluents on the enviduring the project life cycle, OMV conducts conducted at the Petrobrazi refinery, taking substantially (from 5 m³/day to ronment and local communities, and outlines social baseline studies and community into account physical criteria such as water 1 m³/day), and energy consumption specific requirements for wastewater disneeds assessments as part of Social Impact scarcity (determined by considering access was cut in half (1,644 MWh comcharge onshore and offshore. The direct disAssessments (SIAs). (For more information to water resources, competing needs, and pared with 3,272 MWh previously) charge of wastewater on land, in wetlands, or on SIAs, see Community Relations and supply patterns in the region) and water during a six-month period. in other bodies of water without prior treatDevelopment.) stress (defined by the physical availability of ment is not permitted. The Standard furtherthe water resources). The WRF tool was used The new facility pursues best water more stipulates that no discharge may alter Following these assessments, OMV launches to further analyze the outcomes of the study management practices by using air or diminish the value of the receiving envicommunity projects aimed at increasing in view of compliance and reputational risks. cooling (instead of the previous ronment. All discharge must be systemati­ access to clean water for local communities. The study found decreased availability of cooling towers, which used considcally monitored, and any environmental This partnership with local communities water resources, mainly due to climate erable amounts of water) and elecimpacts must be managed appropriately. allows them to benefit from OMV’s presence change, with an expected further decline in tric heating for buildings (instead of in the region and provide consent for the water availability. Given that the region is steam heating). In areas where OMV operations require large use of natural water resources in their area. already experiencing water stress, we deteramounts of water, it is particularly important Examples of OMV support for local commumined the need to implement climate to include local stakeholders in water mannities in Libya to water use related projects change adaptation measures. Among these agement activities in order to secure a can be found under Community Relations is recycling treated wastewater in our indus“social license to operate.” Among the most and Development. try. The risk evaluation study supports a pilot important stakeholders OMV includes in project at Petrobrazi focusing on treated defining socially equitable, environmentally Community development projects, including wastewater recycling. sustainable, and economically beneficial those expanding access to water, are often GRI 2016: 303-1, 303-2; GRI 2016: 102-12 43 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Biodiversity protection movement through New Zealand’s Cook certify that there are no significant impacts In 2018, OMV Petrom conducted biodiversity Strait on wildlife. The seismic campaign caused conservation studies with external support According to the OMV Group Environmental very short-term disturbance on a local level, on two natural reserves where Upstream Management Standard and Environmental ff A partnership with the Friends of Mana which was not above the base-level disturoperates, called “Pădurea cu Pini” and and Social Impact Assessment Procedure, all Island to assist with the regeneration of bance of agricultural, forestry, or recreation“Mlaştina Satchinez.” The results indicate OMV activities must be conducted in such a Mana Island to provide a secure al activities. In accordance with the stringent that the status of biodiversity conservation way as to cause minimal disturbance to proecosystem for endangered species regulation applicable to conducting activity in these natural protected areas is good. We tected areas and local flora and fauna. in biologically sensitive areas, such as Natualso performed integrity risk assessments on Observed or predicted direct and indirect ff A partnership with Montfort Trimble ra 2000 protected areas, the campaign was high-volume pipelines that cross a natural impacts on biodiversity and ecosystem serFoundation (MTF) for a period of three carried out outside the bird nesting season protected area, which overlap with OMV vices (BES) are described and analyzed in years to fund a project for the and out of intensive vegetation. The camPetrom’s operations. These assessments the environmental impact assessment. BES regeneration of threatened native paign also involved ecological supervision define and prioritize measures for continuscreenings are carried out at all relevant mistletoe (Tupeia antarctica) at Rewanui during the seismic data acquisition to ensure ously reducing exposure. sites to identify as far as reasonably possible Forest Park, near Masterton meeting ecological requirements. the potential for the presence of nationally or globally threatened species, legally proIn one of our community relations projects tected threatened or fragile ecosystems, and in New Zealand, OMV provided financial internationally recognized areas with sensisupport for a large-scale wetland and tive biodiversity. In case of significant streamside regeneration project around Lake observed or predicted impact, action planMoawhitu, D’Urville Island. The project ning gives priority to avoidance and minimiinvolves planting large numbers of locally zation over restoration and offsetting of the sourced native plants, thus helping restore impact. the lake and freshwater habitat. The longterm objective is to improve the quality of In 2018, we supported the following bio­ the lake water, restore the surrounding wetdiversity-related projects in New Zealand: lands, and improve the migratory routes for the longfin eel (tuna) between the lake and ff A partnership with Ngāti Koata and the the ocean. Over the past four years, OMV Department of Conservation for the New Zealand staff assisted, on a voluntary Moawhitu lake and wetland regeneration basis, in the overall restoration planning and project physical planting of over 12,000 plants. ff A partnership with the Rotokare Scenic Prior to seismic data acquisition in the Reserve Trust to reintroduce the endemic course of the largest seismic campaign in hihi bird (stitchbird) back into this reserve Austria, OMV commissioned nature conserlocated just outside of New Plymouth vation experts at a technical office for biology and ecology (Büro für Biologie und Ökolff A partnership with the National Institute ogie) to conduct a biodiversity assessment. for Water and Atmospheric Research to In addition, independent official experts of undertake passive acoustic monitoring to the competent nature conservation authoriassess cetacean distribution and ties carried out related reports. All reports GRI 2016: 304-3; GRI OG4 Sector Supplement; GRI 2016: 102-12 44 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Waste management Decommissioning activities Our activities generate solid and liquid OMV Petrom Downstream Oil finalized demwaste, including hazardous waste such as olition projects that included three old fuel oily sludge, waste chemicals, catalysts, and terminals (Reșița Terminal & ANRS, Zalău, construction debris. Examples of non-hazand Zalău ANRS). This activity generated ardous waste include concrete not containaround 42,000 t of waste in 21 waste categoing dangerous substances, welding waste, ries. The largest share (90%) was clean condrilling wastes, mud without oil content, othcrete, which was crushed at the demolition er dangerous substances as well as mixed sites and prepared for further use. Scrapped municipal waste, paper, and metal. metals were recycled by authorized companies, and the other 19 waste types were In 2018, activities operated or majority­brought to specialized waste facilities for owned by OMV generated 583,603 t of either recovery or disposal. We achieved an waste, 268,611 t of which was hazardous overall waste recycling rate of 95% for the waste and 314,992 t of which was non-­ demolition project, thus maintaining the hazardous waste. We recovered or recycled excellent recycling rate of over 90% of 223,246 t and safely disposed of 360,357 t of ­previous years, by following best practices waste, for an overall waste recovery and in waste management. recycling rate of 38%. GRI OG11 Sector Supplement; GRI 2016: 306-2 45 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Carbon Efficiency OMV is fully committed to climate change mitigation and responsible resource management, and has consequently set targets to manage and reduce the carbon footprint of our operations and product portfolio. Reducing greenhouse gases will decrease our environmental impact and have a positive financial impact by improving compliance with climate­-related regulatory requirements and ensuring the efficient use of resources. We strive to be regarded as one of the low-carbon leaders in the oil and gas industry. A(Leadership) score from CDP Climate Change 371 kt CO2 equivalent emissions savings from implemented projects 57% natural gas share in Upstream portfolio 46 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Climate Change Risk Management The following risks are taken into account include a company’s environmental and on this basis: social responsibility as a high-weight Climate-related risks and opportunities criterion in their investment decisionff Compliance with EU ETS in terms of our making process, whether for reasons of Climate-change-related risks and opportuniability to submit the necessary EU internal policy or due to regulatory ties are integrated into OMV’s Enterprise­allowances for allocated emission rights pressure for public investment Wide Risk Management (EWRM) process for all relevant assets in Europe transparency regarding sustainability aimed at identifying, assessing, and managissues ing business-related risks. The shortand ff Acute physical risks related to the impact medium-term risks are analyzed for their of extreme weather conditions and other Opportunities: impact on the Company’s three-year financlimate-change-related events on the cial plan. The effects of long-term risks are business performance and continuity of ff Development of innovative technologies evaluated based on a semiquantitative analOMV’s operational assets that represent a commercially viable and ysis, taking into account a wider range of environmentally friendly alternative to uncertainty. We see climate change to have ­ ff Chronic physical risks related to the fossil fuels (see Focus on future mobility a limited impact on our business plans and availability of operational resources, such and Innovation), and subsequent objectives in the medium term. However, as water, following changes in evaluation of the opportunities for management pays close attention to precipitation patterns and extreme increasing OMV’s capacity to produce ­climate-change-related long-term risks and variability in weather patterns, rising high-value non-fuel products, such as opportunities and takes these into account in mean temperatures, or rising sea levels petrochemicals (see Focus on strategic decision-making. petrochemicals) In the top-down approach, the relevant cenRisks are identified in a bottom-up approach tral corporate units identify the following ff Increasing demand for natural gas as the by the employees responsible for our day-torisks and opportunities, and analyze their cleanest fossil fuel in terms of GHG day business, and in a top-down approach by potential impact on OMV’s business: emissions and the subsequent the corporate units responsible for monitoropportunity to leverage OMV’s strong ing regulatory, market, and reputational risks Risks: presence in the natural gas sector by in line with the latest national and internaincreasing its share in the Company’s tional developments. These risks are ff Current and emerging regulations in line portfolio relative to oil-based products assessed in terms of their potential impact on with international public-sector initiatives (see Focus on gas products) the medium-term financial performance plan. such as the Paris Agreement and their subsequent transposition into national Climate-change-related risks and an analysis In the bottom-up approach, climate-­changelaw in the countries in which OMV of their impacts were part of the process of related risks are identified using the stanoperates, resulting in limits on GHG developing the Carbon Strategy and evaluatdardized methodology of the EWRM emissions by the energy industry ing supply and demand trajectories, which in ­process. (For more details on EWRM, see turn served as the basis for the Corporate Risk and Opportunities Management.) ff Reputation risks stemming from the Strategy 2025. increasing number of investors who GRI 2016 102-12, 102-15, 201-2 47 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Climate-related business resilience demand will lead to a less carbon-intensive Already in 2015, we also introduced an interpages 15-16. The Executive Board approves fuel mix. nal carbon price to test our investment decicarbon-related goals as part of the SustainOMV aligns the boundaries and time horisions. Using the carbon price we run sensiability Strategy. It also approves the Health, zons of its business strategy with the foreThe IEA 450 Scenario23 was used by OMV as tivity analyses of project financials with Safety, Security, and Environment (HSSE) seen short-, medium-, and long-term risks a downside sensitivity option to determine increased operating expenses (OPEX) from Strategy, which reflects climate change tarand impacts of climate-related policies and how the existing and future OMV business carbon costs. The internal carbon price gets such as zero routine flaring by 2030. energy sector developments. Scenarios conportfolio would perform in such a business allows us to factor in the hypothetical carbon The current Sustainability Strategy and sistent with the goal of limiting the global scenario. We continue to perform sensitivity costs into investment estimates and the engiHSSE Strategy are defined for the period up temperature increase to no more than 2°C analyses based on the IEA Sustainable neering designs of the projects. Such analyto 2025. by reducing greenhouse gas emissions are Development Scenario24, which incorporates ses protect the value of our new investments of utmost importance for our strategic conthe 450 Scenario, to determine OMV’s posiunder future scenarios with increased carbon We continued reporting to CDP to ensure a siderations as they imply fundamental tion relative to global and regional primary costs and increase business resilience to high level of transparency with regard to our changes to the current energy market. energy demands. The targets of our Corpopotential changes in climate-related taxes or efforts to combat climate change. In 2018, During the strategy review and planning rate Strategy 2025 are developed in accortrading schemes. It also increases the transOMV achieved CDP Climate Change score of processes, OMV has taken into account scedance with the forecasted market developparency of additional economic incentives A(Leadership) for the third consecutive narios reflecting various aspects of potential ments up to 2025. As a result, the Corporate for carbon emissions reduction initiatives. time. This places OMV among the eleven economic, technological, and social develStrategy 2025 foresees an increase in the companies in the global oil and gas sector opments and their implications for the enershare of natural gas relative to oil in that achieved the CDP Leadership score and gy market and, consequently, for our busiUpstream and a shift to higher-value-added Carbon Efficiency of Operations25 among the top four companies across all ness. The results of our analysis have products for industrial use, such as petrosectors in Austria. A CDP Leadership score shown what impact different national and chemicals. The targets for the Sustainability We recognize climate change as one of the recognizes that OMV has taken specific steps international emissions targets will have on Strategy are aligned with the production and most important global challenges today and that represent best practice in the field of the passenger and freight fleet in Europe operational targets of the Corporate Strategy acknowledge the goals set forth by the Paris environmental management. and OMV core markets. This influenced (for more details, see Sustainability at OMV). Climate Change Agreement. We aim to find OMV’s business objectives and strategy. In addition, we plan to invest up to EUR 500 the right industrial-scale solutions for a mn in innovation projects, including lower­-carbon world. Reducing emissions OMV uses the International Energy Agency research and development in the defined from operations is an important strategic (IEA) New Policies (NP) Scenario as a referareas, leading to reduced GHG emissions target for OMV, demonstrating our commitence for the future market framework, given (See chapter Innovation for further detail). ment to this material sustainability topic. that it incorporates current and announced Our carbon efficiency agenda focuses on (not yet fully realized) policies, targets, and In line with national and international cliprocess optimization, energy efficiency, and plans. Based on the IEA NP Scenario, we mate change mitigation commitments, OMV delivering projects that reduce our direct forecasted the development of the oil and will step back from activities such as, for GHG emissions. gas demand in Europe and in the OMV core example, the promotional campaign “Heatmarkets until 2025. The results of the analying with Oil” (more on page 55), and focus Management of carbon efficiency of sis show an expected increase in petroincreasingly on low-carbon fuels such as ­o perations chemical and jet fuel production volumes gas, hydrogen, or electricity produced from and a decrease in gasoline, diesel, and heatrenewable energy sources for mobility Management of carbon efficiency topics in ing and fuel oil volumes. In general, accord(more on pages 52, 54). operations is incorporated into the sustaining to the IEA NP Scenario, the changing ability governance process, as described on 23 The 450 Scenario takes into account policies which put the world on a path consistent with having around a 50% chance of limiting the global increase in average temperature to 2°C in the long term, compared with pre-industrial levels. (www.iea.org) 24 The Sustainable Development Scenario – introduced by IEA for the first time in the World Energy Outlook (WEO) 2017 and derived from the UN Sustainable Development Goals – outlines an integrated approach to achieving internationally agreed objectives on climate change, air quality, and universal access to modern energy. (www.iea.org) 25 Corresponds to the material topic “Emissions from operations” GRI 2016 Emissions from operations (Emissions): 103-1, 103-2; GRI 2016: 102-12, 102-18, 102-20; GRI 2018: 303-3; OG5 Sector Supplement 48 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION GHG emissions reduction in operations end the routine flaring of associated gas during oil production by 2030. We report In 2018, carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), annually to the World Bank on our progress SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Reduce the carbon intensity of OMV’s and nitrous oxide (N2O) emissions levels in adherence to this initiative. 2025 TARGET operations26 by 19% by 2025 (vs. 2010) directly related to our operations (Scope 1) totaled 11.1 mn t CO2 equivalent (2017: Many activities and projects to stop or 11.1 mn t CO2 equivalent). The other GHGs are reduce routine flaring have already been not relevant to our business and therefore implemented or are ongoing, such as the have not been included in our figures. Energy Efficiency Program in OMV Petrom PERFORMANCE TO DATE Reduction of 12% achieved by 2018 Upstream and the Waha Gas Valorization (vs. 2010) In 2018, we continued implementing greenProject at OMV Tunisia (for more informahouse gas reduction projects with an annual tion, see the Sustainability Report 2017). reduction of around 371 kt CO2 equivalent. All OMV operations are required to minimize All GHG reduction projects implemented in methane emissions from point sources, as our operating countries between 2009 and well as fugitive emissions and technically ACTION PLAN TO ACHIEVE Upstream business segment phasing out 2018 have delivered a total reduction of unavoidable emissions (such as well testing THE TARGET routine flaring and venting 1.7 mn t CO2 equivalent to date. Reduction of and well workover, among others). The main carbon intensity in operations is mainly due sources of methane emissions are routine/ Target progress depends on the realization to the implementation of projects directed at non-routine venting of gas during oil and gas of investment projects related to “zero flarthe reduction of flaring and venting. production and processing, and gas leaks. ing and venting,” so target will be achieved in steps and not in a linear manner over sevRoutine flaring reduction efforts Methane emissions are monitored or estieral years. The main projects contributing to mated and controlled systematically by leak this target will not be effective until 2020. Phasing out routine flaring is one of the detection and repair programs. The identifiessential steps toward combining resource cation of methane emissions sources serves The action plan includes the ­following efficiency with long-term economic success, as the basis for developing methane reducactivities: and a way to strongly support our efforts to tion projects in accordance with best pracreduce the carbon footprint of our operatice in the industry and the best available ff Flaring and venting reduction projects tions. New OMV oil and gas fields are develtechnologies. Knowing the main potential oped and operated according to plans that sources of methane emissions also allows ff Energy efficiency improvements in OMV incorporate sustainable utilization or conserus to implement precautionary measures for Upstream and in Refineries vation of the field’s associated gas without preventing such emissions in new producroutine flaring. Existing sites where routine tion assets. ff Fugitive methane emissions reduction flaring of associated and free gas still takes through field modernization and integrity place are required develop a phase-out plan The minimum requirement for identifying improvement measures in OMV Petrom to eliminate legacy routine flaring as soon as leaks is conducting routine audio, visual, Upstream possible, but no later than 2030. In 2017, to and olfactory inspections as part of daily reinforce our clear commitment to responsioperator rounds at all relevant OMV operatble resource management and sustainable ing facilities. Leak detection also entails business, we also endorsed the World Bank’s soap-bubble testing and optical gas imaging “Zero routine flaring by 2030” initiative to with defined scopes and intervals (annually 26 CO2 equivalent emissions produced to generate a certain business output using the following business-specific metric (Upstream: t CO2 equivalent/toe produced, refineries: t CO2 equivalent/t throughput, power: t CO2 equivalent/ MWh produced) consolidated into an OMV Group Carbon Intensity ­Operations Index, based on weighted average of the business segments’ carbon intensity GRI 2016: 102-12, 305-1; GRI 2016: Emissions from operations (Emissions): 103-2, 103-3; 49 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION or more frequently, as required in accorsystem for other than normal operations dance with a related risk assessment). At such as start-up, shutdown, emergency, some facilities, infrared cameras are also ­process upsets, and others. used for leak detection. In 2018, new detecSUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Achieve zero routine flaring and venting of tors were installed at the Aderklaa gas pro2025 TARGET associated gas by 2030 cessing plant in Austria, ensuring enhanced reliability and quality of leak detection. Leaks are repaired immediately or, if more appropriate from the site maintenance point of PERFORMANCE TO DATE The amount of hydrocarbons flared or view, within defined time frames. vented has been reduced by 55% vs. 2010. GHG emissions reduction in Upstream Reduction of natural gas and in refineries ­consumption by the flare pilot ACTION PLAN TO ACHIEVE ff Prepare and approve routine flaring We implemented various activities in our burner at the Petrobrazi refinery THE TARGET phase-out plans Upstream and Downstream business segments directed at reducing GHG emissions. The project amounting to an investff Continue with ongoing flaring and For example, significant reduction of venting ment of EUR 1.5 mn comprised venting reduction projects and fugitive methane emissions is achieved installing high energy efficiency in the OMV Petrom Upstream business pilot burners at Petrobrazi refinery’s ff Systematically monitor and report on thanks to modernization of transportation flares in order to reduce natural gas GHG performance infrastructure, replacement, and optimization consumption. This resulted in lower which led to a significant reduction of accinatural gas consumption totaling ff Report our progress on routine flaring dental venting and also to the reduction of the energy equivalent value of phase-out in conjunction with OMV’s gas consumption (e.g. Merişani and Vâlcele 61,500 GJ, which helps reduce GHG commitment to the World Bank compressor stations in Asset III Muntenia emissions by 3,600 t CO2 per year. Vest, gas networks monitoring in Asset IV In addition, the project contributes ff Main projects contributing to this target Moesia, new production facilities at Măduto improved reliability and safety of will be effective 2020 onwards. lari in Asset II Oltenia, improved gas pipeflare stack operation. lines infrastructure in Asset I Crisana Banat and Asset III Muntenia Vest). In refineries, optimal plant design is implemented in order to minimize flaring events by balancing the fuel gas system. Such advanced process control includes sufficient capacity of the flare gas recovery system, the use of high-integrity relief valves, and other economically viable organizational and control measures. As a result of such measures, it is planned to use flaring as a safety GRI 2016: 305-5 50 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Indirect GHG emissions from electricity Management of carbon efficiency of the and heat product portfolio SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Reduce the carbon intensity of OMV’s In 2018, our indirect (Scope 2) GHG emisThe OMV Strategy department and subject­2025 TARGET ­product portfolio29 by 4% by 2025 (vs. 2010) sions, which relate to purchased electricity matter experts analyzed decarbonization poland heat, accounted for only 0.3% of our icy developments and stricter emissions total GHG emissions. Our Scope 2 emissions standards across the globe and determined are primarily caused by the Upstream and that this will lead to the flattening of demand PERFORMANCE TO DATE On track. Status 2018: -4% reduction vs. Downstream divisions, both of which are for oil products in the long term. OMV aligns 2010. Main drivers in 2018 were lower fuel energy intensive. the product portfolio business strategy with sales in Downstream due to divestment of such forecasted developments. For example, Petrol Ofisi during 2017 and increase of RusEuropean demand for natural gas will likely sian gas sales in Upstream Carbon Efficiency of the Product overtake demand for oil in relative and abso­Portfolio27 lute terms by 2030, while regional hydrocarbon extraction is expected to decline. This About 90% of OMV’s products are directly caused us to focus on preparing the required ACTION PLAN TO ACHIEVE Reduce the carbon footprint of OMV’s used for combustion. Scope 3 emissions infrastructure for natural gas delivery and THE TARGET product portfolio by increasing the gas-tofrom the use and processing of our prodcapturing a greater share of natural gas supoil ratio in Upstream production, increasing ucts, as well as from purchased goods and ply. We launched the production of the maingas sales in Europe, and shifting to higher-­ services and capital goods, therefore constily gas-based assets of Aasta Hansteen in value-added petrochemical products, which tute around 90% of our impact in terms of Norway and continued negotiations for a in combination with recycling of the used GHG emissions.28 The development of direct interest in the Russian gas extraction ­plastics will increase resource efficiency low-carbon products to reduce this large business of the Achimov 4A / 5A gas formaimpact therefore is a topic material for staketion. Additionally, OMV extended the Rusholders and for OMV. In this regard, we have sian natural gas supply contracts until 2040. developed strategic targets to reduce the carbon footprint of our product portfolio. At the same time, another trend – road Indirect GHG emissions from the product GHG Emissions Scope 3 transportation decarbonization – led OMV to portfolio in mn t CO 2 equivalent increase its focus on fuels that function as an alternative to oil and gas. OMV’s Future Mobility department continuously analyzes In 2018, our Scope 3 emissions were around 113 mn t CO2 equivalent (2017: 108 mn t CO2 112 113 113 developments in the alternative transportation sector and develops risk mitigation equivalent) and are related to total product sales volumes, as well as purchased goods 108 measures to prepare the Company for a and services and capital goods of all our transition to non-hydrocarbon fuels by ­fully consolidated companies. exploring further development of electro­ mobility and hydrogen. 2015 2016 2017 2018 27 Corresponds to the material topic “Low-carbon products” 28 We take into account the impact of the products sold by OMV to external customers and on the market. Intracompany sales between OMV ­subsidiaries are not taken into account in order to avoid double-counting GHG emissions from products and services. 29 The carbon intensity of OMV’s product portfolio measures the CO₂ equivalent emissions generated by the use of OMV’s products sold to third parties in t CO₂ equivalent/toe sold. GRI 2016 Low Carbon Products: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; GRI 2016: 102-18, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5 51 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Focus on gas products gas, the fossil fuel with the lowest carbon OMV actively advocates for the increased Gas (natural gas, biomethane, hydrogen, intensity, OMV can reduce the carbon use of gas in power generation and mobiliand synthetic methane) supports the integraWorldwide demand for gas is anticipated to ­intensity of our energy system today and ty. Replacing coal-fired power plants with tion of renewable energies. That is why OMV continue to grow beyond 2030. The phaseenhance the viability of operations in the gas reduces CO2 emissions by 50%, and is actively exploring options with partners out of coal and nuclear power in the eleclong term. ­Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) is currently the for taking the key power-to-gas technology tricity sector will increase demand for safer only alternative fuel for long-distance to an industrial scale. With power-to-gas, and more climate-friendly gas in the EuroIn 2018 gas production accounted for 57% of trucks, buses, and ships. Natural gas vehiwind and solar energy can be stored as pean market. OMV therefore aims for gas to the total Upstream production compared to cles (NGVs) provide a cleaner mobility alterhydrogen, and sector coupling becomes a account for >50% of the production portfolio 48% in 2017 (2018: 89.5 mn boe; 2017: 61.3 native with up to 23% less CO2, 75% less reality. Separate gas and electrical grids and for increased natural gas sales in mn boe). Total gas sales in Downstream Gas nitrogen oxide and 98% fewer particulate have the potential to become one energy Europe. Through this emphasis on natural amounted to 113.8 TWh (2017: 113.4 TWh). emissions. cloud with fluid transitions. Since natural gas is a clean, safe, and readily Emission savings with natural gas (CNG and LNG) vs. gasoline and diesel (Euro 6) available alternative fuel for transportation, OMV is assessing the options for intensifying its gas-mobility activities. Gasoline Natural gas (CNG) -23% -98% -75% CO2 Particulate matter Nitrogen oxide (NOx) Well-to-Wheel Diesel Natural gas (LNG) -15% -50% -50% CO2 Noise Nitrogen oxide (NOx) Well-to-Wheel Sources: thinkstep, EMPA, Volkswagen, Equilibre GRI 2016 Low Carbon Products: 103-2 52 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Focus on petrochemicals bination with recycling of post-consumer 70% rise by 2030.30 OMV’s Downstream activities of Borealis, see Innovative Petroplastics, is an important way to make better refining segment can maximize on this chemicals.) By 2025, OMV plans to increase Responsible use of natural resources means use of valuable natural resources. opportunity by providing the feedstock for the production of petrochemicals in Europe not only producing and processing them high-quality petrochemical products. OMV by 12%, bringing it to 2.8 mn t. Increasing the efficiently but also maximizing their value Products that are made on the basis of refineries in Europe can already produce share of petrochemicals in our product portfor society. For crude oil, this translates into ­petrochemical products such as ethylene, approximately 2.5 mn t of petrochemicals per folio will reduce its carbon intensity, as the finding long-lasting high-tech applications propylene, and butadiene are largely used in year – more than 10% of OMV’s total refined use of petrochemical products does not profor hydrocarbons rather than burning them our daily life. product sales. OMV produces mainly ethduce CO2 emissions in contrast to the use of as a fuel. It is OMV’s ambition to strengthen ylene and propylene, which are further concombusted fuel products. In 2018 petrochemits European downstream position through a Economic development will drive the signifiverted into polyethylene and polypropylene icals sales volumes amounted to 2.41 mn t shift to higher-value-added products such as cant increase in the demand for petrochemiat Borealis, a company in which OMV is a (2017: 2.15 mn t). petrochemical products. This move, in comcal products. In Asia alone, it is set to see a shareholder. (For more information on the 30 IEA 2017, New Policies Scenario GRI 2016 Low Carbon Products: 103-2 53 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Focus on future mobility OMV intends to take its commitment to elecFive hydrogen filling stations in ff tric vehicles to the next level by continuing Austria OMV provides various solutions suitable for to develop its e-mobility offerings. Internadifferent types of transportation, including tional roaming will be activated on the OMV ffIn 2018, OMV and IONITY opened successfully reducing CO2 emissions for ROUTEX E-Mobility Card, and customer­Austria’s first four 350 kW charging short-distance passenger transportation as focused development of additional products stations. The aim is to build a network of well as for long-haul heavy-duty transportawill continue. 350 kW ultra-fast charging stations tion. Whereas battery-powered electric vehithroughout Europe cles present a suitable option in the first case, OMV will promote CNG and LNG to ensure a natural gas and hydrogen would present a base for sustainable business growth. Both ff 50 CNG filling stations in Austria more efficient option for the latter. Directly demandand supply-side measures will be and through its partnerships, OMV offers a taken in order to reduce emissions through ff 125 e-charging points available at wide coverage of lower-carbon transportation the use of gas mobility. The OMV gas station 39 OMV filling stations in Austria, options, including electricity, compressed network in the countries in which OMV oper­Germany, Hungary, Romania, and natural gas (CNG), and hydrogen. ates will be expanded in active collaboration ­Slovenia with industry partners and country-specific Currently, 125 e-charging points are availOriginal Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs)31. able at 39 OMV filling stations in Austria, Germany, Hungary, Romania, and Slovenia. Today, with the operation of five hydrogen We further develop our charging network via fuel stations in Austria, OMV is the first comnumerous partnerships and joint ventures. pany to offer nationwide coverage. We are Through our 40% interest in SMATRICS, also a shareholder in H2 MOBILITY DeutschAustria’s leading e-mobility infrastructure land GmbH & Co. KG, which intends to build provider, OMV is part of a SMATRICS-opera filling station network enabling travel with ated network of more than 450 e-charging hydrogen-fueled vehicles throughout Gerpoints, powered 100% by renewable energy. many. OMV will continue to conduct pilot By way of our strategic partnership with projects with industry partners in order to IONITY – a joint venture of car manufacturdevelop a business model for cross-sector ers – we support the construction of a netuse of hydrogen gas (H2), with the aim of work of 350 kW ultra-fast charging stations establishing it as a pathway for carbon­throughout Europe, with the first four neutral mobility, in particular in freight and already opened in Austria. In May 2018, OMV public sectors. We will also advocate for the signed an agreement with EnBW Energie use of H2 for balancing the electricity grid Baden-Württemberg AG, one of the leading under increasing strain from intermittent energy providers in Germany, to install renewable electricity sources. 150 kW electric vehicle chargers at 100 OMV filling stations in Southern Germany. 31 OEMs are manufacturers that resell OMV products under a different name and branding. GRI 2016 102-12; GRI OG3 Sector Supplement; GRI 2016 Low Carbon Products: 103-2 54 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Focus on product responsibility use very little palm oil. In 2018, biofuels conBiofuel volumes tained around 8% palm oil, as certain biofuin kt OMV assumes responsibility for delivering els are almost exclusively available with safe high-quality products. At the same time, palm oil as feedstock. However, we plan to we continuously work on exploring ways to reduce our environmental impact during our increase the use of regional rapeseed oil and used cooking oil, which is made possible by 357 product life cycle. We take a comprehensive the use of our Co-Processing technology. 304 approach to product stewardship, with tech(For more details, see Innovation in Refining nologically advanced solutions used to deProcesses.) liver safe top-quality products, while taking action to ensure responsible use of our The safety standards applied by OMV to products. guarantee the safety of our products are discussed in the Product safety management 136 109 OMV works in close collaboration with leadsection. 14 12 ing automobile manufacturers, research institutes, and universities to stay at the forefront OMV aims to market its products in a 2017 of fuel technology. Our MaxxMotion permium responsible manner by engaging consumers 2018 fuels provide maximum power to vehicles, in lowering greenhouse gas emissions. We FAME Ethanol HVO prolong engine life, and contribute to lowertherefore partnered with a large transportaing emissions. Our new MaxxMotion tion company, Scania Romania, with the 100-octane gasoline fulfills the highest fuel goal of raising awareness about the most-­ quality requirements in accordance with the efficient methods for reducing the consumpWorldwide Fuel Charter, the guideline issued tion of fossil fuels. During ten events held by major automobile and engine manufacturthroughout Romania in September 2018, ers’ associations. MaxxMotion diesel ensures OMV advised around 2,000 attendees from reliable engine operation even at extremely transportation companies on how to drive cold temperatures down to –40°C.32 responsibly and intelligently, thus reducing fuel consumption, costs, and emissions. All biofuel volumes purchased by OMV in 2018 and used for blending meet the requireFurthermore, in order to align the product ments of the EU’s Renewable Energy Direcportfolio with international and national tive (2009/28/EC). Since 2013, the ISCC-EU environmental commitments, OMV will not certificate issued for OMV Refining & Marprolong the current contract with Heizen mit keting GmbH has been renewed on an annuÖl GmbH, the initiative supporting the al basis. OMV Petrom, OMV Hungary, OMV replacement of old oil-burning heaters with Czech Republic, and OMV Slovenia are also new energy-efficient burners. Since its start certified according to the ISCC-EU standard. in 2009, this initiative generated 1.4 GWh in OMV purchases biodiesel (FAME) mainly to energy savings and a reduction of over add to fuels from European producers that 1 mn t of CO2. 32 CFPP value according to EN 590 GRI OG14 Sector Supplement 55 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Innovation For OMV, innovation is the development of new technologies and products with the aim of reducing our impact on the environment and achieving our main goal of reducing the carbon intensity of our operations and product portfolio. Up to EUR 500 mn investments in innovative energy solutions for a lower-carbon future by 2025 EUR 40 mn research and development expenses in 2018 ReOil pilot plant began operating with up to 100 up to kg/h processing capacity Recovery rate of 55% reached in the Matzen oil field in Austria 56 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Innovation Management Innovation in Refining Processes In fulfilling our purpose of providing “The OMV uses new technologies to increase the To this end, OMV cooperates with various Co-Processing scheme energy for a better life,” OMV actively quality and stability of fuels with biogenic research institutions in the following areas: explores new solutions and technologies for components through what is known as delivering affordable and carbon-efficient Co-Processing. Co-Processing involves introff Producing synthesis gas from CO2 and Crude oil Biogenic oil products in a responsible way. At the same ducing biogenic feedstock during the fuel water with the help of sunlight and time, introducing innovative solutions to our refining process, instead of the conventional catalysts (cooperation with Christian business means seizing the opportunity for method of blending biogenic components Doppler Laboratory at the University of more efficient production and expansion to into fuel after production. This concept Cambridge) new market areas. This strengthens our ecoallows OMV’s existing refineries to produce nomic resilience in line with developments transportation fuels from various types of ff Converting CO2 and biowaste to alcohols in the energy sector. biogenic feedstock, such as domestic rape(cooperation with TU Wien – Vienna seed oil, waste cooking oil, or algae oil. The University of Technology) The purpose of innovation at OMV is to high degree of integration within OMV refinmake operations more efficient, to minimize eries reduces greenhouse gas emissions ff Liquefying biowaste to bio-based crude environmental impacts, and to provide from Co-Processing by up to 85% compared oil (cooperation with Montanuniversität cost-efficient solutions to our customers and with the EU standard for similar finishing Leoben) society. OMV has clustered its innovation steps for biofuels. activities in the following areas: Future ff Storing and utilizing sustainable electric Mobility, Circular Plastics Economy, SustainIn 2016, OMV successfully conducted the energy via synthetic e-fuels or chemical able Refinery, Innovative Petrochemicals, first field trial of Co-Processing using rapeproducts (through a partnership within Digitalization, and Optimized Drilling, Proseed oil and obtained certification in accorthe German-funded “Kopernikus” project) duction, and Reserves. Each innovation area dance with the REDcert standard, an EU-recis described below, along with information ognized system for the certification of Diesel with on how it is managed in the related business sustainable biomass. OMV continues to biogenic component divisions and on various related initiatives implement the Co-Processing technology, and projects. OMV collaborates globally with and by 2025, the Company aims to co-­ universities,33 research institutes,34 as well as process approximately 200,000 t of sustainwith industry partners and relevant initiaable feedstock per year, depending on future tives. The Group’s research and developlegislation. ment (R&D) expenses increased from EUR 33 mn in 2017 to EUR 40 mn in 2018. Unlike conventional biofuels, advanced fuels Out of total R&D expenses in 2018, EUR 7.9 do not compete with food production. OMV mn (or 20%) were directed to the areas of also researches various advanced fuel techCo-Processing, ReOil, advanced fuels, hydronologies that are mostly in a research and gen mobility, and other activities in the development stage with the aim of future Downstream business segment. scale-up. 33 e.g., University of Cambridge, Stanford University, TU Wien – Vienna University of Technology, Montanuniversität Leoben, Johannes Kepler University Linz, University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences (BOKU) Vienna, Sofia University, University of Mining and Geology Bulgaria 34 e.g., Forschungszentrum Jülich, Austrian Institute of Technology, Joanneum Graz GRI 2016: 102-12; Innovation GRI 2016: 103-1, 103-2 57 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Raise the share of sustainable feedstock 2025 TARGET co-processed in the refineries to ~200,000 t per year by 2025 PERFORMANCE TO DATE Several test runs in the field were carried out on existing hydrotreatment plants at the Schwechat refinery. An experienced engineering partner is currently assisting with the development accompanied by tests in the pilot facility. ACTION PLAN TO ACHIEVE To gain further experience and also to roll THE TARGET out Co-Processing at OMV Petrom, additional test runs are planned at the Petrobrazi refinery in Romania, to be accompanied by final product quality assurance tests in the laboratory. Innovative Petrochemicals As the global population grows, the demand mize plastic leakage into the environment. reliable renewable energy transmission, change to the way plastics are handled in for plastics is increasing rapidly. That makes OMV itself is exploring innovative ways to pipes for safe water, gas, and sewerage one of the most populated and polluted it increasingly critical to avoid plastic waste make petrochemical production more sustransportation, and advanced packaging to areas of the world. In 2018, Borealis entering the environment. In recent years, tainable (see below ReOil – circular economy protect food and avoid spoilage. Integrated launched its EverMinds® platform35 for its public awareness of plastics recycling as an project). Borealis, 36% of which is owned by with OMV at two locations, the companies circular-economy-related activities to important way to protect the environment OMV, is fully committed to the circularity of are able to ensure efficient and sustainable encourage interaction and exchange and better use valuable resources has sigplastics in a circular economy and plastics operations for plastics production. between the company and its stakeholders, nificantly increased. At the beginning of recycling. Borealis’ vision is value creation including OMV. 2018, the European Commission introduced through innovation and it provides high-­ Since 2016, Borealis acquired two recycling the new Circular Economy Package aiming value plastics solutions to reduce carbon plants in Germany and Austria, and launched More information on Borealis is at to increase plastics recycling rates and miniemissions from transportation, cables for Project STOP in Indonesia to bring tangible www.borealisgroup.com/polyolefins 35 www.borealiseverminds.com Innovation GRI 2016: 103-1, 103-2 58 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION ReOil – circular economy project OMV aims to develop ReOil into a commercially viable, industrial-scale recycling technolOMV has been exploring the potential for ogy with a processing capacity of approxiutilizing post-consumer plastics – polyethmately 200,000 t of used plastics per year until ylene, polypropylene, and polystyrene – 2025. OMV holds the patent for this recycling since 2011. The Austrian Research Promotion process in Europe, the US, Russia, Australia, Agency has also contributed with subsidies Japan, India, China, and other countries. directed at covering part of the project investment. The first test facility was launched in 2013 in the pilot plant facility at the Schwechat refinery. It has a processing capacity of around 5 kg of used plastics per SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Develop ReOil into a commercially viable, hour. The next-level test facility – the R ­ eOil 2025 TARGET industrial-scale process pilot plant – started the already fully refin(unit size of ~200,000 t per year) ery-integrated operation in 2018 with a processing capacity of up to 100 kg per hour and a related production of up to 100 liters of synthetic crude per hour. PERFORMANCE TO DATE 2013: ReOil pilot plant started operating with a 5 kg per hour post-consumer plastic proThe crude is then further processed at the cessing capacity Schwechat refinery into fuel products or base materials for the plastics industry. This 2018: pilot plant with up to 100 kg per hour process creates a closed loop (“the circular processing capacity began operating at the economy”), where post-consumer plastics Schwechat refinery with the aim of optimizare used to create value-added products, ing the ReOil process and gaining insights thereby reducing dependence on natural for the next up-scaling step resources and lowering carbon intensity as compared to standard oil processing. In the next step, OMV aims to develop a ­ReOil demo plant with a post-consumer plasACTION PLAN TO ACHIEVE Constantly improve operability and reliability tic feedstock capacity of 16,000 to 20,000 t per THE TARGET based on a defined test run program, and year. The final capacity is currently not fixed utilize results achieved to improve process and depends on the results obtained from the modeling and design basis for the ReOil ReOil pilot plant. demo plant 2022: demo plant with a post-consumer plastic feedstock capacity of 16,000 to 20,000 tons per year Innovation GRI 2016: 103-1, 103-2 59 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Innovation in Drilling, Production by using water injection. OMV is among the fields in Austria and Romania. The results of Innovation through Digitalization and Reserves global front-runners in terms of achieving a pilot project in Austria, which tested the high recovery rates in mature fields. By treatment of the water extracted together OMV’s Digital Journey is driven by syner­ Optimizing drilling and production processes 2025, OMV aims to increase the amount of with hydrocarbons from an oil reservoir, getic and orchestrated initiatives across the prolongs the lifetime of hydrocarbon oil that can be extracted from selected fields indicated that the produced water can be entire Company. The Internet of Things (IoT) reserves, thus increasing production efficienin Central and Eastern Europe by 5 to 15 persuccessfully treated for reuse and reinjection and Industry 4.0 will change the way we run cy and reducing the impact on the environcentage points, making our Company a leadfor EOR purposes. our business, unlocking opportunities along ment. OMV continuously works on optimizer in efficient production in the region. our entire value chain – in oil and gas exploing the amount of hydrocarbons that can be Extending the lifetime and reliability of faciliration, refining, sales, and in administrative extracted from an oil reservoir (recovery In 2012, OMV started injecting viscosified ties and materials ensures safe and efficient processes like finance and human resource rate) and on extending the reliability of water in a pilot project. This launched our hydrocarbon production. Over the past management. ­facilities and materials. Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR) activities and 20 years, OMV has implemented extensive paved the way to attaining the strategic goal materials selection and corrosion manageWhile the international average recovery of further increasing the recovery rate. In ment programs to ensure asset integrity, rate for crude oil is about 40%, OMV suctotal, 250,000 boe of incremental oil were reduce safety risks, and minimize environceeded in pushing recovery rates above 55% produced by the end of 2018. In 2018, OMV mental impact. Equipping nearly 6,500 wells in the super-mature Matzen field in Austria started rolling out EOR projects at various with artificial lift systems resulted in measurable reductions in power consumption and downtime of sucker rod pumps. Conse­ quently, the number of well interventions decreased by 22% in Austria, reducing assoSUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Increase the recovery factor in the CEE ciated HSSE risks accordingly. In the interest 2025 TARGET region in selected fields by 5-15 percentage of further reducing well interventions, OMV OMV’s digital ambition is to become a digital points by 2025 through innovative Enhanced has started investigating new technologies, leader in core areas by adopting the latest digOil Recovery methods such as advanced coatings, to extend mateital technologies. We aim to optimize our operrial resistance and chemicals to inhibit parafations, thus increasing their efficiency, while fin deposits. OMV started its cooperation further ensuring our Health, Safety, Security, with third-party research institutes on these and Environment (HSSE) responsibility. PERFORMANCE TO DATE Recovery rate of 55% reached in the pilot technologies in 2018. project to implement EOR at Matzen field Digital transformation at OMV is much more in Austria OMV works on extending the lifetime of than applying and scaling technology – it is operational facilities by mitigating abrasion about people and culture. Therefore, creating and corrosion. To this end, cross-linked polya digital mindset and reshaping the talent ethylene pipes are inserted in tubing with a landscape are an integral part of OMV’s DigiACTION PLAN TO ACHIEVE Starting in 2019, OMV plans to roll out a pilot special polymer lining that was developed tal Journey along with the integration of techTHE TARGET EOR project in Romania and expand the by OMV and patented in 16 countries. nology partners, universities, and start-ups. scale of EOR at OMV Austria with an initial increase in the recovery rate in production expected in 2020. Innovation GRI 2016: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 60 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Three signposts guide the OMV Digital Digitalized operations ­Journey: Today, digitalization already enhances busiDIGITALIZE! ness for OMV. Emerging technologies ensure Creating business agility through smart optimal evaluation and use of digital and anainvestment choices that focus on highest log data in machine controls for increased impact along business and HSSE priorities efficiency and availability. Technologies such as block chain, robotics, advanced analytics, ACT! and IoT (Internet of Things) will shape OMV’s Innovating at speed and scale by creating future business development in both the environments receptive to innovation and Upstream and Downstream divisions. fostering an organization, skills, mindset, and culture that are adaptive to digitalization Digitalization in Upstream ENABLE! Upstream is focusing its digitalization efforts Common digital platforms forming the backon the global DigitUP program, which bone of our digital core that enables us to ­consists of five programs comprising break down data silos and use data across 74 projects. Modernizing exploration and the Group production will unlock new opportunities for OMV in terms of geography and types of activities. Implementing the program will Real-Time Digital Oil Field make it possible, for example, to open a new, ready-to-start branch office for operaACT ENABLE tions in just a few days by establishing the The Real-Time Digital Oil Field projequipment thanks to monitoring same office set-up through cloud-based ect aims to digitalize all processes, systems. Now, the digital oil field technology. This effectively harmonizes expand sensor technology, and ultiproject is being gradually expandthese activities throughout our Company. mately use artificial intelligence in ed. Alvaro Guerrero Morras, Head The development of a document managethe field. This effort will support of Production Optimization, has a ment system has already started – our goal decision-making processes for opticlear goal in mind: “Every barrel is to create a digital storage solution for a mum management of production that OMV produces needs to make OMV DIGITAL total of 30 million documents. Worldwide and maintenance. The history of maximum profit, and safety needs JOURNEY digital access to knowledge, technology, and the digital oil field philosophy to be further improved. This knowpeople will help OMV maximize reserves dates back to 2007. The advantages how is a decisive advantage in and production, minimize costs, and evaluso far have been impressive – strategic partnerships.” ate and mitigate risk. including reduced damage to DIGITALIZE Innovation GRI 2016: 103-1, 103-2 61 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION GeoCloud: all of Upstream with just one click The benefits of GeoCloud are collabGeoCloud has already been rolled oration, greater flexibility, fast out in Norway, Libya, and Russia. access to geoscience data, and high Projects for practical implementacomputing power with strong data tion have started in Tunisia, Abu security – all without having to use Dhabi, and Yemen, as well as in PowerPC equipment. This cloud Austria at the OMV Head Office in solution was developed specifically Vienna, and in Gänserndorf. New for the oil and gas industry, and Zealand and OMV Petrom are set to OMV is using a customized version follow in 2019. of it – so that OMV can comply with all regional and international laws. Thanks to GeoCloud, local PowerPC applications can be replaced: The program is provided by high-­ security data centers. In the past, data accessibility and availability were often a problem. The deployDigital Rig Of The Future ment of GeoCloud is changing that in Upstream. Geoscience data can now be accessed from anywhere The “Digital Rig of the Future” This approach shows that the Comusing standard IT equipment. Other ­DigitUP program is already being pany does not view technology and benefits include cost reduction, implemented, and its Drilling Cockprocesses separately, but that it improvements in data security, and pit project (see photo) is already has chosen a holistic approach in less noise and heat in the workplace. delivering initial verifiable successwhich people are at the center. es in the change process. The latest OMV Well Engineering’s goal is to digital technology is significantly rise to become a front-runner in the accelerating drilling planning, and successful application of digital important steps in the drilling protechnology. “I want to show that by cess are set to be automated at the using the latest digital technology, end of the project. This saves time, we can significantly improve effiwhich OMV is using to direct more ciency at OMV Well Engineering,” attention to corporate learning, says Richard Kucs, Expert for Drillteach agile work methods, and inteing Data & Performance. grate these into the Group’s culture. Innovation GRI 2016: 103-1, 103-2 62 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Digitalization in Downstream eTOP Leveraging digitalization is also a business imperative for OMV’s Downstream division. The Downstream digitalization program Until recently, Turnaround Manageenabling integration of the needs cess: “eTop has changed an approach underscores the priority given to digitalizament used paper documentation to of every specialist department. “It to conducting turnarounds – all of that tion. Today, state-of-the-art algorithms and coordinate plant shutdowns. Since was always important to the team ‘paperwork’ is now done via iPad. The pattern analysis are already increasing the this approach entailed a number of to develop a tool that simplified iPads are equipped with the SAP softefficiency of refinery operations and helping disadvantages, time came to develwork and communication for peoware eTop. A turnaround still involves ensure business continuity. op a digital format with the goal of ple,” says René Leitner, Turnaround inspecting equipment outdoors – but making required SAP information Manager. “Driven by a desire to now each component can be identified We believe that digitalization will lead to proretrievable making all activities optimize, the Turnaround team is via a QR code. This enables us to cess optimization, work simplification, lower user-friendly and ensuring confirstill at the beginning of its journey, quickly see what was recently checked costs, readiness to adopt new business mation in SAP. With eTOP, OMV is but a number of other ideas to or repaired. We immediately record opportunities in the future, and therefore already able to gauge turnaround increase added value are already any signs of wear on the iPad, and the greater resilience to changes in the sector. complexity in all of its refineries – on the table.” Martin Reiter, Expert data is forwarded straight to the field both generically and intuitively. in Inspection and Integrity of engineer for an appropriate action. This makes information transparDownstream Asset Management, Our photo documentation has never ent and process responsibilities shares his experience of digitalizabeen better.” clear and understandable while tion impact on the turnaround proInnovation GRI 2016: 103-1, 103-2 63 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION The agile approach and collaboration build-measure-learn feedback loops as their with start-ups core components. OMV is using these innovative methods today to look for tomorrow’s Innovative, situation-based methods are ideas. indispensable for advancing new technologies today. For advancing digitalization, Innovation, and digitalization in particular, OMV works in smaller work steps when can often greatly benefit from fresh ideas of approaching large projects using a number young companies. To learn from them, OMV of agile approaches such as agile project engages in dialogue and cooperation with management – a process that works with young and aspiring technology companies. project units. Agile project management One such example is an initiative organized allows flexible reaction and regular updates. by the Vienna Economic Chamber that We also use design thinking, with the aim to focused on the search for innovative solufind solutions that make sense to users. tions in cyber security. The winning start-up Finally, we utilize lean start-up concepts with was awarded an innovation cash prize. Innovation GRI 2016: 103-2 64 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Employees Building and retaining a talented and competent team for international and integrated growth is a key factor in the success of the Group’s strategy. We strive to create an environment in which every employee can learn, grow, connect, and collaborate, as well as live a safe and healthy life. This is the purpose of our approach in managing the material topic “Employment and skill development,” which successfully enables us to be an employer of choice. 437,233 hours of training provided 19% Share of women at management level 86% Executives with international experience 65 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Through our activities, we support the “four We know that it is the experience, skills, attiff Increasing organizational agility fundamental principles and rights at work” tude, and commitment of our people at OMV Growth is based on consistency, trans­ outlined in the ILO (International Labour that turn our strategy into reality. To unlock parency, and standardization of our Organization) Declaration: our organization’s full potential we have processes for managing our human embedded OMV’s Foundation Principles into capital. That is why we continue inte­ ff “freedom of association and the effective our day-to-day work. grating and bringing our processes recognition of the right to collective together in a central Group-wide IT bargaining, The OMV People Strategy supports the platform (“My Success Factors”) as part implementation of the following priorities of our HR Digital Journey. ff the elimination of all forms of forced or through planned initiatives directed at compulsory labor, supporting OMV’s growth: ff Ensuring OMV remains a great place to work ff the effective abolition of child labor, and ff Strengthening leadership capability Every day we strive to create an Strong leadership is needed to ensure environment in which every employee ff the elimination of discrimination in that our growth is fast, profitable, and can learn, grow, connect, and collaborate, respect of employment and occupation.”36 sustainable. Since 2017, we have put as well as live a safe and healthy life. In significant effort into strengthening the 2018, we provided structured career Our Company’s Principles – Team Spirit, capabilities of our managers though planning guidance to employees by Accountability, Passion, Pioneering Spirit, leadership development initiatives. implementing career paths in all business and Performance – foster the culture OMV These include 360° feedback and crossareas. We have considerably expanded aspires to and supports OMV’s sustainable functional leadership sessions. In 2018, the training options we offer by adding growth. we expanded our portfolio of leadership new courses and online content for development programs. professional, business, personal, and leadership skills development. Management of Employment and ff Focusing on culture and performance Skill Development Our Principles have been further embedded into our HR processes of candidate assessment and selection; In 2018, OMV reached new heights on its employee performance management; growth journey. We focused on significantly learning and development; and recog­ internationalizing our business portfolio in nition. In addition, our employees were both Upstream and Downstream within a engaged in shaping the Company culture disciplined financial framework. Powered by by continuing to take part in the our people, we translate energy into quality communication campaign of all five of life. Principles in 2018. 36 www.ilo.org/declaration/thedeclaration/textdeclaration/lang--en/index.htm GRI 2016: 102-16, 102-12; GRI 2016 Employment and skills development (Employment; Labor/Management Relations; Training and Education): 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 66 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION PetrOmbudsman 2018 OMV Petrom has a dedicated orgafrom workshops dedicated to the implenizational unit that functions as a mentation of the OMV Principles of Team place where employees and manSpirit and Accountability. The PetrOmagement can have confidential, offbudsman department also conducted a the-record, informal discussions of video campaign dedicated to Winning issues – the PetrOmbudsman Behaviors, which are aligned with the department. The department is Company’s Principles and necessary for independent and reports directly to creating a pleasant working environthe CEO of OMV Petrom. The ment. The topics covered were basic valdepartment acts as an informal ues derived from the Company’s Code of counselor to whom employees can Conduct and Human Rights Policy. address issues relating to workplace conflict, and with whom they Additionally, the department implementcan also share ideas on improving ed other types of activities, such as: business processes or their own career paths. This mechanism ff updating the Ombudsman “Sensitivity Rights and obligations Encouraging diversity serves as an informal channel for Map” – a document which outlines resolving the concerns in a preventhe most important risks, from an The rights and obligations of our employees OMV is committed to our diversity strategy tive way, before they turn into a ombudsman perspective, in the main are set out in employment contracts. The focusing on gender equality and internationformal grievance. areas of the Company; vast majority of our employees, 98.2% (2017: ality. Diversity is an enormous strength that 98.2%), have the right to exercise their freewe are actively leveraging by creating Employees can present their issue ff a campaign dedicated to “Appropriate dom of association and collective bargaindiversity­-based business value. That is why anonymously or not, submit it digiLanguage,” to remind employees of ing. For 97.0% (2017: 97.0%) of our employit became a strategically important goal with tally, or meet in person. In either the importance of respectful ees, minimum wages or salaries are fixed by two measurable targets in our Sustainability case, however, the counseling procommunication; law or agreed through collective bargaining Strategy 2025 (gender equality and internacess is completely confidential. agreements. Local trade unions or works tionality). We are monitoring gender, age, ff extending its services to other parts of councils represent 86.7% (2017: 86.7%) of employee background, seniority, and salary In 2018, PetrOmbudsman departthe Company, such as Petrom our employees. In addition, 96.5% (2017: equality to ensure fair treatment and equal ment representatives communicatAviation, OMV Petrom’s research and 96.5%) are covered by mandatory periods of opportunity at all career stages. At the same ed with about 6,000 individuals technological design unit located in notice under national employment laws or time, we strive to continuously develop new during scheduled annual site visits, Campina (ICPT), and some of the bargaining agreements in case restructuring initiatives and measures that promote diveraround 1,650 of whom benefitted filling stations. of the business is necessary. sity and equal opportunity at OMV. The diagram below summarizes the elements of our commitment to diversity. GRI 102-16; 102-41; GRI 2016 Employment and skills development (Employment; Labor/Management Relations; Training and Education): 103-3 67 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION OMV is committed to its Group Diversity Strategy with focus on gender equality and internationality. Considering the fact that we are active in an (22% in 2017). In order to interest youth in industry with a strong technical focus, it is technical careers, we organized activities in particularly challenging for OMV to achieve kindergartens and schools such as Girls’ Day gender balance in all fields of business activ(for more details, see Community Relations ity. The proportion of women in the Group and Development). as a whole is about 25%, an increase of 9% Achieve the best ­mixture of employees, since 2010. To encourage gender diversity, OMV is committed to supporting the talents, backgrounds, our recruitment policy reflects our commitadvancement of women toward managerial and perspectives ment to promoting equal opportunity: At positions. The strategic objective is to least one female candidate is included in achieve the best diversity mix at senior every shortlist for each position. Internation­management level. We aim to increase our ality, being another focus of our diversity female representation in senior leadership Set up an strategy, is incorporated into the recruitment roles from 18% to 25% by 2025. To achieve inclusive process by highlighting the advantage of this goal, we anchored diversity in leaderenvironment candidates with professional international ship expectations and in all leadership initiato value and experience. Our diversity targets are embedtives. In OMV’s leadership development prorespect a diverse ded also in succession planning, with female grams, the proportion of women was 28% in workspace candidates receiving the preference in iden2018 (22% in 2017). Our development activiCreate business value tified top talent. (For more details, see ties include, for example, mentoring for by fully benefitting from ­Succession planning.) female leaders and specific trainings on diversity Group-wide unconscious bias38 and decision-making. We are supporting women in receiving techGender is one of the diversity criteria we use nical training at the early pre-professional when selecting the members of the Supervistage. The proportion of women in OMV’s sory Board. (For additional information, see Upstream graduate development program37 the Annual Report, page 97.) for technical skill pools was 25% in 2018 37 Integrated Graduate Development (IGD) in Upstream is designed to train technical graduates in the field of petroleum engineering over the course of three years. 38 Unconscious bias training explains the role of stereotypes and how they can influence behavior in employment and careers. GRI 2016 Employment and skills development (Employment; Training and Education): 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; 405-1 68 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Increase share of women at management Digitalization initiatives 2025 TARGET level39 to 25%40 by 2025 Digitalization is all about people and culFurthermore, a user-friendly and state-ofKeep high share of executives with ture. That is why creating a digital mindset the-art Recognition tool allows in just a few ­inter­national experience41 at 75% and reshaping the talent landscape are an clicks to nominate a colleague or a team for integral part of OMV’s Digital Journey along an award to show appreciation. with the integration of technology partners, universities, and start-ups into our activities. Another SAP-based application “My Self Service,” launched in October 2018, serves PERFORMANCE TO DATE Share of women at management level: Our human resources processes have been as a platform for employees to manage their 19% simplified and automated further in the personal employment-related information, course of digitalization. One initiative in this such as time management and payment Executives with international experience: field was the installation of My Success Factracking, in a fast and easy way. 86% tors – a state-of-the-art SAP-based tool that helps us improve our performance and build Both platforms enable us to foster flexibility a digitally-oriented corporate culture. As of in the workplace: Various organizational 2018, the following processes are supported tasks can now be accomplished anytime, by My Success Factors: goal setting, goal anywhere, using mobile devices. ACTION PLAN TO ACHIEVE Our Diversity Strategy is embedded in our evaluation and feedback, development planTHE TARGET People as well as Sustainability Strategy. ning, succession planning, recognition, and Continuing our digitalization, we plan to Building diverse teams is one of our leaderpersonal HR administration. For example, launch our recently developed Digital Acadship expectations. employees can use the Feedback function emy in early 2019. This will help learners in the tool to request and receive feedback across OMV understand core digitalization In addition, we support the increase of our from their colleagues on their performance. possibilities and how they can apply them in female representation in senior leadership This feedback is directly linked to their their work. roles through a number of initiatives, such record of achievements in the goal plan. as mentoring, succession planning, specific trainings, and recruiting policy. Initiatives to increase work-life flexibility and country-­ specific offers like company kindergartens and summer camps for school kids facilitate a career in combination with family planning. 39 Management level: executives and advanced career level 40 The value excludes legal entities of Gas Connect Austria GmbH, Avanti GmbH, and DUNATÀR Köolajtermék Tároló és Kereskedelmi Kft. 41 Equal to or greater than three years of living and working abroad GRI 2016: 405-1 69 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Activities in the Area of Employment Recruitment process management Their feedback we received during various employee workshops and from a survey of In 2018, the new Group-wide recruiting stannew hires was summarized as the “Five dard was implemented to ensure a high­Reasons to Join OMV”: quality recruitment process in order to attract top professionals. It ensures that all 1. Our international journey recruitment processes are standardized Group-wide. The standard is currently appli2. Being at the forefront of technology cable to OMV and its subsidiaries, and will be extended to OMV Petrom and its subsid3. How we work together (our Principles) iaries in 2019. We also enhanced the content of our communication channels for recruit4. P  ersonal and career development ment, such as the Jobs & Careers section on internationally within the OMV family OMV’s external website and the OMV Career brochure. In the interest of identifying poten5. Being part of a diverse team tial areas for improvement in the recruitment process and determining appropriate action items, we introduced an online satisfaction survey, which is conducted quarterly among our business managers participating in the hiring process. In 2018, we clearly articulated why OMV is an employer of choice for top talents both in local markets and internationally. We asked more than 170 of our employees across ­seven countries what makes them proud to work here. GRI 2016 Employment and skills development (Employment): 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 70 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Succession planning Rewards and performance management In 2018, OMV successfully rolled out a career OMV aims to ensure competitive compensaThe Executive Board remuneration is fully and succession planning system based on tion and benefits packages. We continuously disclosed as part of the OMV Annual Report. the “Personal Impact x Potential” criteria to monitor market trends and international best (Detailed information is provided in the the next organizational level. Effective sucpractices in order to attract, motivate, and Consolidated Corporate Governance Report, cession planning contributes to managing retain the best-qualified talent around the which is part of the 2018 Annual Report. business continuity risk by ensuring preserworld. Long-lasting employment relationAdditional information about compensation vation of human capital – the most valuable ships are what we strive for. Furthermore, and benefits for OMV employees can be asset of OMV. “Personal Impact x Potential” we encourage salary equality at all career found on OMV’s website at www.omv.com). is an evaluation tool used for providing stages, for example by setting up standardstructural feedback during the development ized salaries for entry-level employees that review and succession planning. It is based are reviewed each year in line with the local on employee performance (Personal Impact) market situation. and Potential in the organization. Approximately 1,800 managers identified succesWe also offer our employees the chance sors, evaluated their Personal Impact and to participate in our “3+1” employee stock Potential, and made employee succession purchase plan. For every three shares an plans. Candidates identified as top talent employee purchases, we provide an addireceive a personal development plan for tional one free of charge. This enables our improving the skills that are necessary for employees to be part of OMV’s long-term the role they will assume in the future. success and reinforces employee loyalty. Additionally, we work with business leaders At OMV, we aim to optimize employee to develop career paths and indicate the performance through our Principles-led necessary corresponding experience and culture. To unlock an employee’s full skills. In this way, we support proactive potential, we look at what we do and how and target-oriented career planning of our we do it. Both aspects are important when employees. we set our performance and development goals, review our progress, evaluate our We also focus on building a robust talent achievements, and ultimately get rewarded pipeline through cooperation with key uniand recognized for them on an annual basis. versities. In addition to offering internships, The purpose of our annual review process is we operate a sponsored program and longto support our employees and our managers term partnership with Montanuniversität through a structured, systematic planning Leoben (“MUL”), where 16 students from of performance and personal development Austria, Romania, Russia, Libya, and Iran in the Company. In 2018, performance and joined our master’s degree course in Petrodevelopment reviews were conducted with leum Engineering in 2018. 11,596 employees. GRI 2016 Employment and skills development (Employment): 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; GRI 2016: 401-2, 404-3 71 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Recognition program Based on the distribution of votes in 2018, Since the program was launched in June of OMV will make donations on behalf of the 2018, 35 employees have been recognized Our new Group-wide recognition program awarded employees to the following three with an OMV Excellence Award, 427 emfosters employee engagement by providing social initiatives: ployees received a Job Excellence Award, an opportunity for employees to receive and 879 employees were appreciated with appreciation for outstanding results on the 1. Austria: Lebenshilfe Niederösterreich a Principle in Action Award. Around 25% of job and for being role models. awardees used their right to vote on allocat2. Tunisia: Skills to Succeed ing the total available budget of EUR 50,000 Employees can give and receive three types to the three social community projects of awards as a token of appreciation for 3. R  omania: community-based organizations below: their accomplishments: near assets ff OMV Excellence Award: provides recognition of outstanding results and significant impact relating to strategic projects or business deals TUNISIA AUSTRIA ROMANIA ff Job Excellence Award: recognizes ff Implemented by Hilfswerk Austria, the ff The Matzen workshop facility, opened Community-based organizations near assets employees for extraordinary contributions program aims to improve employ­ in March 2005, is a place designed to beyond the usual job requirements ability and income generation in the provide support services to people in ffSupport for twelve community-based local community through vocational Lower Austria. The aim is to promote organizations (NGOs) in 14 communities ff Principle in Action Award: provides instant training, self-employment, and entrethe abilities of people with intellectual located near OMV Petrom sites. The aim recognition to an individual for being a preneurship. impairment and multiple disabilities is to achieve transparent dialogue role model and living by our Foundation by providing them with a suitable between local communities and local Principles ff For more information on the project, space for creativity and social inter­ authorities to encourage thinking about see Community Relations and action. The workshop facility provides long-term development, capacity-building Employees recognize each other’s work by Development. participants with the opportunity to of people skills, and economic growth sending “thank you” messages, which are work and produce handmade goods opportunities. accumulated as points on the IT platform. such as pottery, soaps, and pictures. Each point is worth one vote which the emff Furthermore, Roma communities are ployee receiving the award can give to their supported through a one-year program preferred social initiative(s). preparing students to enter the labor market. GRI 2016 Employment and skills development (Employment): 103-3 72 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Activities in the Area of training is focused on maintaining a skilled Our 70:20:10 approach gives the importance They aimed at supporting a shared underSkill Development and capable workforce. This training is of learning on the job a weighting of 70. standing of leadership and the role of leadplanned and delivered annually in line with ers at OMV, fostering cross-divisional learnLearning and development our workforce requirements. Leadership development ing and introducing our new leadership tools for employee development and succesWe highly encourage employees to pursue We encourage the use of online resources for One of the People Strategy priorities is to sion planning. The cross-divisional workcontinuing education to further enhance training. The expansion of our online learnstrengthen leadership capabilities. We aim shops for all middle managers were attendtheir various skills. Employees identify their ing content enables employees to have more to ensure that our leaders continually grow ed by 783 leaders. learning needs through a mixture of localconsistent training content and enhances its and develop. In 2018, 154 leaders took part ized training matrices. These assist them in accessibility on a global level. We witnessed in the First Time Leaders program intended We also allow our employees to provide building development-oriented action plans that the use of online courses and online to support employees taking on a personnel anonymous feedback to senior leaders and linked to career paths, competencies, and materials doubled without a decrease in the management role for the first time. 17 particmiddle managers on their performance, professional goals. use of face-to-face training channels. ipated in the Leading Leaders pilot program leadership capabilities, and how they designed to support transitioning leaders in encourage the OMV Principles. As part of The four key competencies in which we An important element in employee developtaking on their new roles. These programs this 360° feedback program, 274 of our encourage our employees to further their ment and training, however, remains learnwere rolled out on a Group-wide basis. senior leaders and middle managers development are functional/technical skills, ing on the job. We encourage employees to received insights from employees. business skills relating to effectively working learn on the job, where they can apply their At OMV, we ran cross-divisional leadership in the OMV Group, personal skills, and leadprofessional or educational skills to the speworkshops as part of the LEAD initiative – a ership skills. Our functional and technical cifics of OMV business and culture. Group-wide leadership upskilling initiative. Learning on the job Learning from your Learning from projects Learning from ­current job and communities job change 70% Learning from others Learning from training 20% 10% GRI 2016 Employment and skills development (Training and Education): 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; GRI 2016: 404-2 73 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Business Principles and Social Responsibility We maintain to act in accordance with the highest ethical standards on an international level everywhere we operate. OMV is a signatory to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact and is fully committed to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. With our global activities, we aim to contribute to the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. 1,384 employees participated in business ethics trainings 9 supplier audits covering sustainability elements performed >900,000 beneficiaries from community development initiatives GRI 2016: 102-12, 102-16 74 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION The focus area of Business Principles and business interest. Absolute commitment to erning the work with our business partners Social Responsibility encompasses for us this objective is embedded at all levels at and stakeholders. The procedures estabthe following topics, further presented in OMV from top management to every employlished by these documents are implemented this chapter: ee. Our business partners are also expected to at every fully consolidated subsidiary of share the same understanding of and comOMV and apply to everyone who works for ff Business principles and anti-corruption mitment to ethical standards. The compliance OMV or in the name of OMV. We require management of every company activity, from planning compliance with international business prinbusiness strategy to daily operations, is ciples from all parties with whom we enter ff Human rights assessed against ethical standards, such as into partnership agreements, such as joint Code of Conduct and Code of Business Ethics. ventures. Companies performing services ff Supply chain for OMV (i.e., suppliers) must follow Business principles and anti-bribery procedures that are consistent ff Community relations and development anti-corruption management with the principles of OMV’s Code of Business Ethics and with OMV’s business ethics Business ethics regulatory framework standards, as defined in the Code of Conduct. (For more information, see Supply Business Principles and The OMV Group follows a zero-tolerance Chain: Supplier sustainability compliance.) ­Anti-Corruption policy with regard to bribery, fraud, theft, and other forms of corruption. Based on OMV strives to earn stakeholders’ confiOMV is a signatory to the UN Global Comthis policy, the OMV Group is committed to dence by implementing a high standard of pact. Although we are headquartered in detecting any potential policy violations at corporate governance, transparency, and Austria – a country with high business ethics the earliest stage, thoroughly investigating predictability. OMV has therefore committed standards – we operate in several countries in any such incidents of non-compliance, and itself to compliance with the Austrian Code the Middle East, North Africa, and Central and determining appropriate organizational of Corporate Governance, and, in this conEastern Europe, that are defined as high-risk ­measures or sanctions for the individuals text, through its Code of Business Ethics forby the Transparency International Corruption involved. The integrity of our employees is bids any support of political parties, includPerception Index. We strive to avoid the risks the foundation for the trust placed in our ing donations. We follow political and of bribery and corruption that are specific to Company by our customers, suppliers, and regulatory initiatives (both at EU and nationour sector. We also highly value our reputaother stakeholders. al levels) in our areas of interest, including tion. Therefore, we attribute ultimate imporenergy, environment, climate change, trade, tance to ensuring uniform compliance with The regulatory instruments at OMV that and others. OMV has a dedicated departour business ethics standards wherever we establish ethics principles and standards and ment for Public Affairs activities. We are fully operate. guide our approach to ethical conduct are in line with all reporting obligations on our Code of Business Ethics, an internal polinational and EU level and we are fully comCompliance with ethical standards is a cy applicable to OMV employees, and our pliant with all transparency requirements. non-negotiable value that supersedes any Code of Conduct42, an external policy gov42 Our Code of Conduct and a brochure with the key elements of our Code of Business Ethics are available at: www.omv.com/en/business-ethics-and-anti-corruption GRI 2016: Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption (Anti-corruption): 103-1, 103-2; GRI 2016: 102-12, 102-16, 102-17, 102-46 75 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION OMV compliance management system countries in which OMV operates. This international compliance organization, which is OMV has set up a comprehensive complidedicated to ensuring Group-wide impleance management system including policies, mentation of OMV’s ethical standards, audits, and trainings. The system aims to ­comprises 29 compliance experts. anchor OMV’s business ethics policies throughout the organization and to ensure In 2013, OMV became the first organization in their correct implementation. We monitor Austria to comply with the comprehensive the compliance of all of our operations with IDW Assurance Standard 980. The IDW Assurlaws and regulations concerning business ance Standard 980 is the benchmark certificaethics, capital markets law, competition law, tion standard for DAX and ATX companies. as well as international trade sanctions and embargoes that are applicable to OMV. FaceThe OMV compliance management system is to-face or online training in the areas listed regularly reevaluated and recertified under above was conducted with 2,239 employees IDW PS 98043 by external auditors. Both exterin 2018. nal and internal risk factors, in particular changes in the regulatory framework, as well OMV employees are encouraged to regularly as recent developments or incidents, are participate in compliance training covering monitored on an ongoing basis to evaluate topics that are relevant to various types of their possible impact on OMV’s current risk jobs. The compliance management system is exposure. This ongoing risk analysis also implemented Group-wide through collaboraincludes an institutionalized semiannual risk tion between centrally based management analysis, which is part of OMV’s Enterunits and local compliance officers in all prise-Wide Risk Management (EWRM). 43 IDW PS stands for Grundsätze ordnungsmäßiger Prüfung von Compliance Management Systemen. The corresponding English version is IDW ­Assurance Standard Principles for the Proper Performance of Reasonable Assurance Engagements Relating to Compliance Management Systems. GRI 2016: 102-12, 102-17, 205-1; GRI 2016: Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption (Anti-corruption): 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; 76 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Preventing corruption risk in operations Before we launch activities in a new country, Company management is committed to we perform a thorough analysis of business establishing and maintaining an ethical stanethics and sanction law issues in that coundard of trust and integrity in our day-to-day try. The Business Ethics Entry Assessment ZERO business. Our senior management signs a includes an analysis of the Corruption PerCompliance Declaration to confirm that their ception Index assigned by Transparency conduct is in line with the Code of Business International to a given country. Based on ff incidents of corruption Ethics. New senior management also the outcome of the assessment, corporate receives onboarding to introduce OMV governance in local operations is adapted to ff incidents when contracts with integrity standards. It is of strategic imporassure compliance with OMV’s ethical stanbusiness partners or employees tance for us to make sure that every single dards. were terminated or not renewed employee is fully aware of our ethical values due to violations related to and principles. This mission is one of the In 2018, our Internal Audit department carried corruption targets of our Sustainability Strategy 2025. out 25 internal compliance audits across the full range of business ethics issues (thereof ff public legal cases regarding 13 at OMV and 12 at OMV Petrom). Risk-­ corruption brought against the related audits covering fraud and corruption organization or its employees issues form an integral part of the Corporate during the reporting period ­ SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Promote awareness of ethical values and Internal Audit. Additional preventive mea2025 TARGET principles: conduct in-person or online sures were set up for OMV Petrom such as ZERO legal actions pending or com­business ethics trainings for all employees third-party background checks of OMV pleted during the reporting period Petrom’s business partners. regarding anti-corruption behavior and violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation in which the organization has been identified as PERFORMANCE TO DATE In 2018, face-to-face training conducted with a participant. 528 employees and e-learning training with 856 employees ACTION PLAN TO ACHIEVE By 2020: e-learning training system for busiTHE TARGET ness ethics accessible as mandatory training to all employees GRI 2016: 205-1, 205-2, 205-3, 206-1 77 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Communication with stakeholders taxes, stamp duties, employment and other taxes. In addition, we collect and remit payBesides raising employee awareness roll taxes as well as indirect taxes such as through training, we have established chanexcise duties and VAT. The taxes we collect nels to help identify ethical misconduct at an and pay represent a significant part of our early stage. Timely notification is crucial in economic contribution to the countries in taking precautionary measures directed at which we operate. At OMV, we are commitavoiding or mitigating major financial loss ted to complying with tax laws in a responsior reputational harm. If an employee ble manner and to having open and conobserves or becomes aware of potential or structive relationships with tax authorities. actual misconduct, or violation of internal rules or statutory regulations, whether comGroup companies are established in jurisdicmitted by other employees or by a business tions suitable for holding our investments, partner, that employee is encouraged to with consideration to our business activities speak up and report the incident. and the prevailing regulatory environment. Except where necessary due to justified Besides employees, other stakeholders also operational requirements, OMV does not represent a valuable source of information establish its subsidiaries in countries that do which can help identify breaches of ethical not follow international standards of transstandards. To this end, the OMV Group has parency and exchange of information on tax introduced a whistleblower mechanism – the matters, nor in low-tax countries. Integrity Platform. Anyone can access it online (omv-group.integrityplatform.org) and report Since 2016, OMV has been providing mandaan issue relating to corruption, bribes, contory disclosures under the Payment-to-­ flicts of interest, anti-trust law, or capital marGovernment Directive (according to Sec­­­ kets law. The report can be filed anonymously, tion 267c of the Austrian Commercial Code) if desired. It will be analyzed and the answer and publishes its payments made to governprovided within ten days through the same ments in connection with exploration and platform. Identified violations of ethical extraction activities, such as production enti­standards will be handled further by the tlements, taxes, or royalties, in the consoli­Whistleblowing Committee, which includes dated financial statements. members of senior management. In addition, OMV reports payments made to Tax transparency public authorities, such as taxes or royalties in connection with exploration and Our business activities generate a substanextraction activities in countries that are tial amount and variety of taxes. We pay cormembers of the Extractive Industries Transporate income taxes, royalties, production parency Initiative (EITI). GRI 2016: 102-12 78 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Human Rights Human rights are universal values that guide current international law. In 2018, 892 of our Drivers of OMV Human Rights Management our conduct in every aspect of our activities. colleagues worked and lived in countries We are a signatory to the UN Global Comwith an elevated human rights risk. As a pact since 2003 and are fully committed to company, we must therefore be aware of any the UN Guiding Principles on Business and human rights impact we may have. We must Risk Legal Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Mulensure that we do not violate human rights management framework tinational Enterprises, and the Universal while conducting our business activities. In Declaration of Human Rights. We continumeeting our human rights responsibilities, ously work on improving our human rights OMV acts in strict compliance with applicamanagement systems, due diligence ble national law. In order to ensure that the Reputation Stakeholder ­process, and performance by learning from national legal framework is in line with management expectations international experience and good practice. OMV’s human rights standards, we conduct a We are part of the UN Global Compact NetHuman Rights Country Entry Check before work Austria and a member of IPIECA, and launching operations in a country. Where benefit from professional support of internanational law falls short of OMV standards, Shareholder Social license Human rights tionally recognized third-party experts. which are based on international human expectations to operate rights law, OMV is guided by its higher stanWe are active in countries where human dards unless this is in contradiction with rights are not always respected and protected applicable law. in accordance with internationally accepted human rights standards. The primary responOur employees, contractors, public authoriReporting Competitive sibility for the protection of human rights lies ties, legislators, investors, shareholders, standards advantages with governments. However, OMV has acceptcommunities, customers, and NGOs all ed that it is our responsibility to respect, fulfil expect us to respect and uphold human Financing Corporate and support the realization of human rights in rights. The demand by our stakeholders that relation to all our business activities and to we respect human rights defines the drivers institutions culture ensure that we do not become complicit in of our related policies listed in the diagram. any human rights abuses as defined under GRI 2016: Human Rights (Human Rights Assessments): 103-1; GRI 2016: 102-12 79 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Human rights management The OMV Human Rights Matrix covers We specifically concentrate on the impact of According to the UN Guiding Principles, an responsibilities in the following areas: our activities on the human rights of vulnereffective grievance mechanism is a crucial The OMV Human Rights Policy Statement able groups, such as indigenous people, instrument for ensuring compliance with our sets out our understanding of and responsiff Human rights risk management in women, and children. human rights commitment. Human rights bility for respecting and upholding human general, including compliance with grievances are submitted through the comrights in our business environment. It has national and international standards, OMV holds itself responsible to protect the munity grievance mechanism, and then anabeen approved by the Executive Board and human rights training, the grievance human rights of our employees (issues such lyzed locally and at the corporate level (for serves as our guiding principle for dealing mechanism, and organizational structures as non-discrimination, decent wages, workmore on the community grievance mechawith human rights issues in all aspects of ing hours, employee representation) as well nism, see the chapter on Community relaour daily business. ff Equality and non-discrimination as of the outside world, for example our tions and development). One humansuppliers, communities, indigenous people, rights-related grievance concerning working Since 2008, we have mapped our human ff Security and society as a whole. Our external responhours was filed by a subcontractor in 2018. rights responsibilities in a comprehensive sibilities in the area of human rights include, Although there was no violation of national Human Rights Matrix designed to serve as ff Health and safety but are not limited to, equality and non-dislaw or human rights standards, the local the foundation for our activities in this area. crimination, security, primary health care, management team solved the grievance by We use this tool to assess our human rights ff Labor rights, including decent wages, labor rights in the supply chain (such as fair introducing more flexible work rotations. activities and prioritize our actions as essenworking hours, employee representation, wages and working hours), education, povThis solution was accepted by the subcontial, expected, or desirable in defense of and provisions against forced labor, child erty reduction, land rights, and free, prior, tractor. No incidents related to child labor, human rights. We regularly review the priorilabor, and human trafficking and informed consultation. forced labor, violation of indigenous peoties in our Matrix and redefine them in ples’ rights, or other human rights violations accordance with international best practice ff The right to education Locally based human rights officers conduct were reported in 2018. and the latest developments in the human due diligence at the operating facilities with rights field. ff Property and standard of living, including the support of two human rights managers at OMV employees also have other channels for land rights and poverty reduction corporate level (at OMV and OMV Petrom). bringing forward issues and grievances relatInternationally recognized external experts ed to human rights. For instance, the Integrity ff Local communities and indigenous support OMV in conducting this due diligence Platform is available to anyone in the Group peoples, including free, prior, and on our human rights risks exposure. (for more information, see Communication informed consultation with stakeholders), and OMV Petrom has installed a PetrOmbudsman (for more inforff Privacy and family life, including personal mation, see Employees). data protection GRI 2016: Human Rights Assessments: 103-1, 103-2; GRI 2016: 408-1, 409-1, 411-1 80 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Human rights due diligence OMV has developed due diligence tools and unmanageable risk. Based on this ranking, o ­ perating our business and supply chain techniques to assess the risk of human we develop our yearly work plan, defining free from forced labor, slavery, and human rights violations related to our business, further due diligence actions and human ­trafficking. The OMV Statement against Modeven before we launch or acquire business rights training. In 2018, we conducted our ern Slavery and Human Trafficking explains in a new country. Human rights are one of annual Country Risk Ranking (in all of our in detail the measures taken against modern the decision-making components determincountries of operations) and a total of addislavery and human trafficking in all parts of ing OMV’s engagement in a given country. tional 30 risk assessments at country level. the business and supply chain. The stateWe use these assessments to derive conment is signed annually by the Executive crete measures to reduce the risk of direct The Human Rights Self-Assessment is one of Board in accordance with the requirements and indirect involvement in potential human the tools we use to assess the effectiveness of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and is rights violations. In 2018, prior to OMV’s of our human rights due diligence approach. available on our website: decision to do business in Malaysia, we Such assessments create internal awarewww.omv.com/en/human-rights commissioned a Human Rights Country ness, capture our self-perception of our Entry Check by an external human rights human rights performance, and facilitate the expert. This check provided an analysis of definition of gaps and further actions. In ongoing human rights issues and the result2018, a Human Rights self-Assessment was ing potential legal, reputational, and operaconducted at OMV Petrom, Romania, where tional risks associated with our planned managers of departments dealing with engagement in the country. We identified human-rights-related topics – Human concerns related to labor rights, land issues, Resources, HSSE, Procurement, Community and indigenous peoples’ rights, and Relations, and others – were asked to fill out assessed the potential for their mitigation. a questionnaire. It captured the self-percepWe plan to cooperate closely with our busition of OMV Petrom in regards to compliness partners and other stakeholders in ance with the OMV Human Rights Policy Malaysia in order to ensure compliance with Statement and Matrix in Romania. An indeour human rights commitment locally. pendent external expert assessed the plausibility of responses in light of available Our current operations are also subject to human rights country data. Based on the regular assessments of their exposure to the expert’s recommendations, OMV Petrom risk of human rights violations. Due dilideveloped an action plan covering the areas gence starts with an Initial Risk Ranking at of safety, security, the grievance mechanism, country level: Every country we operate in supply chain management, working condi(or plan to operate in) is assessed based on tions, and equality and non-discrimination. comprehensive human-rights-related data and on consultation with internal and exterOMV strongly opposes forced labor, slavery, nal experts. The countries are ranked by low, child labor, and human trafficking. We theremedium, and high risk, countries with highfore fully support the aims of the UK Modern est manageable risk and “no-go” with Slavery Act 2015 and are committed to GRI 2016: Human Rights Assessments: 103-2, 103-3; GRI 2016: 411-1, 412-1 81 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Human rights training We conduct classroom trainings on human (based on an annual assessment) and work SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Conduct human rights trainings for all rights, which equip our employees with an in the corresponding corporate functions. So 2025 TARGET employees exposed to human rights risks44 understanding of our Human Rights Manfar, 114 employees from the target group by 2025 agement System and give them a space to were trained, which constitutes 11% of the work on concrete operational issues and entire target group. local challenges. Additionally, all employees are strongly encouraged to complete an In 2019, we plan to further roll out human interactive e-learning training, which guides rights (e-learning and classroom) trainings PERFORMANCE TO DATE 11% of target group trained them through norms and situations with in countries with an elevated human rights regard to human rights. In 2018, 243 individrisk level: Libya, Russia, United Arab Emiruals participated in human rights trainings. ates and Yemen. Out of these, 16 persons belonged to an identified target group of “employees We also implement internal awareness raisACTION PLAN TO ACHIEVE ff Annual internal awareness campaign on exposed to human rights risks” as defined ing campaigns throughout the Group. We THE TARGET Human Rights Day by our target in the Sustainability Strategy conducted a human rights awareness cam2025. This target group consists of employpaign informing all employees Group-wide ff Classroom training sessions according to ees responsible or accountable for the about our commitment. We marked the the yearly human rights work plan, which implementation of our human rights respon70th anniversary of the UN Declaration on is based on the annual initial Country Risk sibilities (Human Resources, Security, Site Human Rights and the 10th anniversary of Ranking; in 2019, trainings for Libya, Management, HSSE Auditing, Community the OMV Human Rights Matrix by inviting Russia, United Arab Emirates, Yemen Relations/Community Development, Proemployees to complete a human rights curement). These employees are located in e-learning program. ff Training sessions for corporate functions countries with elevated human rights risks in Vienna and Bucharest in 2019 ff Further rollout of human rights e-learning 44 1,059 employees in corporate functions managing human rights risks and in the corresponding functions in countries with elevated human rights risks GRI 2016: 102-12, 412-2 82 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Supply Chain OMV applies its sourcing and logistics expertise to ensure that the highest-quality Create Value materials and services are provided by our supply chain. Within the supply chain, Corporate Procurement plays an important part, Effectiveness & impact | Procurement & beneficiaries as partners continuously optimize cost1, quality, and supply-side innovation acting as a valuable business partner. It aims to foster innovation, to maximize our value contribution, and to enable growth. At the Efficiency & simplicity | Simple interfaces, reduced coordination effort, fast response same time we stay fully compliant with applicable legal requirements, as well as with internal standards in areas such as Partner in OMV Lean organization Strong team Effective steering health, safety, environmental protection, and human rights. ff Thought partner for Simple, efficient ff ff State-of-the-art skills ff One target with business: business processes (procurement tools, value-oriented OMV manages the supply chain in accormarket, etc.) dance with internal principles and values, as ff Challenge business to ffClear interface to ff Full transparency demonstrated in the diagram. This serves as improve quality of business ff Technical skills a basis for implementing the “Create Value” Procurement decisions ff Global accountability Vision. This Vision focuses on creating effecff End-to-end responsibility ff Continuous development tive and impactful procurement operations, ff Solution orientation ff Contractor/supplier while improving the efficiency and simplicity management of supply chain management. ff Compliance ensured OMV Foundation | Team Spirit, Accountability, Passion, Pioneering Spirit, Performance 1 Total cost of ownership/life cycle costs GRI 2016: 102-9; GRI 2016 Supply Chain (Procurement Practices): 103-2, 103-3 83 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Supplier sustainability compliance OMV activities in their local area. (For more Recommendation on Pre-qualification for Where suppliers represent a contract value information on the community grievance Contractors.” Corporate and legal HSSE over EUR 300,000, we conduct supplier risk Our suppliers must follow the legal requiremechanism, see Community Relations and requirements are provided to potential assessments on an annual basis, where we ments and internal rules and standards Development.) suppliers at the tender stage. We assess the verify their HSSE performance based on applicable to OMV.45 OMV’s Code of Conduct HSSE qualifications of potential suppliers inspections and audits of monitored KPIs. stipulates that suppliers must support We developed a consolidated yearly supplier and rank them in the OMV Risk Matrix. Final contractor evaluation, including HSSE OMV’s principles and therefore mitigates audit plan covering sustainability-related For suppliers who present a potential and social responsibility performance, is supply chain risks such as forced labor, aspects of HSSE, business ethics, human risk to OMV’s supply chain sustainability communicated to Procurement for further slavery, human trafficking, and corruption. rights, etc. In 2018, we took a step forward in management, we conduct a more in-depth contractual management actions, as necesSuppliers are obligated to fully comply our supplier performance management road investigation of compliance with OMV’s sary. OMV reserves the right to terminate with the content of the Code of Conduct, map and defined our targets: performing Contractor HSSE Management Standards. relationships with suppliers, if non-compliand all supply chain partners are required more than ten audits per year on sustainabilCrude transportation partners are subject to ance with applicable policies is discovered, to become cosignatories of the the Code of ity topics by 2020 and more than 20 per year an additional assessment against the TMSA or non-compliance is not addressed in a Conduct. Tools like 360° feedback, supplier by 2025. By the end of 2018, nine supplier (Tanker Management and Self-Assessment) timely manner. evaluations, and audits assess and monitor audits covering the entire range of sustainaStandard, as OMV is a member of the OCIMF supplier compliance with the principles outbility issues were conducted. (Oil Companies International Marine Forum). lined in OMV’s Code of Conduct. In addition to this, each year we perform OMV has a process in place aimed at ensubject-specific audits on topics such as prosuring that parties sanctioned by the EU or cess safety, financial management, and perinternational organizations such as the Unitformance efficiency. In 2018, we completed SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Increase the number of supplier audits ed Nations are not accepted as procurement 83% of the targeted audit plan, with 86% of 2025 TARGET ­covering sustainability elements to >20 per partners. the audits resulting in follow-up measures. year by 2025 By the end of 2018, follow-up measures of Additionally, we updated the supplier 60% of the audits were implemented, and relationship management system and inthe others will be closed according to an troduced improvements in accordance with agreed plan in 2019. PERFORMANCE TO DATE 9 audits in 2018 best practice in sustainability. As a result, we expanded the ESG (Environment, Social, and In 2018, we reached the target for ESG Governance) assessment of our suppliers. assessments and supplier audits in full, as Our assessment of ESG management and defined in the road map. All of the suppliers ACTION PLAN TO ACHIEVE Perform more than ten audits per year by performance covers human rights, occupaassessed and audited met our requirements. THE TARGET 2020 also covering sustainability topics tional health and safety, social responsibility, Further optimization and improvement areas business ethics, compliance, and environwere identified and agreed upon in order to mental performance. The assessment is conimprove the supplier relationship manageducted through a questionnaire submitted to ment system. suppliers from a target group. We also provide a reverse engagement chanSustainability risks for all new suppliers, nel to our suppliers, where suppliers can including HSSE, community relations, and use our community grievance mechanism reputation, are identified at an early stage to communicate any concerns related to in accordance with the “Corporate HSSE 45 A “supplier” is defined as a company providing or delivering goods or services, including consulting services, providing temporary or leased personnel, works and service contracts (e.g., contractors, subcontractors, etc.). GRI 2016: 102-9; GRI 2016 Supply Chain (Procurement Practices): 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 308-1, 308-2, 414-1, 414-2 84 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Local procurement Role of digitalization in supply chain ­m anagement Local procurement, which we encourage, creates added value in our local communiOMV made progress on its journey toward ties. Spending with local suppliers accountdigitalization of the procurement process. ed for 88% of total expenditures in 2018. Inspired by our “Create Value” Vision and in line with developments in procurement In line with our aim to always consider the markets, OMV made the decision in 2018 to impact of our actions on the local environimplement SAP Ariba for all source-toment, our intention is to continuously contract and commerce automation proimprove our local content approach. We supcesses. port local suppliers to improve their capabilities, which will help them meet higher techIntroducing a single platform for managing nical, HSSE, and business standards. Our the procurement process will help us ensure newly introduced ESG assessments and vareffectiveness and efficiency. This comprises ious audits help suppliers understand critical integration of various systems and proissues in sustainability management and cesses used to date for detailed supplier performance, and foster their further develassessment and management. Digitizing opment in this area based on the gaps all procurement-related documentation resulting from the assessment. will also improve our track record of timely management of all procurement-related We also promote direct communication with issues. This tight integration and structured suppliers to explain the sustainability performonitoring of suppliers will enhance transmance OMV expects from its suppliers and parency and decision-making efficiency, and the risks for OMV in cases of non-compliensure compliance by all suppliers. ance. As an example, we held the Contractor Forum in Austria in November 2018. Such events also strengthen our partnerships with suppliers. GRI 2016: 102-9, 204-1 85 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Community Relations and Development For OMV, transparency, trust, and partnerinformed consultation and consent of local and development commitments. In the sumStrategy 2025, the participants were also ship-based relations with local communities stakeholders. The purpose of a SIA is to mer of 2018, we held a two-day event, where familiarized with the UN Effectiveness Criteare key to ensuring we are a responsible and ensure that consideration for indigenous representatives from almost all of the counria for Non-Judicial Grievance Mechanisms. welcomed neighbor wherever we operate. and human rights, as well as the views of tries in which OMV operates came together Our employees are also actively participating Adding value to the communities in which the local communities, are incorporated and at our headquarters in Vienna for a in existing social initiatives through corpowe operate is key to securing our operations addressed throughout all phases of the projpeer-learning workshop. The topics of the rate volunteering. This is how we create addfor the future. ect life cycle: commencement, operational workshop included discussions of best praced value for society and for OMV as an phase, and decommissioning or abandontice, sharing experiences, and training on employer of choice, business partner, and We acknowledge that the presence of OMV’s ment. Based on the internal regulation for new requirements in community relations good neighbor. business has direct and indirect impact on conducting Environmental and Social Impact management. In light of our Sustainability local communities. We aim to steer the Assessments, we include a baseline study, impacts of our business activities in a posicommunity needs assessments, a stakeholdtive direction by maintaining community er analysis, and a study of associated social relations and investing in local development, risks. Based on the outcome, site-specific adhering to our commitment to respect strategies for community relations and human rights and ensure that local suppliers development as well as community grievwho work with OMV follow sustainable pracance mechanisms are developed and impletices. (For more information on OMV’s mented. The selection of social investments involvement in these areas, see Human is based on the local needs identified as part Rights and Supply Chain.) Community develof the SIA and their potential for impactful opment initiatives are always steered by contribution to the Sustainable Development local needs and in consultation with local Goals (SDGs). stakeholders as well as Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) country priorities. Group function receives regular reporting and feedback from local social responsibility Our community relations and development managers and ensures that the guidelines for management process is based on centralized community relations and development are policies and targets, as well as local responadhered to. Local managers regularly share sibilities and resources. We start by conducttheir best-practice experience in order to ing Environmental and Social Impact Assesssupplement provided guidance and to shape ments (SIAs), which include free and prior our site-specific global community relations GRI 2016: Local Communities: 103-1, 103-2; GRI 2016: 102-12, 413-1, 413-2 86 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Community grievance management 496 grievances concerning an impact on the environment received/408 resolved, one With our stringent approach to receiving, human rights grievance – resolved). The registering, addressing, and resolving open cases will be handled during 2019. SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Assess Community Grievance Mechanisms grievances in all of the countries where Aiming to be fully aligned with the require2025 TARGET of all sites against UN Effectiveness Criteria46 we operate, OMV lays the foundation for ments of GRI and IPIECA, OMV has further by 2025 its social license to operate. It follows the set a target to assess the Community precautionary principle in ensuring local Grievance Mechanisms (CGMs) at all of its approval for its operations by identifying sites against the UN Effectiveness Criteria and resolving the issues of concern to the for Non-Judicial Grievance Mechanisms by PERFORMANCE TO DATE En route to this target, one pilot project local community. A grievance is an expres2025. The UN Effectiveness Criteria require was successfully implemented in Romania sion of dissatisfaction stemming from a the grievance mechanism to be legitimate, in 2018. real or perceived impact of the Company’s accessible, predictable, equitable, transparbusiness activities. In 2018, the community ent, rights-compatible, a source of contingrievance mechanism was fully operational uous learning, and based on engagement in Upstream, in the three OMV refineries and dialogue. En route to this target, one ACTION PLAN TO ACHIEVE 2019: assess community grievance mecha(Schwechat in Austria, Burghausen in pilot project was successfully implemented THE TARGET nism of Upstream assets in Austria and the Germany, and Petrobrazi in Romania), and in Romania in 2018. The recommendations Schwechat refinery, Austria at two power plants (Samsun in Turkey and identified as a result of the audit will be Brazi in Romania). analyzed and implemented at OMV Petrom to enhance the effectiveness of the CGM. During the year, none of our operating With 965 registered grievances, the grievfacilities reported having significant poances in Romania account for 91% of all tential or actual negative impacts on local OMV grievances received in 2018. We will communities. However, we received 1,058 conduct assessments of CGMs at further grievances (561 grievances relating to our OMV sites according to the UN Effectiveimpact on society received/419 resolved; ness Criteria in 2019. 46 Legitimate, accessible, predictable, equitable, transparent, rights-compatible, a source of continuous learning, based on engagement and dialogue GRI 2016: 102-12, 102-46; GRI OG10 Sector Supplement; GRI 2016: Local Communities: 103-2, 103-3 87 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Community development projects economic development and empowerment Living the OMV Principles through volunteering of the communities in which we operate. Building on this principle, since 2012, OMV 17 has been initiating projects to equip local communities with professional education, entrepreneurship, and vocational skills with Performance operating countries Employees engaging OMV P the objective to enable people to succeed in RIN CIP themselves show LES the job market or set up their own businesshigher willingness to 191 es. During the last seven years, over 50 OMV perform in their business education initiatives were launched and surroundings. Pioneering community development initatives already benefitted more than 17,900 people, PL ES Spirit 2,800 of which in 2018 alone. CI Volunteering VP activities open RI >900,000 Through volunteering, OMV employees also N My own up toward other OM engagement circumstances strengthen their connection to society. Our and sharpen people benefitted employees personally engage in community awareness. development initiatives through hands-on or skills-based volunteering, or personally Team Spirit A common goal OMV PRINCIPLES contributing to individual projects. Across Your energy with colleagues In 2018, over 900,000 people benefitted from the Group, 4,465 employees participated for a better life builds and 191 community development initiatives in in our community development projects My enables high17 countries. Depending on the local condias volunteers in 2018. We recognize that skills-based performing diverse teams. engagement tions, the focus of the projects was either on employee volunteering activates the pracThe energy for a better life. improving access to basic needs like health tical implementation of the OMV Principles My care, water, and electricity, or investing in (demonstrated in the diagram) across the hands-on education and economic development. Company. The voluntary engagement of our LES engagement Passion employees is highlighted throughout the CIP Engaged OMV community development projects projects in this report. RI N employees show mostly supported the following Sustainable P a higher passion V for their work and Development Goals in 2018: SDG 1: No In addition to community development, we OM contribution to poverty, SDG 3: Good health and well-being, also support sports and culture. In sports society. Accountability SDG 4: Quality education, SDG 5: Gender sponsoring, OMV is involved in ski jumping, Engaged employees show a equality, SDG 6: Clean water and sanitation, soccer, and running events at regionally imhigher accountability toward E OM SDG 7: Affordable and clean energy, SDG 8: portant locations in Central and Eastern EuCIPL their behavior within the RIN Decent work and economic growth, SDG 10: rope. In the field of culture, OMV focuses on Company. S VP Reduced inequalities. cultural exchanges between its core markets and supports selected cultural institutions One of the key areas of focus for OMV in Austria. More information is available at: community development is education. OMV www.omv.com/en/about-us/sponsoring believes that education is crucial to the GRI 2016: 102-12 88 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Community development projects Every year, OMV contributes to the Assoacross countries ciation of Lower Austrian Petroleum and “Suppe mit Sinn” Natural Gas Municipalities. Funds allocated In Austria, OMV supports projects in areas by the Association on an annual basis are In 2018, we established a social of major local need such as health and intended for financing infrastructure develpartnership with Wiener Tafel – a well-being, education and social inclusion, opment projects in line with the regional charity organization focused on and poverty alleviation. By supporting comagenda. helping people affected by poverty munity projects in Austria through project in Vienna – which creates many implementation or by providing volunteers, To promote education of future generavolunteer opportunities for our OMV contributes to SDG 1, SDG 2, SDG 3, tions, OMV sponsored 30 scholarships for employees in the various initiatives SDG 4, SDG 5, SDG 9, SDG 10, and SDG 12. Petroleum Engineering students at Montasupported by the partnership. Our community projects focus on social nuniversität Leoben (for more information, infrastructure, education, and cultural develsee Employees). To support diversity We raised EUR 9,772 as part of the opment in accordance with the needs of the among the next generation of scientists, we Wiener Tafel’s “Suppe mit Sinn” local communities. Our key contributions in also sponsored 21 scholarships for female campaign. Our employees donated 2018 are showcased on the following pages. students in technical fields of study such part of their meal value at several as engineering or earth sciences. OMV also of OMV’s cafeterias to help provide sponsors two post-doctoral academic posi100,000 meals to people experienctions for young female scientists at Vienna ing poverty in Vienna. University of Economics and Business (WU Wien). We support young entrepreneurs and their start-ups by sponsoring the WU Gründerzentrum initiative dedicated to this activity. To aid the social inclusion of dis“CAPE 10” advantaged populations, we offered three refugees work as interns at WU Wien. OMV is a major contributor to an innovative social project called “CAPE 10,” which encourages social inclusion and provides care for people affected by poverty in Vienna. The financial assistance we provide enables the construction of and provides equipment for an accessible medical and social services facility serving uninsured women and children. GRI 2016: 413-1 89 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION “Max & Lara” As part of the “Max & Lara” initiative, where OMV participates as a cultural sponsor, we engage OMV employees in accompanying disadvantaged children to sports and cultural events. “kleine herzen” Employees helped the association “Girls’ Day” “kleine herzen” renovate orphanage facilities in Russia by providing We welcomed more than 70 girls to a financial contribution through the our premises in different locations purchase of small chocolate hearts on Girls’ Day. With the help of 20 at the head office. employee volunteers, the girls explored new education and training opportunities, particularly in technical fields. GRI 2016: 413-1 90 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION “ASSIST” We bring the oil and gas business closer to kindergarten and schoolWe also cooperated with the non-profit children, teachers, and parents by organization ASSIST that helps people explaining the business with with disabilities adapt their needs, abilhands-on examples presented by ities, and skills in education and work OMV employees. OMV also prolife. Fifteen people with physical disvides illustrative material, and abilities who are enrolled in manageemployees volunteer as experts in ment apprenticeships were able to gain schools and kindergartens in insight into OMV’s daily business. We OMV’s neighborhoods. presented the information about apprenticeships for becoming industrial management assistants. As a hands-on volunteering activity, employees from the Vienna In 2018, two OMV employees held office helped to remove bushes in one of two interactive workshops the Natura 2000 protected area in with 15 children from the OMV kinorder to make it suitable for grazing dergarten. They discussed the by reintroduced animals to preworld of OMV and human rights. serve species-rich dry grasslands. This was a preparation for a second workshop in 2019, which focused on the human right to education, using examples from OMV’s community development work. GRI 2016: 413-1 91 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION In Romania, OMV pursues broad-based comincreasing quality of life and comfort, munity engagement with more than 90 projimproving public services, and streamlining ects and initiatives overall. The majority of resource consumption. the projects in 2018 focused on personal and vocational education, community developEmployee volunteering at OMV Petrom aims ment, and employee volunteering, as well as to strengthen relationships with local comsupporting environmental topics such as munities by involving employees in solving forestation and raising awareness. social problems and community issues. In 2018, over 1,600 OMV Petrom employees volunteered in more than 60 projects, of which 12 projects were initiated by employees. The projects focused on greening communities, education, health, renovating playgrounds and parks, and donations. We also support local community-based organizations by funding community-led Launched in 2015, Vocational Romania is The Vocational Summer Camp is an intendevelopment projects through an annual OMV Petrom’s long-term commitment to sive vocational development program for EUR 150,000 grant competition. As a result, supporting and improving the technical and high school students aimed at improving the RO SMART in Andrei’s Country is a national in 2018, 570 people benefitted from eight vocational education system in Romania. personal and professional skills required to competition organized jointly by OMV funded projects producing economic, educaThrough this program, we want to raise secure employment. In 2018, 235 students Petrom and Andrei’s Country. Andrei’s Countional, cultural, and civic engagement awareness of the importance of vocational from 23 technical schools received training try is a social responsibility platform we impact. Among the beneficiaries were: education in the development of the national for developing “soft skills” (such as commuhave used to implement community projects economy and to implement education solunication and teamwork) and mentoring in for ten years now. As part of this national ff 22 persons trained as commercial tions for future oil and gas professionals. the area of practical skills while working on competition, OMV finances the best projects workers Vocational Romania includes the following a graduation project. During the project, selected among the proposed initiatives initiatives: the Oilmen’s School, the Vocation40 students also received scholarships. Four benefitting local communities in the areas of ff Over 300 children attending educational al Summer Camp, and the Vocational Stuteacher-led projects for improving vocational smart mobility, energy, health, education, programs with the aim of increasing dents’ League. education included project management environment, infrastructure, agriculture, and graduation rates mentorship and financial grants. safety. In 2018, ten projects in the fields of The Oilmen’s School program offers stueducation, health, and infrastructure were ff Over 60 teachers and parents attending dents monthly scholarships, practical experiThe Vocational Students’ League is a vocadeclared winners and received a total of counseling sessions aimed at ence on site in our Company as well as tional education project that aims to develEUR 400,000 in grants. In addition, during understanding student mindsets teacher development, updates to educationop a group of leaders to improve the vocaproject implementation, OMV Petrom’s al curriculum, and upgrades to school labotional education system in Romania at the employees provide mentoring as necessary, ff Over 50 community volunteers involved ratories. The Oilmen’s School works with policy level. while our partners provide free IT consultin supporting the local activities of three high schools in Romania to offer well ing. The winning projects leverage technolocommunity-based organizations operator and park operator qualifications for gy to solve the problems faced by communithe oil and gas industry. From the first genties in Romanian villages and cities aimed at eration of graduates in 2018, 26 young oilmen were employed by OMV Petrom. GRI 2016: 413-1 92 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION In Tunisia, the management of the Skills to In 2018, for the tenth year OMV organized Succeed project was successfully transand fully financed the OMV youth camp for ferred to the community under a newly children from disadvantaged backgrounds formed local NGO. A key deliverable of the from different parts of Slovenia. The objecproject was to ensure that a sustainable tive was to take children on a study vacation, project organization remained in place with where they can have a unique experience a team of eight locally engaged professionaway from the everyday difficulties to which als. The Skills to Succeed NGO obtained full they are exposed. More than 60 children funding for its first program from the Open benefitted from the camp that was held from Society Foundations securing its future work October to November 2018. in Tunisia. Additionally, OMV implemented the Nawara Project CSR Program for the central processing facility and pipeline areas of Gabès, Kebili, Medenine, and Tataouine to address these communities’ concerns on unemployment, weak infrastructure, and local contractors’ inability to compete with foreign contractors. OMV invests in targeted programs focusing on employability and self-employment, capacity-building for local suppliers, and support for regional development and civil society. With these investments, OMV aims to improve these communities’ quality The projects in Yemen focused on local comof life and is helping unlock the region’s munity access to health services, electricity, human and socio-­economic potential. and education. For example, ­AlMafood ­Hospital was provided with essential medical equipment, instruments, and furniture for the newly built emergency ward. GRI 2016: 413-1 93 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION In Libya, OMV supported access to In New Zealand, the majority of the 9 local electricity, water, and health care in local projects focused on environmental topics, communities through 15 projects benefitting but they also contributed to poverty alleviaround half a million people. The objective ation. In the Biodiversity protection section, of social investments in Libya is to help local we showcase a project at Lake Moawhitu, authorities and institutions improve delivery D’Urville, Island, that OMV supports. OMV of their services to the local communities employees from our New Zealand team won around OMV field operations. The related the World Environment Day Tree Planting activities are carried out in collaboration Challenge in 2018 by planting 228 trees on with the National Oil Corporation (NOC). some really tough and steep terrain. The planting is part of a commitment by conIn 2018, OMV has supported access to clean servation volunteers to plant 100,000 native water by supplying and repairing water trees on Mount Victoria in Central Wellingwells, water tanks, and a pipe water netton by 2021, with the final objective of growwork in Ubari, Ghrifa, Bent Baya, and Wadi ing a “Forest in the Heart of Wellington.” ­al-Ajal. Besides, the Company provided ten deep-water pumps to improve local community’s access to safe water and promote a multiple-use water system. OMV has also supplied four portable classrooms with furniture and equipped an integrated laboratory and workshop at the We continued to support the Healthy Homes In Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Germany, vocational training, access to education, and Higher Institute for Renewable Energy in project in the Taranaki area, New Zealand. Hungary, Kazakhstan, Norway, Serbia, the provision of food and equipment to local the town of Jikharra. Due to investment in The objective is to support low-income famSlovakia, Pakistant 47, and Turkey, we focus institutions and other beneficiaries. higher education, a greater number of stuilies by providing insulation to over 10,000 our efforts on building and maintaining dents will be able to contribute to the next homes in order to create healthy homes and successful relationships with neighboring generation of energy development. improve their energy efficiency. communities. Based on local needs, donations are provided to local NGOs to improve the health and well-being of disadvantaged families. OMV implemented dozens of other community development projects in these countries, providing support in the form of  More details on these and other projects can be found at: www.omv.com/sustainability 47 Activities up to June 2018 before divestment GRI 2016: 413-1 94 Performance in [96] Stakeholders’ Engagement Details Detail [99] Additional Performance Figures OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Stakeholders’ Engagement Details We engage with our stakeholders in a broad ent information sharing and opportunities range of ways. For all of them, our website, to engage. Our ways of engagement with social media activities, Annual Report, stakeholders are mapped in the following Sustainability Report, materiality analysis table and reflected in correspondent chapsurvey and other things provide transparters of this Report. Stakeholder groups Type of OMV engagement Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders Engagement channel and approach to tackle the topics Customers ffAdvertising ffPrice and quality of products and services ffSee chapter Focus on product responsibility ffContracts ffCustomer service ffSee chapter Carbon efficiency of the product portfolio ffEvents ffPoint of sale Scientific institutions ffProject cooperations with industry partners, scientific ffInformation and best practice on new technologies ffSee chapter Innovation organizations and universities ffConferences ffLectures ffSponsorings ffTargeted internships and recruitment Society ffSustainability projects such as educational/vocational ffSocial and environmental standards and impacts ffSee chapter Environment programs ffResponsible business practice ffSee chapter Business Principles and Social ffStakeholder dialogue ffEngagement with local communit Responsibility ffSponsorings and donations ffGrievance mechanism ffIntegrity Platform Governmental authorities ffInformation exchange ffRegulatory framework ffSee section Distribution to stakeholders ffRelationship management ffBusiness environment ffSee section Significant financial assistance received from ffRegular reporting (as required per legislation) ffSecurity of (energy) supply governments or governmental organizations in 2018 ffTransparent and active communication and information exchange in compliance with laws and regulations GRI 2016: 102-21, 102-29, 102-40, 102-43, 102-44 96 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Stakeholders’ Engagement Details Stakeholder groups Type of OMV engagement Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders Engagement channel and approach to tackle the topics Peer companies ffIndustry meetings ffIndustry-wide standards for sustainability topics ffParticipation in working groups such as IPIECA, IOGP ffContracts ffGood practice in exploration, development and ffParticipation in interational conferences, workshops, ffConsortium meetings production activities meetings, events ffCompliance with relevant standards, principles and contracts NGOs/NPOs ffSocial projects, sponsorings and donations ffEnvironmental risks ffSee chapter Health, Safety, Security, and Environment ffStakeholder dialogue ffSocial performance and risks ffSee chapter Carbon Efficiency ffGrievance mechanism ffHuman rights risks ffSee chapter Business Principles and Social ffLong-term OMV strategy Responsibility ffResponsiveness ffCompliance with international and national social and environmental standards ffImplementation of outcomens of Social and Environmental Impact Assessments Media ffPress releases and conferences ffOverall company performance and results ffRegular contact through authorized company ffInterviews ffCompany strategy spokespersons ffMedia database ffTimely access to company information ffTransparent communication policy according to the stock market regulations ffCompany glossary ffRegular engagement with the spokespersons and senior ffPress kit representatives Industry associations/ ffInformation exchange ffRegulatory framework ffInformation exchange and regular contact with networks ffRelationship management ffBusiness environment industry associations ffSee section Memberships GRI 2016: 102-21, 102-29, 102-40, 102-43, 102-44 97 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Stakeholders’ Engagement Details Stakeholder groups Type of OMV engagement Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders Engagement channel and approach to tackle the topics Capital market participants ffRegular reports and presentations ffShare price and overall company performance ffRegular reporting about performance ffRoadshows, Annual General Meetings, conferences, ffCreditworthiness ffRegular investor relations activities investor meetings and other events ffExternal credit ratings ffTargeted investor approach ffFinancial returns ffRegular contact through Investor Relations managers ffManagement credibility regarding results and press releases ffValuation compared to peers ffTransparent communication policy according to the stock market regulations ffCompetitiveness ffCommunication strategy with overarching targeted messages Employees ffEvents for employees such as townhall events for ffLegal framework ffSee chapter Employees information, small update events with an Executive ffAdequate working conditions ffSee chapter Business Principles and Social Board member, loyalty ceremony Responsibility ffCareer opportunities ffInternal communication channels such as employee magazine, internal newsletters, infoscreens, Intranet, ffDevelopment possibilities internal blog ffCompetitive salaries ffNew Employee Orientation introduction for new ffTransparent communication and information employees ffSupportive management ffFoundation engagement initiatives ffEmployment contracts ffIntegrity Platform Suppliers and contractors ffNegotiations and contracts ffProcurement regulations ffSee chapter Supply Chain ffSupplier audits and assessments ffStipulations of Code of Conduct ffField visits and management walk arounds ffFair contract ffSuppliers‘ events ffOn time payment ffContractors management meetings ffAdequate working conditions ffConferences GRI 2016: 102-21, 102-29, 102-40, 102-43, 102-44 98 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Additional Performance Figures Value Creation and Distribution to Stakeholders Revenues generated (in EUR mn) 2018 2017 Net sales 22,930 20,222 Dividends, income from at-equity accounted investments, and interest income 528 589 Other income 250 201 Gains from sale of assets 14 15 Total 23,722 21,028 Distribution to stakeholders 2018 2018 2017 2017 Stakeholders Category of distributed value (in EUR mn) (in %) (in EUR mn) (in %) Suppliers Operating expenses (excl. royalties; incl. depreciation, impairment & write-up; FX result) 18,547 78.18% 17,777 84.54% Governments Taxes (income & royalties) 1,399 5.90% 804 3.82% Employees Employee wages and benefits 1,108 4.67% 1,116 5.31% Capital providers Interest expense and other financial result 362 1.53% 326 1.55% Shareholders (and hybrid capital holders) Dividend distribution 779 3.29% 668 3.18% Society Social spending 14 0.06% 11 0.05% Total 22,221 93.63% 20,702 98.45% Value retained 1,512 6.37% 326 1.55% GRI 2016: 102-7, 201-1 99 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Additional Performance Figures Value Creation and Distribution to Stakeholders Significant financial assistance received from governments or governmental organizations in 2018 Company name EUR mn Details 2018 OMV Refining & Marketing GmbH 1.9 EUR 0.5 mn – grant for ReOil project EUR 0.9 mn – research premium EUR 0.4 mn – g  rant for cleanup of the disposal site Zwölfaxing EUR 0.1 mn – grant for UpHy project OMV PETROM S.A. 1.3 EUR 1.3 mn – reduction of quota for green certificates Significant monetary fines in 2018 1 Unit Number of fines for non-compliance concerning provision and use of products number 0 thereof number of cases brought before court and resolved number 0 Monetary value of fines for non-compliance concerning provision and use of products in EUR 0 Number of fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 2 number 15 thereof number of cases brought before court and resolved number 0 Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations in EUR 52,600 Number of fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic areas 2 number 11 thereof number of cases brought before court and resolved number 2 Monetary value of other fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic areas in EUR 148,078 Total number of fines number 26 Total number of cases brought before court number 2 Total monetary value of other fines for non-compliance in EUR 200,678 1 Only fines above EUR 10,000 and paid in 2018 reported. Other fines for which OMV filed lawsuits in court that have not yet been settled are not reported. 2 Brief description of the context against which significant fines and non-monetary sanctions were incurred: fines of EUR 52,600 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations: imposed for environmental non-compliance with regulations in Romania, and damage to soil, water, geological envrionment as a result of minor oil spills (100-400 m2), and damage from oil collector; fines of EUR 35,706 in Romania for non-compliance with laws and regualtions: breach of regulation in relation to the Convention on the Stability of Technological Parameters of Points, construction permitting regulation, fire safety authorization, balancing commercial quantities of gas, obligation to offer the entire quantity of electricity, accurate reporting on the online platform, reporting on the rehabilitation works; fines of EUR 95,478 in Kazakhstan for non-compliance with laws and regualtions relate to tax regulation on VAT and not-compliance with the payments due into the local public budget in Kazakhstan. GRI 2016: 201-1, 201-4, 307-1, 419-1 100 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Additional Performance Figures Safety OMV Group safety KPIs Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 Occupational safety, employees Fatalities number 1 0 1 1 Fatal Accident Rate per 100 mn hours worked 2.85 0.00 2.46 2.20 Number of hours worked in hours (thousand) 35,079.9 37,187.5 40,665.0 45,656.0 Lost-Time Injury Rate (LTIR) per 1 mn hours worked 0.29 0.24 0.37 0.26 High-consequence work-related injuries1 number 1 0 1 n.r. High-consequence work-related injuries1 per 1 mn hours worked 0.03 0.00 0.02 n.r. Lost-time injury severity per 1 mn hours worked 9.86 9.95 16.92 15.20 Total recordable injuries2 (GRI 403:2018: Recordable work-related injuries) number 31 27 27 27 Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)2 (GRI 403:2018: Recordable work-related injuries rate) per 1 mn hours worked 0.88 0.73 0.66 0.59 Occupational safety, contractors Fatalities number 2 2 1 1 Fatal Accident Rate per 100 mn hours worked 2.47 2.52 1.10 1.03 Number of hours worked in hours (thousand) 81,059.2 79,457.5 90,792.7 97,264.9 Lost-Time Injury Rate (LTIR) per 1 mn hours worked 0.31 0.39 0.42 0.28 High-consequence work-related injuries1 number 3 3 3 n.r. High-consequence work-related injuries1 per 1 mn hours worked 0.04 0.04 0.03 n.r. Lost-time injury severity per 1 mn hours worked 20.73 19.37 21.60 12.95 Total recordable injuries2 (GRI 403:2018: Recordable work-related injuries) number 60 65 65 76 Total recordable injury rate (TRIR)2 (GRI 403:2018: Recordable work-related injuries rate) per 1 mn hours worked 0.74 0.82 0.72 0.79 1 Lost-time injuries that resulted in 180 (or more) lost-workdays or permanent total disabilities 2 Corresponds to GRI 403:2018-a-iii: Recordable work-related injuries GRI 2018: 403-9 101 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Additional Performance Figures Safety OMV Group safety KPIs Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 Occupational safety, employees and contractors Fatalities number 3 2 2 2 Fatal Accident Rate per 100 mn hours worked 2.58 1.71 1.52 1.40 Number of hours worked in hours (thousand) 116,139.1 116,645.0 131,457.8 142,920.9 Lost-Time Injury Rate (LTIR) per 1 mn hours worked 0.30 0.34 0.40 0.27 High-consequence work-related injuries1 number 4 3 4 n.r. High-consequence work-related injuries1 per 1 mn hours worked 0.03 0.03 0.03 n.r. Lost-time injury severity per 1 mn hours worked 17.44 16.37 20.15 13.61 Total recordable injuries2 (GRI 403:2018: Recordable work-related injuries) number 91 92 92 103 Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)2 (GRI 403:2018: Recordable work-related injuries rate) per 1 mn hours worked 0.78 0.79 0.70 0.73 Process safety Tier 1 number 4 4 9 2 Tier 2 number 12 6 16 12 Process Safety Event Rate3 per 1 mn hours worked 0.14 0.09 0.19 0.10 1 Lost-time injuries that resulted in 180 (or more) lost workdays or permanent total disabilities 2 Corresponds to GRI 403:2018-a-iii: Recordable work-related injuries 3 Process Safety Event Rate is related to Tier 1 and Tier 2 process safety events GRI 2018: 403-9; OG13 Sector Supplement 102 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Additional Performance Figures Environmental Management OMV Group environmental KPIs Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 Energy Energy consumption1 PJ 127.4 130.8 126.8 137.8 Fuel consumption within the organization PJ 152.5 157.5 143.8 n.r. Electricity consumption2 PJ 3.5 2.9 4.3 n.r. Heating, cooling, and steam consumption3 TJ 96 14.8 32.3 n.r. Electricity sold PJ 25.1 26.2 19.4 n.r. Heating, cooling, and steam sold4 PJ 2.7 3.3 3.2 n.r. GHG emissions GHG (direct, Scope 1)5 mn t CO 2 equivalent 11.1 11.1 11.0 12.2 thereof from Upstream activities mn t CO 2 equivalent 3.6 3.5 4.0 4.7 thereof from Downstream activities mn t CO 2 equivalent 7.6 7.7 7.0 7.2 CO2 mn t 10.0 10.2 9.7 10.4 CH46 t 44,782 38,807 54,753 70,741 N 2O t 57 52 60 72 GHG (indirect, Scope 2)7 mn t CO 2 equivalent 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.4 GHG (indirect, Scope 3)8 mn t CO 2 equivalent 112.5 108 113 112 Other air emissions SO2 t 3,090 2,995 3,105 2,918 NOx t 11,275 12,730 12,050 12,951 NM-VOC4 t 9,401 8,689 10,229 11,585 Particulate emissions t 138 145 139 155 Ozone-depleting substances t 0.4 0.5 0.5 0.4 1 Refers to the total energy used for operations based on site calculations with specific data and methodology 2 Includes only electricity purchased and consumed; electricity consumed from own generation is included in fuel consumption. Increase in 2018 due to higher purchase volumes in Romania and Austria. 3 Increase due to higher purchase of external steam for Romanian refinery 4 Decrease due to less heat sold to public grid in Austria 5 Since 2016, OMV is applying global warming potentials of the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4 – 100 year) CH4:25 and N2O:298. 2015 GHG emissions have been re-calculated accordingly. Methodology basis for calculation of Scope 1: GHG Protocol, IPCC 2006, API Compendium. 6 Decrease in previous years mainly due to venting reduction projects as well as an increase in reporting accuracy at OMV Petrom; Increase in 2018 is due to accidential release and maintenance work in Romanian Upstream business 7 Market based Scope 2 emissions calculated with specific emission factors and energy mix for 96% of electricity purchase. Increase due to higher purchase volumes in Romania and Austria as well as higher market based emission factors in Austria. (Location based Scope 2 emissions 2018: 286,079 t CO2 equivalent.) Methodology basis for calculation of Scope 2: GHG Protocol, IEA statistics, information from suppliers and national agencies, scientific publications. 8 Includes Scope 3 emissions from the use of sold processed products. These include total sales amounts from companies which are under operational or financial control by OMV. Pure “trading margin” sales as well as intercompany sales are excluded. Since 2015, Scope 3 emissions from purchased goods & services and capital goods are included. From 2018 on net import of refinery raw material is included. Methodology basis for ­calculation of Scope 3: GHG Protocol, Quantis Scope 3 Evaluator, IPCC 2006, information from industry associations, scientific publications, own estimations based on chemical and physical characteristics of material.s GRI 2016: 102-7, 303-1, 302-4, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-5, 305-6, 305-7 103 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Additional Performance Figures Environmental Management OMV Group environmental KPIs Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 Flaring and venting Hydrocarbons flared1 t 233,770 185,832 180,452 299,825 Hydrocarbons vented2 t 37,420 32,834 50,173 61,443 Water Water withdrawn3 megaliters 100,381 98,523 99,592 102,114 thereof groundwater megaliters 23,964 24,530 23,915 24,016 thereof freshwater (≤1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids) megaliters 23,716 24,144 23,614 23,828 thereof other water (>1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids) megaliters 247 386 301 188 thereof surface water megaliters 14,955 11,526 12,370 12,757 thereof freshwater (≤1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids) megaliters 14,955 11,526 12,370 12,757 thereof other water (>1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids) megaliters 0 0 0 0 thereof water from public supply systems megaliters 1,477 1,509 1,606 1,807 thereof freshwater (≤1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids) megaliters 1,477 1,509 1,606 1,807 thereof other water (>1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids) megaliters 0 0 0 0 thereof seawater4 megaliters 586 577 382 396 thereof produced water5 megaliters 59,400 60,382 61,319 63,137 Water withdrawn (other than total water withdrawal by source)6 megaliters 280,963 411,854 397,860 466,137 1 Increase in flaring amounts due to restart of operation in Yemen 2 Decrease in previous years mainly due to venting reduction projects as well as an increase in reporting accuracy at OMV Petrom; Increase in 2018 is due to accidential release and maintenance work in Romanian Upstream business 3 Excluding water withdrawn for once-through use (reported separately); includes produced water from 2018 on. Values for 2015, 2016 and 2017 have been recalculated. From 2018 on, water figures are shown in megalitres; values for 2015, 2016 and 2017 have been converted accordingly. 4 Seawater is shown separately in the water withdrawal breakdown from 2018 on. Values for previous years have been recalculated. 5 Produced water is included in the breakdown for water withdrawal from 2018 on. Values for previous years have been recalculated. 6 Volume of water used for once-through cooling returned unchanged (excluding thermal effects) to water source as well as groundwater extracted solely for remediation or to control the migration of contaminated groundwater (IPIECA 2010); decrease due to divestment of Samsun CCPP during 2018 OG6 Sector Supplement; GRI 2018: 303-3; 104 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Additional Performance Figures Environmental Management OMV Group environmental KPIs Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 Water Water withdrawn from all areas with water stress1 megaliters 1,775 2,524 2,367 2,300 thereof groundwater megaliters 645 1,144 1,119 1,255 thereof freshwater (≤1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids) megaliters 398 758 819 1,067 thereof other water (>1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids) megaliters 247 386 301 188 thereof surface water megaliters 0 0 0 0 thereof freshwater (≤1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids) megaliters 0 0 0 0 thereof other water (>1,000 mg/L mg/l total dissolved solids) megaliters 0 0 0 0 thereof water from public supply systems megaliters 82 84 86 70 thereof freshwater (≤1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids) megaliters 82 84 86 70 thereof other water (>1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids) megaliters 0 0 0 0 thereof seawater megaliters 0 0 0 0 thereof produced water megaliters 1,048 1,297 1,162 975 Water consumed1 megaliters 75,135 76,152 78,103 80,731 Water consumed in all areas with water stress1 megaliters 1,691 2,428 2,267 2,086 Water recycled and reused mn m³ 7,041 6,859 6,733 6,675 Wastewater discharged Wastewater mn m³ 22 19 20 20 Chemical Oxygen Demand t 1,374 936 853 824 Hydrocarbons t 9 15 15 18 Total nitrogen t 114 104 91 80 1 Excluding water withdrawn for once-through use (reported separately). Water storage does not have a significant impact. GRI 2018: 303-3, 303-4, 303-5; OG5 Sector Supplement 105 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Additional Performance Figures Environmental Management OMV Group environmental KPIs Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 Waste1 Total waste t 583,603 460,247 923,709 832,017 thereof non-hazardous waste2 t 314,992 224,008 662,153 493,285 thereof hazardous waste t 268,611 236,239 261,556 338,731 Transboundary movement of hazardous waste (Basel convention) t 0 0 0 0 Waste recovered or recycled t 223,246 202,161 533,040 288,036 Waste recovery or recycling rate % 38% 44% 58% 35% Waste safely disposed of t 360,357 258,086 390,669 543,980 Spills Spills number 2,184 2,403 2,138 2,333 thereof major (i.e., severity level 3 to 5) number 2 1 2 6 thereof minor (i.e., severity level below 3) number 2,182 2,402 2,136 2327 Spills volume liters 36,874 173,909 103,490 158,000 Environmental expenditures Environmental protection expenditures, excluding depreciation EUR mn 196 197 208 210 Environmental investments for assets put into operation EUR mn 134 57 105 104 1 Total waste amounts including those from one-time projects 2 Increase due to more demolition activities at OMV Petrom GRI 2016: 306-2 106 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Additional Performance Figures Environmental Management GHG intensity of OMV operations 1 2018 GHG intensity of operations OMV Group Carbon Intensity Index 88 CO2 equivalent emissions produced to generate a certain business output using the following business-specific metric (Upstream: t CO2 equivalent/ 1 toe produced, refineries: t CO2 equivalent/t throughput, power: t CO2 equivalent/MWh produced) consolidated into an OMV Group Carbon Intensity Operations Index, based on weighted average of the business segments’ carbon intensity GHG intensity of OMV product portfolio¹ (Scope 3) Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 Oil to energy¹ mn t CO 2 equivalent 62.7 73.8 85.5 83.4 Oil for non-energy use2 mn t CO 2 equivalent 7.1 6.6 5.1 5.3 Gas to energy2, 3 mn t CO 2 equivalent 34.6 25.9 20.3 21.2 Gas for non-energy use mn t CO 2 equivalent 1.5 0.9 0.7 0.6 Chemicals mn t CO 2 equivalent 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 Total GHGs (indirect, Scope 3) mn t CO 2 equivalent 105.9 107.2 111.5 110.5 GHG intensity of product portfolio mn t GHG per mn t oil equivalent 2.5 2.6 2.7 2.7 Decrease mainly due to the divestment of Petrol Ofisi in mid 2017. 1 Increase in Upstream direct sales and related GHG emissions due to corrected application of boundaries 2 Increase in 2018 mainly due to increased gas sale volumes in Russia. 3 GHG intensity of OMV purchased goods & services and capital goods (Scope 3) Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 Purchased goods and services1 mn t CO 2 equivalent 6.3 1.1 1.1 1.3 Capital goods mn t CO 2 equivalent 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.2 Total GHGs (indirect, Scope 3)1 mn t CO 2 equivalent 6.5 1.3 1.2 1.5 GHG intensity of purchases1 mn t GHGs per USD bn 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.6 Increase in 2018 due to inclusion of net import of Refinery raw material (crude und intermediates). 1 GRI 2016: 102-7, 305-4 107 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Additional Performance Figures Human Resources Total headcount by employment t ype and region Romania/ Middle East/ Rest of Employees Austria Rest of Europe Africa the World Total 2018 Total 2017 Total 2016 Total 2015 Total 3,632 15,232 683 684 20,231 20,721 22,544 24,124 Status White-collar workers 2,845 7,867 595 450 11,757 11,832 12,717 13,500 Blue-collar workers 685 7,365 88 234 8,372 8,780 9,707 10,504 Apprentices 102 0 0 0 102 109 120 120 Employment type Full-time 3,363 15,139 641 681 19,824 20,211 22,045 23,888 thereof male 2,662 11,127 557 528 14,874 15,279 n.r. n.r. thereof female 701 4,012 84 153 4,950 4,932 n.r. n.r. Part-time 1 269 93 42 3 407 510 499 236 thereof male 57 57 33 0 147 247 n.r. n.r. thereof female 212 36 9 3 260 263 n.r. n.r. Gender Male 2,719 11,184 590 528 15,021 15,526 16,976 18,270 Female 913 4,048 93 156 5,210 5,195 5,568 5,854 Employment type Temporary 2 62 64 44 1 171 150 302 422 thereof male 34 42 34 1 111 86 n.r. n.r. thereof female 28 22 10 0 60 64 n.r. n.r. Permanent 3,632 15,232 683 684 20,231 20,721 22,544 24,124 thereof male 2,719 11,184 590 528 15,021 15,526 16,976 18,270 thereof female 913 4,048 93 156 5,210 5,195 5,568 5,854 At OMV Petrom, employees have the option to reduce the daily hours worked to raise a child up to the age of two or three years. These employees are reported as full-time. 1 A temporary contract of employment is of limited duration and terminated by a specific event, such as the end of a project or work phase, the return of replaced personnel, etc.; not included in total number of employees, only shown separately. 2 GRI 2016: 102-7, 102-8, 405-1 108 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Additional Performance Figures Human Resources Additional information1 2018 2017 2016 2015 Percentage of employees who have the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining 98.49% 98.17% 98.71% 97.51% Percentage of employees represented by local trade unions or works councils 88.57% 86.69% 83.62% 81.92% Percentage of employees for whom minimum wages or salaries were fixed by law or agreed upon by way of collective bargaining 99.57% 97.04% 97.85% 99.07% Percentage of employees covered by mandatory periods of notice under employment law or collective bargaining agreements for cases of restructuring 97.82% 96.45% 96.87% 97.19% Excluding Gas Connect Austria GmbH, Avanti GmbH, and DUNATÀR Köolajtermék Tároló és Kereskedelmi Kft. 1 GRI 102-41 109 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Additional Performance Figures Human Resources Details on new recruitments by region, gender, and age 2018 Age <30 30-50 >50 Total 2018 Total 2017 Total 2016 Total 2015 Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Austria1 Male 78 25.16% 128 41.29% 17 0.63% 223 67.08% 127 72.99% 63 72.41% 72 70.59% Female 37 11.94% 50 16.13% 0 0% 87 28.07% 47 27.01% 24 27.59% 30 29.41% Total 115 37.10% 178 57.42% 17 5.48% 310 100.00% 174 100.00% 87 100.00% 102 100.00% Romania/Rest of Europe1 Male 101 16.58% 204 33.50% 36 5.91% 341 55.99% 281 58.54% 155 55.56% 456 66.67% Female 94 15.43% 148 24.30% 26 4.28% 268 44.01% 199 41.46% 124 44.44% 228 33.33% Total 195 32.01% 352 57.80% 62 10.19% 609 100.00% 480 100.00% 279 100.00% 684 100.00% Middle East/Africa Male 6 10.53% 41 71.93% 3 5.26% 50 87.72% 71 86.59% 114 66.67% 76 73.08% Female 2 3.50% 5 8.78% 0 0.00% 7 12.28% 11 13.41% 57 33.33% 28 26.92% Total 8 14.03% 46 80.71% 3 5.26% 57 100.00% 82 100.00% 171 100.00% 104 100.00% Rest of the World Male 11 17.19% 32 50.00% 1 1.56% 44 68.75% 54 61.36% 16 64.00% 18 60.00% Female 11 17.19% 8 12.50% 1 1.56% 20 31.25% 34 38.64% 9 36.00% 12 40.00% Total 22 34.38% 40 62.50% 2 3.12% 64 100.00% 88 100.00% 25 100.00% 30 100.00% Total 340 616 84 1,040 824 824 824 1 Excluding Gas Connect Austria GmbH, Avanti GmbH, and DUNATÀR Köolajtermék Tároló és Kereskedelmi Kft. GRI 2016: 401-1 110 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Additional Performance Figures Human Resources Details on contract terminations by region, gender, and age 2018 Age <30 30-50 >50 Total 2018 Total 2017 Total 2016 Total 2015 Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Austria1 Male 10 6.41% 38 24.35% 67 42.95% 115 73.71% 129 72.88% 169 78.60% 131 79.88% Female 8 5.13% 18 11.54% 15 9.62% 41 26.29% 48 27.12% 46 21.40% 33 20.12% Total 18 11.54% 56 35.89% 82 52.57% 156 100.00% 177 100.00% 215 100.00% 164 100.00% Romania/Rest of Europe1 Male 49 4.31% 286 25.13% 468 41.12% 803 70.56% 1,048 71.98% 1,222 75.29% 1,339 81.60% Female 43 3.78% 146 12.83% 146 12.83% 335 29.44% 408 28.02% 401 24.71% 302 18.40% Total 92 8.09% 432 37.96% 614 53.95% 1,138 100.00% 1,456 100.00% 1,623 100.00% 1,641 100.00% Middle East/Africa Male 39 8.37% 332 71.24% 72 15.45% 443 95.06% 33 89.19% 231 80.21% 250 80.65% Female 6 1.29% 15 3.22% 2 0.43% 23 4.94% 4 10.81% 57 19.79% 60 19.35% Total 45 9.66% 347 74.46% 74 15.88% 466 100.00% 37 100.00% 288 100.00% 310 100.00% Rest of the World Male 4 9.76% 26 63.41% 3 7.32% 33 80.49% 43 61.43% 76 75.25% 33 63.46% Female 2 4.87% 5 12.20% 1 2.44% 8 19.51% 27 38.57% 25 24.75% 19 36.54% Total 6 14.63% 31 75.61% 4 9.76% 41 100.00% 70 100.00% 101 100.00% 52 100.00% Total 161 866 774 1,801 1 Excluding Gas Connect Austria GmbH, Avanti GmbH, and DUNATÀR Köolajtermék Tároló és Kereskedelmi Kft. GRI 2016: 401-1 111 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Additional Performance Figures Human Resources Fluctuation rate by region and gender 2018 Average hours of training and education by region and position (incl. costs) in 2018 1 Romania/ 2018 2017 2016 2015 Rest Middle Rest of Fluctuation rate1 Austria2 of Europe East/Africa the World Total 2018 Total 2017 Senior management Fluctuation rate – Average training hours for male 4.82% 6.91% 45.16% 10.28% 8.98% 7.86% senior management 33 33 n.r. n.r. Fluctuation rate – female 5.07% 8.15% 20.54% 7.77% 7.83% 9.26% Management Total 4.89% 7.24% 42.63% 9.67% 8.69% 8.21% Average training hours for management 26 23 n.r. n.r. <30 0.56% 0.59% 4.12% 1.42% 0.78% n.r. 30-50 1.75% 2.75% 31.75% 7.31% 4.18% n.r. Experts >50 2.57% 3.91% 6.77% 0.94% 3.74% n.r. Average training hours for experts 15 19 n.r. n.r. 1 Including all exits in reporting period 2018 compared to headcount of December 31, 2017 2 Excluding Gas Connect Austria GmbH, Avanti GmbH Project managers Average training hours for project managers 27 18 n.r. n.r. Technicians Average training hours for technicians 28 36 n.r. n.r. Administrators Average training hours for administrators 9 11 n.r. n.r. Grand total Average training hours for all employees 2 22 21 13 14 Average training hours for female employees 2 17 14 n.r. n.r. Average training hours for male employees 2 24 23 n.r. n.r. Total training hours for female employees 85,287 70,053 n.r. n.r. Total training hours for male employees 351,946 356,642 n.r. n.r. Total training hours for all employees 437,233 426,695 286,364 340,737 Money spent on training (EUR) 7,068,641 4,906,900 5,276,500 7,910,720 1 Excluding conferences and trainings for external employees 2 Data restatement: In 2017, the grand total of average training hours for all employees, female employees, and male employees were ­reported in relation to ­participants and not to number of employees. GRI 2016: 401-1, 404-1 112 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Additional Performance Figures Human Resources Diversit y in 2018 (headcount as per December 31, 2018) Gender Age Nationality Women Men <30 30-50 >50 Non-Austrian Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Total Supervisory Board 3 30.00% 7 70.00% 0 0.00% 2 20.00% 8 80.00% 3 30.00% 10 Executive Board 0 0.00% 4 100.00% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% 4 100.00% 1 25.00% 4 Senior management 1 8 15.69% 43 84.31% 0 0.00% 27 52.94% 24 47.06% 20 39.22% 51 Austria2 850 25.48% 2,486 74.52% 512 15.35% 2,049 61.42% 775 23.23% 518 15.53% 3,336 Romania 3,594 25.86% 10,304 74.14% 470 3.38% 8,187 58.91% 5,241 37.71% 13,896 99.99% 13,898 1 Senior Vice President & Vice President 2 Excluding Gas Connect Austria GmbH, Avanti GmbH Diversit y by age and employee category 1 (%) Diversit y by age and employee category 1 (%) <30 30-50 >50 <30 30-50 >50 % % % % % % Senior management Project management Male 0.00% 0.11% 0.11% Male 0.02% 0.59% 0.43% Female 0.00% 0.03% 0.01% Female 0.04% 0.53% 0.23% Total 0.00% 0.14% 0.12% Total 0.06% 1.12% 0.66% Management Technicians Male 0.03% 3.60% 2.49% Male 2.55% 25.83% 19.73% Female 0.02% 1.49% 0.51% Female 0.78% 4.30% 4.88% Total 0.05% 5.09% 3.00% Total 3.32% 30.14% 24.61% Experts Administrators Male 1.43% 10.57% 6.49% Male 0.00% 0.12% 0.06% Female 1.26% 7.33% 3.26% Female 0.08% 0.63% 0.46% Total 2.69% 17.90% 9.75% Total 0.08% 0.75% 0.52% 1 Excluding Gas Connect Austria GmbH, Avanti GmbH, and DUNATÀR Köolajtermék Tároló és Kereskedelmi Kft. 1 Excluding Gas Connect Austria GmbH, AVANTI GmbH and DUNATÀR Köolajtermék Tároló és Kereskedelmi Kft. GRI 2016: 405-1 113 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Additional Performance Figures Human Resources Parental leave during 2018 Percentage of local employees Employees 2018 2017 2016 2015 Country 2018 2017 2016 2015 Entitled employees as per Austria December 31, 2018 Austria1 84.47% 86.2% 87.6% 87.6% Male 14,489 14,509 15,909 17,090 Female 5,122 4,936 5,446 5,698 Romania/Rest of Europe Romania 99.50% 99.4% 99.3% 98.9% Took parental leave during 2018 Bulgaria 100.00% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Male 111 112 135 112 Czech Republic 94.87% 94.9% 94.9% 94.3% Female 136 344 317 312 Germany 89.60% 88.2% 90.0% 90.3% Hungary 100.00% 94.3% 100.0% 100.0% Returned from parental leave during 2018 Netherlands 100.00% 100.0% n.r. n.r. Male 114 87 n.r. n.r. Norway 87.18% 85.0% 86.7% 82.9% Female 179 138 n.r. n.r. Republic of Moldova 98.41% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Russia 96.67% 93.8% n.r. n.r. Serbia 100.00% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Slovakia 80.98% 96.5% 76.1% 72.9% Slovenia 100.00% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Switzerland2 1.83% 2.9% 1.8% 1.1% Turkey 100.00% 98.9% 100.0% 100.0% United Kingdom 61.11% 56.3% 69.4% 72.6% Middle East/Africa Abu Dhabi 0% 0.0% 100.0% 0.0% Libya 100.00% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Pakistan 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Tunisia 100.00% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Yemen 99.67% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Middle East/Africa Kazakhstan 97.33% 100.0% 100.0% 84.4% Madagascar 100.00% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% New Zealand 77.0% 66.7% 100.0% 62.8% Excluding Gas Connect Austria GmbH, Avanti GmbH, and DUNATÀR Köolajtermék Tároló és Kereskedelmi Kft. 1 OMV International Oil & Gas GmbH 2 GRI 2016: 401-3 114 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Additional Performance Figures Human Resources Percentage of female employees Vienna, April 11, 2019 Country 2018 2017 2016 The Executive Board Austria Austria1 25.5% 25.3% 24.8% Romania/Rest of Europe Romania 25.9% 25.5% 25.2% Bulgaria 48.1% 49.1% 46.3% Czech Republic 46.1% 35.9% 35.9% Rainer Seele m.p. Reinhard Florey m.p. Germany 14.4% 13.5% 14.3% Hungary1 45.8% 44.8% 42.1% Netherlands 16.7% 0.0% n.r. Norway 35.9% 36.3% 40.0% Republic of Moldova 47.6% 50.9% 53.4% Russia 56.7% 56.3% n.r. Serbia 61.9% 61.9% 55.0% Johann Pleininger m.p. Manfred Leitner m.p. Slovakia 73.6% 74.3% 74.4% Slovenia 60.3% 61.3% 60.8% Switzerland2 10.1% 10.1% 8.9% Turkey 34.7% 22.8% 20.4% United Kingdom 27.8% 31.3% 23.5% Middle East/Africa Abu Dhabi 25.0% 0.0% 0.0% Libya 17.2% 15.4% 14.3% Pakistan 4.3% 3.6% Tunisia 18.6% 20.9% 22.8% Yemen 7.6% 7.3% 9.4% Rest of the World Kazakhstan 22.3% 22.3% 21.4% Madagascar 33.3% 33.3% 33.3% New Zealand 23.3% 32.1% 33.3% 1 E  xcluding Gas Connect Austria GmbH, Avanti GmbH, and DUNATÀR Köolajtermék Tároló és Kereskedelmi Kft. 2 OMV International Oil & Gas GmbH GRI 2016: 405-1 115 [117] Assurance Statement Further [119] Abbreviations [121] Definitions Information [122] Memberships [124] GRI Content Index [132] Contacts and Imprint OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Assurance Statement To the Board of OMV Aktiengesellschaft Our assurance engagement solely covers Clarifications to our Engagement Criteria references directly specified in the GRI Content Index. It does not cover any further web ff The objective of our engagement was The information included in the Reporting Report about the Independent references. The selected indicators covered neither a financial audit nor a financial was based on the criteria applicable in the Assurance of the non-financial by our assurance engagement are marked audit review. We did not perform any year 2018 (“The Criteria”), consisting of: with “X” in the “GRI Content Index 2018”. assurance procedures on data, which report were subject of the annual financial audit, GRI Standards1 “GRI 305: Emissions 2016”, The assurance engagement covers the the corporate governance report or the “GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016” and “GRI Independent assurance regarding selected ­following performance indicators according risk reporting. We merely checked that 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018” in non-financial disclosures in the Sustainabilito the GRI Content Index: data was presented in accordance with connection with § 267a UGB (NaDiVeG). ty Report 2018 of OMV Aktiengesellschaft. the GRI Standards. ff Environmental indicators: Direct GHG We believe that these criteria are suitable for Engagement emissions scope 1 (GRI 305-1), Indirect ff Neither the detection and investigation of our assurance engagement. GHG emissions scope 2 (GRI 305-2), criminal offenses, such as embezzlement We were requested to perform a limited Indirect GHG emissions scope 3 (GRI 305or other fraudulent actions, nor the Management responsibilities assurance engagement regarding the select3), Hydrocarbon spills volume (GRI 306-3) assessment of effectiveness and efficiency ed non-financial disclosures of OMV of management were subject to our OMV’s management is responsible for the Aktiengesellschaft (hereafter “OMV”) in the ff Workplace safety indicators (employees engagement. Reporting and that the information therein is non-financial report 2018 (hereafter “Reportand contractors): Fatalities, Fatality rate, in accordance with the criteria mentioned ing”) in accordance with the requirements of Lost workday injuries, Lost time injury ff Limited assurance over prospective above. This responsibility includes designing, the GRI Standards CORE Option. rate, Lost time injury severity, Total information was not subject to our implementing and maintaining internal conrecordable injury rate (GRI 403-9) engagement. trols. These are essential for the elimination The assurance engagement covers the of material misstatements in the Reporting. Reporting as follows: Our procedures have been designed to obtain ff We did not test data derived from external a limited level of assurance on which to base surveys, we only verified that relevant “Sustainability Report 2018” concerning our conclusions. The extent of evidence gathdisclosures and data are correctly quoted information in and references linked from ering procedures performed is less than for in the Reporting. the GRI-Index to sustainability disclosures that of a reasonable assurance engagement and data. (such as a financial audit) and therefore a lower level of assurance is provided. 1 https://www.globalreporting.org/standards GRI 2016: 102-56 117 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Assurance Statement Our responsibilities What we did to form our conclusion ff Examined risk management and Our Conclusion governance processes related to the It is our responsibility to express a concluWe have performed all the procedures selected indicators; Based on the scope of our review nothing sion on the information included in the deemed necessary to obtain the evidence has come to our attention that causes us to Reporting on the basis of the limited assurthat is sufficient and appropriate to provide ff Performed analytical procedures at Group believe that the disclosures and data relating ance engagement. a basis for our conclusions. The assurance level; to the focal areas in the Reporting were not engagement was conducted at the compaprepared in accordance with the criteria Our assurance engagement has been ny´s headquarter in Vienna, as well as OMV ff Performed site visits in Romania (OMV identified above. planned and performed in accordance with Petrom S.A. sites in Romania. Our main proPetrom Headquarter, Refinery Petrobrazi, the International Federation of Accountants’ cedures were: Asset II, Asset III, Asset IV) to review ISAE 3000 (Revised) and the Code of Ethics progress and obtain evidence of for Professional Accountants, issued by the ff Obtained an overview over the industry performance. In addition we reviewed Vienna, April 11th 2019 International Federation of Accountants as well as the characteristics and data samples at site level for (IFAC), which includes requirements in relagovernance of the organisation; completeness, reliability, accuracy and Ernst & Young Wirtschaftsprüfungstion to our independence. timeliness; gesellschaft m.b.H. ff Reviewed OMV’s Corporate Regulations The objective of our engagement is not to (directives, standards and procedures) ff Reviewed data and processes on a account for the interests of any third parties. related to the selected indicators; sample basis to test whether they had Our work solely serves the client and his been collected, consolidated and reported Gerhard Schwartz m.p. Stefan Uher m.p. purpose. Our engagement is thus not desff Interviewed a selection of Group and appropriately at Group level. This tined to be used as a basis of decision-makfunctional senior managers and included reviewing data samples to test ing for third parties. executives to understand key whether the data had been reported in an expectations related to the selected accurate, reliable and complete manner; The “General Conditions of Contract for the indicators and identify systems, Public Accounting Professions”2 , are bindprocesses and internal control processes ff Assessment whether the requirements ing for this engagement. According to that, to support them; according to the identified criteria have our liability is limited and an accountant is been adequately addressed; only liable for violating intentionally or by ff Reviewed Group level, Board and gross negligence the contractual duties and Executive documents to assess ff Reviewed whether the GRI Standards obligations entered into. In cases of gross awareness and priority of the selected were consistently applied for the CORE negligence the maximum liability towards indicators and to understand how Option. OMV and any third party together is EUR progress is tracked; 726,730 in the aggregate. 2 Version of April 18th 2018 (AAB 2018) issued by the Chamber of Public Accountants and Tax Advisors, section 7 http://www.kwt.or.at/PortalData/1/Resources/aab/AAB_2018_de.pdf GRI 2016: 102-56 118 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Abbreviations A E I M Abs. Absolute EITI Extractive Industries Transparency IAM Identity and Access Management m2 square meter ACWI All Country World Index ­Initiative ICPT Institute for Research and Technological m3 cubic meter AIRR Action Item Response Rate EMAS Eco Management and Audit Scheme Design MAE Major Accident Event ARMS Active Risk Manager System EMS Environmental Management System IDW Institute of Public Auditors in Germany mg/kg milligram per kilogram ATX Austrian Traded Index EOR Enhanced Oil Recovery IEA International Energy Agency mn million EO/MEG ethylene oxide/ IEC International Electrotechnical Commission MTF Montfort Trimble Foundation B monoethylene glycol IGD Integrated Graduate Development MUL Montanuniversität Leoben BES biodiversity and ecosystem services EU European Union ILO International Labour Organization MW megawatt bn billion EU ETS EU Emissions Trading System IMS Integrated Management System MWh megawatt hour boe barrel oil equivalent EUR euro IOGP International Association of Oil & Gas boe/d barrel oil equivalent per day ERA Environmental Risk Assessment Producers N ESG Environmental, Social, and Governance IoT Internet of Things NaDiVeg Austrian Sustainability and C EWRM Enterprise-Wide Risk Management IPIECA Oil and Gas Industry Association for ­Diversity Improvement Act °C degree Celsius Environment and Social Issues NGO non-governmental organization CCPP combined cycle power plant F ISCC International Sustainability & Carbon NIS network and information security CDP Carbon Disclosure Project FAME fatty acid methyl ester Certification NIST National Institute of Standards and CEE Central and Eastern Europe FX foreign exchange ISO International Organization for Technology CEO Chief Executive Officer ­Standardization N2O nitrous oxide CFO Chief Financial Officer G IT information technology NM-VOC non-methane volatile organic CFPP cold filter plugging point G2P gas to power ­compound CGM Community Grievance Mechanism GHG greenhouse gas J NOC National Oil Corporation CH4 methane GmbH Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung JPT Joint Project Team NOx nitrogen oxide CHP combined heat and power/cogeneration GJ gigajoule NP New Policies C-IMS Central Integrated Management System GRI Global Reporting Initiative K NPO non-profit organization CLP Classification, Labeling, and Packaging GWh gigawatt hour kboe/d 1,000 barrel oil equivalent per day n.r. not reported of substances and mixtures GWT Global Water Tool kg kilogram CMF Corrosion Management Framework kg/h kilogram per hour O CNG compressed natural gas H KPI Key Performance Indicator OCIMF Oil Companies International Marine COBIT Control Objectives for Information H2 hydrogen kt kilotonnes Forum and Related Technology HAZOP Hazard and Operability kW kilowatt OECD Organization for Economic CO2 carbon dioxide HiPos High-Potential Incidents ­Co-­operation and Development CSR Corporate Social Responsibility HR Human Resources L OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer HSSE Health, Safety, Security, and LMRA Last-Minute Risk Analysis OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety D ­Environment LNG liquefied natural gas Assessment Standard DAX German Stock Index HVO hydrotreated vegetable oil LOPC loss of primary containment OPEX operating expenses DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Index LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan OT operational technology LTIR Lost-Time Injury Rate 119 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Abbreviations P U PC personal computer UK United Kingdom PEC Production enhancement contracts UN United Nations PJ petajoule PVC polyvinyl chloride V VAM vinyl acetate monomer Q VAT value added tax QR quick response W R WEO World Energy Outlook R&D Research and Development WRF Water Risk Filter REACH Registration, Evaluation, WRI World Resources Institute and Authorisation of Chemicals ROACE return on average capital employed S S.A. Societate pe Acțiuni SAP Systems, Applications, and Products in Data Processing SDG Sustainable Development Goal SIA Social Impact Assessment SMS Security Management System SO2 sulfur dioxide SRI Socially Responsible Investment S.R.L. Societate cu răspundere limitată S&P Standard & Poor’s T toe ton of oil equivalent t ton TCFD Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures TMSA Tanker Management and Self-Assessment TJ terajoule TRIR Total Recordable Injury Rate TW terawatt TWh terawatt hour 120 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Definitions GHG Scope 1 Direct emissions from operaff A pressure relief device (PRD) discharge ff A pressure relief device (PRD) discharge Lost-time injuries are any occupational injutions that are owned or controlled by the to atmosphere whether directly or via a to atmosphere whether directly or via a ries resulting in fatalities, permanent total organization downstream destructive device that downstream destructive device that disabilities and lost workday cases, but results in one or more of the following results in one or more of the following excluding restricted work cases and medical GHG Scope 2 Energy indirect emissions four consequences: four consequences: treatment cases. resulting from the generation of purchased Liquid carryover Liquid carryover or acquired electricity, heating, cooling or Discharge to a potentially unsafe Discharge to a potentially unsafe Total recordable injuries are any injuries steam location ­location resulting in fatalities, permanent total disAn onsite shelter-in-place An onsite shelter-in-place abilities, lost workday cases, restricted work GHG Scope 3 Other indirect emissions that Public protective measures (e.g. road Public protective measures (eg.: road cases and medical treatment cases. occur outside the organization, including closure) and a PRD discharge quantity closure) and a PRD discharge quantity both Upstream and Downstream emissions greater than the established threshgreater than the established threshold old quantities in any one hour quantities in any one hour Tier 1 Process Safety Event (PSE) is a loss of primary containment (LOPC) with the greatest ff A release of material greater than the ff A release of material greater than the consequence. A Tier 1 PSE is an unplanned or established threshold quantities in any established threshold quantities in any uncontrolled release of any material, includone hour. one hour. ing non-toxic and non-flammable materials (e.g.: steam, hot condensate, nitrogen, compressed CO2 or compressed air), from a proTier 2 Process Safety Event (PSE) is a loss of Tier 3 Process Safety Event (PSE) indicator cess that results in one or more of the conseprimary containment (LOPC) with lesser conrecords an operational situation, typically quences listed below: sequence. A Tier 2 PSE is an unplanned or considered a“near miss” which has chaluncontrolled release of any material, includlenged the safety system by progressing ff An employee, contractor or subcontractor ing non-toxic and non-flammable materials through one or more barrier weaknesses to days away from work injury and/or (e.g.: steam, hot condensate, nitrogen, comresult in an event or condition with: fatality; pressed CO2 or compressed air), from a process that results in one or more of the conff Consequence that do not meet the criteria ff A hospital admission and/or fatality of a sequences listed below and is not reported for a reportable Tier 1 or Tier 2 event; or third-party in Tier 1: ff No actual consequences, but the ff An officially declared community ff An employee, contractor or subcontractor recognition that in other circumstances evacuation or community shelter-in-place recordable injury; further barriers could have been breached and a Tier 1 or Tier 2 event could have ff A fire or explosion resulting in a greater ff A fire or explosion resulting in a greater happened. than or equal to 25,000 $ of direct cost to than or equal to 2,500 $ of direct cost to the Company the Company 121 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Memberships OMV Group ff A3PS – Austrian Association for Advanced ff ATTC – Austrian Traffic Telematics Cluster ffCertifHy – Gurantee of Origin scheme for ffEPL – European Petrochemical Luncheon Propulsion Systems ff Austrian Association for Research and Green Hydrogen International Association ff AACE – American Association of Cost Innovation ffChamber of Commerce of Slovenia ffESANZ – Energy Skills Association of ­ Engineers ff Austrian Business Council Dubai & The ffChemDelta Bavaria New Zealand ff ADVANTAGE AUSTRIA (WKÖ) Northern Emirates ffChemie-Cluster Bayern ffETN – European Turbine Network ff AEA – Austrian Energy Agency ff Austrian WPC National Committee ffCIFRA – Centre for Integrated Remote ffEuroilstock ff AEB – Association of European ff Austro-Hungarian Business Council Sensing and Forecasting for Arctic ffEuropean Petroleum Refiners Association ­Businesses ff Autorità dell’Energia Elettrica e Gas ­Operations ffFGW – Austrian Association of Gas and ff AHK – Chambre Tuniso-Allemande ­ ­(obligatory membership) ffCIRA – Cercle Investor Relations Austria District Heating Supply Companies de l’Industrie et du Commerce ff BaSEC – Barents Sea Exploration ffCOHRS – Connecting Hydrogen Refuelling ffForum “Technology and Society” of the ff AIPN – Association of International ­Collaboration Stations Technical University Graz ­Petroleum Negotiators ff BaSMIN – Barents Sea Metocean and Ice ffCONCAWE – Conservation of Clean Air ffFuelsEurope – European Petroleum ff aireg – Aviation Initiative for Renewable Network and Water in Europe ­Industry Association Energy in Germany ff BBS – Bundesverband Behälterschutz / ffDEAe – European Drilling Engineering ffFVMI – Austrian Association of the ff Aktienforum Gütegemeinschaft Tankschutz & Tank­ Association ­Petroleum Industry ff AmCham Moldova – American Chamber technik ffCTNCI – Chambre Tuniso-Néerlandaise ffGas Shipper Committee Italy of Commerce in Moldova ff BDEW – German Association of Energy pour le Commerce et l’Industrie ffGeological Society ff AmCham Russia – American Chamber of and Water Industries ffDeutscher Franchiseverband e.V. ffGIE – Gas Infrastructure Europe Commerce in Russia ff BTG – Bundesverband Tankstellen und ffDGMK – German Society for Petroleum ffGMN – Geopressure Management ff APPAM – Association Professionnelle des Gewerbliche Autowäsche Deutschland e.V. and Coal Science and Technology ­Network Pétroliers Amont de Madagascar ff Business Leaders’ Health and Safety ffDrilling Technical College Celle ffGPA – Gas Processors Association Europe ff APPEA – Australian Petroleum Production Forum ffEAP – Oil & Gas Industry Energy Access ffGSV – Austrian Association for Transport and Exploration Association ff BVEG – German Association of Natural Platform and Infrastructure ff ARCEx – Research Centre for Arctic Gas, Crude Oil, and Geothermal Energy ffEASEE-gas ffGTUsers.com ­Petroleum Exploration ff BVÖ – Miners’ Association Austria ffEBIS – European Barge Inspection ff ARERA – Autorità di Regolazione per ff ČAPPO – Czech Association of Petroleum Scheme Energia Reti e Ambiente Industry and Trade ffEBV – German National Petroleum (obligatory membership) ff CDG – Christian Doppler Research Stockpiling Agency ff ARGE E-CERT ­Association ffEEF – European Energy Forum ff ASI – Austrian Standards International ff CEDIGAZ – International Association for ffEFET – European Federation of Energy ff Asociația Furnizorilor de Energie Electrică Natural Gas Traders (EFET din România ff CEP – Clean Energy Partnership ffENTSO-G – European Network of ­Transmission System Operators for Gas GRI 2016: 102-13 122 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Memberships ff H2 MOBILITY ff MHVÖ – Association to maintain cultural ffPWRI OPNet – Produced Water WIVA P&G – Hydrogen Initiative Model ff ff HR Innovation Roundtable assets of the Austrian mining industry Re-Injection Operational Network Region Austria Power & Gas ff Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and ff MSZKSZ – Hungarian Hydrocarbon ffRussian Gas Society WKÖ – Austrian Federal Economic ff Industry (obligatory membership) ­Stockpiling Association ffRussian-German Chamber of Commerce ­Chamber (obligatory membership) ff Hungarian Energy Traders’ Association ff MWV – Association of the German ffSAPPO – Slovak Association of Petroleum ffWorld Energy Council Austria ff HyCentA ­Petroleum Industry Industry and Trade ffZukunft ERDGAS e.V. (member via CEGH) ff Hydrogen Mobility Europe ff NAMUR – User Association of Automation SNNK-WPC – Slovenian National ff ffWorld Energy Council Germany ff IADC – International Association of Technology in Process Industries Committee of the World Petroleum Council ffZDS – Association of Employers of Slovenia ­Drilling Contractors ff Norwegian Oil and Gas Association Society of Petroleum Engineers ff ff IATA – International Air Transport ff NUMOV – German Near and Middle East Solomon Associates ff ­Association Association Task Force Bio-Diesel of the Austrian ff ff IBC – International Business Congress ff OCIMF – Oil Companies International Association of the Chemical Industry ff IFP – Énergies nouvelles Marine Forum Technology Management Network ff ff IFSF – International Forecourt Standards ff ÖGEW – Austrian Society of Petroleum The Hugo Group ff Forum Sciences TÜV AUSTRIA ff ff IGU International Gas Union ff ÖGG – Austrian Society for Geomechanics TÜV SÜD ff ff IHK Düsseldorf ff ÖGOR – Institute for Stochastics and United Nations Global Compact ff ff INES – Association of natural gas storage ­Mathematical Economics United Nations Global Compact Network ff operators in German IOGP – International ff Oil and Gas Industry Council Austria Association of ff Oil Companies Association SRB UNITI – Federal Association of Mediumff Oil & Gas Producers ff OSRL – Oil Spill Response Limited Sized Mineral Oil Companies ff IPA – Independent Project Analysis ff ÖVGW – Austrian Association for Gas and VCI – German Association of the Chemical ff ff IPIECA – International Petroleum Industry Water Industry Environmental Conservation Association ff PAF – Petroleum Advisory Forum VGB PowerTech ff ff IV – Federation of Austrian Industries ff PEA – Production Engineering Association wiiw – The Vienna Institute for ff ff IWO – Austrian Institute of Heat and Oil ff PEPANZ – Petroleum Exploration & ­International Economic Studies (wiiw) Technology ­Production Association New Zealand ffVienna Airport Region Association ff KWS – Powertech Training Center Essen ff Petro Arctic ffVNL – Association for Network Logistics ff MÁSZ – Hungarian Petroleum Association ff PPDM – Professional Petroleum Data ffVPI – Austrian Assocoation of Private ff MCG – BusinessNZ’s Major Companies Management Association Wagon Keepers Group, New Zealand ff PRVA – Public Relations Association ffWIFO – Austrian Institute of Economic ­Austria Research GRI 2016: 102-13 123 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION GRI Content Index Reporting boundaries HSSE data from operations under ff Joint ventures, including minority ff Filling stations, due to the fact that the The data is consolidated at Group level. ­management control have been fully taken shareholdings, where OMV exerts vast majority of them are operated by into account, i.e. data from all OMV Group controlling influence as operator, for partners functioning as independent Indicators marked with (X) were assured by activities with a stake of more than 50%, in example, Upstream operations in Pakistan companies, except filling stations under independent assurance company. particular: the control of OMV Petrom Marketing that Occupational workplace incident data for all meet the above-mentioned boundary Indicators of material topics marked with (F) ff OMV Petrom S.A. where OMV holds 51% contractors (including subcontractors and all criteria are fully reported, whereas indicators not of the shares lower tier subcontractors) under managemarked with (F) are partially reported. ment control (i.e., data from all OMV Group Greenhouse Gas Scope 3 emissions include ff OMV Petrol Ofisi A.S. (data coverage until activities with a stake of more than 50%) the following categories: For more details, see the Assurance Statethe divestment on June 13, 2017) have been fully taken into account. ment on pages 117-118 of this OMV Sustainff GHG emissions from processing and use ability Report. ff Retail Business (all retail brands of OMV, Contractor and subcontractor workplace of sold products: These include total sales OMV Petrom and OMV Petrol Ofisi) incident data at joint ventures, including amounts from companies that are under minority shareholdings, where OMV exerts operational or financial control by OMV ff Upstream OMV operated countries: controlling influence as an operator is and include oil product sales at filling Austria, Kazakhstan, Tunisia, Yemen, New reported. stations undertaken in the name of OMV. Zealand, Norway, United Arab Emirates, Pakistan1, Romania (OMV Petrom) The following data has not been taken into ff Only sales to the market/customer are account for environmental data in this included. Pure “trading margin” sales as ff Refineries Schwechat, Burghausen and report: well as intercompany sales are excluded. Petrobrazi; including transport and storage facilities ff Figures from holdings of 50% or less if ff Since 2015, Scope 3 emissions from there is no significant operational purchased goods and services and capital ff Gas logistics (transit and storage in influence goods are included. Austria and Romania) ff Office buildings in European countries of ff Since 2018 feedstock for refineries is ff Downstream Gas – power plants in OMV Downstream’s Marketing Divisions included in Scope 3 Romania (Brazi & Petrom City) and Turkey (except Austria, Romania, and Turkey) as (Samsun)2 well as of non-operative Upstream All grievances disclosed in the OMV Sustaincountries ability Report 2018 were received in the OMV ff Production enhancement contracts (PECs) Upstream-operated countries and in the for small fields with partners in Romania three OMV refineries (Burghausen in Germany, Schwechat in Austria, and Petrobrazi in Romania). 1 The Upstream business in Pakistan was divested on June 28, 2018. 2 OMV divested the Samsun power plant in Turkey on September 6, 2018. GRI 2016: 102-46 124 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION GRI Content Index Omission Page number(s), URL(s), Part Expla­ GRI Standard Disclosure or direct answer omitted Reason nation UNGC GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Organizational profile (F) 102-1 Name of the organization 1 (F) 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 8, 9, 10 (F) 102-3 Location of headquarters 1, 132 (F) 102-4 Location of operations 9, 10 (F) 102-5 Ownership and legal form 6, Annual Report p. 38 (F) 102-6 Markets served 9, 10 (F) 102-7 Scale of the organization 7, 9, 10, 99, 107, 108, Annual Report pp. 57-65 (F) 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 108, Annual Report pp. 55-200. A substantial part 6 of our work is performed by contractors. (F) 102-9 Supply chain 8, 83, 84, 85 (F) 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 8-10 (F) 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 12-14, 15, 18, 24, 33, 38, 40, 41 (F) 102-12 External initiatives 1, 17, 27, 29, 33, 34, 35, 37, 42, 43, 44, 47, 48, 49, 54, 57, 66, 74, 75, 76, 78, 79, 82, 86, 87, 88 (F) 102-13 Membership of associations 122-123 Strategy (F) 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 3-4, 5 (F) 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 18, 38, 47, Annual Report: Risk Management Ethics and integrity (F) 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 6, 11, 66, 67, 74, 75, OMV Code of Business 10 Ethics states OMV does not support political parties. Donations to political parties are not allowed. www.omv.com/Sustainability (F) 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 75, 76 10 Governance (F) 102-18 Governance structure 15-16, 48, 51 (F) 102-19 Delegating authority 15-16 (F) 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 15-16, 4, Annual Report p. 77, 79, 85-86 (F) 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 96-98 (F) 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Annual Report pp. 83-102 (F) 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Annual Report pp. 83-102 (F) 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Annual Report pp. 83-102 (F) 102-25 Conflicts of interest Annual Report pp. 83-102 GRI 2016: 102-55 125 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION GRI Content Index Omission Page number(s), URL(s), Part Expla­ GRI Standard Disclosure or direct answer omitted Reason nation UNGC GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 (F) 102-26 Role of highest gove rnance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 15-16 (F) 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 15-16 (F) 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body´s performance 16 (F) 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 15-16, 18, 20, 96-98 (F) 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 15-16, 18, Annual Report pp. 77-79 (F) 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 15-16, Annual Report pp. 49-52 (F) 102-32 Highest governance body´s role in sustainability reporting 15-16 (F) 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 15-16 (F) 102-35 Remuneration policies 16, Annual Report pp. 87-100 (F) 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 16, Annual Report pp. 87-100 Stakeholder engagement (F) 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 19, 96-98 (F) 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 67, 109 3 (F) 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Materiality Identification Process, www.omv.com/sustainability (F) 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 96-98 (F) 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 96-98 Reporting practice (F) 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Annual Report pp. 205-213 (F) 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 1, 75, 87, 124 (F) 102-47 List of material topics 21 (F) 102-48 Restatements of information All changes relative to previous years’ reported data or information have been indicated where relevant, with appropriate explanations provided. (F) 102-49 Changes in reporting There are no significant changes in material topics or topic Boundaries (F) 102-50 Reporting period 1 (F) 102-51 Date of most recent report 2017 (F) 102-52 Reporting cycle annual (F) 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 132 (F) 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 1 (F) 102-55 GRI content index 125-131 (F) 102-56 External assurance 117-118 GRI 2016: 102-55 126 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION GRI Content Index Omission Page number(s), URL(s), Part Expla­ GRI Standard Disclosure or direct answer omitted Reason nation UNGC Material Topics and Other Topics GRI 200 Economic Standard Series Supply Chain (Procurement Practices) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (F) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 84 (F) 103-2 The management approach and its components 83, 84 (F) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 83, 84 OG1 Sector Supplement Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and production 8 GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 (F) 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 85, 204-1-b: Local suppliers are defined as national suppliers, active in the countries where OMV has operations; 204-1-c: Significant locations of operation are all the locations where OMV is the main operator GRI 308: Supplier Environmental (F) 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 84 8 Assessment 2016 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 84 8 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment (F) 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 84 2 2016 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 84 Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption (Anti-Corruption) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (F) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 75, 76 (F) 103-2 The management approach and its components 75, 76 (F) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 76 GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 76, 77 10 (F) 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 77 10 (F) 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 77 10 GRI 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior (F) 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 77 2016 GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series Energy Efficiency (Energy) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (F) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 38, 39 (F) 103-2 The management approach and its components 37, 38, 39 (F) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 37, 38, 39 GRI 302: Energy 2016 (F) 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 39 7, 8 (F) 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 39, 103 8, 9 GRI 2016: 102-55 127 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION GRI Content Index Omission Page number(s), URL(s), Part Expla­ GRI Standard Disclosure or direct answer omitted Reason nation UNGC Water Management (Water) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (F) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 41 (F) 103-2 The management approach and its components 37, 41, 42 (F) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 37, 42 GRI 303: Water 2018 (F) 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 41, 43, 103 7, 8 (F) 303-2 Management of water-discharge-related impacts 43 8 (F) 303-3 Water withdrawal 48, 104, 105 8 303-4 Water discharge 105 (F) 303-5 Water consumption 105 OG5 Sector Supplement Volume and disposal of formation or produced water 48, 105 Emissions from Operations (Emissions) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (F) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 48 (F) 103-2 The management approach and its components 37, 48, 49 (F) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 37, 49 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 (F) 305-1 (X) Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 49, 103 7, 8 (F) 305-2 (X) Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 51, 103 7, 8 (F) 305-3 (X) Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 51, 103 7, 8 (F) 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 51, 107 8 (F) 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 50, 51, 103 8, 9 (F) 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 103 7, 8 (F) 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions 103 7, 8 OG6 Sector Supplement (F) Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon 104 Spills Management (Effluents) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (F) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 40 (F) 103-2 The management approach and its components 37, 40, 41 (F) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 37, 40, 41 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 (F) 306-3 (X) Significant spills 41 8 GRI 2016: 102-55 128 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION GRI Content Index Omission Page number(s), URL(s), Part Expla­ GRI Standard Disclosure or direct answer omitted Reason nation UNGC Environmental Compliance (Environmental Compliance) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (F) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 38 (F) 103-2 The management approach and its components 37, 38 (F) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 37, 38 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance (F) 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 100 8 2016 GRI 400 Social Standards Series Employment and Skills Development (Employment; Labor/Management Relations; Training and Education) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (F) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 66, 68, 70, 71, 73 (F) 103-2 The management approach and its components 66, 68, 70, 71, 73 (F) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 66, 67, 68, 70-73 GRI 401: Employment 2016 (F) 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 110-112 6 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 71, 401-2-b: Significant locations of operation are all the locations where OMV is the main or part-time employees operator. 401-3 Parental leave 114 6 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 (F) 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 112 6 (F) 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 73 6 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 71 6 development reviews Health, Safety, and Security (Occupational Health and Safety) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (F) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 25, 34, 35 (F) 103-2 The management approach and its components 25, 26, 34, 36 (F) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 26, 31, 34, 36 GRI 403: Occupational Health and (F) 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 27, 29, 32 Safety 2018 (F) 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 29 (F) 403-3 Occupational health services 28, 30 (F) 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health 28, 30 and safety (F) 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 30 (F) 403-6 Promotion of worker health 27, 28 (F) 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly 30 linked by business relationships (F) 403-9 (X) Work-related injuries 31, 101, 102, 403-9-c-ii: major hazards as causes of injuries are: slip, trip, fall; extreme temperature; explosion fire; fall from height; OG13 Sector Supplement Number of process safety events, by business activity 33, 102 GRI 2016: 102-55 129 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION GRI Content Index Omission Page number(s), URL(s), Part Expla­ GRI Standard Disclosure or direct answer omitted Reason nation UNGC Human Rigths (Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining; Child Labor; Forced or Compulsory Labor; Rights of Indigenous Peoples; Human Rights Assessment) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (F) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 79, 80 (F) 103-2 The management approach and its components 80, 81 (F) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 81 GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 80 5 GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or 80 4 2016 compulsory labor GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples (F) 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples 80, 81 1 2016 GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment (F) 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 81 1 2016 assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 82 1 Local Communities (Local Communities) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (F) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 86 (F) 103-2 The management approach and its components 86, 87 (F) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 87 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 (F) 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 86, 89-94 1 development programs 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local 86 1 communities OG10 Sector Supplement Number and description of significant disputes with local communities 87 and indigenous peoples OG11 Sector Supplement Number of sites that have been decommissioned and sites that are in the 45 process of being decommissioned GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions OMV Code of Business Ethics states OMV does 10 not support political parties. Donations to political parties are not allowed. www.omv.com/Sustainability; Compliance with Principles of Business Ethics GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance (F) 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 100 2016 Low-Carbon Products GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (F) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 51 (F) 103-2 The management approach and its components 51, 52, 53, 54 (F) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 (F) 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 47 7 OG14 Sector Supplement (F) Volume of biofuels produced and purchased meeting sustainability criteria 55 GRI 2016: 102-55 130 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION GRI Content Index Omission Page number(s), URL(s), Part Expla­ GRI Standard Disclosure or direct answer omitted Reason nation UNGC Innovation GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (F) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 57-63 (F) 103-2 The management approach and its components 57-64 (F) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 60 OG3 Sector Supplment Total amount of renewable energy generated by source 54 Other GRI Indicators GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 99, 100 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 100 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 45, 106 8 OG11 Sector Supplement Number of sites that have been decommissioned and sites that are in the process of 45 being decommissioned GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 44 8 OG4 Sector Supplement Number and percentage of significant operating sites in which biodiversity risk has 44 been assessed and monitored GRI 405: Diversity 2016 (F) 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 68-69, 108, 113, 115 6 GRI 2016: 102-55 131 OVERVIEW MATERIAL FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL FURTHER INFORMATION Contacts and Imprint OMV Aktiengesellschaft OMV Social Media Channels Mobile Applications Disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements Trabrennstrasse 6 -8 This report contains forward-looking statements. 1020 Vienna, Austria Please find here a list with OMV Station Finder App ­Forward-looking statements usually may be identified by the Tel. +43 1 40440-0 the official OMV social media www.omv.com/products/ use of terms such as “outlook,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticiinfo@omv.com omv-stationfinderapp pate,” “intend,” “plan,” “target,” “objective,” “estimate,” “goal,” www.omv.com presences. We look forward “may,” “will”, and similar terms, or by their context. These to welcoming you onto these OMV Investor Relations App forward-looking statements are based on beliefs, estimates, pages. www.omv.com/investors/app and assumptions currently held by and information currently Sustainability & Reporting available to OMV. By their nature, forward-looking statements Bernhard Heneis are subject to risks and uncertainties, both known and unOMV Aktiengesellschaft Blog Further Publications known, because they relate to events and depend on circumTrabrennstrasse 6 8 blog.omv.com stances that will or may occur in the future and are outside 1020 Vienna, Austria OMV Factbook the control of OMV. Consequently, the actual results may Tel. +43 1 40440-21746 Twitter www.omv.com/factbook differ materially from those expressed or implied by the info.sustainability@omv.com www.twitter.com/omv ­forward-looking statements. Therefore, recipients of this OMV Annual Report ­report are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these YouTube www.omv.com/annual-report ­forward-looking statements. Neither OMV nor any other perPublisher www.youtube.com/omv son assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeOMV Aktiengesellschaft, Vienna ness of any of the forward-looking statements contained in LinkedIn this report. OMV disclaims any obligation and does not intend www.linkedin.com/company/omv to update these forward-looking statements to reflect actual Concept and Design results, revised assumptions and expectations, and future The Gentlemen Creatives, Vienna XING developments and events. This report does not contain any www.xing.com/companies/omv recommendation or invitation to buy or sell securities in OMV. Photos Whatchado OMV archive www.whatchado.com/en/omv Page 46, 53: Getty Images Page 53: Adobe Stock Facebook Page 54: Copyright SMATRICS www.facebook.com/OMV Instagram www.instagram.com/omv GRI 2016: 102-3, 102-53 132
