HASCOL PETROLEUM LIMITED COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 May 2019 HASCOL Petroleum Limited MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Following several years of explosive growth by the Company, 2018 was a year of consolidation and focus on completion of our Capital Projects. Today, HASCOL has its presence in all provinces of Pakistan, having constructed an extensive infrastructure of 11 Depots and Terminals, including the largest Petroleum Terminal in Pakistan at Port Qasim. Our Retail Network has expanded to 600 outlets and we are targeting to grow at 100 new retail outlets per year, at least for the next three years. Our strategy of transforming HASCOL from an Oil Marketing Company to an Integrated Energy Company has led us into new business streams, including Liquefied Petroleum Gas, Lubricants, Chemicals and Aviation Fuels. In addition, we are evaluating other avenues. We now also have our own Transport Fleet to ensure a reliable supply chain for our customers, all the way from the port to the nozzle. In recent months, the Pakistan economy and our market is facing a slowdown due to which demand for petroleum products has decreased quite substantially. However, our competent HASCOL team is showing tremendous resilience and application. We are making efforts to not only maintain the Company’s market share and margins but also do so in accordance with our Core Values and the UNGC Principles. I am pleased to present the 2nd UNGC Communication on Progress Report. UNGC’s Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption are congruent to our beliefs and we are making all possible efforts to incorporate them and visibly practice them fully. ____________________ Saleem Butt Chief Executive Officer HASCOL Petroleum Limited MANAGEMENT TEAM Mr. Muhammad Ali Ansari (Chief Mr. Aqeel Ahmed Khan (Chief Mr. Aamir Butt (Chief Operating Mr. Shah M. Saad Husain Operating Officer), has been Operating Officer), has 17 years’ Officer: Logistics and LPG), has 22 (Chief HR, Corporate associated with HASCOL since 2009 experience in Petroleum Supply years diversified experience in Fuel Planning, HSE and Security), Chain, Sales and Marketing, Supply Chain. He started his has an illustrious career and has 10 years of experience. He Operations, Commercial and professional career with Chevron spanning 41 years in is heading the Finance, IT and Business Development. Before Pakistan Limited (formerly Caltex leading companies. Prior to Commercial functions of the joining HASCOL, he was associated Oil (Pakistan) Limited) in 1996 and joining HASCOL he was GM Company and plays and important with Attock Petroleum Limited served in both domestic and HR & Corporate Affairs in role in the financial packaging of projects. where he was instrumental in securing various international assignments. Before joining PARCO, GM in British Petroleum, GM in BHP Commercial contracts, development of HASCOL, he was also the Secretary General of and Director Marketing/HR/ Corporate Storages, Retail Network and strengthening Oil Companies Advisory Council. Planning in Toyota Indus Motors Co. Supply Chain function. Mr. Pervez Yusoof (Chief Supply and Mr. Shameem Raza Naqvi (Chief Mr. Taimur Khan (Chief LNG, Dr. S. Nazir Zaidi (Chief Imports), has been involved for Operations), has over 38 years’ Chemicals and New Ventures), has Special Projects), is a senior more than 40 years in the experience in the Petroleum 20 years’ experience and was Petroleum professional with downstream sector of Petroleum industry. Before joining HASCOL, employed in senior positions in over 33 years’ experience in industry in various capacities. Prior he was associated with PRL for 30 Royal Dutch Shell in its LNG, Gas the Petroleum to joining HASCOL, he was years in various capacities Exploration, Production and Supply, Industry. Before joining Secretary General at Oil Companies overseeing Plant Operations Lubricants and Fuels. He has also HASCOL, he was Senior Advisory Committee (OCAC). At HASCOL, he is optimization, Procurement, Supply Chain and worked with Sempra Energy as General Manager (International responsible for planning and procuring fuel for Commercial. At HASCOL, he is responsible for Project Development Manager – LNG, in Marketing) at PSO. He also held the the company through imports and local the execution of new Projects. Citigroup as Vice President Strategic Initiatives position of Secretary General, Oil refineries. and in consulting firms in the US. Companies and Advisory Committee. Mr. Sarwat Hasan (Chief Mr. Zafar ul Haq Munshi (Chief Brig. Zaheeruddin Babur (Chief Mr. Zeeshan Ul Haq (General Engineering), has 34 years’ Retail Development) is amongst Maintenance), has had an eminent Manager Legal & Company experience in construction and the senior most employees in the career in Pakistan Army for 29 years Secretary) has over 15 years’ development of Depots, Oil Company having been associated in the Corp of Engineers holding experience of Corporate and Installations and Retail Outlets all with HASCOL for over 12 years. He various positions, including Legal Affairs. Prior to joining over Pakistan. He has been with worked in the oil industry for Additional Chief Engineer, Director HASCOL, he worked for Byco HASCOL since November 2006 and around 24 years with extensive Logistics, Director GHQ Housing Petroleum Pakistan Limited, is playing a vital role in the successful experience in the development of Retail Directorate, etc. His last assignment was CEO Pakistan Stock Exchange Limited, completion of HASCOL’s major projects Outlets, Sales and Marketing. Previously, he of Army Welfare Trust, Real Estate and Central Depository Company of including the installations at Shikarpur, was employed in the Retail function at Shell Development Unit. Pakistan Limited and Karachi Machike, Daulatpur and Keamari. Pakistan Limited. International Container Terminal Limited. Our PEOPLE – THE HASCOL TEAM Our Sustainable Competitive Advantage. HASCOL Petroleum Limited HASCOL PETROLEUM LIMITED HASCOL Petroleum Limited is engaged in the purchase, storage and sale of petroleum products including High Speed Diesel, Gasoline, Fuel Oil, Lubricants, LPG, Chemicals, Aviation Fuel and Automobile accessories. The Company is also diversifying into other fuels and business streams. In 2005, HASCOL was granted an Oil Marketing License by the Government of Pakistan. Since then, HASCOL has developed Depots, Terminals and Installations, and a network of 600 Retail Outlets all across Pakistan including Azad Kashmir. HASCOL has extensive links with domestic and international oil trading companies and today, it is the second largest importer of petroleum products in Pakistan. In 2014, HASCOL became a listed company on the Pakistan Stock Exchange, and within 3 years, it’s phenomenal performance and potential has been made possible due to the strategic Vision of the Board, a dynamic Management Team, an aggressive Corporate Plan, the untiring efforts of its Human Capital, the focus on Customer Satisfaction, and the Company’s Reputation as a Good Corporate Citizen. HASCOL has terminals and storage installations at Keamari, Daulatpur, Shikarpur, Mehmood Kot, Machike, Amangarh, Sahiwal, Port Qasim, Kotlajam, Thalian and Hub. HASCOL Petroleum Limited In 2016, VITOL, the largest independent oil trading entity in the world, acquired 15% equity in HASCOL which was later increased to 27.46% making VITOL the single largest shareholder in the Company. In joint venture with VITOL, HASCOL has also set up an LNG marketing company, VAS LNG (PVT) LTD. HASCOL will have a 30% stake in this company and VITOL 70%. HASCOL has also signed a Technical Services Agreement with VITOL Aviation enabling HASCOL to start fueling aircrafts at Karachi, Lahore and Islamabad airports. Additionally, a separate joint venture company with VITOL, HASCOL Terminals Limited (HTL) has constructed one of the largest Petroleum Terminals in Pakistan at Port Qasim, having a capacity of 197,000 Metric Tons. Phase I of this terminal was commissioned in March 2019. A Lubricants Plant to manufacture lubricants, has also been constructed at Port Qasim which will commence production in 2019. HASCOL was conferred the 1st Prize amongst Multinationals in Pakistan at the United Nations Global Compact Best Practices Sustainability Award and 3rd Prize amongst Large National Companies in Pakistan for Best HR Practices 2018 by the Employers Federation of Pakistan (EFP). HASCOL Petroleum Limited PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights. Commitment Statement: HASCOL respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights including Equal Employment Opportunity without any discrimination of religion, sex, race, color, ethnicity, origin, nationality, marital status or social class. This commitment is embedded in the Company’s Values, Code of Conduct, HR Policy Manual, HSSE Manual and CSR Policy approved by the Board of Directors. Management Systems 1.3 CSR Policy 1.1 HR Management and Administration Human Resource Policy Manual 1.2 HSSE Integrated HSSE Manual Actions 1.1.1 Education 1.1.2 Health Facilities 1.2.1 Work and Road Safety 1.3.1 Corporate Philanthropy Results  The HR Policy Manual, approved by the Board of  There is a specific section in the HR Policy Manual  Health, Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) is  HASCOL considers itself as Responsible Directors, contains a specific section on the on Health Insurance Policy, according to which crucial for HASCOL’s Operations. Employees Corporate Citizen of the Society. We provide Employee Development Policy which aims at employees are entitled for Out Patient Medical working on Depots/Installations/Terminals resources, knowledge and skills to the providing Learning and Development opportunities facilities, Hospitalization and Maternity expenses. operate in a hazardous communities located near our to the employees for developing and enhancing environment on daily Depots/Installations and which intersect with  All permanent employees on joining the Company their Core Professional as well as Managerial basis. our business. are entitled to 48 basic salaries as Group Life competencies; thereby ensuring a pipeline of  An Integrated HSSE  UNGC Principles are embedded in the Vision, Insurance competent Human Talent for meeting the growth Manual is in place to Mission and Core Values of the organization so needs of the Company.  Female employees are entitled to 90 days of ensure that all as to ensure that employees demonstrate Maternity Leaves and Male employees are employees, responsible conduct throughout the entire  A comprehensive Training Process is present in the provided with 3 days of Paternity Leaves contractors, suppliers spectrum of Company activities, Operations, organization, and service providers Plants and Retail Outlets. comprising of:  Employees are entitled to the best quality health working at the  CSR Committee is a high level forum comprising Training Needs care through pre-approved Hospitals, Pharmacies, Company’s sites or of the Chairman, CEO, a Director and Chief HR Assessment Laboratories, etc. locations or using the Company’s assets or Officer. (TNA) to identify transporting, handling or selling Company’s  During 2018, HASCOL contributed to the specific  The Company has a Pay Continuation Policy to products are complying with applicable HSE following organizations: Employee needs, Management Development support families of employees in case of death or standards, policies and procedures. Program (MDP) a structured framework for total permanent disability due to accident or HASCOL sponsored a improving employees’ Managerial, Core illness. To save families from financial hardship, the  Each work location has Safety Rules and Signages Braille Box to Pakistan Professional and HSE related competencies and a employee’s last drawn monthly basic salary will be that must be followed. Association of the Blind Training Calendar encompassing the various paid for 24 months after such death or disability.  The HSE Site (Sindh). This Braille Box, trainings planned for the year. Officers and acquired from Sweden, Installation prints Braille Books in a Managers are cost-effective way as it responsible to is a double-sided ensure that printer and embosses on both sides of the workers of the Company as well as its sheet. The printing is done at a high speed and Contractors use Personal Protective Equipment is more durable. The high resolution prints (PPE) and comply with Standard Operating enable Blind children to grasp the textured Procedures, Work Permits, HSSE requirements, graphics conveniently. etc. HASCOL Petroleum Limited Management Systems 1.3 Corporate Social Responsibility CSR 1.1 HR Management and Administration Human Resource Policy Manual 1.2 HSSE Integrated HSSE Manual Policy Actions 1.1.1 Education 1.1.2 Health Facilities 1.2.1 Work and Road Safety 1.3.1 Corporate Philanthropy Results  Training and Development: Different types of  Trained First Aiders are available at the Head Office  Road Transport Safety Audits: Logistics trainings are organized throughout the year and at all the Depots/Installations round the clock Contractors are audited as per devised checklist comprising of In-House Training Programs aimed at covering utilizing the expertise of our Employees, Regulatory and Customized External Programs engaging best Industrial experienced Trainers from the Industry, Publicrequirements. Training Workshops, Conferences as well as  HASCOL’s Road Seminars. Safety Program is  During 2018, a total 19,365 Training Man-hours an ongoing feature of our Terminals/Logistics related to Managerial Skills, Core Professional Operations and Skills, HSSE, Logistics and Retail were conducted. comprises of trainings by Marie Adelaide Leprosy Centre (MALC) a major Internal as well  Rescue 1122 Lahore provides Emergency Response NGO in Pakistan, working in the field of leprosy as External Services to HASCOL’s Machike Installation and control since 1956, for the upgradation of Turbat Trainers. and Gawadar Eye Care Centre. nearby vicinities whenever required. Company has engaged Motorway Police to conduct specialized Layton Rahmatullah Benevolent Trust (LRBT), the  HASCOL has its training sessions for the Tank Lorry Drivers and largest NGO own 24 hrs other related staff members. of Pakistan Ambulance  HSE Site Officers regularly conduct Work Safety devoted to Service for any Awareness Sessions and Trainings to equip the the accident taking employees working at Installations/Depots about prevention of place at the Safe Work Practices. curable Motorway and in  Quarterly Training Reports to Management  HASCOL is the only OMC in the country operating blindness and Karachi highlight the Training Statistics i.e. Trainings Company Owned and Company Operated (COCO) impaired conducted, Training Man-Hours, Number of  During 2018, 385 employees and their families Fleet which has transferred 1.9 mn tons of vision in underprivileged people. Employees Trained as well as feedback from were provided Health Care. This includes In-Patient Petroleum products with Absolute Zero Spill Rate. Employees and Trainers. as well as Out-patient medical facilities.  We have 24/7 Vigilant Tank Lorry Monitoring Pakistan Red Crescent (PRC), the leading National System which ensures that COCO Fleet does not Humanitarian Organization of Pakistan for the operate from 0000-0600 hrs, never exceeds 60 provision of artificial limbs to individuals that lost KPH and has 02 full time drivers on all highway their limbs in traffic accidents and terrorist attacks, trucks. There is a mandatory 30 minutes’ rest thereby improving the quality of life. stop after 03 hours of driving. Health Education and Livelihood Promoter (HELP), a Non-Profit Organization aim to add value in the lives of coal miners, and underprivileged people of Baluchistan in their project “Light of Hope” for providing poor coal miners and their families with portable Solar Lights. HASCOL Petroleum Limited PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in Human Rights abuses. Commitment Statement: HASCOL, through its policies and practices, makes all efforts to avoid Human Right abuses, ensuring compliance with the Laws of the Land. Management Systems 2.1 HR Management, Operations, Contract Management Actions 2.1.1 Code of Conduct 2.1.2 Equal Rights to Work 2.1.3 Workplace Harassment Results  HASCOL’s Code of Conduct requires each employee to  HASCOL offers Equal Work Opportunities for both male and female  Consistent with Pakistan’s Workplace Act 2010, HASCOL stringently demonstrate a high level of Integrity and Honesty while candidates in the job market. Despite being a male dominated industry, forbids any inappropriate misconduct or undesirable sexual advances. executing assigned responsibilities. all departments of HASCOL have The Company expects all employees, regardless of their seniority or female employees, including work relationship, to maintain an environment that is free from  The Code of Conduct advises employees to maintain managers. harassment and in which appropriate ethical behaviour in all their external and all employees are internal dealings.  The HR Team ensures that during respected.  Each employee is obliged to abide by and visibly the Recruitment Process factors demonstrate the Company’s Values. such as gender, religion,  The Company’s Code of nationality, etc., are not Conduct clearly describes considered and only merit counts. the term harassment as  Candidates are selected on any action or behaviour or unbiased and competitive basis as attitude that creates a per the Job Specification. threatening, invasive or uncomfortable work environment. Such actions encompass, but are not limited to, sexual harassment,  The HR Policy Manual also postulates that the Benefits, Facilities and disparaging comments based on gender, religion, colour, race, Allowances, are provided to all employees and their families without language, origin or ethnicity. any discrimination.  Since the time of its inception, Zero Harassment Cases have been reported in the Company. HASCOL Petroleum Limited PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Collective Bargaining. Commitment Statement: HASCOL ensures that employees’ salaries, benefits and facilities are in the top 20th percentile of the Industry and comply with Industrial Relations and Labor laws. Employee Satisfaction is gauged and Employee Rights ensured through Surveys, good Employee Relations and Initiatives. Management Systems 3.1 HR OD and Administration Actions 3.1.1 Proactive focus and redressal of Employee Grievances to 3.1.2 Employee Engagement Activities 3.1.3 Benefits ensure a good Organizational Climate Results  HASCOL’s Corporate Strategy is Employee Centric. The Company’s  In addition to providing Professional Development opportunities  HASCOL conducts Employee Salary and Benefits Surveys every Management considers it imperative to address employees’ suggestions, to its employees, the Company also encourages employees to two years to make sure that the Compensation Structure is issues, conflicts and complaints in the participate in games and market competitive and equitable, both internally and best possible manner. A Grievance other engagement externally. Policy is in place to resolve grievances activities. The HASCOL swiftly. Sports Committee organizes  Due to our Cricket, Football and other proactive  Whenever any employee raises any policies and Sports activities in which issue in the workplace, HR along with employee employees from different the concerned Department Head friendly departments actively participate. ensures that grievance is handled as far as possible within the confines of the approach,  The performance of HASCOL’s Cricket Team was very well in relevant management structure. there is no 2018. It has participated in various tournaments and won the  Employee suggestions and feedback are also Lubricant’s Labour Union in the Company. received through regular visits of the CEO, Super League and the Management Team to all Offices, 2019.  Depending on the work in cities or in remote areas, Installations, Depots, Terminals and Project employees are  A Cricket Team Sites. This helps in creating a positive provided suitable has also been organizational culture where employees feel benefits specific to formed at heard, encouraged and empowered. the location and job Lahore which is requirements. These participating in include Hardship various Matches. Allowance, Transport  HASCOL also sponsors various Sports events including national Facilities or tournaments organized by Allowances, the Pakistan Tennis Rotational Leave Scheduling, and On-site Accommodation. Federation, Golf and Cricket Clubs and other  Employees’ suggestions, demands, enquiries and complaints organizations which are handled expeditiously at the Department, HR and promotes sports in the Corporate level. country. HASCOL Petroleum Limited Management Systems 3.1 HR OD and Administration Actions 3.1.1 Proactive focus and redressal of Employee Grievances 3.1.2 Employee Engagement Activities 3.1.3 Benefits to ensure a good Organizational Climate Results  Departments also have their Annual Meetings where they have  World Happiness Day was celebrated on 20th March 2019 to build  Specific cases of financial, medical and educational discussions on progress towards Teamwork and Bonding. A Wall of difficulties faced by employees, are given a sympathetic assigned targets and areas of Happiness was created and consideration and are provided assistance regularly. improvement. This provides a platform employees from different for employees to discuss the issues departments participated in this  As the Company grows they are facing during work, with the fun-filled activity by sharing their and expands in new Supervisors and Head of Departments. thoughts about the things that business streams, in make them happy in the workplace. new geographical territories and  With the aim of bringing about change in the Organizational Culture diversifies, there are and value diversity, International Women’s Day is celebrated on 8th movements and March. Gifts, bouquets and Hi-tea were arranged for the female staff transfers of employees in appreciation of their unfaltering commitment and devotion to for which adequate transfer and relocation benefits are HASCOL. provided to the employee and the family.  Different religious and national events are also celebrated in the  By and large, the organization like Eid-eMilad un Nabi, benefits extended to Pakistan Independence Day, HASCOL employees are Christmas, etc., to inculcate team quite competitive in the bonding, engagement and Industry and in most networking. cases exceed the norm.  Departmental Outings and Dinners are also arranged to enhance mutual understanding among the team members. It provides a good opportunity for the employees to mingle with their peers and boost coordination.  HR celebrates Birthdays of its employees to make them feel appreciated. Eid, Birthday, Christmas cakes and sweets are also given to employees so that they can celebrate with their families. HASCOL Petroleum Limited PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of Forced and Compulsory Labour. Commitment Statement: At HASCOL, under its HR Manual and Corporate Policies, any form of forced or compulsory labor at any of its locations, is strictly prohibited. Management Systems 4.1 HR Organization Development Actions 4.1.1 Industry Competitive Compensation and 4.1.2 Compliance by Suppliers, Contractors, Vendors, etc. 4.1.3 Terms of Employment Benefits Results  HASCOL’s Compensation Policy ensures that employees  Suppliers are selected after they confirm the legitimacy of their labour  HASCOL’s employment contracts make sure that there is no violation of are rewarded according to their performance, market practices and assure that they are in compliance with the Laws of the Human Rights or Labour Laws. competitiveness and potential for growth. Land, including Labour Laws,  The Company does not believe in hiring people on Temporary Basis or  External independent consultants are hired by the Industrial Relations, etc. Vendor Daily Wages or through Manpower Company to conduct Salary Surveys and advise industry and Contractor Inspections are Contractors, for its Core Operations. competitive salaries also done to ensure compliance. All such staff are Regular Contract and benefits. Employees of the Company and are  HASCOL conducts Open Bidding for  HASCOL complies with different jobs to provide equal entitled to full benefits. both Sindh Employees opportunity to all qualified  Employees have complete Freedom Social Security suppliers and vendors. of Choice of Employment. All Institution (SESSI), employment contracts can be Punjab Employees  Non-discriminatory Procurement terminated by giving notice of 30 days by either side. Social Security Institution (PESSI) standards and all Procedures are adopted and a Labour Laws and Regulations, to provide its workers’ not cross-functional Procurement  Exit Interviews and other surveys are conducted to obtain useful insights only salaries and wages above the Minimum Wage fixed Committee is utilized for projects, and direct feedback from separating by the Government but all other benefits. supplies of goods and services at employees. This is used to take  Discrimination in wages or benefits, on the basis of Company locations. appropriate remedial measures for gender, religion, nationality or any external job factor is enhancing Employee Satisfaction.  Zero Tolerance for unethical strictly avoided  Payments of Benefits, Claims and practices is followed and suppliers/vendors are black listed on  Benefits like Employees’ Old Age Benefits, Gratuity Fund Outstanding Dues are made as early violations. and Provident Fund are also provided to employees. as possible. Both Induction as well as Separation procedures are smooth, graceful and efficient.  As the opposite of Forced Labour, the Company provides several forms of Employee Assistance for example; Loan Facilities, Group Life and Health Insurance for self and family, Education Improvement and Career Development as well as Emergency Assistance is provided to Employees for their personal and family needs. HASCOL Petroleum Limited PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should uphold the effective Abolition of Child Labour. Commitment Statement: HASCOL does not allow any Child Labor at any of its Terminals, Operations, Installations, Sales and Marketing Locations, or by any of its Contractors, Suppliers and Service Partners. Management Systems 5.1 HR Organization Development and Administration Actions 5.1.1 Inclusion of labour laws that abolish child labour 5.1.2 Educational Assistance to Children to reduce Child Labour in adjoining communities Results  HASCOL’s CSR Policy lays special emphasis on contributing towards Education of the Younger Generation  HASCOL’s Recruitment Policy strictly prohibits Child Labour. The minimum hiring age is specified as 18 so that Child Labour can be reduced. years and this regulation is strictly followed at all locations including rural site workers, fresh technicians,  The Company sponsors Deaf Children at the Family Educational trainees, etc. Services Foundation (FESF) Deaf Reach Program where they are provided academic and vocational education and are gainfully  Apart from compliance of Labour and Human Rights Laws within the organization, Suppliers and Service employed professionally and do not have to resort to Child Labour Providers are also required to adhere to the laws of the country, labour laws, meet security and human  HASCOL is constructing a Children’s Family Home in SOS Village rights requirements as well as eliminate employment of under-age workers. Khairpur, to provide shelter to orphans and abandoned children of nearby communities.  The Company contributed to the DOW Endowment Fund which supports deserving students in continuation of their Education.  HASCOL has also partnered with Teach for Pakistan to provide education in underprivileged regions of Pakistan. Through this, HASCOL employees will mentor TFP Fellows, offer internship/employment opportunities to young professionals at the end of their Fellowship at TFP.  The Management Team is frequently invited t give motivational talks to the younger generation. Mumtaz Hasan Khan, HASCOL’s Chairman, was also invited to the Leaders at LUMS session to enlighten the youth with his experiences and present his journey as an entrepreneur.  Many HASCOL’s employees and Senior Management serve as Visiting Faculties in renowned Educational Institutions and Universities, contributing towards the Learning and Development of students and children. HASCOL Petroleum Limited PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should uphold the Elimination of Discrimination in respect of Employment and Occupation. Commitment Statement: HASCOL is an Equal Opportunity Employer with the target of Zero Discrimination. This is practiced through its HR Policies, Systems and Procedures at all levels and at all locations Management Systems 6.1 HR Organization Development and Administration Actions 6.1.1 Performance Management and 6.1.2 Equal Employment Opportunity 6.1.3 Code of Conduct 6.1.4 Interaction with Educational Employee Development Process Institutions and Professional Bodies Results  HASCOL has a structured and comprehensive  At HASCOL, the Recruitment Process ensures that there  HASCOL’s Code of Conduct is a declaration  HR Team regularly Performance Management Process that is no discrimination amongst applicants and Equal signed by each employee at the time of interacts with the motivates employees to achieve business Opportunities are offered to all competent candidates, induction. This document lays the foundation Labour Market and goals, personal career objectives and rewards including women and minorities belonging to any for avoiding discrimination, ethics, focusing professional through high levels of performance. religion, colour, caste or origin. on merit, employee rights and ethical dealings institutions through with internal and external stakeholders. participation in Career  By providing employees with opportunities for  Male and Female Minorities are employed at different Fairs, Academic personal levels within the Organization. Women Managers are Projects, etc. challenge, heading departments and development, key functions, e.g. HR,  Through the growth and Administration, Company’s Trainee Program, fresh graduates are recognition, a Organizational provided trainings in different departments and Performance Development, Retail Sales, at various locations. Driven Work Marketing, etc. Culture has been established. NUMBER OF TRAINEES IN EACH  Minorities are given extra holidays in accordance with DEPARTMENT their Religious Customs. 37 40  Employees are responsible at all times to 35  Given the cultural, social, religious and traditional protect and safeguard the reputation of the 30 requirements for women, suitable arrangements are 25 Company. Any contravention of the Code of made for them at all work locations so that they can 20 Conduct which is part of the Company policy 13 15 10 9 pursue their professional occupations and employment 7 is regarded as misconduct by the employee. 10 4 without hindrances or discrimination. 3 3 5 1 1 0 HASCOL Petroleum Limited Management Systems 6.1 HR Organization Development and Administration Actions 6.1.1 Performance Management and 6.1.2 Equal Employment Opportunity 6.1.3 Code of Conduct 6.1.4 Interaction with Educational Employee Development Process Institutions and Professional Bodies Results  The Company has professional Training and  HASCOL’s Trainee Program is designed to induct high  Employees are also required to follow the  HASCOL employees regularly attend ACCA Development, Talent Management, Career and quality young talent belonging to various disciplines. At Laws of the Land and live the Values of the Pakistan events as Guest Speakers and Panellists Succession Planning and Promotion polices to present, 88 Trainees from renowned national and Company both during as well as after work. to judge and award students on their ensure that merit-based, equal opportunity for international universities are working at our locations performance. career growth and mobility is available to all throughout Pakistan.  HASCOL is also employees. a member of NUMBER OF TRAINEES various 55 Professional Organizations 24 like Pakistan Society for Human Resource 9 Management (PSHRM), Pakistan Society for Training and Development (PSTD), Management ACCA MANAGEMENT TRAINEE Association of Pakistan (MAP) as well as TRAINEES TRAINEES ENGINEERS Platinum Partner of ACCA. HASCOL Petroleum Limited Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Environmental Challenges. Commitment Statement: HASCOL, as a Petroleum and Energy Company, is cognizant of the possible Risks and Hazards to the Environment because of its Operations, and is committed to comply with International Standards and Regulatory requirements, the Environmental Protection Agency, National Environmental Quality Standards, etc. Management Systems 7.1 Health, Safety and Environment Actions 7.1.1 Environmental Assessment 7.1.2 Waste Management 7.1.3 Spill Control and Prevention 7.1.4 Tree Plantation and Horticulture Results  For the new projects, Environmental  At all our Terminals and Installations, waste is  Spills Management include Dike Walls around Storage  The Company undertakes Tree Plantation and Assessments (IEEs/EIAs) are conducted being segregated at source. Tanks, Spill Emergency Response Plan, Retaining Walls Horticulture Campaigns, at new and existing through third party Environmental Consultants  Effluents (sewage water) are being treated in and Catch Pits in Operational sites. to identify Environmental Impacts of the septic tank systems and recycled for storage areas. projects and to develop Mitigation Plans. gardening. Spill response These IEEs/EIAs are submitted to the relevant  We are complying with Industrial requirements measures Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to of Waste Management and as per the nature consisting of Spill acquire environmental approvals. of waste (Hazardous and Non-Hazardous Response Kit,  A mechanism is developed for the Waste) disposals or treatment is adhered. absorbing-pads, identification of Safety Critical Equipment and  Environmental containment buckets, etc. which are placed at this is Protection Agency appropriate locations to cater to any spill. implemented at (EPA) approved  Transportation of hydrocarbons across Pakistan is part our Operational vendors are of our operations and keeping in view the hazards/risks  HASCOL participates in Spring Tree Plantation Sites. The purpose disposing associated, spill is a major risk. A quarterly Mega Campaigns and planted around 500 Chir Pine to identify such off/treating the Emergency Response Drill is an ongoing feature. In April Trees in Islamabad. equipment is to waste to minimize the Environmental Impacts 2019, the last Mega drill was conducted which had an extra-ordinary participation from Hauler Contractors, prepare Predictive Maintenance Plans to avoid  Safety Signage with Environment friendly any failures of equipment that could cause and a special focus on Environmental Protection by messages are placed at all Operational Sites. unsafe operating conditions or violation of HSE utilizing the Spill Response and Control techniques. Standards. During the identification, Environment is a key aspect during the Location Wise Drills identification of such equipment.  Provision of inter Floating Roof Tanks for Kotla Jam 6 Mehmood Kot 15 gasoline has also been done to decrease VOC Daulatpur 3 Locations emissions. Thallian 4 Port Qasim 10 Machike 20 Shikarpur 13 Amangarh 10 Sahiwal 13 Zyco 32 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 No of Drills HASCOL Petroleum Limited Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Environmental Responsibility. Commitment Statement: HASCOL, through its policies, systems, operating practices and employee behavior, mitigates harm to the Environment. Management Systems 8.1 All Corporate Functions Actions 8.1.1 Implementation of HSSE 8.1.2 HSSE Trainings and Drills 8.1.3 HSE Initiatives 8.1.4 HSSE Reporting and Awards Management System Results  HSSE Management System is fully  HASCOL believes in capacity building of its workforce  Housekeeping Day at all operational sites are held,  HSSE Management Walkabout of different implemented by adhering to all its elements by providing HSSE Trainings according to a planned in which all staff Operational sites (Depots/Retail Outlets) are covering Occupational and Process Safety HSSE Training Matrix. participate as conducted every quarter, to ensure HSSE and focus on Regulatory Compliances. The This matrix is Environmental compliance and visible commitment of Senior HSE Policy, signed by CEO, is a Management developed on the basis Protection is Management. Commitment which covers Health, Safety, of Training Needs everyone’s  Monthly HSSE Inspections of Operational sites Security and Environment Assessment. responsibility. (Terminals, Warehouses, Plants, Retail Outlets) as  Environment is a second indicator in HPL’s  In 2018, we conducted per controlled checklists are being conducted.  HASCOL is committed to comply with the Prime risk matrix. Risk Matrix is covering People, more than 8000 HSE Areas of improvement are shared with Minister’s Directive of Clean Retail Outlets. Environment, Assets and Reputation Training Man-Hours. Inconcerned departments for improvements by HASCOL’s Sales staff is  As per our Operational requirements, two house and outsourced trainings are part of the providing target dates for the closure of action monitoring the same by elements of Process Safety Management are matrix. During 2018 and till May 2019, we arranged items. Action Point Register is maintained and conducting regular and part of the four (4) training sessions with an emphasis on being shared with Management on Daily and surprise visits. Management Process Safety Management. weekly basis. 2018 Closure Rate is 92% System.  Introduction and  An exclusive HSE Training  HASCOL is Campaign for Retail Implementation of Tank APR Statistics 2018 marketing Lorry Driver’s Safety Fundamentals to acquaint Outlets across Pakistan is Total Closed various them with the Dos and Don’ts in any untoward 400 in progress. The training No of items situation that can 300 chemicals like Xylene, Toluene and VAM. An topic is “Fire Safety and 200 HSE workshop with stakeholders was have environmental 100 Prevention” which is 0 conducted by focusing on Material Safety impacts. An equal covering practical training on Fire Extinguishers, Data Sheets, Handling and Transportation of emphasis is given to function of ESD, Safe Decantation procedures, etc. Chemicals improve Drivers’ These topics are directly linked with environmental  Lubricant Warehouse Inspections: protection. Safety Behaviours. Campaigns  HASCOL uses external Specialist Trainers e.g. Rescue  HSSE Bulletins/Information/Newsletter/Whatsapp covering 1122, Motorway Police and Civil Defence for relevant Groups containing information and updates Inspections, HSE Trainings. regarding HSE and Security are shared at trainings, appropriate forums on Emergency regular basis covering all Response drills are aspects of HSSE. conducted across the country and Spill response arrangements are made at all our warehouses HASCOL Petroleum Limited Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the Development and Diffusion of Environmentally Friendly Technologies Commitment Statement: HASCOL adopts environmentally friendly technologies at all stages of its business from the Port to the Terminal, to the Depot, and to the nozzle at the Retail Outlet Management Systems 9.1 All Corporate Functions and Operational Locations Actions 9.1.1 Environmentally Friendly Technologies Induction, Monitoring and Reporting Results  Controlled Emissions through Best Industrial Practices: At all HASCOL’s Operational Sites, the Best Environmental friendly technologies like Breather Valves, Internal Floating Roof Tanks, etc are installed, to reduce the Environmental footprint.  Emissions and Air Quality Monitoring of NEQS is being done at Operational Sites. Vent pipes are placed at standard heights to minimize impact to ambient air quality.  HASCOL offer environmental friendly Genuine Air Filters made of recyclable materials for moisture resistance and flame retardancy.  Environmental Friendly provisions such as periphery drains, bunded areas to contain spill, sumps etc. to avoid soil and groundwater contamination. The drainage network is routed through oil water separator.  Transportation of hydrocarbons is being commenced through ADR and OGRA Compliant Tanker Lorries. ADR is an international standard while OGRA is our regulatory authority. These Tanker Lorries are fitted with PRVs, which are ensuring controlled emissions.  Dispensers at Retail Sites are spill free and have the provision to absorb static charge with accurate measurement of the amount of fuel pumped. Dispensers are also provided with Auto Cut Off Valve to immediately stop the flow during an emergency  Depot and Terminal Metering System are connected with the Bonding System  Modern 24x7 Pressurised Firefighting Network Systems are in place at all locations  Intrinsically Safe Communication Systems are installed at all Depots and Installations  Incident Reporting and Investigation System is in place and environmental spills are part of it. Incidents are investigated as well with the areas of improvement and delegating the responsibilities for mitigation measures to concern. HASCOL Petroleum Limited Principle 10: Businesses should work against Corruption in all its forms, including Extortion and Bribery. Commitment Statement: HASCOL prohibits bribery, extortion, corruption and other unethical practices, in all its operations and business transactions. Management Systems 10.1 All Corporate Functions Actions 10.1.1 Corporate Governance Results  Prohibition of unethical practices, compliance with laws and practicing responsible behaviour is embedded in HASCOL’s Values, Code of Conduct, Undertakings, Contracts, etc. signed by employees, and in the Company’s HR Manual, HSSE Manual, Procurement Policy, Agreements, etc. Deviation by any employee is tantamount to misconduct leading to disciplinary action which may lead to dismissal.  Corruption and malpractices are also avoided by compliance with all legal, financial, tax, operational, labour, HSSE, government and industry regulations including: Oil and Gas Regulatory Authority (OGRA), Oil Companies Advisory Council (OCAC), Securities & Exchange Commission of Pakistan (SECP), Pakistan Stock Exchange (PSX), Overseas Investors Chamber of Commerce and Industry (OICCI), Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FPCCI), Karachi Chamber of Commerce and Industries (KCCI), Competition Commission of Pakistan (CCP), Employers’ Federation of Pakistan (EFP), other regulatory bodies and statutory requirements  In 2017, HASCOL became a member of UNGC and signed the UNGC Charter in support of the Ten Principles. Communication and compliance is being done throughout the Company.  HASCOL is a member of the Employers’ Federation of Pakistan and abides by its policies AWARDS: HASCOL was conferred  1st Prize amongst Multinationals in Pakistan at the United Nations Global Compact Best Practices Sustainability Award  3rd Prize amongst Large National Companies in Pakistan for Best HR Practices 2018 by the Employers Federation of Pakistan (EFP).
