PYRAMID PHARMA LTD COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR UN GLOBAL COMPACT TANZANIA: JULY 2019 Table of Contents 1.0 Statement from the CEO ………………………...………………………………………… 3 1.1 Introduction ….........…………………………….………………………………………..…. 4 1.2 Practical actions in the implementation of global company principles…….………………………………………………………………………………..…….. 2 A. Human Rights and Labour………………………………………………..………..……….. 2 B. Environment………………………………………………………………….……….……….. 2 C. Anti corruption………………………………………………………………………………. 3 D. Corporate Opportunities ………………………………………………………….……….. 4 1.3 Measurement of outcomes ……………………………………………………………….. 5 Statement from CEO As a CEO of group of companies under Pyramid Healthcare Limited which some are the Pyramid Pharma Tz Ltd and the Pacific Diagnostics Ltd, I envision having kind of operations that are ethical and in compliance to the law since we directly touch people lives, health and welfare. Abraham Agwambo Okore. 1.1 Introduction The company being a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact is hereby reporting on its business conduct in regarding to the fulfillment of the 2030 sustainable development goals which areas covers the following; human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Pyramid has recently put in place written code of business conduct and ethics which inter alia covers areas that are of most importance in the this reporting i.e. human rights, labour, environment, anticorruption. Practical actions in the implementation of global company principles A. Human Rights and Labour Both the Code of business conduct and ethics of the company together with the HR manual recognizes and respects human rights for all the company employees. Provisions in the mentioned instruments have been provided regarding the equal treatment of employees regardless of their gender, physical disability incase any. Special and anonymous hotline for reporting incase of violation of human rights such as mistreatment or unfair treatment of an individual has been established which is easily accessible to all employees further that our Legal and Compliance person also invites face to face reporting to her incase of any incidence if need be. Human Rights and Labour …..continues PPL also upholds both national and international labour laws to include informing management and employees of their rights and observing the same from the hiring to termination of an employee and all their responsibilities under the said laws to include the discouragement of child labour and unsafe working conditions. We currently have 64 direct employees and recently in March 2019 had our HR Manual reviewed which amongst other things provides for all employees’ rights and entitlements. B. Environment PPL is doing the following in making sure that the environment is kept safe and friendly for its employees and all third parties. i. We are signatories to the ISO 9001 2015 Quality as well in ensuring effective management of both environmental and social risks in our business. ii. periodically provides training to its staff on Environmental, social and health and safety. iii. As a health care industry trading in the supply of medicines, have put in place a Disposal of Goods policy that is being followed incase of disposal of old/unfit for consumption products as per the laws of the country hence ensuring not only our staff but the community at large. We also have never had any accidents or even grievances regarding the safety of the PPL environment to this reporting date. Environment continued… We have never had any accidents or even grievances regarding the safety of the PPL environment to this reporting date. As a health care industry trading in the supply of medicines we have in place a Disposal of Goods policy that is being followed incase of disposal of old/unfit for consumption products as per the laws of the country hence ensuring not only our staff but the community at large. Our company policy requires that before an employee dealing directly with government officials C. opts to give out gifts or grants to the government to first get approval of the immediate supervisor or CEO who should be able to determine that there is no element of bribe and or corruption leading to personal gain for a particular government official. Anti-corruption continues… The company’s employees and the management in its conduct are aware of the policy that in whatever they do that involves element of anything of value given out by the company then the same to be given in an appropriate manner not in a way viewed as trying to influence the government or legislators to favour their operations. All company’s stakeholders can anonymously report on corruption as per the code of business conduct & ethics to the legal and compliance department through the special provided channel. 1.3 Measurement of outcomes The Strengthening of compliance within the company by the hiring of a an internal compliance person to be like a watchdog in ensuring that the company is at all times in compliance to the laws, regulations and the policy/code of business conduct and ethics it has put for itself.
