Musgrave Group Musgrave House, Ballycurreen, Airport Road, Cork, Ireland. T12 TN99 T: +353 (0) 21 452 2100 E: group@musgrave.ie musgravegroup.com 20th Aug 2019 His Excellency António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Musgrave Annual Global Compact Communication on Progress Dear Secretary-General, We are pleased to confirm that Musgrave is committed to continuing its support for the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in respect of human rights, labour rights, the protection of the environment and anti-corruption and to advancing them within our sphere of influence. We are committed to continuing to make the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company and undertake to continue to articulate our commitment both to our employees, partners, clients and the public. We support public accountability and transparency and will publicly report on our progress in this regard. Please find attached our Communication on Progress 2019, as well as the contact person responsible for communications with the office of the Global Compact. Sincerely yours, Chris Martin Group CEO Musgrave Group plc: Registered in Ireland No 105820. Registered office: Ballycurreen, Airport Road, Cork. Directors: N. Hartery (Chairman), C. Musgrave (Vice Chairman) C. N. Martin (Group CEO), D. O’Flynn (Secretary), N. Keeley, W. Mackeown, S. Buckley M. Kelleher, R. Brennan, C. Pilling, A.Thierry Musgrave Group Musgrave House, Ballycurreen, Airport Road, Cork, Ireland. T12 TN99 T: +353 (0) 21 452 2100 E: group@musgrave.ie musgravegroup.com 20th Aug 2019 His Excellency António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Musgrave Annual Global Compact Communication on Progress Dear Secretary-General, Musgrave is one of Ireland’s largest and most successful companies. We are a private familyowned business, founded in 1876 and headquartered in the city of Cork. Together with our retailer partners, we support more than 1,450 local independently-owned retail stores and employ more than 45,000 people across 7 brands in the Republic of Ireland, Northern Ireland and Spain. During 2019, we continued to implement our sustainability strategy, ‘Taking Care of our World’, which is underpinned by the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and sets stretching commitments and targets designed to continuously improve our performance and to assist our retail partners in improving their sustainability performance whilst inspiring consumers to live more sustainably. Recognising the global challenge of plastics, we introduced an additional commitment during 2019, which pledges that, by 2025, 100% of our own-brand, fresh produce and in-store packaging will be reusable, recyclable or compostable. We also maintained our certification under the Irish Food Board (Bord Bía) Origin Green sustainability programme and were also re-certified under Business in the Community Ireland’s Business Working Responsibly Mark. We have been signatories to the UN Global Compact since May of 2004 and undertake to continue to respect and promote its ten principles. We attach our 2019 Communication on Progress for your attention. We will also communicate our COP to our stakeholders via our website. Yours sincerely, John Curran Head of Sustainability Musgrave Group plc: Registered in Ireland No 105820. Registered office: Ballycurreen, Airport Road, Cork. Directors: N. Hartery (Chairman), C. Musgrave (Vice Chairman) C. N. Martin (Group CEO), D. O’Flynn (Secretary), N. Keeley, W. Mackeown, S. Buckley M. Kelleher, R. Brennan, C. Pilling, A.Thierry United Nations Global Compact Musgrave Communication on Progress 2019 What is the UN Global Compact? By doing so, business, as a primary Through the implementation of driver of globalisation, can help ensure consistent policies and clear targets for “The Global Compact asks companies to that markets, commerce, technology every aspect of the business, as well as embrace universal principles and to and finance advance in ways that mechanisms to continuously measure partner with the United Nations. It has benefit economies and societies and report performance, Musgrave is grown to become a critical platform for everywhere. ensuring that the Global Compact forms the UN to engage effectively with a core part of our business strategy. enlightened global business.” Musgrave: Committed to UN Former UN Secretary-General Ban KiGlobal Compact Communications moon unglobalcompact.org Musgrave has been a signatory to the Our 2019 COP will be communicated to The UN Global Compact is a strategic Global Compact since 2004; we will our stakeholders via our website policy initiative for businesses that are continue our commitment to the ten musgravesustainability.com – committed to aligning their operations principles, as set out in this where a wide range of information and strategies with ten universally Communication on Progress (COP) for relating to our approach to accepted principles in the areas of 2019 and the accompanying statement sustainability can also be found. human rights, labour, environment and of support. anti-corruption. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 1|Page Human Rights Principles of the UN Global Musgrave requires that the national laws Outcomes Compact and regulations of the country of employment are observed, but, as a The Musgrave Ethical Trading Policy was Principle 1: Businesses should support minimum, that international human updated and revised in 2016 as part of and respect the protection of rights and labour law is applied. the development of our current internationally proclaimed human rights; Musgrave expects that people working sustainability strategy and is also and for our suppliers will be treated fairly aligned with the UN Sustainable and with respect. Development Goals. We ensure that all Principle 2: make sure that they are not Musgrave own-brand products comply complicit in human rights abuses. Musgrave is committed to ensuring that with our Ethical Trading Policy, and all all of our supply chain stakeholders, suppliers are required to sign up to the regardless of where they live or work, principles of that policy. During 2019, Actions are treated with respect and dignity and we also added an Anti-slavery & Human are able to live in an environment Trafficking Policy which is available on As a responsible organisation, Musgrave undamaged as a result of our business our website. believes that we must ensure that the activity. We want to ensure that those goods we source are produced in a with whom we trade share our Management systems are in place to sustainable way, in the context of principles, are committed to ensuring guarantee the provenance of the potential impacts on the environment or that the rights of all workers and human products we source and to manage societal impacts. rights in general are protected. ethical issues we identify within our supply chain. Codes of conduct are We underscored this commitment by developed that inform and guide trading signing up to the principles of the United teams on ethical sourcing of all goods Nations Global Compact in 2004, and we and services. have publicly reported an annual Communication on Progress, under the There have been no incidences of terms of Global Compact, since that human rights violations associated with date. our operations. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 2|Page Labour Principles of the UN Global Actions 4. Hours of work are in compliance Compact with the laws of the country where The fair exchange of goods and services workers are employed. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold is increasingly an issue of concern to the the freedom of association and the modern consumer. We want everyone 5. No forced or compulsory labour effective recognition of the right to who deals with us, directly or indirectly, (bonded labour) will be used. collective bargaining; to be treated with respect and dignity. 6. Child labour will not be used. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms We also want to ensure that Musgrave 7. Discrimination in respect of of forced and compulsory labour; activities and the activities of our employment and occupation will not suppliers do not damage the be permitted. Principle 5: the effective abolition of environment. 8. Health, safety and welfare of child labour; and employees are protected. To that end, we have made the following Principle 6: the elimination of 9. No goods will be sourced from commitments, as part of our Ethical discrimination in respect of employment oppressive regimes. Trading Policy: and occupation. 10. Measures are taken to prevent 1. All Terms of Trading are fair and damage to the environment. honest. 11. Corruption, including extortion and 2. The rights of all workers and human bribery will not be tolerated. rights in general are protected. 3. Workers have freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 3|Page Outcomes As an example of our community Most recent estimates show that our involvement and commitment to good retail stores spend €350 million in local Musgrave conducts its business in causes, the annual combined charitable communities annually. Our ‘Community accordance with traditional core values and community support by our retail Impact Study’ shows this spend which include: partners in SuperValu, Centra and averages €6.0 million per week through Daybreak is recorded to be over €3.5 a combination of payments to local ▪ Long term, stable relationships million. suppliers, acquisition of local business ▪ Not being greedy services, wages, charitable donations Our support of independent businesses, and local sponsorships. ▪ Honesty and the communities they serve, helps ▪ Working hard build and sustain vibrant local The study reveals that our stores economies through the multiplier effect: source over €80 million worth of ▪ Achievement for every €1 spent at a local business, products, from over 3,800 local 45 cents is re-invested locally (this suppliers, and contribute €3.5 million in All Musgrave divisions measure contrasts with a local re-investment of donations or sponsorship commitments performance and report quarterly to the only 15 cents for every €1 spent at a to over 5,500 local charities, community Head of Sustainability. corporate chain). groups, schools and sports clubs. As well as supporting local suppliers, our stores There have been no recorded incidences also spend an estimated €18 million in of discrimination, violations of freedom communities where its stores are of association/collective bargaining, child located. labour or forced or compulsory labour. Musgrave is one of the country’s leading employers with 45,000 people employed across its network of stores, On average, each of our stores accounts for an additional 25 jobs in the surrounding community. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 4|Page Environment Principles of the UN Global Since then, our environmental and 1. Inspiring Healthier Lives Compact broader sustainability strategies have We will improve the health of 2 million evolved and matured. consumers across the island of Ireland. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to We have defined targets and reporting 2. Building Sustainable Communities environmental challenges; mechanisms for our facilities and work We will make a positive impact on the closely with our retail partners to further planet by enabling our partners to make Principle 8: undertake initiatives to our environmental goals as a business every local community in Ireland a promote greater environmental and at consumer level. sustainable community. responsibility; and Musgrave has continuously expanded its 3. Sourcing Responsibly Principle 9: encourage the development retail business over the last 10 years, We will be the most trusted food operator and diffusion of environmentally friendly but our strong focus on sustainability across the island of Ireland, known for the technologies. programmes and initiatives has meant integrity of our supply chain from farm to that this growth has been achieved in fork. parallel with reductions in Actions environmental impacts. 4. Caring for our World We will minimise the impact of our Musgrave has long been a proponent of operations on the world around us and use The overall result of this effort has been doing business sustainably; it was a our network to influence others to do that since 2006, we have more than natural progression that we should likewise. halved our carbon footprint. formalise our approach to environmental management and public reporting in the In order to deliver on our ambition, we In 2017, we launched a 3-year late 1990s. have made 26 commitments detailed sustainability strategy entitled ‘Taking below. In 2019 we added an additional Care of our World’, aligned to the UN commitment covering packaging. We published our original Corporate Sustainable Development Goals, which Environmental Charter in 2000, which focuses on the following key areas: was a first for any Irish-based retail and distribution business. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 5|Page Inspiring Healthier Lives As a food business, we understand that to cook from scratch at home, and enjoy nutrition fuels healthy lives and using fresh, seasonal produce. We will improve the health of 2 million recognise our responsibility to lead the consumers across the island of Ireland. promotion of health and wellbeing with The decisions we make about the suppliers colleagues, customers, partners and we use, the products we promote and the By 2020: consumers. This means working with messages we share with our customers; all • we will grow our sales of heathier suppliers on new, healthier products, have a role in driving positive change. products in SuperValu and Centra by as well as reformulating existing ones; We believe the way to inspire better eating 25% educating and supporting colleagues on healthier food and active lifestyles; As part of this programme we have been • we will support colleagues to make and inspiring consumers to make their reducing the levels of salt and sugar in our Musgrave one of the healthiest own changes, by providing a healthier, own brand ranges. Our approach is to workplaces in Ireland more nutritious and affordable food gradually reduce the levels of salt and offer. added sugar, without impacting the taste, • 40% of food promotions in SuperValu texture and overall performance of the and Centra will be on healthier With our stores at the heart of towns product. products and cities across Ireland, we feed many thousands of people every day. On average, we have reduced salt by 21% • we will reduce salt and sugar in our We understand that we have a wider and sugar by 33% across the range. New role to play and take our recipes were very well received by our own brand products by 10% responsibilities seriously. shoppers and we are now replicating this • we will increase our healthy own approach across other own brand ranges. We are building a network for positive As part of our commitment to making our brand ranges by 20% change, working hard to inspire overall range healthier, we will continue to healthier lifestyles by helping improve the ingredient and nutritional • we will support over 2,000 customers improve their understanding profile of own brand ranges. foodservice customers to create of the relationship between their healthier menus health, the food they eat and the lifestyles they lead. From individuals • we will support over 300 symbol making decisions about the food they operators to create a healthier food feed their family, to organisations offer creating healthier working environments, to chefs developing menus for people in their care, we want people to make better choices, COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 6|Page Building Sustainable Communities • We will work with Business in the every day. As a single force for good, Community to embed sustainable each store supports the livelihoods of We will make a positive impact on the business practices in Irish SMEs many other local families through planet by enabling our partners to sustainable, local employment. Together make every local community in Ireland a In an era of unprecedented social and with our retail partners we employ almost sustainable community. cultural change, communities today 40,000 people across the island of need to constantly shift and change to Ireland. If we multiply this by the • Working with our retail partners, we survive. We know that, despite the thousands of people across our broader will improve the prosperity and changes communities need to make, network – from producer to consumer – vibrancy of communities across the Ireland has an enduring passion for we can start to see the vast resource we island of Ireland local life and that our retail partners have. People who can help us to prevent play a big part in bringing people social isolation, build local economies • By 2020 we will increase our support together. To create vibrant and protect the environment, wherever for local suppliers by 25% communities with a sense of social they may live. Every year our retail cohesion, we need to consider their partners seek out and support hundreds • We will continue to grow the award social, environmental and economic of local sporting, social, cultural and winning Tidy Towns programme, need. By leveraging our network of charitable causes. enhancing local and built retailers, suppliers and food environments across Ireland entrepreneurs, we can help bring Our participation in the annual BITCI communities to life and build a Business Impact Map enables us to • We will foster inclusive, diverse and sustainable society. quantify our impacts on local healthy workplaces that encourage, communities across Ireland and allows us challenge, support and respect We are committed to working in to record the range and spread of the colleagues; helping them to grow and partnership with others, to lead and many community activities Musgrave develop support initiatives that will prevent supports directly or through the work of social isolation and keep local our employees. In 2018 Musgrave made • By 2020 we will support Musgrave communities alive. We are a family direct contributions of more than €1 colleagues to complete 10,000 hours business with family values, the same million to over 150 community causes of community volunteering annually values that bind communities and while colleagues gave over 3,000 cement relations, and this is what volunteer hours in support of vital drives our business initiatives. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 7|Page Sourcing Responsibly • By 2020, we will increase the sales sustainability standards, making it easier of small suppliers by 25%, supported for consumers to trust the provenance and We will be the most trusted food operator by our Food Academy programmes the quality of their food. We only work with across the island of Ireland known for the in Retail and Food Service suppliers who take due care of their people integrity of our supply chain from farm to and the environment in which they operate. fork. • We will continuously improve the Through our sourcing policies and supplier sustainability standards of our meat, partnerships we deliver inspiring and • We will set leading standards for fish and produce, taking account of innovative ranges to Irish consumers and sourcing; continuously raising the bar environmental, biodiversity and support a thriving network of local on transparency across our entire livelihood factors producers and food businesses that are the supply chain bedrock of local economies. As populations grow, we need to • We will collaborate with government produce more food. On our small island, As a leading food business, we have the agencies, Bord Bia and Origin Green the same land space must continue to ability and responsibility to positively to ensure that 100% of our Irish meat feed ever more people – and, over impact the whole Irish food chain, from the and dairy are always in compliance recent years, satisfy more demand for prosperity of farming and traditional food with the highest standards of greater variety and quality of food. As a production, to the quality of produce and production leading food business, we are aware of the economic wealth of the industry. We the need to retain the trust shoppers can only do this by mobilising our whole • By 2020, 100% of our SuperValu and have that the food we sell is of the network, from the large suppliers to the Centra branded Irish meat and fresh highest quality and has been produced small artisan producers, from our retail produce will be sourced from certified and sourced to strict ethical, animal partners to their store employees and the Origin Green suppliers welfare and food safety standards. We local people they serve. We seek out and are working to increase the promote Irish suppliers, but we need all • By 2018, we will establish a system transparency of the supply chain and producers to commit to continually raising to audit labour standards and the to constantly and consistently improve their environmental, ethical and animal treatment of workers in our fresh and welfare standards to meet the expectations own-brand supply chains of today’s shoppers. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 8|Page Caring For our World • By 2025 we will reduce the carbon We continue to minimise food waste intensity of our operations across through better handling and stock We will minimise the impact of our the island of Ireland by 70%* management procedures, as well as by operations on the world around us and designing our own brand packaging to use our network to influence others to • By 2025 we will reduce the climate prevent product damage or loss and do likewise. impacts of our refrigeration extend shelf life. At the same time, we systems by 80%* work with suppliers to optimise our own • By 2020 we will ensure that no food brand packaging so that it is fit-forthat is fit for human consumption is • By 2025 we ensure that 100% of purpose. wasted, but is used to alleviate food our own-brand, fresh produce and poverty through our support for food in-store packaging is recyclable, We have seen significant increase in re‑distribution charities re-usable, or compostable focus on plastics packaging as governments, businesses and consumers • By 2020 all of our retail and Our strategies are designed to wrestle with the challenges of preserving foodservice operations will have minimise the environmental and the safety and quality of food, whilst access to food re‑distribution climate change impacts of our minimising the impact of plastics on our charities operations. environment. • By 2030 we will halve our food For over 12 years we have operated We have pledged that 100% of ownsurplus in line with UN Sustainable an energy monitoring and targeting brand, fresh produce and in-store Development Goal 12.3 system across our building estate and packaging is recyclable, reusable or have supplied our facilities with 100% compostable by 2025, through a • Through product and packaging green electricity. We focus on programme that will eliminate or initiatives, we will help consumers to preventing waste at source and on reduce plastic packaging and items reduce food waste in the home maximising recycling by sending zero made of plastic materials where possible recoverable waste to landfill. We also or replace them with more sustainable • By 2020 we will implement three leverage our expertise to help our alternatives. major collaboration projects with retail partners and their customers to suppliers aimed at enhancing biominimise their waste too. diversity COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 9|Page Anti-corruption By signing the Call to Action, we ask ▪ Support corporate efforts to Governments to: enhance anti-corruption implementation, corporate ▪ Fully implement and enforce the governance, innovative collective tenets of the UN Convention against action, and public-private Corruption by strengthening antipartnership initiatives. Principles of the UN Global corruption policies, laws and Compact enforcement mechanisms to create Outcomes Principle 10: Businesses should work a level playing field and incentivise against corruption in all its forms, good behaviour; There have been no incidences of including extortion and bribery. corruption in Musgrave. ▪ Make a commitment to reduce corruption risks from procurement and contract processes of largeActions scale projects that are designed to support sustainable development; Musgrave is opposed to all forms of corruption, including extortion and ▪ Commit to engaging in competitive bribery. Musgrave will not engage in and transparent procurement such practices nor will it accept its processes through public suppliers engaging in corrupt activities. advertising of all Government procurement cases; In June 2014, Musgrave committed its ▪ Achieve greater transparency in support to the UNGC Call to Action: relation to revenues received by Anti-Corruption and the Global Governments from private sector Development Agenda; an appeal by the companies; private sector urging Governments to promote efficient and effective anticorruption measures and to implement robust policies that will foster good governance. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 10 | P a g e Measuring Our Performance Building Energy (gigajoules) Fleet Emissions (tonnes CO2) 300.0 k 45.0 k 250.0 k 40.0 k 200.0 k 35.0 k 150.0 k 30.0 k 100.0 k 50.0 k 25.0 k 0.0 k 2006 20.0 k 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total Waste Generation (tonnes) PC Recycled/Recovered 25.0 k 100.0% 20.0 k 90.0% 15.0 k 80.0% 10.0 k 70.0% 5.0 k 60.0% 0.0 k 2006 50.0% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 2010 2010 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2017 2017 2018 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 11 | P a g e
