Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. 7 October 2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Paltel Group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Ammar A. Aker CEO Paltel Group Human RightsAssessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Paltel Group provides a unique work environment for its employees, and this includes taking the highest safety and security measures for the well-being of our workers and visitors to all work locations. The premises and facilities of Paltel Group and all affiliated companies are suitable for all people: females, males, and individuals with disabilities, which includes but not limited to: · All buildings, locations, and sites are accessible to persons with disabilities · A well-prepared cafeteria in HQ locations and similar dining areas in branch offices and showrooms · Health insurance for all employees, their families including parents · Grievance policies and systems that protect all employees We provide services during work hours with full access to safety tools and awareness on using these tools and evacuation procedures when needed. The systems of Paltel Group protect workers from all types of harassments or threats with clear and published policies and procedures of protection and complaint system. Paltel Group takes all needed measures to avoid any harm to human life or natural environment and is committed to this protection in its direct operations or outsourcing contracts. Protecting human life and the environment are preconditions for any activity related to Paltel Group directly and indirectly. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. Paltel Group possesses an anti-harassment policy that expresses our commitment to maintaining a workplace that's free of harassment to secure our employee's safety, security, and overall wellbeing. We prohibit discrimination based on age, sexual orientation, ethnicity, racial, religion, or disability. The Group's anti-harassment policy can is available within its internal policies and regulations and its Code of Conduct. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Paltel Group produces and publishes an annual sustainability report throughout our websites as an assessment of our CSR initiatives and projects. We distribute a yearly employee satisfaction survey as a tool that measures and maintains a positive culture throughout Paltel Group and its subsidiary companies. At Paltel Group, we are guided and sustained by a set of core principles that serve as a moral compass for how we support and respect our employees how we conduct our businesses. Our commitment is guided by the principles outlined in-laws of the Palestinian Authority governing human rights, as well as international standards, such as addressing and implementing 15 of the sustainable development goals within our sustainability report. LabourAssessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. Paltel Group is fully committed to Palestinian labour law and does not participate in any illegal employment or labour. Paltel Group provides a list of benefits beyond the minimum wage right, and this includes health insurance for employee and family, transport, family allowance, parents’ health insurance, entertainment for employment and family and many other benefits. Paltel Group has set clear criteria’s for employment-related decisions like recruitment, promotions, demotions, compensations, grievance, and all other human resource issues. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. Paltel Group treats its employees with respect and dignity. Paltel Group offers salaries that pay above than minimum wage to all employees, aligned with the Group's policies, regulations, and labour laws. It is Paltel Group's policy to ensure that decisions concerning hiring, wages, promotion, training, discipline, retirement, and termination are based only on unbiased criteria, and not linked to any discriminatory characteristics. All hiring managers receive training regarding the company's non-discrimination policies. We respect the rights of workers to join or not to join in labor unions. Also, Paltel Group does not employ child labor, nor do we engage in unlawful harassment or discrimination. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Paltel Group conducts an employee performance evaluation for all of its employees quarterly. It is to ensure that all employees treated and rewarded fairly to boost morale and keep track of the performances of each employee to guarantee a more flexible and unbiased process. Paltel Group also implements an Employee Grievance Policy to ensure any employee grievance is dealt with promptly, fairly, and by other related policies of the company. Also, we promote an ethical and harmonious working culture to uphold a safe and equal working environment. We provide excellent employment opportunities that support university students with paid internships and employment opportunities for new graduates. We implement the programs and projects to help the Palestinian economy and create sustainable employment opportunities for the Palestinian youth, such as: · Summer Camp program: Aims to develop school students’ skills in learning technology and programming, by targeting students aged between 14-16 years old. The Summer Camp consists of 80 HTML training hours, which by the end of the training, students present six projects that they worked on throughout the exercise. · Go Professional: Paid internship program that targets newly university graduates that are designed to develop a variety of training and practical skills. EnvironmentAssessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Paltel Group is a telecom company with operations that do not pose any threat or harm to the environment. Jawwal, a Paltel Group subsidiary company and the first and leading mobile operator in Palestine, and possesses a valid ISO 14001 valid certificate. MAK Company performed auditing visits during 2018 and renewed the certification. Paltel Group has clear written procedures for addressing and preventing all types of accidents and risks that might affect humans or the environment in general. The Group continuously publishes proceedings to all employees to allow transparency among employees and stakeholders revolving procedures and any updates on them. The nature of Paltel Group’s business does not use any dangerous substances; however, the Group deals with risks and hazards with top care and responsibility even if it is minimum risk. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. Paltel Group is committed to safe and healthy workplaces and the safe and sustainable management of chemicals. Paltel Group has contingency plans that are continuously monitored and updated to prevent any unforeseeable emergencies or accidents. Emergency procedures are prepared and distributed, emergency warning systems installed in most buildings, and an emergency procedure is organized and trained for each workplace. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. Jawwal, Paltel Group’s subsidiary company and the first and leading cellular communications company in Palestine, renews its ISO 14001 Certificate yearly. We have produced and published sustainability reports on our websites as an assessment of our CSR initiatives and projects. Also, the Palestinian Environment Quality Authority monitors and evaluates our performances in regards to our environmental policies and commitments. Anti-CorruptionAssessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. Paltel Group undertakes a continuous risk assessment not only for the risk of corruption but also for all types of hazards. The Group has independent internal audit management that reports directly to the Board of Directors Internal Audit and Governance Committee. Paltel Group follows the risk-based audit approach. Also, Paltel Group General Assembly recruits an external auditor who revises the Group’s financial operations and reports the results to the General Assembly in its annual meeting. Paltel Group focuses on a commitment to law and regulations in all contracts with partners and does not make deals with any companies/ organizations that have any proven records of corruption. Paltel Group and its companies have this as a day-to-day practice in all work procedures and processes. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. Paltel Group has a zero-tolerance policy on bribery and corruption and implements measures to ensure compliance. This Anti-Corruption Policy implemented by Paltel Group outlines anticorruption tools, which provide the framework to define local procedures (each entity should apply these guidelines to their needs and local context in a document made available to all employees). We implement and maintain a program to provide ongoing education and training. Managers at all levels are responsible for ensuring those reporting to them are made aware of, understand, and comply with this policy. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. Paltel Group is committed to complying with all laws, regulations, and instructions of disclosing all matters related to the performance of the Group and its companies. Our commitment of disclosure is not limited to the financial statements, but includes the dates and decisions of the board's meetings, insider trading, mandatory items in financial statements, and any information to be disclosed quarterly, semi-annually, or annually, or non-periodic disclosures of material matters that are likely to affect the stock price, whether financial, management or future expectations, so as to allow external stakeholders, including shareholders and creditors, to make any decisions based on any new events and results, which contributes to maintaining the image of the Group and its relationship with all the parties dealing with it. According to the Law, Palestine Exchange (PEX) and Palestine Capital Market Authority (PCMA) receive these disclosures and publish them on their websites, while some of these disclosures also published in local newspapers.
