Corporate Responsibility Report CONTENTS 04 Ι. MESSAGE 18 ΙV. MANAGEMENT 64 VII. CUSTOMERS FROM THE CEO 1. Corporate Governance 21 1. Safety and Security 67 2. Corporate Responsibility 26 2. Responsible Communication 71 3. Materiality and Stakeholders 29 3. Quality and Satisfaction 73 4. Achievements 2018 35 4. Achievements 2018 78 and Future Objectives and Future Objectives 06 ΙΙ. OVERVIEW 36 V. SOCIETY 80 VIII. ENVIRONMENT 1. Economic Growth 39 1. Air Quality and Energy 83 2. Society Support 41 2. Raw Materials and Solid Waste 88 3. Responsible Procurement 47 3. Water and Liquid Waste 92 4. Achievements 2018 49 4. Achievements 2018 95 and Future Objectives and Future Objectives 08 ΙΙΙ. ATTICA GROUP 50 VI. EMPLOYEES 96 IX. SUMMARY 1. The Passenger Shipping Industry 10 1. Human Resources and Employment 53 1. About this Report 96 2. Health and Safety 55 2. Summary Data 97 2. About Attica Group 12 3. Equality and Diversity 57 3. Global Compact, Sustainable 110 4. Training and Development 60 Development Goals, 5. Achievements 2018 63 ISO26000 and GRI Tables and Future Objectives 4. Glossary 117 5. Feedback Form 119 3 I. Message from the CEO Our main aim is to remain committed to the principles of Corporate Responsibility we have adopted, evaluate our performance according to internationally recognized indicators and set challenging new objectives, with transparency and accountability... 4 Dear Readers, Within this decade, the need for critical decisions on behalf Within this context, we were the first passenger shipping of Greek companies in the passenger shipping industry has company worldwide to develop a Corporate Responsibility become imperative, mainly due to the continuous increase Report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s in marine fuels’ prices as well as intense competition, which Sustainability Reporting Standards. This year’s Corporate affect both financial results and long-term viability. At Responsibility Report in your hands constitutes the the same time, however, the favorable dynamics resulting outcome of all our efforts and compiles our footprint for from the increase of tourist arrivals from abroad and the 2018, as it describes our actions, achievements and areas for anticipated recovery of the Greek economy are considerable improvement, makes reference to 84 GRI disclosures and optimistic signs for the industry’s companies. presents 225 quantitative indicators in total, most of which refer to all Group companies. Indicatively, within 2018, we: In addition to all above which affect the passenger shipping • Communicated Regulation of Professional Behavior to all our industry in general, 2018 was a milestone year for Attica employees and had no violation cases concerning our main Group, as we completed the acquisition of 98.83% of Hellenic principles and rules of professional behavior. Seaways’ capital share, within the context of our long-term • Distributed over €569 million in economic value to our commitment to have a constant growth orientation for our Stakeholders and implemented or supported societal operations. This acquisition significantly strengthens our support activities in 100% of the islands we serve, such as competitive position among the major European companies the Science on Board activity and the ‘Agoni Grammi Gonimi’ in the industry, while at the same time poses new challenges program. regarding the functional integration of Hellenic Seaways into • Employed 100% of our employees with full time employment our Group and continue our operations seamlessly. contracts and conducted internal drills on Health and Safety issues to all marine employees. For all of us at Attica Group, our business activity is directly • Were subject to 49 food hygiene and safety vessel inspections linked to Corporate Responsibility, which means operating in from local authorities, with no recorded non-compliance a responsible manner as professionals and thinking longincidents. term as citizens. In practice, this is associated with our Group’s • Informed over 1.2 million customers on Corporate financial success, combined at the same time with our efforts Responsibility issues, such as environmental protection, and to incorporate responsibility into our daily management conducted internal drills on environmental protection issues practices, support prosperity of society, establish positive to 100% of marine employees. employment conditions, ensure our passenger safety and reduce our environmental impact. Our obvious commitment is to continue our efforts to further disseminate Corporate Responsibility within the Group, as Our main aim is to remain committed to the principles reflected in our Vision, Mission and Values, but above all in our of Corporate Responsibility we have adopted, evaluate employees’ ethical behavior, as they are called upon every day our performance according to internationally recognized to overcome themselves. indicators and set challenging new objectives, with transparency and accountability. Have a pleasant reading, Spyridon Paschalis Chief Executive Officer Attica Group 5 ΙΙ. Overview ATTICA GROUP We are the largest passenger 23 years of continuous presence We handled 4,357,237 shipping group in Greece, in our Seas reservations for journeys in the the third in the Mediterranean Eastern Mediterranean Sea We operate 29 modern vessels Sea and among the 10 largest (and 130,639 more on the in the Eastern Mediterranean in Europe Morocco – Spain route), through Sea (and 1 more on the Morocco – our central reservation systems Spain route) MANAGEMENT We have communicated No corruption incidents occurred No non-compliance incident Regulation of Professional was recorded during audits of Behavior to 100% of our No bribery incidents related to our contractors’ Management employees our employees occurred Systems No violation cases concerning We were subjected to 82 external We increased by 7% the number our main principles and rules of audits regarding Management of quantitative indicators we professional behavior occurred Systems used by Blue Star Ferries make reference to within the and Superfast Ferries, with Report We informed 100% of office no recorded non-compliance employees about our incident anti-corruption policies and procedures SOCIETY We distributed over €569 We increased the number We collected 251 blood units million in economic value: over of Blue Star Ferries and Superfast through our voluntary blood €91.6 million to employees (for Ferries sales network employees donation programs in the last salaries, benefits and insurance trained by 16.6% and over three years payments), €71.3 million for four times the number of total taxes (including VAT and port training hours We welcomed 1,290 young taxes), €59.3 million to providers people from schools and of capital (for interest and We implemented or supported universities visiting our vessels return payments), €20.6 million societal support activities in to agents (for commissions), 100% of the islands we serve We supported the development €196.6 million to suppliers (for of 83 students in Merchant Navy’s We increased the total number of Officer academies purchases of goods and services), discount tickets offered through €2.2 million to society (for We maintained the percentage Blue Star Ferries and Superfast discount tickets, implemented of procurement expenditure to Ferries by 11.8% programs, sponsorships and local suppliers over 90% donations) and €128 million for We increased the total value investments of societal support activities We allocated 28.7% of total through Blue Star Ferries and procurement expenditure Superfast Ferries by 14.7% to small and medium-sized enterprises (up to 250 employees) We allocated 47% of sponsorships and donations to local communities 6 EMPLOYEES We employ 100% of our 100% of our employees received We increased the number of employees with full time their annual leave, as planned employees trained and training employment contracts hours in Blue Star Ferries and We conducted internal drills Superfast Ferries by 124.6% and 100% of employees in Director on Health and Safety issues 35.1% respectively positions are Greek (such as response to emergency No grievances regarding our situations) to 100% of marine marine employees’ living employees conditions were filed CUSTOMERS We conducted internal drills and We dispatched 851 notifications We kept Blue Star Ferries trainings on passenger safety to serve passengers with reduced and Superfast Ferries vessels’ procedures to 100% of marine mobility to our vessels departure time in 61.8% and employees Hellenic Seaways vessels’ We dispatched 2,411 notifications departure time in 89.5% of our We were subjected to 49 to serve passengers to Blue scheduled journeys inspections from local authorities Star Ferries and Superfast for food hygiene and safety, with Ferries vessels, out of which 17 We increased our seasmiles no recorded non-compliance concerning passengers with loyalty and reward program incidents sensitivity to allergens members by 8.2% We maintain 5 corporate websites, The average score of evaluations with over 4.9 million unique registered through dedicated visitors annually and handle 3 devices onboard Blue Star Ferries mobile applications with over and Superfast Ferries vessels 130,000 downloads reached 3.82 on a 5 point scale ENVIRONMENT We conducted internal drills on We reduced the total quantity of We reduced the paper used for environmental protection issues refrigerant materials used from commercial purposes from Blue to 100% of marine employees Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries Ferries by 29.6% by 15.2% We informed 70% of our office employees on environmental We reduced the consumption of We reduced the paper used for all protection issues plastic bags in our offices by 13.3% purposes from Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries by 12.5% 80% of monitors and 40% of We informed over 1.2 million personal and laptop computers customers on Corporate We transported from Islands we use have energy-saving Responsibility issues, such as free-of-charge over 153 tonnes of specifications environmental protection materials for recycling We use refrigerants that do not We used 28.1% recycled paper We reduced water consumption affect the ozone layer (such as for all purposes from Blue Star from Blue Star Ferries and R134a, R404a, R407a) in 100% of Ferries and Superfast Ferries Superfast Ferries by 13.3% refrigerators and freezers onboard our vessels We used 69.8% recycled toners/ink cartridges 7 ΙΙΙ. Attica Group The leader in passenger and freight maritime transportation in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea and the fastest growing company in the Morocco – Spain route 8 WE ARE 23 years of presence 6.7 million passengers 29 modern vessels in the Eastern in our seas annually in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea (and 1 Mediterranean Sea more in the Morocco – Spain route) 953 thousand private vehicles 362 thousand freight units 2.2 million nautical miles annually in the Eastern annually in the Eastern annually (101 times around Mediterranean Sea Mediterranean Sea the Earth) 1,823 WE OFFER We serve 59 unique destinations and reach 71 ports in Greece and Italy, employees through our Blue Star Ferries, Hellenic Seaways and Superfast Ferries brands, which are known for their high level of service, as well as the Morocco – Spain route, through our Africa Morocco Links (AML) brand. 9 1. The Passenger Shipping Industry About the Industry Coastline and Greek Islands i Passenger shipping is one of the most important industries in Greece has the 11 largest coastline worldwide (13,676 km), th the Greek economy, as the use of passenger and car-passenger just behind China (with a coastline of 14,500 km). This vessels is required to connect islands with the mainland, as well unusual extent is attributed to its unique geographical relief as to connect Greece with Italy. Based on a 2016 study conducted and morphology, which includes 6,000 islands and islets by the Foundation for Economic and Industrial Research (IOBE) scattered in the Aegean and Ionian Seas. With over 1,500,000 published in 2017: registered inhabitants in 227 islands (approximately 12.3% • Greece has the highest number of ports for maritime of the country’s population), Greek islands: passenger transport and the port of Piraeus has the largest • Contribute 11.6% to the Greek Gross Domestic Product passenger transportation volume among the 28 European (GDP). Union countries. • Support over 13.4% of total job positions. • The number of transported passengers and vehicles in domestic lines reached approximately 16 million and 3 • Are traditionally one of the most popular tourist million respectively, increased by 1.6% and 13% respectively destinations, both for Greek citizens and foreign visitors. (approximately 255,000 passengers and 341,000 vehicles) • Have approximately 60%-65% of the country’s hotel beds. compared to 2015, mainly due to the increased tourism in Greece. However, despite the 8% increase compared to 2012, passenger transportation volume in 2016 was lower by 21.2% and 15.8% compared to 2007 and 2009 respectively. • The number of transported passengers and vehicles in Adriatic Sea lines reached approximately 1.5 million and 688,000 respectively, reduced by 12.6% and 14% respectively (approximately 220,000 passengers and 112,000 vehicles) compared to 2015 or by 33% and 20% respectively compared to 2009. • Passenger shipping industry contributes approximately €16.1 billion in the Greek economy (9.2% of the country’s GDP) and supports approximately 349,000 job positions, without Seasonality of Passengers and Vehicles Transportation including short domestic routes and cruise lines. 11 12 The industry demonstrates intense seasonality regarding 21 transportation of passengers and private vehicles, as there is Q1 18 higher transportation volume during July to September and 16 reduced transportation volume during January to March. On the 10 other hand, there is lower seasonality regarding transportation of freight units, as their transportation volume is equally 26 21 distributed throughout the year. Nonetheless, domestic 29 passenger shipping companies maintain adequate and Q2 34 consistent shipping services throughout the year, in cooperation 26 with local authorities and the relevant Ministry. 25 48 51 <> Q3 28 The Greek Passenger Shipping Industry 24 40 contributes 9.2% to the Greek GDP 51 and 9.7% to the total job positions in 15 Greece 16 Q4 23 Passengers (%) 24 Private vehicles (%) 18 Freight units (%) 14 Buses (%) Camper vans (%) Source: Hellenic Statistical Authority Motorbikes (%) 10 Arrivals and Spending Based on Bank of Greece’s data, the number of 2018 nonAverage Spending from Abroad Visitors ? resident arrivals in Greece reached approximately 33.1 million, 9.6% more than 2017, while travel revenues and 2018 486 average spending per trip also increased by 10.3% and 0.2% 2017 485 respectively compared to 2017, reaching €16.1 billion and €486 respectively. However, the average spending per trip 2016 470 continues to remain significantly lower than previous years, 2015 541 while the average length of stay per trip has also decreased 2014 552 to 7 days in 2018, compared to 10 days in 2008 and 8.1 days in 2013 (30% and 13.6% lower respectively), with the decrease 2013 604 being partially attributed to the increased ticket prices due to 2012 616 the cumulative VAT increase by 11 percentage points during 2015-2016 and Greece currently has the second highest VAT 2011 639 in domestic lines in Europe (24%) according to European 2010 640 Union’s data, which is significantly higher than the 6%-10% 2009 697 VAT in countries with high domestic passenger transportation volume (e.g. Sweden, Italy, Finland). According to the 2008 730 Foundation for Economic and Industrial Research’s (IOBE) 2007 700 estimates, reduction of VAT (e.g. to 14% or 6%), fully passed on to ticket prices, would increase transported passengers 2006 746 and travel revenues, as well as significantly benefit island 2005 746 economies due to increase of local GDP and job positions. Average spending pre trip (€) Source: Bank of Greece 11 2. About Attica Group Who we are Our Group is active in the passenger shipping industry and operates on the Cyclades, Dodecanese, North-East Aegean islands, Saronic, Sporades and Crete domestic routes through 100% our subsidiaries and commercial brands Blue Star Ferries and Hellenic Seaways, as well as on the Greece – Italy routes through 100% Superfast Ferries. Furthermore, we participate with 49% share in ‘AFRICA MOROCCO LINKS’ (AML), which connects Morocco with continental Europe. The Group is listed on the Athens Stock Exchange, is a member of the international investment holding company Marfin Investment Group (MIG) and its offices are located in Kallithea, Athens. 49% 98.83% Shareholder Structure Shareholder Share* We are the largest passenger shipping <> MIG Shipping S.A. 69.08% Marfin Investment Group 10.31% group in Greece, the third in the Piraeus Bank 11.84% Mediterranean Sea and among the 10 Other Shareholders 8.77% largest in Europe *Data refer to 31/12/2018. ADRIATIC SEA MEDITERRANEAN GREEK DOMESTIC SEA Venice SPAIN Ancona North Sporades Aegean ITALY Piraeus Algeciras Cyclades Bari GREECE Corfu Saronic Igoumenitsa Tanger Med GREECE Patras Crete Dodecanese MOROCCO 12 Our culture VISION ‘To strengthen the Group’s leading position and value, through profitable expansion into new markets and activities, as well as provide high quality services which exceed market expectations’ MISSION ‘Attica Group is an international Shipping Group, which offers high quality shipping services with innovative and aesthetic vessels. The Group’s activities generate added value for shareholders and employees, reduce where feasible our environmental footprint and operate for our partners’ and local communities’ benefit’. STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT PRINCIPLES • Being customers’ first choice. • Offer reliable services and continuously improve our products’ quality. • Create solid and long-term relationships with customers, our partners and local communities. • Manage responsibly our resources and actively contribute to our Group’s healthy, sustainable and profitable growth. VALUES Corporate Responsibility Integrity Transparency Innovation Reliability Quality 13 Our history 1918 1924 Incorporated as Listed on the Athens ‘General Company Stock Exchange of Commerce and Industry of Greece’ 1992 1993 1995 1998 1999 Change of ownership Establishment of Delivery and routing Launch of PatraAcquisition of ‘Strintzis and name to ‘Attica subsidiary ‘Attica of Superfast I and Igoumenitsa-Bari Lines Shipping S.A.’ Enterprises S.A.’, later Maritime S.A.’, later Superfast II in the route and rebranded to Blue renamed to ‘Attica renamed to ‘Superfast Patra Ancona route, Star Ferries Enterprises’ Ferries Maritime S.A.’ reducing sailing time by up to 40% Order of the first Superfast ferries in Germany, being the first fast car-passenger vessel worldwide 2001 2002 2005 2007 2008 Launch of operation Launch of the North Entrance in the RoRo Marfin Investment Sale of RoRo vessels in the Baltic Sea Sea route between market with the Group (MIG) acquires and exit from the Baltic market between Scotland and Belgium acquisition and routing majority shareholding and North Sea market Germany and Finland. of two RoRo vessels stake of Attica Group Sailing time reduced to between Germany and 22h from 32-34h Finland 2011-2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Superfast ANEK Joint Superfast Ferries Entrance in Africa – Agreement to acquire Attica Group celebrated Venture for Ancona celebrated 20 years Europe market with the 98.83% of Hellenic 100 years since its first and Herakleio routes since its first journey establishment of Africa Seaways’ share capital Shareholders General (2011) expanded to Morocco Links Assembly Bari, Venice and Chania Relocation of main Completion of (2014) offices to new address acquisition for 98.83% Restructure of Group of Hellenic Seaways’ organizational share capital structure During 2018, we completed the acquisition of 98.83% of Hellenic Seaways’ capital share, as part of our strategic business plan to achieve long-term viability. Within the context of the agreement and following the Hellenic Competition Commission’s necessary approval, we sold one Superfast vessel and one Hellenic Seaways vessel to other passenger shipping companies. Furthermore, we added new routes to Greek islands which were not at all or occasionally served, as we increased the weekly routes to Symi and Leipsoi (throughout the year) and Limnos (during the summer season) by one and two weekly approaches respectively and created a new connection between Santorini and Symi. 14 Our fleet Our fleet consists of 29 car-passenger (ro-pax) vessels in the Vessel Capacity Eastern Mediterranean Sea and 1 more in the Morocco – Spain Superfast Blue Star Hellenic AML TOTAL route, out of which 29 are privately-owned and 1 is on long-term Ferries Ferries Seaways contract. It must be noted that: Vessels (number) 3 9 17 1 30 • 1 4 of our 29 privately-owned vessels are tailor-designed by our Passengers (number) 3,697 15,505 16,978 935 37,115 Group for the specific routes we operate and have been built in Beds (number) 1,452 3,264 1,567 32 6,315 first-class European, South Korean and Australian shipyards, in Garage lane length 6,927 9,594 8,416 700 25,637 accordance with the highest shipbuilding standards. (meters) • 29 vessels are registered in the Greek ship registry. • T he average age of our vessels in the Eastern Mediterranean Transportation Volume Sea is 22 years, while the average age of our vessels is 22.5 2016 2017 2018* years. Passengers (million) 4.04 4.13 6.70 • 5 vessels jointly operate with ANEK LINES’s vessels, within the Private vehicles (thousand) 601.72 635.83 953.00 context of the ‘ANEK S.A. SUPERFAST ENDEKA (HELLAS) INC. Freight units (thousand) 290.43 300.61 362.00 & Co. Joint Venture’, specifically for the Crete and Adriatic Sea routes. * Data refer to Eastern Mediterranean Sea routes during the period 01/01/2018-31/12/2018 for Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries and 01/06/2018-31/12/2018 for Hellenic Seaways. 23 years of continuous presence <> We operate 29 modern vessels in the <> in our Seas Eastern Mediterranean Sea (and 1 more on the Morocco – Spain route) 15 The way we operate We utilize products and services from our suppliers, both for the operation of our offices (materials, equipment, services and know-how), as well as for our vessels (fuels, materials, foodstuffs and equipment). At the same time, we closely collaborate with port authorities and the local communities in the departure and arrival ports of our vessels. Customers purchase travel services through our extensive sales network, which includes: • T he corporate websites www.bluestarferries.com, www.superfast.com, www.hellenicseaways.gr and www.aml.ma, as well as mobile applications. • 3 0 Premium Sales Agents and 81 Port agents for Blue Star Ferries, Superfast Ferries and Hellenic Seaways, as well as 13 We handled 4,357,237 reservations <> Premium Sales Agents and 2 Port agents for AML. • T wo central reservation systems, with over 10,000 on-line for journeys in the Eastern connected travel agencies. Mediterranean Sea (and 130,639 • T he members of the International Union of Railways (UIC) more on the Morocco – Spain route), for maritime transportation of passengers from trains (200 through our central reservation members from 5 continents). systems Our Sales Network UNITED RUSSIA KINGDOM HOLLAND POLAND GERMANY ΒELGIUM CZECH REPUBLIC AUSTRIA FRANCE SWITZERLAND ITALY KOSOVO BULGARIA NORTH MACEDONIA SPAIN TURKEY GREECE CYPRUS MOROCCO ISRAEL In order to provide our services in 2018, we used: • 3 privately-owned vessels in the Adriatic Sea lines (Patra – • 26 vessels in the Domestic lines to connect Piraeus with Cyclades, Igoumenitsa – Ancona and Patra – Igoumenitsa – Bari, with an Dodecanese, Crete (Chania and Heraklion), N.E. Aegean islands, intermediary approach in the port of Corfu during the summer Saronic and Sporades. months). • 1 privately-owned vessel in the Morocco – Spain route (Tangier Med – Algeciras) and 1 vessel chartered during summer months  for AML. 16 Our Value Chain Main Offices Materials Equipment Travel Services Services Know-how Information Suppliers Systems Local Customers Ports Communities Information Travel Systems Services Sales Network Fuels Materials Foodstuffs Equipment 17 IV. MANAGEMENT Incorporate Responsibility into our daily management practices 18 WE ARE 5 pillars of Corporate 11 Stakeholder groups ‘Core’ in accordance option of Report Responsibility with the GRI Standards WE COMMIT TO 42 future objectives Adopt responsible policies and practices in our operations and to harmoniously cooperate with our Stakeholders, in order to create mutual long-term value. in the Report WE FOLLOW Principles of the United Nations’ 84 GRI disclosures Global Compact /10/ Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery in the Report WE ACHIEVED • We have communicated Regulation • No non-compliance incident was of Professional Behavior to 100% of recorded during audits of our our employees. contractors’ Management Systems. • No violation cases concerning • We increased by 7% the number our main principles and rules of of quantitative indicators we make professional behavior occurred. reference to within the Report. • We informed 100% of office employees about our anti-corruption policies and procedures. • No corruption incidents occurred. • No bribery incidents related to our employees occurred. • We were subjected to 82 external audits regarding Management Systems used by Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries, with no recorded non-compliance incident. 19 WE FOCUS Economic Growth Societal Support Responsible Procurement Citizens Associations and Unions Suppliers Local Communities SOCIETY SUPPORT EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS Human Resources & Employment Safety & Security PASSENGER SAFETY Health & Safety Customers Employees Responsible Communication RESPONSIBLE Sales Network MANAGEMENT Equality & Diversity Media Quality & Satisfaction Shareholders Training & Development ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT State Environment NGOs Air Quality & Energy Raw Materials & Solid Waste Water & Liquid Waste 20 1. Corporate Governance We operate based on best Corporate Governance practices Attica Group has developed and implements a Corporate • The Chief Executive Officer evaluates Managers’ performance Governance Code, in accordance with the applicable legislation on an annual basis. Evaluation criteria include achievement and the Hellenic Capital Market Commission’s directives, which of their objectives, their contribution to cultivate an excellent was updated within 2018. Attica Group’s Board of Directors workplace and their personal characteristics. (BoD) is responsible to decide on all strategic aspects, manage • Remuneration for executive members is associated with the corporate issues and approve the Group’s long-term strategy. corporate strategy and achievement of pursued objectives, The current BoD’s composition was elected by the Shareholders while remuneration for non-executive members is associated General Assembly on 26/06/2018 and amended after the with their employment time and responsibilities, without resignation of Mr. Hercules Simitsidellis (executive member) due being directly associated with business performance, in order to his retirement on 03/04/2019: to encourage freedom of opinion regarding taking increased business risks. Board of Directors • The Board of Directors is supported by the Audit Committee, which is elected from the Shareholders General Assembly and Name* Position consists of two independent non-executive members and one Kyriakos D. Mageiras President Executive member executive member, who meet at least quarterly, in order to: Michael G. Sakellis Vice-President Independent Non-Executive member Oversee compliance with legislation and regulatory Spyridon Ch. Paschalis Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Executive member requirements. Panagiotis G. Dikaios Executive member Ensure transparency of corporate operations. Panagiotis K. Throuvalas Non-Executive member Evaluate the effectiveness of internal control and risk George E. Efstratiadis Non-Executive member management systems. Anastassios G. Kyprianidis Independent Non-Executive member Monitor, review and evaluate the process of compiling *Data refer to 03/04/2019. financial information. Corporate Governance Code Dependency Relationships for BoD Members According to our Internal Regulation Code, the Corporate According to our Corporate Governance Code, we consider Governance Department is responsible to adhere to, update that a dependency relationship exists for candidate and and implement the Corporate Governance Code. actual independent, non-executive BoD members, when the member: • Maintains business or other professional relationship • The Board of Directors consists between three to nine members, with the Group or an affiliated company, which affects who are elected by the Shareholders General Assembly for two its business activity, especially in cases of being a major years, with the current seven-member BoD’s term end date on supplier or customer of the Group. 2020. • Is BoD President or Manager within the Group, or has the •B  oD members elect the President, Vice-President and Chief above described attributes, or is an executive BoD member Executive Officer, as well as the Authorized Director, if deemed in an affiliate company, or has any form of employment or necessary. paid relationship with the Group or an affiliated company. •R  esponsibilities of the President and the Chief Executive Officer • Has up to second-degree relationship or is a spouse of an are separate. executive BoD member or a Manager or a shareholder who •A  t the moment, there are no consultation processes between holds the majority share capital of the Group or an affiliated Stakeholders and the BoD on sustainability issues. However, company. it must be noted that there were no critical concerns communicated to the BoD within 2018. • T he BoD is responsible for the Chief Executive Officer’s performance evaluation. 21 Employee Guidebook: At the same time, we have Conflicts of Interests communicated the ‘Improving the Best’ information guidebook to all marine employees, who have signed the acceptance of According to our Corporate Governance Code, BoD members the main principles of professional behavior towards colleagues and any other person with delegated BoD responsibilities are and customers described within the guidebook, as well as crew prohibited to pursue personal interests which conflict with duties, relevant regulations, professional appearance guidelines business interests. In case such personal interests exist, they and general information about the Group and its vessels. shall inform other members for actual or potential conflict of interests while performing their duties. The Shareholders General Assembly is responsible to approve any action of BoD It must be noted that: members and Managers on their behalf or on behalf of third •A  ll employees with permanent and fixed term employment parties or participate as equal partners in companies which contracts are obliged to follow the Regulation of Professional pursue objectives similar to those pursued by our Group. Conduct & Business Ethics and Employee Guidebook. •W  e consider non-compliance with their principles as an occupational misconduct which may lead to termination of employment or even legal sanctions. •W  e impose sanctions stated in our Codes of professional behavior in cases where safety rules and marine law regulations or Group regulations are violated. •W  e require provision of undisputable evidence to confirm reports against any employee. •A  ll employees can seek advice or guidance from the Human Resources Department or directly to the Group’s management, in case they consider that there might be a conflict of interest. No such cases have been reported within 2018. •W  e prohibit any Manager-employee personal relationship within the same Department. Instead, we recommend that related employees or with any other personal relationship are employed in different Departments. We apply Principles and Regulation of Conduct •C  onduct relevant briefings to our employees, informing all Regulation of Professional Conduct & Business Ethics: We office employees regarding our Regulation of Professional have communicated our Regulation of Professional Conduct & Conduct & Business Ethics in 2018, in parallel with a briefing Business Ethics to all office employees via e-mail, which is also regarding the new European Union General Data Protection placed on their computer desktop. The Code is also part of the Regulation (GDPR) (see Section VII-1), all of whom signed introductory material provided to all new hired employees, who to understand, acknowledge and accept the respective sign for its receive and acceptance, and outlines the principles Regulations. and rules which govern our business activities on the following topics: We have communicated Regulation <> • Confidentiality – Privacy. of Professional Behavior to 100% of • Information Security – Insider Information. our employees • Personal Data and Information. •P rofessional Behavior: Behavior towards customers, behavior among colleagues. • Professional Appearance. • Health & Safety. • Conflict of interests. • Engaging with Other Work Activities. • Transparency of Activities. • Respect for Property and Provided Resources. • Group Representation in Media – Publications – Public Views. • Report of Illegal Activities and Violations. • Corporate Responsibility. 22 Reporting Violations Monitoring of transactions from BoD members, Managers and persons with insider information. Any office employee who becomes aware of any violation of the Regulation of Professional Conduct & Business Ethics Public disclosure of significant transactions. (such as fraud, theft or any other illegal activity), should Principles for transactions between affiliated companies. report the incident to his/her supervisor who informs • The integrated Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system we the Human Resources Department or the Internal Audit use to automate and computerize our operations. Department, in cases of fraud or incident that can lead to financial damage. At the same time, marine employees can report potential violations concerning the Employee Guidebook through the established procedure for Stock Trading Monitoring Procedure submitting complaints and additionally can contact the competent authorities directly for any violations. All reports According to the relevant legislation, we have compiled a have to be submitted by name, while marine employees list of people with access to privileged information, which is can anonymously submit any complaint through the provided to the Hellenic Capital Market Commission upon personal interviews conducted during the Maritime Labour request. We inform each person in the list for its obligations, Convention’s (MLC) external inspections. as well as potential sanctions in case of information misuse. Risk Management: Within the context of our risk management No violation cases concerning <> system, we maintain and update annually our Risk Registry in cooperation with Directors and the Group’s management, where our main principles and rules of records are assessed and prioritized according to risks that can professional behavior occurred affect our business plan. Based on the Registry’s latest update, we have identified the following risks that may affect our operations depending on their significance. We apply internal control and risk management Risk Registry systems Risk Description Internal Control: We apply an internal control system with 1 Reduction of available income and passenger volume due the policies and process we apply to ensure our effective and to financial recession. efficient operation, the reliability of our financial information 2 Loss of personal data. and our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The Board of Directors monitors, assesses and ensures the adequacy 3 Increase of marine fuel prices. of the internal control system (including financial statements), 4 Integration of Hellenic Seaways within the Group. through: 5 Business activity in Morocco. • The Audit Committee. 6 Changes in vessel operating regulations. • T he Internal Audit Department, which reports directly to 7 Difficulties in financing investment goals and strategic plans. the BoD and is supervised by the Audit Committee. We have 8 Risks from governmental decisions concerning the shipping sector. developed control systems and adhere to appropriate processes 9 Data security. for its operation as an independent body, which enables the Department to audit our functions and procedures based on an 10 Lack of vessel Officers (mainly engine vessel Officers). annual audit plan or at the request of the Group’s Management 11 Competition in domestic and international passenger shipping routes. or Audit Committee, as well as monitor the Internal Regulation 12 Risk from unsafe vessel approach to ports. Code’s implementation and enforcement. 13 Risk from expansion to new routes. • The Internal Regulation Code, which defines: 14 Credit risk. Departments’ structure, their responsibilities and the 15 Refugee crisis. relationship with the Group’s management. 16 Vessel maintenance. Responsibilities of BoD members. Recruitment and performance evaluation process for Managers. 23 Ensuring Business Continuity and Cybersecurity No corruption incidents occurred <> In order to ensure our infrastructure’s and computer systems’ uninterrupted operation, we: • Operate an Alternative Information Systems and Telecommunications Center. Anti-corruption Regulation • Implement a specific on-site and off-site backup policy. Showcasing our commitment to operate with integrity and transparency throughout our business operations, in 2018 we developed our Anti-corruption Regulation, which is Furthermore, we have established cybersecurity process to mandatory for all employees and communicates our zero maintain a secure online environment, in which we define tolerance towards corruption. The Regulation describes our our actions to protect office and vessel information systems principles regarding the following issues: from risks, such as: • Computer viruses and malware. •O  ur position against • ‘Facility Payments’. corruption. •C  onflict of interests. • Internal attacks. •C  ollaboration with •C  orrectness and • Important data destruction due to employee negligence. Customers, Agencies, Completeness of Archives. • External attacks (such as hacking and phishing). Suppliers and other third • Donations/Sponsorships. • Attacks to disrupt services when connected to the Internet parties. (Denial of Service – DOS). • ‘Gray Areas’. •G  ifts and entertainment expenses. •A  bsence of Retaliation. •P  rofessional Gifts. • I nformation mechanism for We contribute to anti-corruption corruption issues. Within the context of our efforts to combat and eradicate According to the Regulation’s provisions, we strictly prohibit corruption, we: all employees and anyone acting on our behalf to directly or •H  ave accepted and signed the UN Global Compact’s ‘Call indirectly offer or accept any item of value (with over €100 for Action’ initiative and commit to implement policies and cumulative value per calendar year) to or from any person practices to effectively tackle corruption incidents. who directly or indirectly represents a customer, agent, •H  ave developed our Anti-corruption Regulation with our main supplier or any other Stakeholder, in order to obtain or professional integrity and business ethics practices. attempt to obtain any personal benefit or business advantage through bribery, extortion or illegal procurement. In addition •H  ave placed our anti-corruption policies and procedures on all to potential legal actions, we immediately terminate the our office employees’ computer desktop. working relationship with any employee involved in a • S ubmit our positions regarding issues of public interest at confirmed corruption incident. national and international level either individually or through INTERFERRY (the international shipping association which represents the ferry industry worldwide) and SEEN (the Greek All employees can report actual or potential corruption Shipowners Association for Passenger Ships), in order to incidents to the BoD’s Audit Committee, which ensures in all transparently express our views and positions. cases the anonymity of employees who submit such reports and protects them from any actions against them, since any form of retaliation is considered a violation of our Regulation We informed 100% of office <> of Professional Conduct & Business Ethics. employees about our anti-corruption It must be noted that we did not made any donations to policies and procedures political parties in Greece within 2018. No bribery incidents related <> to our employees occurred 24 We follow fair competition rules We recognize the importance and our responsibility to follow fair • We conduct briefings on legislative competition issues to our competition rules and do not adopt anti-competitive practices. employees and Management Executives. In 2018, we trained Within this context: one office employee on the relevant legislation and anti•W e do not make negative comments about our competitors competitive behavior. publicly. •W e do not engage in illegal partnerships or price fixing Regarding previous legal cases, two complaints for antiagreements, market sharing or entering new markets and competitive behavior in 2015 and 2017 were rejected within 2018 customer segments. by the competent judicial bodies. •W e do not allow our employees to reveal confidential information regarding our activities, relationships with our customers or their personal and financial data, as well as discuss future plans that are not publicly known or salary issues. We comply with regulatory framework We closely monitor the regulatory and legal framework related • There were no legal cases related to corruption or personal data to our activities, in order to apply its relevant provisions. Within security related to our customers. 2018: • There were no written notices by competent authorities • There were no complaints or grievances regarding: regarding marketing, advertising, promotion, product and Labor practices. service information and labeling or environmental issues. Human rights violation. • The total value of fines imposed reached €78,700 due to: Marine employees’ living conditions onboard our vessels. A limited pollution incident. Privacy issues or personal data security on behalf of our Vessel fumigation. employees or customers. Vessel departure delays. Anti-competitive behavior or anti-trust practices. • There were no significant fines (over €20,000) or other nonOverbooking. monetary sanctions imposed due to: Environmental legislation violation. Corruption. Vessels’ acoustic impact. Anti-competitive behavior or anti-trust practices. • There were no incidents or cases of: Impact of our operations on local communities. Corruption. Employee Health and Safety. Bribery related to our employees. Overbooking. Employee discrimination. Product and service use. Dispute with the local communities of the islands we serve. Health and safety impacts of our products and services. Non-compliance of products and services during the Customers’ personal data security. external audits conducted by the relevant health and market Marketing, advertising, promotion, product and service authorities. information and labeling. Non-compliance with regulations regarding product and Other environmental issues. service use or their health and safety impacts. Rippling impact of our vessels. Recalls of products and services due to health and safety impacts. Non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning customers’ personal data security. Non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing, advertising, promotion, product and service information and labeling. Advertising campaigns being withdrawn. 25 2. Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Our approach to Corporate Responsibility aims to align our business operations with the needs of society and the environment. Therefore, we design and implement initiatives to prevent potential negative impacts due to our operations and respond to opportunities through interaction with our Stakeholders. We utilize appropriate organizational structures To manage topics related to our responsible operation, we have • At Board level, the Chief Executive Officer has the overall created an organizational structure, as described in the figure responsibility for Corporate Responsibility issues, including below. This organizational structure is also used to collect data, principles, policies and objectives. which are used internally to evaluate our performance, and • At Management level, the Corporate Responsibility Team is Stakeholders to do the same. responsible to coordinate our overall Corporate Responsibility strategy. The Team consists of executives from the Legal & Corporate Affairs Department, the Commercial Department, Managing Corporate Responsibility the Human Resources Department, the Marine Operations Department and the Financial Department and cooperates Level ATTICA GROUP with other Departments, in order to diffuse practices related to responsible operation. It must be noted that during 2018 we: Added an executive from the Financial Department into Board our Corporate Responsibility Team, in order to include Chief Executive Officer of Directors representative executives from all our main Departments within the Team. Management Corporate Responsibility Team: Completed the documentation of our Corporate Legal & Corporate Affairs Department Responsibility Team’s responsibilities, more specifically within the Group’s formal organizational structure for one Commercial Department member and in the formal job descriptions for the other four Human Resources Department members. Marine Operations Department Financial Department Sustainable Mobility Since 2011, we have signed the International Union of Railways’ (UIC) Declaration on Sustainable Mobility and Global Compact Principles Transport, which is aligned with the United Nations’ Global Compact and constitutes a public commitment to implement Our Regulation of Professional Conduct & Business and report on sustainable development practices through Ethics reflects our commitment to the 10 Principles of regular and transparent progress reports. Furthermore, the United Nations’ Global Compact, as it includes their we are members of UIC’s Sustainable Mobility Group to acknowledgement and acceptance. strengthen sustainability in the transportation sector and participated in the ‘UIC Sustainability Survey: Good Practice Examples’ on good practices related to sustainable development. 26 ‘European Enterprise Manifesto 2020’ Corporate Responsibility Strategy Since 2015, we have signed the European Enterprise Since 2017, we have initiated a process to develop and Manifesto 2020, part of the joint initiative ‘Enterprise 2020’ implement our Corporate Responsibility Strategy & Action of the Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility Plan 2018-2020, in order to improve our performance. Within (CSR Hellas), the European Business Network for Corporate this context, we utilized an online tool to quantitatively Social Responsibility (CSR Europe) and 42 CSR Networks measure our Group’s current Corporate Responsibility across Europe. The Manifesto promotes cooperation and maturity level in: initiatives in three strategic areas: • 7 Areas (Management, Owners, Employees, Suppliers, • Enhance employability and social inclusion. Customers, Communities and Environment). • Promote new sustainable production and consumption • 41 sub-Areas. methods, as well as improve living conditions. • 4 Dimensions (Policies, Processes, Performance and • Increase transparency and respect for human rights. Perception). Based on replies to over 1,000 potential questions based on Training on Corporate Responsibility criteria from internationally recognized systems (such as GRI, AA1000, ISO26000 and EFQM) and good practices from In order to further manage Corporate Responsibility, during leading organizations worldwide, we quantitatively assessed 2018 we organized a half-day Corporate Responsibility our Corporate Responsibility maturity and identified the training seminar to approximately 60 management Areas and Dimensions with the lowest scores where we executives, including the Chief Executive Officer, Top have to focus. Management members, Directors and Managers from all departments and the Corporate Responsibility Team, on the following topics: The results were presented during a half-day Strategy • Definition and importance of Corporate Responsibility. Workshop to approximately 60 management executives, including the Chief Executive Officer, Top Management • Managing Corporate Responsibility in a systematic way. members, Directors and Managers from all departments. • Review of Corporate Responsibility Report, including After the presentation, participants determined which strengths, areas for improvement and suggestions for the Areas, sub-Areas and Dimensions we should focus on, and next Report. defined the quantitative targets for each Area, forming the Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2018-2020. At the same time, we invited all Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries office employees to participate in the During 2018, each department defined the future actions interactive e-learning course ‘Let’s Think…’ on key concepts and responsible employees for each action included in our and thinking on Corporate Responsibility issues to help them Corporate Responsibility Action Plan 2018-2020, which are increase their awareness, facilitate their thinking process integrated in the Group’s objectives. Within the framework and adjust their behavior related to Corporate Responsibility. of our Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Action Plan, It must be noted that approximately 35% of all participants we record monthly and evaluate annually the achieved a score of over 80%. implementation of the respective actions, in order to monitor their achievement. 27 We operate based on Management Systems Our efforts are recognized We use the following certified Management Systems for our We consider the recognition of our efforts related to Corporate business operations: Responsibility as an important moral award, which also • International Safety Management (ISM) Code. highlights our commitment to continue our relevant practices and initiatives. In 2018, we were proud to receive: • International Vessel and Port Facility Security (ISPS) Code. • The inclusion in Greece’s largest corporate reputation survey • Maritime Labour Convention (MLC). Most Admired Companies 2018 by Fortune magazine as one • ISO 9001 Quality Management System. of the most admired companies in Greece, where we ranked • ISO 14001 Environmental Management System. 18th in the respective list regardless of industry, based on nine • I SO 50001 Energy Management System (refers only to Hellenic criteria (Innovation, Human Resources Management, Corporate Seaways). Resources Management, Corporate Social Responsibility, Characteristics-Quality Management, Economic Viability, • ISO 22000 Food Safety Management System (contractors). Long-term Investment Value, Quality of Products and Services Offered, Extroversion/Competitiveness). We were subjected to 82 external <> • An award in ECOCITY’s Environmental Awareness Awards ECOPOLIS 2018, in the category ‘Business Awards’, sub-category audits regarding Management ‘Environmental Policy’, for our systematic and responsible operation on environmental issues, being the first passenger Systems used by Blue Star Ferries and shipping group in Greece with this award. Superfast Ferries, with no recorded • The Silver Award in Boussias Communications’ Loyalty Awards non-compliance incident 2018 in the category ‘Best in Loyalty & Engagement (Travel)’, for our loyalty and reward program seasmiles. • Three awards in Boussias Communications’ Tourism AWARDS 2018: No non-compliance incident was <> The Gold Award in the category ‘Local community support / CSR activities’ for our overall social contribution and our social recorded during audits of our responsibility program ‘with you as our destination’. contractors’ Management Systems The Silver Award in the category ‘Technology enhanced experience’ for the infotainment platform @sea in our vessels (see Section VII-3), the first such platform in the Greek passenger shipping industry. We are members in national and international The Silver Award in the category ‘Loyalty Programs’ for our organizations loyalty and reward program seasmiles (see Section VII-3). We are members in the following institutions and organizations: • The Silver Award in Ethos Media’s Greek Hospitality Awards • INTERFERRY. 2018 in the category ‘Best Greek Domestic Passenger •G  reek Shipowners Association for Passenger Ships (SEEN). Shipping Company’, among the Greek hotels and tourism The Vice-President of BoD and the Chief Executive Officer are companies distinguished for their innovative practices, robust President of BoD and Vice-President of International Routes in management and willingness to offer top-level tourist services the BoD of SEEN. to visitors according to international standards. •H  ellenic Chamber of Shipping (HCS). The Vice-President of BoD and the Chief Executive Officer are BoD Members of HCS. •G  reek Tourism Confederation (SETE). •H  ellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR Hellas). • Hellenic Marine Environment Protection Association (HELMEPA). • Travel Technology Initiative. • International Union of Railways (UIC). • International Rail Transport Committee (CIT). • EURAIL Group GIE. • United Nations’ Global Compact. • Hellenic-Italian Chamber of Commerce. 28 3. Materiality and Stakeholders We identify Material Topics We have created the following Corporate Responsibility Framework, as a result of an internal analysis and interaction with our Stakeholders, in order to systematically organize and manage Corporate Responsibility issues. Corporate Responsibility Framework Economic Growth Societal Support Responsible Procurement Citizens Associations and Unions Suppliers Local Communities SOCIETY SUPPORT EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS Human Resources & Employment Safety & Security PASSENGER SAFETY Health & Safety Customers Employees Responsible Communication RESPONSIBLE Sales Network MANAGEMENT Equality & Diversity Media Quality & Satisfaction Shareholders Training & Development ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT State Environment NGOs Air Quality & Energy Raw Materials & Solid Waste Water & Liquid Waste In each one of the areas of Corporate Responsibility, we focus on Material Topics, identified through a respective Materiality Analysis, during which: • We identified potential topics, based on the industry’s regulatory framework, current global conditions and practices and future trends, developing a pool of over 90 topics to be considered. • We analyzed the associated risk for each topic, based on: Their potential impact (for our Stakeholders). Their probability of occurrence. • We utilized our Stakeholders’ expectations as far as our responsible operation is concerned, where available, taking into consideration Stakeholder engagement input from various sources (e.g. relevant surveys). • We combined the associated risk and Stakeholders’ expectations for each topic, taking into consideration the Group’s Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2018-2020 and the identified Areas where we should focus more through the implementation of our Corporate Responsibility Strategy & Action Plan 2018-2020 (see Section IV-2), as well as a relevant workshop to develop our Materiality Analysis. 29 Development of Corporate Responsibility Materiality Analysis For the first time during the annual Corporate Responsibility meeting we organize in the last four years, in 2018 we asked our management executives to share their views and collectively develop our Group’s Corporate Responsibility Materiality Analysis. As part of a specialized half-day workshop, over 110 management executives, including the Chief Executive Officer, Top Management members, Directors and Managers from all departments, were divided into 6 theme areas (Owners, Employees, Suppliers, Customers, Society and Environment) and analyzed the risk and our Stakeholders’ expectations on each topic, in order to determine the Material Topics we should focus our efforts. The Materiality Analysis was approved by the Corporate Responsibility Team and the Chief Executive Officer, who also approved the Corporate Responsibility Report. Through this Analysis, we have identified the following Material Topics for 2018 (all Topics that were not deemed Material are not referenced in detail): Corporate Responsibility Materiality Analysis High Passenger Safety  CO2 Emissions  Responsible Buying  R  esponsible Communication & Sales  Energy Use  SOx, NOx & PM Emissions  Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices  Accident Impact  Sea Pollution  Vessel Responsible Buying  Vessel Work Conditions  Products & Services Quality Risk (impact on Materiality)  Waste Handling  Vessel Health & Safety  Products & Services Affordability Labor Relations  Local Buying  Anti-competitive Behavior  Business Continuity  Passenger Property Protection   Supplier Environmental Assessment  Hazardous Waste  Supplier Human Rights Assessment Equality & Fairness  Investment Impacts  Effluent Handling at Sea  Material Recycling   Customer Satisfaction  Water Consumption Noise Pollution & Air Quality  Corporate Governance  Information Systems Security Corporate Responsibility Material Consumption Labor Practices Grievances  Fuel Spills & Leakages  Business Entrepreneurship Sea Biodiversity  Operational Support  Anti-Corruption  Rippling  Job Security  Products & Services Health Customer Privacy Environmental Training Internet Safety  Employee Benefits & Safety & Awareness  Anti-competitive Compliance Environmental Investment  Discharges at Sea Investments Land Biodiversity & Land Use  Social Products & Services  Public Involvement  Economic Transparency Office Health & Safety  Donation & Sponsoring  Society Grievances  Community Impact Customer Awareness Internal Communication Training & Development Corporate Volunteering Office Work Conditions Community Awareness Environmental Compliance Management Environmental Grievances Society Employees Customers Environment Material Topics of high importance Material Topics of medium importance Material Topics of moderate importance Refrigerants Use (ODP) Non-Material Topics Low Low Expectation (concern to Stakeholders) High 30 We interact with Stakeholders The way we operate, as well as our decisions, affect a wide •Q  ualitative Greek Domestic Lines Survey, with group range of people, groups and organizations, who comprise our discussions of 64 people who travelled by vessel in the past 12 Stakeholders. The following table describes our Stakeholder months or who often travel by vessel to specific destinations, groups, which influence or are influenced by our operations, the while it must be noted that we included additional questions methods we apply to continuously communicate and interact regarding our Corporate Responsibility performance (e.g. with them, the main topics raised by them, as well as the responsible product and service promotion, personal data sections within our Report, where we respond to these topics. protection, society support, management of environmental Within 2018, we identified our Stakeholders’ expectations impact) in the 2018 survey. related to our responsible operation, mainly through the •Q  uantitative Greek Domestic Lines Survey, with telephone following surveys: interviews to 1,050 people in selected areas (Attica, Rhodes, Kos, Tinos, Mykonos, Syros, Paros, Naxos and Santorini) who travelled by vessel in the past 12 months. Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Methods of interaction through continuous Main issues of interest activities (unless indicated otherwise) (reference in Report) DIRECT • Job Security (VI-1) • Training & Development (VI-4) • Vessel Health & Safety (VI-2) • Office Health & Safety (VI-2) • Events / Meetings • Vessel Work Conditions (VI-1-4) • Training • Employee Benefits (VI-3) Employees • Negotiations with Employee Unions • Equality & Fairness (VI-3) (through Greek Shipowners Association • Labor Practices Grievances (IV-1, VI-3) for Passenger Ships – SEEN) • Office Work Conditions (VI-1-4) • Labor Relations (VI-3) • Environmental Training & Awareness (VIII-1-3) • Internal Communication (VI-1) • Passenger Safety (VII-1) • Community Impact (V-2) • Corporate Responsibility (IV-2) • Accident Impact (V-2, VIII-1) • Shareholders General Assembly (annually) • Corporate Governance (IV-1) Shareholders • Websites • Business Continuity (IV-1) • Meetings • Investments (VI-3) • Anti-corruption (IV-1) • Information Systems Security (IV-1, VII-1) • Economic Transparency (IV-1, V-1) • Public Involvement (IV-1) • Passenger Safety (VII-1) • Products & Services Quality (VII-1, 3) • Products & Services Health & Safety (VII-1) • Qualitative Greek Domestic Lines Survey (annually) • Products & Services Affordability (VII-3) • Quantitative Greek Domestic Lines Survey • Responsible Communication & Sales (VII-2) (annually) • Customer Satisfaction (VII-3) • Customer Services Division Customers • Accident Impact (V-2, VIII-1) • Websites • Anti-competitive Behavior (IV-1) • Satisfaction / Complaints Questionnaires • Passenger Property Protection (VII-1) • Social media • Information Systems Security (IV-1, VII-1) • Information leaflets • Customer Privacy (VII-1) • Internet Safety (VII-1) • Customer Awareness (V-2, VIII-1-3) 31 Stakeholder Methods of interaction through continuous Main issues of interest activities (unless indicated otherwise) (reference in Report) DIRECT • Passenger Safety (VII-1) • Events / Meetings • Products & Services Quality (VII-1, 3) • Information systems Sales Network • Responsible Communication & Sales (VII-2) • Travel agents’ online portal • Customer Satisfaction (VII-3) • Websites • Anti-competitive Behavior (IV-1) • Operational Support (V-3) • Responsible Buying (V-3) • Supplier evaluation • Local Buying (V-3) Suppliers • Meetings • Vessel Responsible Buying (V-3) • Contracts • Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices (V-3) • Supplier Human Rights Assessment (V-3) • Supplier Environmental Assessment (V-3) INDIRECT • Passenger Safety (VII-1) • Discussion with representatives at local • Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3) State and national level • Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3) (e.g. Ministries, Local • Meetings / Presentations • Accident Impact (V-2, VIII-1) Authorities, Public • Participation in organizations and associations • Corporate Governance (IV-1) Services, Port Authorities) • Vessel inspections • Anti-competitive Behavior (IV-1) • Formal communication • Rippling (VIII-3) • Participation in associations • Passenger Safety (VII-1) Associations and Unions • Meetings / Presentations • Products & Services Quality (VII-1, 3) (e.g. Industry Associations, • Discussion with representatives at local • Products & Services Affordability (VII-3) Hoteliers’ Associations) and national level • Anti-competitive Behavior (IV-1) • Formal communication • Community Impact (V-2) • Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3) • Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3) • CO2 Emissions (VIII-1) • Effluent Handling (VIII-3) • Waste Handling (VIII-2) • Discharges at Sea (VIII-2, 3) • Hazardous Waste (VIII-2) • Qualitative Greek Domestic Lines Survey (annually) • SO2, NOx & PM Emissions (VIII-1) • Quantitative Greek Domestic Lines Survey Local Communities • Noise Pollution & Air Quality (VIII-1) (annually) (e.g. islands) • Environmental Grievances (IV-1) • Meetings / Presentations • Environmental Compliance (IV-1) • Local events and programs • Accident Impact (V-2, VIII-1) • Donation & Sponsoring (V-2) • Investment Impacts (V-2) • Business Entrepreneurship (V-2) • Corporate Volunteering (V-2) • Rippling (VIII-3) • Society Grievances (IV-1, V-2) • Community Awareness (V-2) 32 Stakeholder Methods of interaction through continuous Main issues of interest activities (unless indicated otherwise) (reference in Report) INDIRECT • Passenger Safety (VII-1) • Products & Services Quality (VII-1, 3) • Energy Use (VIII-1) • Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3) • Qualitative Greek Domestic Lines Survey (annually) • Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3) • Quantitative Greek Domestic Lines Survey • CO2 Emissions (VIII-1) Citizens (annually) • Environmental Training & Awareness (VIII-1) • Websites • Material Consumption (VIII-2) • Social media • Material Recycling (VIII-2) • Products & Services Affordability (VII-3) • Responsible Communication & Sales (VII-2) • Accident Impact (V-2, VIII-1) • Social Products & Services (V-2) • Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3) • Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3) • Effluent Handling (VIII-3) • Waste Handling (VIII-2) • Discharges at Sea (VIII-2, 3) • Water Consumption (VIII-3) • Sea Biodiversity (VIII-3) • Land Biodiversity & Land Use (VIII-3) • Noise Pollution & Air Quality (VIII-1) • Refrigerants Use (ODP) (VIII-1) • Environmental Grievances (IV-1) Non-Governmental • Collaborations • Environmental Compliance (IV-1) Organizations (NGOs) • Meetings / Presentations • Vessel Health & Safety (VI-2) • Accident Impact (V-2, VIII-1) • Vessel Work Conditions (VI-1-4) • Equality & Fairness (VI-3) • Labor Practices Grievances (VI-3) • Office Work Conditions (VI-1-4) • Rippling (VIII-3) • Anti-corruption (IV-1) • Labor Relations (VI-3) • Investments (VI-3) • Environmental Training & Awareness (VIII-1) • Passenger Safety (VII-1) • Products & Services Quality (VII-1, 3) • Community Impact (V-2) • Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3) • Press releases • Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3) Media • Press conferences • Responsible Communication & Sales (VII-2) • Websites • Accident Impact (V-2, VIII-1) • Donation & Sponsoring (V-2) • Environmental Investment (VIII-1) • Anti-competitive Compliance (IV-1) 33 STATE Le ve NGOs lo fC on tro l ENVIRONMENT EMPLOYEES LOCAL SALES CITIZENS CUSTOMERS COMMUNITIES SHAREHOLDERS NETWORK SUPPLIERS MEDIA ASSOCIATIONS AND UNIONS We focus on quantitative data and results We focus to continuously include and publish more quantitative indicators and objectives, in order to respond to our Stakeholders’ requirement for greater transparency and their need to be able to evaluate our performance. Aiming to systematically report on our performance, we have completed and finalized our Corporate Responsibility Report’s quantitative indicators and initiated accordingly the design of our Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. Quantitative Data within the Corporate Responsibility Report 66 225 We increased by 7% the number <> 2018 18 42 of quantitative indicators we make reference to within the Report 210 56 2017 18 55 200 58 2016 14 33 Quantitative indicators (number) Fully covered GRI disclosures (number) Partially covered GRI disclosures (number) Objectives (number) 34 4. Achievements 2018 and Future Objectives We committed Progress We aim By To improve our overall performance on Corporate To improve our overall performance on Corporate Responsibility issues by 24% (by 2020). 25% Responsibility issues by 24%. 2020 To improve our performance on Corporate To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility issues related to Owners by 10% 75% Responsibility issues related to Owners by 10%. 2020 (by 2020). To improve our performance related to To improve our performance related to Management of Corporate Responsibility issues 25% Management of Corporate Responsibility issues 2020 by 25% (by 2020). by 25%. To conduct a Stakeholder Engagement process To conduct a Stakeholder Engagement process on issues related to Corporate Responsibility 25% on issues related to Corporate Responsibility. 2019 (by 2019). To include Corporate Responsibility Team’s responsibilities within its members’ formal 100% job descriptions. To conduct trainings or briefings related to the Regulation of Professional Conduct & 100% Business Ethics. To develop an Anti-Corruption Code. 100% To include our Corporate Responsibility Report’s To include our Corporate Responsibility Report’s quantitative indicators in our SAP ERP. 0% quantitative indicators in our SAP ERP. 2021 To develop a Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Action Plan 2018-2020, based on quantitative 100% assessment and target setting. To integrate the Corporate Responsibility Strategy To integrate the Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2018-2020’s target assessment score within the 50% 2018-2020’s target assessment score within the 2020 overall Group Strategy. overall Group Strategy. To include the Corporate Responsibility Strategy To include the Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2018-2020’s quantitative assessment score 2018-2020’s quantitative assessment score as target in the formal appraisal process for Top 0% as target in the formal appraisal process for Top 2019 Management members and at least one Board of Management members and at least one Board Directors member (by 2019). of Directors member. To develop a process to identify, prioritize and To develop a process to identify, prioritize and include Corporate Responsibility issues in local and 0% include Corporate Responsibility issues in local and 2019 international investment agreements. international investment agreements. To establish a comprehensive Business To establish a comprehensive Business Continuity Plan to ensure continuation of our 0% Continuity Plan to ensure continuation of our 2020 operations following unexpected events (by 2020). operations following unexpected events. To include perception measurement questions regarding our Corporate Responsibility performance (e.g. responsible promotion of 100% products and services, personal data protection, society support) in our market surveys. 35 V. SOCIETY We support prosperity of Society 36 WE ARE €365.4 million turnover €569.6 €2.2 million economic value million social distributed contribution WE COMMIT TO 75,322 discount tickets Combine our business success with our country’s and partners’ development, as well as support local communities affected by our operations, in order to contribute to improving the quality of life and prosperity of our society in general. WE FOLLOW Principles of the United Nations’ 113 blood units from volunteer Global Compact /1/  Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights /2/ Ensure not to be complicit in human rights abuses /4/ Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour blood donators /5/ Abolish effectively child labour /8/ Promote greater environmental responsibility WE ACHIEVED • We distributed over €569 million in • We increased the number of Blue Star •W  e collected 251 blood units through economic value: over €91.6 million to Ferries and Superfast Ferries sales our voluntary blood donation programs employees (for salaries, benefits and network employees trained by 16.6% in the last three years. insurance payments), €71.3 million for and over four times the number of total •W  e welcomed 1,290 young people from taxes (including VAT and port taxes), training hours. schools and universities visiting our €59.3 million to providers of capital (for • We implemented or supported societal vessels. interest and return payments), €20.6 support activities in 100% of the islands •W  e supported the development of 83 million to agents (for commissions), we serve. students in Merchant Navy’s Officer €196.6 million to suppliers (for • We increased the total number of academies. purchases of goods and services), €2.2 discount tickets offered through Blue •W  e maintained the percentage of million to society (for discount tickets, Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries by procurement expenditure to local implemented programs, sponsorships 11.8%. suppliers over 90%. and donations) and €128 million for investments. • We increased the total value of societal •W  e allocated 28.7% of total support activities through Blue Star procurement expenditure to small and Ferries and Superfast Ferries by 14.7%. medium-sized enterprises (up to 250 • We allocated 47% of sponsorships and employees). donations to local communities. 37 WE FOCUS Economic Growth Societal Support Responsible Procurement Citizens Associations and Unions Suppliers Local Communities SOCIETY SUPPORT EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS Human Resources & Employment Safety & Security PASSENGER SAFETY Health & Safety Customers Employees Responsible Communication RESPONSIBLE Sales Network MANAGEMENT Equality & Diversity Media Quality & Satisfaction Shareholders Training & Development ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT State Environment NGOs Air Quality & Energy Raw Materials & Solid Waste Water & Liquid Waste 38 1. Economic Growth We achieve financial results Turnover per Market Holding a leading position in the provision of maritime 2018 75.8 24.2 transportation services, we achieve positive financial results, which are indicatively presented below for the period 2016-2018 (additional financial information can be found in our Annual 2017 68 32 Financial Reports at www.attica-group.com). 2016 68.1 31.9 Domestic routes (%) Financial Results Adriatic Sea routes (%) 2016 2017 2018* Turnover (total sales with VAT) (million €) 268.61 271.54 365.4 Revenue Structure Operating costs (million €) 187.76 211.52 290.8 Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation 4.7% 70.03 59.55** 57 4.1% and amortization (EBITDA) (million €) Profits after taxes (million €) 20.25 1.25 17.27 6.5% 44.5% Corporate taxes (thousand €) 745 307 264.4 Total taxes (including corporate taxes, VAT 48.68 49.43 71.3 11.4% and port taxes) (million €) Revenues from passenger tickets Payments to providers of capital (million €) 60.94 34.7 59.3 Revenues from freight unit tickets Revenues from other vehicle tickets Payments to suppliers (million €) 145.1 130.75 196.6 Revenues from compensation for public services Cost of employees (including salaries, benefits 60.59 61.61 91.6 Revenues from onboard services and insurance payments) (million €) 28.8% Other revenues Commissions to agents (million €) 14.91 15.27 20.6 Investments (million €) 4.06 7.18 128 * Data refer to the period 01/01/2018-31/ 12/2018 for Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries We contribute to economic growth and 01/06/2018-31/12/2018 for Hellenic Seaways. Our business operations ensure we return significant economic ** Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) for 2017 have been restated. value back to our Stakeholders, mostly through purchases (towards our suppliers), commissions (towards our agents), It must be noted that during 2018, the total financial salaries, benefits and insurance payments (towards our compensation received from the Greek State and grants from the employees), taxes (towards the State) and investments, while European Union amounted to €23.87 million, compared to €11.69 we transport food products and materials to islands, in order to million in 2017, due to public service contracts awarded, as Blue develop local economies and tourism. Star Ferries and Hellenic Seaways participated in open public tenders by the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy to operate Economic Value shipping routes which connect remote islands with the mainland. Capital Distribution Providers Taxes** €59.3 million €71.3 million We distributed over €569 million in <> economic value: over €91.6 million to Suppliers €196.6 million employees (for salaries, benefits and Agents insurance payments), €71.3 million for taxes €20.6 million Distributed Economic Value (including VAT and port taxes), €59.3 million €569.6 million to providers of capital (for interest and return payments), €20.6 million to agents (for Society*** commissions), €196.6 million to suppliers €2.2 million (for purchases of goods and services), €2.2 Employees* million to society (for discount tickets, €91.6 million implemented programs, sponsorships and Investments donations) and €128 million for investments €128 million * The amount refers to gross salaries, benefits and insurance payments. ** The amount refers to total taxes, including VAT and port taxes. *** The amount refers to value of discount tickets, implemented programs, sponsorships and donations. 39 We help our sales network develop The current challenging economic situation makes every effort to create direct and indirect job positions particularly important. Therefore, we contribute to our network’s commercial success by developing their employees’ skills, through: • Training on issues, such as: Customer management. Familiarization with new features of existing reservation programs. Familiarization with new reservation programs. • Presentations-briefings for new products and services. <> Sales Network Training We increased the number of Blue Star 240 2018 1,920 Ferries and Superfast Ferries sales 84 network employees trained by 16.6% 2018* 1,136 and the number of total training hours 72 by over four times 2017 248 74 Besides trainings conducted to the Blue Star Ferries, Superfast 2016 1,584 Ferries and Hellenic Seaways sales network, we conduct training Employees trained (number) programs to employees of AML’s sales network, without however Training hours (hours) any relevant trainings within 2018. * Data refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. 40 2. Society Support We support society We offered over €195,800 to various social groups, organizations Identify Local Community Needs and sport associations during 2018, out of which over €34,000 to NGOs and over €30,700 were infrastructure investments to local According to a formal process to identify and determine communities, with the following indicative examples being the: local community needs, we: • The Holy Diocese of Chios-Psara-Oinousses. • Identify their potential needs, through: • The ‘Agoni Grammi Gonimi’ program. Daily written, electronic and telephone communication with local authorities, associations and unions. • The Safe Water Sports initiative. Our partners, such as our sales network agents and • The Sport Association Kolossos Rhodes. suppliers. • The Sport Association Foinikas Syrou. Non-profit organizations. • The Heraklion Sailing Club. Social networks. • The Olympic sailing team P. Mantis – P. Kagialis. The Media. • The Institute for Alternative Policies. The qualitative and/or quantitative market surveys we • The reconstruction of Symi’s Kindergarten, which was implement. completely destroyed by devastating floods in November 2017. On-the-spot visits. Social Contribution • Filter and evaluate their needs, in accordance with our 2016 2017 2018* 2018 capabilities and importance to local communities. Value of discount tickets (€) 1,296,656 1,436,386 1,598,602 1,982,089 • Select the activities to support or plan new activities Value of donations from in-house or in cooperation with third parties. passengers to charitable 3,371 2,605 3,433 3,433 organizations through collection boxes in vessels (€) Within the context of our societal contribution, we designed and Value of implemented social implemented or supported over 130 societal support activities in 0 4,730 42,995 42,995 programs (€) 2018, focusing on local communities of islands we serve, through: Value of sponsorships and 98,409 155,639 190,092 195,802 • Provision of discount tickets. donations (€) • Donations to charitable organizations through collection boxes * Data refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. in our vessels. • Social programs to improve the life of residents in islands. Society Support • Monetary sponsorships and donations. 2,224,319 2018 75,322 We implemented or supported <> 2018* 53,748 1,835,122 societal support activities in 100% 1,599,360 of the islands we serve 2017 48,052 1,398,436 2016 44,747 Furthermore, we donate surplus equipment to schools and Value of societal support activities (€) charitable organizations, and more specifically in 2018: Discount tickets (number) • 8 personal computers, 4 computer monitors, 4 computer mice * Data refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. and 4 keyboards to three schools in Attica Prefecture. Sponsorships and Donations • 1 mobile phone to a ‘Greek Communities of Italy’ program 0.4% partner. 8.6% • 1 computer monitor and 1 laptop to the Traffic Police Authority 38.3% of Piraeus. Cultural Sports Social Other 52.7% 41 We increased the total number of <> We increased the total value <> discount tickets offered through Blue of societal support activities through Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries by Blue Star Ferries and Superfast 11.8% Ferries by 14.7% Provision of Discount Tickets We offer discount tickets to various NGOs, associations, • 100% discount to passenger tickets for over 100 pregnant local authorities and local communities, in order for them to women and their escorts from remote islands to areas with attend sport, cultural or educational activities outside their medical presence on behalf of the non-profit organization islands or local activities and events, as well as in cases of HOPEgenesis, which is active in the health and social care emergency. Indicative examples include: sector and strives to reverse the birth deficit trend in Greece. • 30% discount to passenger and private vehicles and motorcycle tickets for those with at least four overnight Furthermore, we provided discount tickets for the AELIA stays in Lesvos, Chios, Leros and Kos (see Section VII-3). professional empowerment workshop trips to Aegean • 50% discount for newly enrolled students in higher islands to implement the ‘My Island 12 Months’ program education institutions and their families for their first trips and support activities by professionals in their islands (e.g. to register and find a home. small conferences, cultural or athletic events, experiential • 50% discount for substitute teaching faculty appointed to tourism), which could attract visitors to islands, even during islands. the low tourist season. Within the context of the program, we supported the organization’s activities in three islands • 30%-100% discount for 327 residents in Cyclades, (Astypalaia, Amorgos and Antiparos), where 42 people Dodecanese, Saronic islands, Sporades and North Aegean received counseling/educational support and gained islands, as well as 64 residents in Crete who travel regularly valuable knowledge. due to serious health issues and do not have the necessary financial means. • 30% discount for three children families in Crete routes. Overall, it is estimated that during 2018, we offered 75,322 discount tickets for sport, cultural and educational activities • 50% discount for permanent residents of Ydra, Spetses, and additionally benefitted thousands of citizens who Poros and Ag. Eustratios to specific routes. participated or attended those events and activities. Donations to Charitable Organizations As part of our societal contribution, we support various Furthermore, we collaborate with the 2 Blue Tomatoes charitable organizations which: company to sell t-shirts in Blue Star Ferries and Superfast • Are committed to support children. Ferries vessel shops, which feature unique and original printed stamps to promote local traditional foods and recipes. • Have limited resources. The total value of 98 units sold in vessel shops reached approximately €1,900 and 2 Blue Tomatoes offered part Therefore, we place collection boxes at the Reception desks of their revenues to support the non-profit organization onboard all Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessels ‘Desmos’ (www.desmos.org) to create sustainable solidarity with the name of the supported organization indicated, in networks and cultivate social and humanitarian responsibility. order to collect donations from passengers. Each month, we gather these donations and deposit them into the organization’s bank account. Within this context, we supported the following charitable organizations in 2018: • Smile of the Child. • Amnesty International. • Lions Club Rhodes. 42 Design and Implementation of Educational and Cultural Activities Besides our support to societal support activities, we design and implement additional activities, within the context of contributing socially, as in 2018 we: • Collaborated with the pculiar platform’s photographic team Reflex Photographers to implement the cultural activity ‘The unseen Aegean beauty’ and created an online photo album with photos of Aegean islands and their customs available at www.bluestarferries.com, in order to highlight their cultural richness and present more information about each island’s culture and customs. • Collaborated with the National Centre for Scientific Research ‘Demokritos’ for the Science on Board activity, which was conducted onboard a vessel during its stay at the port of Rhodes, where approximately 600 primary school students were informed about chemistry, biology, computing and robotics, in order to expand their knowledge and understand the importance of technological achievements, observation, experimentation and the value of scientific process for society. Furthermore, we organized a tour for the students onboard our vessel and informed them about the importance of the Greek shipping sector. • Launched the initiative of two-day educational visits of 5th and 6th grade students from Aegean islands to cultural centers and institutions in Athens, during which 31 students and their escorts from primary schools of Amorgos visited and participated in a tour at the Acropolis Museum, the Stavros Niarchos Foundation Cultural Center to attend a robotics training program, and the Planetarium, while we welcomed students, tutors and teachers on a tour in one of our vessels. • Launched the initiative ‘Greek Communities of Italy’ and collaborated with the Greek Language Center, the Greek Communities Emilia Romagna and Marche and the European School-Greek Section of Parma to proliferate • Collaborated with the Greek Gastronomy Guide and the Greek language and Greek culture, during which implemented the internet campaign ‘Serving Aegean’ to school students and adults learnt Greek, participated in promote the history, geography, products, cuisine and experiential workshops, tasted Greek traditional dishes, traditional dishes of 18 Aegean islands (Crete, Rhodes, danced, sang and read Greek literature. At the same time, Kos, Kalymnos, Astypalaia, Patmos, Santorini, Ios, Tinos, we expanded the children’s library in the Greek community Mykonos, Naxos, Paros, Syros, Lesser Cyclades, Amorgos, of Marche with books from well-known Greek writers. Ikaria, Chios and Lesvos), while further information about • Hosted the events of the Association of Carpathians and the each island’s local producers, taverns, restaurants and Federation of Lesbian Associations of Attica (OLSA) in our cafes, local festivals, markets and sights can be found in the vessels at Piraeus, as well as the Dodecanese Regional Scout website www.greekgastronomyguide.gr. Ephorate’s conference on our vessel at Rhodes. 43 First Aid Training Courses Support to Underprivileged Social Groups During 2018, we continued to support the Volunteer We strive to support various social groups in need, in Crisis Rescue Team (VCRT) programs in Amorgos, which collaboration with NGOs, specialized authorities and was established through the original First Aid training organizations. Since September 2012, we support the program we initiated in 2014 and since then has provided Holy Diocese of Chios-Psara-Oinousses to provide meals significant rescue assistance, especially during the refugee to sensitive social groups, by purchasing required raw crisis. Within this context, we supported a two-day First Aid materials for food rations. seminar in Naxos to train 114 people from various Security Agencies. Provision of Meals to Underprivileged Citizens 16,232 2018 23,905 14,791 2017 21,752 13,586 2016 19,979 Value of raw materials purchased (€) Corresponding food rations (number) We allocated 47% of sponsorships <> and donations to local communities At the same time, we participated in efforts by the Greek ‘Agoni Grammi Gonimi’ government and non-governmental organizations to assist To ensure participation of small island residents in refugees, as we: educational and cultural events, we supported the ‘Agoni • Provided 1,369 free tickets to NGO ‘Metadrasi’, which aims to Grammi Gonimi’ program for the 12th consecutive year, which protect unaccompanied minors and provide interpretation and is the largest educational and cultural program of remote intercultural mediation services. Aegean islands. Within 2018, the program featured cultural • Provided free tickets to organizations and associations for 72 activities in 6 islands (Astypalaia, Donousa, Naxos, Thirasia, humanitarian aid shipments, during which we transported over Kithira and Santorini) with 7 different creative workshops 1,700 packages, boxes, parcels and pallets. (jewelry making, automatic control and robotics, spinning top and kite demonstration, chess, sailing modeling, singing and choir management), with the participation of approximately 167 children and 20 adults, compared to 161 children and 56 adults in 2017. 13 ο πολιτισμός πιο κοντά σε όλους! Αστυπάλαια • Δονούσα • Απείρανθος Νάξου • Θηρασιά • Κύθηρα • Σαντορίνη ρομποτική | κρουστά | χορωδία | μοντελισμός | σκάκι | σβούρα | χαρταετός 44 Φεβρουάριος Ιούνιος 2019 ΚΥΡΙΟΣ ΧΟΡΗΓΟΣ ΥΠΟ ΤΗΝ ΑΙΓΙΔΑ ΜΕ ΤΗΝ ΥΠΟΣΤΗΡΙΞΗ ΣΕ ΣΥΝΕΡΓΑΣΙΑ We cultivate the importance of volunteer contribution We support professional growth of young people We believe that it is our responsibility to cultivate the importance We focus on educational contribution and supporting of volunteer contribution to our employees, in order to integrate professional growth of young people, as we: the concept of responsibility in their behavior. Within this context, • Welcome school and university students to inform them about we participated in the 2nd charity race ‘No Finish Line’ with a team career prospects in the shipping industry and employment of 85 volunteer runners to support the association ‘Together opportunities in the passenger shipping industry, as well as for Children’ and covered a total distance of 1,306 km. Overall, promote their environmental awareness. participant runners covered a total distance of approximately • Participate in periodic student internship programs of the 95,000 km to financially support of poor families with children. Merchant Navy’s Officer academies (for Engine and Deck cadets) who are required to successfully complete a one-year internship Employee Participation in Societal Support Activities onboard a vessel prior to their graduation, as well as in periodic field journey programs for Coast Guard students (Ensign cadets) 170 to familiarize themselves with their future duties. 2018 9.3 288 • Implement internship programs for university students and graduates to acquire professional experience and develop 165 skills and competencies which advance their personal and 2017 13.7 professional development. 186 Supporting Professional Growth 121 2016 8.9 121 1,290 Employee volunteers (number) 2018 83 Employee volunteers participation (%) 0 Employee volunteering (hours) 739 2017 87 0 ‘Blood Ties’ 866 Since 2009, we implement a voluntary blood donation 2016 124 108 program called ‘Blood Ties’, in order to respond to needs of remote Greek island residents and to personal emergencies Visiting school and university students (number) of our employees and their families. Within 2018, we Students and Merchant Navy’s academies (number)* Coast Guard students (number) continued the program for the 10th consecutive year with 3 employee voluntary blood donations, in cooperation with * Number of students from Merchant Navy’s academies for 2017 has been restated. the ‘G. Gennimatas’ General Hospital and ELPIS Hospital and gathered in total 113 blood units, out of which 49 units were utilized for our employees’ and their families’ needs and 3 units from local community members. We welcomed 1,290 young people <> from schools and universities visiting Voluntary Blood Donation our vessels 113 2016 2017 2018 70 We supported the development of 83 <> 68 students in Merchant Navy’s Officer Blood units (number) academies We collected 251 blood units through <> our voluntary blood donation programs in the last three years 45 We care for the impact of our operations We strive to ensure that our operations have the least possible Within 2018: impact on local communities we operate in. For this reason, we: • A slight collision incident between Blue Horizon and Blue • Have included the risk of significant potential or actual negative Galaxy during departure at the port of Piraeus occurred, with impacts on local communities from our operations in our annual only minor damages to both vessels and no injury caused. The risk assessment. two vessels were classified as seaworthy following required • Monitor and continuously assess our vessels’ Safety inspections by the vessels’ classification society and continued Management System. their journeys. • Conduct security risk assessments when deemed necessary. • A collision of the right stern passenger ramp of Blue Star Paros at the port of Syros occurred due to extremely strong side winds • Trained 40% of office security personnel on our human rights during departure without any injuries. The vessel continued its policies and procedures, which accounted for 8.2% of total scheduled journeys following minor damage repairs and the training hours, without however conducting relevant trainings respective classification society’s inspections. to marine security personnel. • A slight collision of Flying Cat 4 at the port bow of Rafina • Outline tasks related to security in job descriptions. during departure handling occurred, due to technical problem • Have developed an Emergency Plan, which includes measures in the vessels’ engines without causing any injury among its to deal with negative impacts (e.g. pollution) and regularly train passengers and crew members or marine pollution. marine employees on such issues. • Have developed a ‘Crisis Communication Plan’, in order to ensure seamless information flow during emergencies and responsible communication to interested parties, beyond what is already specified within our Safety Management System for crisis and emergencies management. 46 3. Responsible Procurement We give priority to local suppliers Our suppliers are 1,451 throughout Greece and abroad, with We allocated 28.7% of total <> 82.1% of them being local suppliers. Based on their turnover, we procurement expenditure to small and consider 108 of them as major suppliers, out of which 74 are local suppliers. For 2018: medium-sized enterprises (up to 250 • The average supplier payment time was 114 days, compared to employees) 57 days in 2017. • 100% of payments for undertaken contractual obligations were made according to the terms in our contract agreements, as in Allocation of Purchases per Region* 2017. 2018 9 88.1 2.9 Supplier Categories 6.5% 2017 7 90.2 2.8 2.6% 6.3% 2016 17.7 65.5 16.8 9.5% Abroad (%) Local Urban(%) Local Rural (%) 12% 63.1% * Percentages for 2018 and 2017 refer to the procurement expenditure of all suppliers, while percentages for 2016 refer to the number of significant suppliers. Marine fuels and lubricants Vessel repairs, spare parts and consumables Agency services We responsibly select our suppliers Port services General services and products As our suppliers influence our responsible operation, we fully Insurance services acknowledge our moral obligation to positively influence our supply chain and promote the principles of Corporate Responsibility to our suppliers. So far, we have not identified Suppliers and Procurement Expenditure any suppliers with significant actual or potential negative environmental, labor practices and human rights impacts or impacts on society. 1,451 2018 1,191 90.7 Furthermore, since March 2016 we evaluate our new suppliers’ performance with an annual spending of over €10,000, without 1,110 however conducting a respective assessment within 2018 2017 932 92.9 due to the integration of Hellenic Seaways into the Group, the restructuring of the Procurement Department and the 1,202 development of a single procurement process. The performance 2016 986 evaluation process utilizes specific criteria in five areas, based on 90.4 which we approve our suppliers: Suppliers (number) • Quality Local suppliers (number) Procurement expenditure to local suppliers (%) • Cost • Availability We maintained the percentage of <> • Service – Support – Adaptability • Credit Policy procurement expenditure to local suppliers over 90% 47 It must be noted that: Responsible Vessel Buying • We have completed the development of a single Procurement We follow the most recent safety regulations during buying Process and a Code of Conduct for Suppliers / Partners, which and building of our vessels, without however ignoring also describes our policy for our Contractors’ Suppliers, for which potential future safety regulations, which may affect their their final approval is currently pending. operation. At the same time, we focus on vessels’ energy • For each tender we require at least three offers, except for direct efficiency and strive to implement innovative technologies. selection cases, either because they exactly match our technical specifications or only one unique supplier exists. • We assess new suppliers’ performance prior to our collaboration, according to available and applicable criteria, without initiating collaboration with any new suppliers within 2018. • We evaluate the exclusive representatives of manufacturing companies based on all above criteria, although there is no option to substitute them, due to their exclusivity. • We inform suppliers with low scores they need to improve their performance, in order to continue our collaboration, as they will otherwise be rejected, without however conducting a respective assessment within 2018. • We immediately re-evaluate a supplier’s performance and proceed with appropriate measures in case a supplier provides unsuitable or dangerous products, demonstrates unethical behavior or does not fulfill our cooperation agreement. It must be noted that within 2018, we did not discontinue our collaboration with any supplier as a result of actual or potential compliance issues, such as anti-competitive behavior, environmental protection, product health and safety and labour practices. • We select suppliers for materials or services among approved suppliers, based on the performance evaluation conducted. It must be noted that we send product samples to a certified laboratory depending on the materials and needs (e.g. we send samples of marine fuels 10 times per vessel per year), in case we cannot determine whether product specifications match the ones agreed with the supplier, in order to analyze and verify their specifications. 48 4. Achievements 2018 and Future Objectives We committed Progress We aim By To improve our performance on Corporate To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility issues related to Community by 10% 75% Responsibility issues related to Community by 10%. 2020 (by 2020). To improve our performance on Corporate To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility issues related to Suppliers by 180% 0% Responsibility issues related to Suppliers by 180%. 2020 (by 2020). To consolidate/review the various procurement To consolidate/review the various procurement processes per Department and establish a single 75% processes per Department and establish a single 2019 Procurement Process. Procurement Process. To develop a Policy for our Contractors’ Suppliers (by 2019). 75% To develop a Policy for our Contractors’ Suppliers. 2019 To develop a Code of Conduct for Suppliers, To develop a Code of Conduct for Suppliers, including selection criteria to become a supplier. 75% including selection criteria to become a supplier. 2019 To integrate contractual clauses for Corporate Responsibility issues into contracts with significant 0% suppliers (by 2019). To integrate Corporate Responsibility issues in To integrate Corporate Responsibility issues in selection criteria to become a supplier (by 2019). 75% selection criteria to become a supplier. 2019 To increase sales network employees’ training hours by 5%. 100% To apply a process to identify and define needs of local communities in products, services or donations, as well as support the activities of 100% organizations with a charitable purpose. To support the activities of charitable organizations To support the activities of charitable organizations and NGOs. 100% and NGOs. 2019 To implement at least 2 volunteer activities with To implement at least 2 volunteer activities with the participation of our employees. 100% the participation of our employees. 2019 To design and implement 5 programs / activities To design and implement 2 programs / activities to address local communities needs in the areas of 100% to address local communities needs in the areas of 2019 sports, culture, education or health. sports, culture, education or health. 49 VI. EMPLOYEES We establish positive Employment Conditions 50 WE ARE 1,823 employees 15.5% women 100% of employees with full time employment contracts WE COMMIT TO 100% of employees informed Cultivate a workplace focused on respect, equality, safety and merit, as well as offer training opportunities to our employees, in order to facilitate their regarding Corporate personal and professional development. Responsibility issues WE FOLLOW Principles of the United Nations’ 100% of employees covered by Global Compact /1/  Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights /2/  Ensure not to be complicit in human rights abuses /3/  Recognize freedom of association and right to collective bargaining voluntary benefits /4/  Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour /5/  Abolish effectively child labour /6/  Eliminate discrimination in respect to employment and occupation WE ACHIEVED •W  e employ 100% of our employees • We conducted internal drills on with full time employment contracts. Health and Safety issues (such as • 100% of employees in Director response to emergency situations) to positions are Greek. 100% of marine employees. • No grievances regarding our marine • We increased the number of employees’ living conditions were employees trained and training filed. hours in Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries by 124.6% and • 100% of our employees received 35.1% respectively. their annual leave, as planned. 51 WE FOCUS Human Resources & Employment Health & Safety Equality & Diversity Training & Development Employees EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS Safety & Security PASSENGER SAFETY Economic Growth SOCIETY SUPPORT Citizens RESPONSIBLE Customers Associations and Unions Societal Support Responsible Communication MANAGEMENT Sales Network Suppliers Shareholders Media Responsible Procurement Local Communities Quality & Satisfaction ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT State Environment NGOs Air Quality & Energy Raw Materials & Solid Waste Water & Liquid Waste 52 1. Human Resources and Employment We sustain job positions Our business success is directly associated to our employees, Human Resources* therefore we strive to create job positions, as well as lessen unemployment. Our activity also supports indirectly hundreds 1,823 of job positions throughout our value chain and the passenger 2018 383 shipping industry in general. It must be noted there are seasonal 420 variations in employment numbers onboard our vessels, as the number of marine employees during spring and summer 1,205 months was higher by 37.9% compared to the autumn and 2017 216 winter months (1,782 employees compared to 1,292). 240 1,342 2016 138 145 Employees (number) Turnover (number)** New hires (number)** * Data refer to 31/12/2018 for office employees and to the average of 01/03/2018 and 01/07/2018 for marine employees. ** New hires and turnover for the period 2016-2018 do not include university students and cadets in Merchant Navy’s Officer and Coast Guard academies onboard our vessels (who complete their internship under fixed term employment contracts), as well as our marine employees’ re-hiring within the same year (for whom a standardized dismissal and rehiring process is in place). Human Resources* Employment Type Permanent Fixed Term Full time Part time 243 (13.3%) Employees (number) 1,580 (16 women in total) 1,823 0 (235 marine employees) Gender Female Male Employees (number) 282 1,541 Age <30 30-50 >50 Employees (number) 238 1,186 399 Categories Nationalities Disabilities Foreigners Number 3 0 5 Education Level Public School – High School Higher / Highest Education Postgraduate Education Employees (number) 1,440 355 28 New Hires** Female Male <30 30-50 >50 Employees (number) 91 329 172 205 43 Turnover** Female Male <30 30-50 >50 Employees (number) 90 293 146 178 59 Turnover** Resignations Redundancies Other Turnover reason (%) 60.3 39.7 0 Working Place Offices Vessels Employees (number) 286 1,537 Hierarchy Top Management*** Directors*** Employees Total Employees (number) 43 72 1,708 1,823 * Data refer to 31/12/2018 for office employees and to the average of 01/03/2018 and 01/07/2018 for marine employees. ** New hires and turnover for 2018 do not include university students and cadets in Merchant Navy’s Officer and Coast Guard academies onboard our vessels (who complete their internship under fixed term employment contracts), as well as our marine employees’ re-hiring within the same year (for whom a standardized dismissal and re-hiring process is in place). *** Top Management includes the Chief Executive Officer, Executive Directors and vessel Masters. Directors include office Directors, Staff Captains and Chief Engineers. 53 <> <> We employ 100% of our employees No grievances regarding our marine with full time employment contracts employees’ living conditions were filed It must be noted that: We handle work-life balance • T he average age of office and marine employees is 44.5 and Indicating our commitment to support our employees and 40.9 years respectively. maintain work-life balance, we: • T he average employment tenure for office and marine • Ensure that all employees receive their entitled leaves. employees is 14.8 and 9.5 years respectively. • Record and monitor work hours for all marine employees. • T he turnover rate of office employees was 17.8% (out of which • Have defined rest hours for marine employees. 0.7% redundancies and 17.1% resignations) and 21.6% for marine employees (out of which 9.8% redundancies and • Ensure timely crew changes, in case it is required. 11.8% resignations). • Ensure that all fees provided allow decent livelihood. • T here were 2 office employees who left before completing • Compensate overtime work and do not force employees to 12 months of employment, while the respective turnover work overtime, under the threat of salary reduction, dismissal rate of marine employees was 10.9% (besides the cadets in or any other sanction. Merchant Navy’s Officer and Coast Guard academies onboard • Pay the entire wage to female employees in childbirth and our vessels, who complete their internship under fixed term maternity leave without any deduction as a maternity bonus employment contracts). after their return to work, exceeding the relevant legislative • T he turnover rate of female office employees is lower by 4.9% requirements. compared to male office employees, while the turnover rate of male marine employees is lower by 61.5% compared to female Within 2018: marine employees. • 100% of marine employees worked at least once beyond the • T he majority of our employees are from the prefecture of typical work hours and there was no overtime work on behalf Attica, while there were was one worker under freelance of our office employees. arrangement working within the Group during 2018. • The average overtime work for Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries marine employees was 1.2 hours. <> • All 2 women who received their maternity leave, returned and continued their work within our Group. 100% of employees in Director • 9 women employees were granted reduced working hours due positions are Greek to raising a child. We ensure proper living conditions for marine employees <> We recognize the importance to establish proper living 100% of our employees received conditions for our marine employees and their relation with a their annual leave, as planned safe work environment and the crew’s psychology. Therefore, we: •H  ave placed crew cabins above the main deck, in order to reduce noise impact. • E nsure proper temperature, ventilation and lighting conditions in accommodation areas. •P  rovide individual cabins to vessel Masters and Officers. •H  ave created and equipped entertainment halls with various recreation means (library, TVs, film projectors, board games) in all vessels, which are accessible by all marine employees. • S ystematically clean and sanitize accommodation areas. 54 We transparently inform our employees Regardless of their employment type, we inform all new hired office employees about: •O  ur organizational structure and culture. •O  ur Regulation of Professional Conduct & Business Ethics. • T he Emergency Situations Response Plan for offices. • T he terms and conditions of the Group Insurance program, which applies to employees with over 6 months employment contracts. •M  ain work issues and procedures, such as leaves and absences, training, communication and performance appraisal. •C  orporate Responsibility issues. Furthermore, it must be noted that: •O  ur employment contracts include documents which describe the way we expect employees to behave (e.g. corporate manuals). •P  rior to their employment, all employees receive their employment contracts. •W  e have informed all employees at least once regarding Corporate Responsibility issues. •W  e conducted 8 internal communication activities regarding Corporate Responsibility issues to all Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries employees in 2018, compared to 6 in 2017. 2. Health and Safety We ensure Health and Safety onboard our vessels Our main commitment is to create a safe work environment for •P  rovide the necessary personal protective equipment to all our marine employees. Therefore, we: marine employees and monitor its proper use. •H  ave established Safety Committee in each vessel, which • E nsure proper employment conditions, such as temperature, consists of all supervisors and represents all work areas ventilation, lighting and sanitation. onboard vessels (departments). The Committee also discusses •H  ave equipped our vessels with the appropriate equipment Health, Hygiene and Safety issues during its monthly and conduct audits on alcohol consumption to all marine meetings and notifies the Group regarding its findings. employees. No such non-compliance incidents occurred within •D  o not include Health and Safety issues in our employment 2018. contracts, since respective issues are covered by national or •R  ecord and monitor accidents and Health and Safety incidents, industry collective agreements and international hygiene, in order to take corrective actions and eliminate respective accommodation and safety agreements, which have been risks. incorporated in the relevant national legislation, as well as • I mmediately replace injured and sick marine employees with national or industry collective agreements, which are available other employees, in order not to have crew numbers lower in our vessels. than legal requirements. •R  equire marine employees to hold competency certificates in training areas such as vessel safety, rescue equipment, firefighting and first aid, prior to their employment onboard our vessels, and oblige them to maintain valid certificates. •C  ontinuously train our marine employees on Health, Hygiene and Safety issues (such as response to emergency situations), during which 121 employees were trained on serious diseases prevention and 1,141 employees on the proper use of personal protective equipment within 2018. 55 We ensure Health and Safety in offices Besides creating a safe work environment for marine employees, The following table summarizes our overall Health and Safety we are also committed to ensure Health and Safety for our office performance. It must be noted that: employees. Within this context, we: • T here are no employees with high incidence or risk of disease • Comply with the provisions of Law 1568/85 regarding employee associated with their work, while there were no occupational Health and Safety. diseases among our employees. • Have developed a comprehensive Security Measures Plan. • T here were only minor accidents with minor injuries involving • Have created a Hygiene and Safety Division, which is our employees within 2018, without any accidents to office responsible to properly implement security measures. employees. • Maintain an Incident Book and record any accidents and • T here was no difference in the total absenteeism rate for male incidents within workplace, in order to apply measures to and female office employees. prevent Health and Safety risks. • T hree cases of marine employees’ injuries were closed following • Have communicated via e-mail and placed on all office out of court settlement within 2018. employees’ computer desktop specific instructions for • T wo lawsuits for marine employees’ injuries are expected to be emergency situations, such as: discussed within 2019. Fire. Health and Safety Earthquake. 2016 2017 2018* 2018** Bomb threat. Employees’ fatal accidents (number) 0 0 0 0 Robbery. Collaborators’ fatal accidents (number) 0 0 0 0 Accidents (number) 19 14 27 32 Hostage situation. Men 19 14 24 29 Sabotage. Women 0 0 3 3 Arson. Accidents with absence >1 day (number) NR 12 26 31 First Aid. Accidents with absence <3 days (number) 0 2 5 5 Heat wave. Accidents with absence >3 days (number) 19 12 22 27 Flood. Absence from work due to accidents (hours) 0 0 0 0 • Have communicated instructions for emergency situations and Average days of absence per injury (days) 41.9 23.5 47.85 46.5 preventive protection measures. Within this context, we trained Medical treatment cases (number) NR 68 78 114 204 employees on Health and Safety issues, such as emergency Injury Rate (rate)*** 1.07 0.78 1.47 NR situations, use of proper protective equipment, First Aid and Men 1.2 0.88 1.49 NR evacuation procedures, for a total duration of 451 training hours. Women 0 0 1.33 NR • Have defined and communicated office evacuation plan with Occupational Disease Rate (rate)**** 0 0 0 0 predetermined assembly points, in order to safely evacuate Men 0 0 0 0 office employees, visitors and external collaborators. Women 0 0 0 0 • Have appointed Fire Safety Team and Emergency Care Team Lost Days Rate due to injuries or occupational 45 18.44 70.43 NR and clearly defined their members’ responsibilities. diseases (rate)***** • Have installed loudspeaker system to signal evacuation in Men 50.44 20.66 71.39 NR emergency situations. Women 0 0 63.58 NR Absenteeism Rate due to injuries and • Ensure that emergency exits are clear of obstructions and are 340.31 157.9 408.52 NR occupational diseases (rate)****** clearly marked. Men 376.49 177.72 419.58 NR • Have installed anti-slip strips in staircases. Women 0 0 337.35 NR • Establish favorable employment conditions to support * Data refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. susceptible office employee groups, such as pregnant ** Data refer to the period 01/01/2018-31/12/2018 for Blue Star Ferries, Superfast Ferries employees and employees working in night shifts (for whom we and Hellenic Seaways. ensure additional security measures). *** Injury Rate (IR): Number of injuries x 200,000 work hours / Total work hours. **** Occupational Disease Rate (ODR): Number of occupational diseases x 200,000 work • Ensure proper employment conditions, such as security, air hours / Total work hours. ***** Lost Days Rate due to injuries or occupational diseases (LDR): Total work days lost x conditioning, ventilation, lighting and sanitation. 200,000 work hours / Total work hours. • Ensure equal access from persons with disabilities to our offices, ****** Absenteeism Rate due to injuries and occupational diseases (AR): Total absent work days x 200,000 work hours / Total work days. via parking space with ramp, wheelchair and properly designed NR: Not reported WC. • Expect from subcontractors who work on our behalf to provide health insurance from a public social institution to their We conducted internal drills on <> employees, with the respective percentage reaching 100% in 2018. Health and Safety issues (such as response to emergency situations) to 100% of marine employees 56 3. Equality and Diversity Equal Treatment and Human Rights According to our Regulation of Professional Conduct & Business Ethics, we: • Apply equal treatment regarding our recruitment practices and appraise our employees fairly and objectively. • Commit not to tolerate any retaliation towards employees who report any human rights violations. We commit to meritocracy Our commitment towards meritocracy follows the principle to Percentage of Women treat all our employees equally, which enables their professional development to depend solely on their performance and skills. 15.5 We do not allow any kind of discrimination due to gender, 2018 4.2 religion, age, ethnic group, social or national origin, disability, 12.1 beliefs, sexual orientation, or participation in employee unions, 13.3 as we take into consideration each employee’s experience, 2017 4.9 personality, performance, skills and qualifications regarding any work aspect (e.g. salaries, professional advancement). 11.5 Furthermore, we do not allow any comments among employees 2016 4.7 for all issues above, in order to prevent any form of harassment (e.g. sexual). Women employees (%) Women in Director positions (%) Women in Manager positions (%) As a result of our focus on the equal treatment of women: • The overall percentage of women in office and vessels is 54.2% and 8.3% respectively. We do not tolerate child, forced and compulsory labor • The percentage of women in management positions (including We respect the internationally recognized principles of human supervisors) in offices and vessels is 42.1% and 6% respectively. rights, as described within the Universal Declaration of Human • The percentage of female office and marine employees in Rights and the ten Principles of the UN Global Compact we have Director positions is 7.1% and 3.5% respectively, without any signed. At the same time, we are certified and audited according female office and marine employees in Top Management to the Maritime Labour Convention’s respective principles. Based positions. on these principles, we are committed not to: • The percentage of female office and marine employees with • Employ any person below the legal age work limit. fixed term employment contracts compared to male office and • Encourage or tolerate any forced and compulsory labor in any of marine employees is lower by 50% and 35% respectively. our premises. • The total training hours of female office employees compared • Employ any person through organizations or agencies involved to male office employees are higher by 73.8%, while the total in trafficking or other forms of forced labor. training hours of Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries female marine employees compared to male marine employees are lower by 95%. In 2018: • No areas or operations were assessed for child or compulsory labor risks. • There were no significant investment agreements and contracts with clauses on human rights. 57 We respect the right of employees to participate in unions and strikes Although there is no employee union within our Group, we respect the right of employees to freedom of association and participate in employee unions, while no operations in which the respective rights may be at significant risk have been identified. It must be noted that: • 100% of marine employees participate in employee unions related to their job position and through them to the Panhellenic Seamen’s Federation (PNO). Also, three office employees are elected members of the Panhellenic Federation of Shipping and Tourism Employees (PASENT), to which all office employees belong. • 100% of employees are covered by individual agreements, based on industry collective agreements. • The minimum notice period regarding operational changes for marine employees is 3 days, with a minimum notice period of 24 hours for Domestic lines and 7 days for Adriatic Sea lines included in employment agreements. We follow, as a minimum, the relevant regulatory requirements regarding operational changes for office employees. • All our Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries marine employees’ work was interrupted during the 6 strikes or lock-outs organized by the Panhellenic Seamen’s Federation (PNO) within 2018, due to their opposition to the tax and insurance revisions by the Greek government, with the time lost due to strikes being 1,500 mandays, which corresponds to approximately 0.45% of marine We apply a fair and transparent salary system employees’ total working time. No office employees participated One of our main objectives is to equally reward our employees’ in any strike or lock-out within 2018. contribution, to both maintain high levels of satisfaction, as well as attract highly qualified workforce. For this reason, our employees’ We ensure confidentiality of personal data remuneration system is aligned with the applicable industry labor We respect the right of employees to safeguard their personal agreement on the basis of transparency and equal treatment. At data and we are committed to implement a wide range of the same time, we compensate all employees within the agreed technical and organizational measures, which non-exhaustively time period and we do not deduct salaries due to disciplinary include: offenses or other deductions except those stipulated by law. • Have authorized the use of specific surveillance systems to monitor crucial access areas to our offices (such as staircases, It must be noted that in 2018: outside perimeter, central cashier and parking garage) and • T he minimum salary is equal to the lowest salary defined in the vessels according to the respective legislation (such as garages), industry labor agreement in force. which include CCTV system with cameras and security cards to • T he average salary for Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries monitor access to office areas such as servers and UPS, and we male office employees and Managers compared to female only allow employees from the Hygiene and Security Division to office employees and Managers is higher by 6.8% and 49.7% access the surveillance footage. respectively, while the average salary for Hellenic Seaways • Do not monitor any office work areas and we monitor certain male office employees and Managers compared to female vessel work areas for security purposes (such as garages and office employees and Managers is higher by 18.8% and 36.2% engine room), without collecting any personal data. respectively, due to factors such as professional experience, • Require written consent on behalf of employees, in case required qualifications and expertise. to disclose personal data to any person with preferential • T he average salary for Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries relationship (such as doctors or lawyers). male office Directors compared to female office Directors is lower • Do not withhold personal documents (such as identification by 27.4%. cards, passports or any other personal papers). • T here are no differences between the average salary for male and female marine employees in all job positions, as their salary solely depends on their specialization. • T he ratio of annual total compensation for the highest-paid individual to the median of annual total compensation for all Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries office and marine employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) is 9:1 and 3.8:1 respectively. 58 • T he ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for We offer additional benefits the highest-paid individual to the median percentage increase in We offer a number of voluntary benefits, which cover all our annual total compensation for all Blue Star Ferries and Superfast office and marine employees. It must be noted that 100% of Ferries office employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) our office and marine employees, as well as all subcontractors’ is 5.8:1, while the ratio of percentage decrease in annual total employees working on our behalf in our offices are covered by compensation for the highest-paid individual to the median private sickness insurance program, with an additional retirement percentage decrease in annual total compensation for all Blue program for office Top Management members and Directors, for Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries marine employees (excluding which over €310,000 were spend in 2018. the highest-paid individual) is 1.8:1. • T he ratio of annual total compensation for the highest-paid Additional Benefits individual to the median of annual total compensation for all Marine Office Hellenic Seaways office employees (excluding the highest-paid Employees Employees individual) is 4.8:1, while the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the highest-paid individual to the Expanded life insurance to all employees, their spouses and their children median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all Hellenic Seaways office employees (excluding the highest-paid Coverage against disability/incapacitation individual) is 0.5:1. Postgraduate program support • T here were 10 lawsuits filed by marine employees for labor Christmas cheques for every child up to 14 years old disputes (with claims over €30,000), which are expected to be Annual Christmas festive event discussed within 2019. Provision of free passenger and private vehicle tickets and meals onboard our vessels (upon availability) Discount for passenger and private vehicle tickets for first-degree relatives (upon availability) Discount for certain items from vessel shops Food arrangement 59 4. Training and Development We develop our employees We train our employees Internal Advancements: Our priority is to support our employees’ Training Program: To design our annual Training Plan, we development and cover job openings from existing employees. As consider: a result of this policy, the percentage of permanent job openings • Identified training needs. in offices covered by internal candidates reached 7.5% within • Responsibilities and requirements for every job position. 2018, compared to 5.5% in 2017. • Changes in the shipping industry (e.g. legal framework). Job Rotation: We have established a job rotation program for office employees, in order to keep them motivated and offer the We deliver a wide range of training programs and seminars for opportunity to acquire additional knowledge and experience, our marine and office employees each year, which indicatively without however any job rotations taking place within 2018. include: • Marine employees: Job Descriptions: In our attempt to ensure individual and -M  obilization and -R  esponse to pollution organizational effectiveness and maximize employee motivation. incidents. satisfaction, we have started to record in written job descriptions Excellent customer service. Fire fighting. and responsibilities for all employees. During 2018, we updated Technical and sales skills. Cleaning processes. our office employees’ job descriptions, a process completed for Foreign languages. 92% of Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries office employees, while a detailed job description is available for 100% of Blue Star Safety and security issues. Ferries and Superfast Ferries marine employees, without at the • Office employees: moment any corresponding job descriptions for Hellenic Seaways S hipping. Customer service. employees. Finance / Taxation. Marketing. Management issues (e.g. Foreign languages. Strategy, Protection of Safety. Personal Information, Corporate Responsibility Human Resources, Internal (e.g. environmental Audit, Legal). protection). Information Technology. 60 The following data summarize the results of our training practices and overall performance. It must be noted that data do not include internal drills conducted onboard our vessels. Within 2018: • We trained at least one time, over 80% and 12.4% of Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries office and marine employees respectively. • We conducted trainings on our human rights policies and processes to all Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries office employees, with a total duration of 302 training hours, without any relevant trainings to marine employees. • We conducted training programs on Corporate Responsibility issues, with the participation of 40.1% of employees, 72.9% of Managers and 90.5% of Directors and Top Management members of Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. No relevant training programs were conducted to marine employees. • We trained 114 Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries marine employees on management issues. • Total cost of training programs exceeded €54,200, compared to over €38,000 in 2017. Employee Training* Employee Training* 52 274 Averages 2016 2017 2018 2018 7,057 Office employees Training per employee (hours) 14.5 24.8 30.1 17 Training per male employee (hours) 17.4 19.4 23 2017 122 Training per female employee (hours) 11.9 29.5 36.6 5,221 Training per employee in Top Management 12.1 50.1 30 positions (hours) 43 Training per employee in management positions 20.7 34.5 39.3 2016 591 (hours) 5,964 Training per employee in administrative positions 20.1 29.6 53.3 (hours) Training programs (number)** Εmployees trained (number)** Marine employees** Training hours (number)** Training per employee (hours) 2.4 0.2 1.1 * Data refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. Training per male employee (hours) 2.3 0.2 1.1 ** Training data include office employees and marine employees who were trained on Training per female employee (hours) 2.6 0.1 1.1 management issues; they do not include marine employees’ training to renew or receive new competency certificates and/or internal drills conducted on vessels. Training per employee in Top Management 3 4 2.6 positions (hours) Training per employee in management positions <> 5.8 0.3 3.2 (hours) Training per employee in administrative positions We increased the number of employees (hours) 2.9 0.5 1.2 trained and training hours in Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries by 124.6% * Data refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. ** Average training hours for marine employees refer to training on management issues and do and 35.1% respectively not include marine employees’ training to renew or receive new competency certificates and/ or internal drills conducted on vessels. 61 We appraise our employees We implement a Performance Appraisal System for our office and At the same time, we appraise all vessel Officers and marine marine employees, with a three-phase Performance Appraisal employees (including employees whose employment tenure System for office employees to identify their strengths and areas onboard our vessels has expired) four times per year, in order for improvement and improve their overall performance: to ensure efficient crew selection and proper vessel manning. The appraisal results are included in a relevant Report which is forwarded to the Marine Personnel Department and assesses Performance Plan marine employees’ performance, skills and diligence throughout their service onboard our vessels. STAGE 1 Performance Appraisal Performance 0 Annual Management / 2018 0 Assessement E3 AG 2 Guidance 100 ST AG E ST 0 0 2017 100 The Performance Appraisal System for office employees consists 0 of 5 main areas: 2016 0 1. Performance Criteria. 100 Personal Objectives. Office employees appraised (%)* Office Managers appraised (%)* -P erformance Standards (one of which is Compliance with Marine employees appraised (%) Procedures). * N  o performance appraisal for office employees took place for the period 2016-2018, -A ttributes (Common Attributes and Team Leading Position as the Performance Appraisal System was under review. Attributes). 2. Appraisal Summary. 3. Employee Professional Requirements. 4. Training and Development Activities. 5. Comments. 62 5. Achievements 2018 and Future Objectives We committed Progress We aim By To improve our performance on Corporate To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility issues related to Employees by 6% 75% Responsibility issues related to Employees by 6%. 2020 (by 2020). To conduct performance appraisal for 100% To conduct performance appraisal for 100% of office employees with a new Performance 0% of office employees with a new Performance 2019 Appraisal System (by 2019). Appraisal System. To include specific Corporate Responsibility To include specific Corporate Responsibility objectives in formal appraisal process for objectives in formal appraisal process for employees, Managers and at least one Board of 0% employees, Managers and at least one Board of 2019 Directors member (by 2019). Directors member. To include specific Corporate Responsibility To include specific Corporate Responsibility objectives in Top Management members’ formal 0% objectives in Top Management members’ formal 2020 appraisal process (by 2020). appraisal process. To conduct the Skills Development Program to To update our employees’ job descriptions 20 employees in all hierarchical levels (by 2019). 0% according to our new organizational structure. 2019 To conduct an Employee Satisfaction Survey (by 2019). 0% To integrate Corporate Responsibility issues To integrate Corporate Responsibility issues into the other categories of in-house training 0% into the other categories of in-house training 2019 courses (by 2019). courses. To define Managers formally responsible to manage Corporate Responsibility issues within 100% their formal job description. To train all Managers on Corporate Responsibility. 75% To conduct a Corporate Responsibility e-learning To conduct a Corporate Responsibility e-learning course for our office employees. 100% course for our new office employees. 2019 To apply a process to monitor health and safety To apply a process to monitor health and safety incidents (e.g. injuries, diseases, absences, fatal incidents (e.g. injuries, diseases, absences, fatal accidents) of subcontractors’ employees working in 0% accidents) of subcontractors’ employees working in 2019 our offices (by 2019). our offices. 63 VII. CUSTOMERS We ensure our Passenger Safety 64 WE ARE 8,307 journeys annually 49 vessel inspections from local 824,757 calls to customer service authorities (for food hygiene phone lines and safety) WE COMMIT TO 982 questionnaires Safeguard the health and safety of our passengers and offer them the best possible travel experience, in order to meet their needs and expectations in vessels during their journey. WE FOLLOW Principles of the United Nations’ 262,444 members in the Loyalty /7/  Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges /8/  Promote greater environmental responsibility Global Compact & Reward program seasmiles WE ACHIEVED •W  e conducted internal drills and •W  e dispatched 851 notifications •W  e kept Blue Star Ferries and trainings on passenger safety to serve passengers with reduced Superfast Ferries vessels’ departure procedures to 100% of marine mobility to our vessels. time in 61.8% and Hellenic Seaways employees. • We dispatched 2,411 notifications to vessels’ departure time in 89.5% • We were subjected to 49 inspections serve passengers to Blue Star Ferries of our scheduled journeys. from local authorities for food hygiene and Superfast Ferries vessels, out of • We increased our seasmiles loyalty and safety, with no recorded nonwhich 17 concerning passengers with and reward program members by compliance incidents. sensitivity to allergens. 8.2%. • We maintain 5 corporate websites, • The average score of evaluations with over 4.9 million unique visitors registered through dedicated devices annually and handle 3 mobile onboard Blue Star Ferries and applications with over 130,000 Superfast Ferries vessels reached 3.82 downloads. on a 5 point scale. 65 WE FOCUS Safety & Security Responsible Communication Quality & Satisfaction Customers Sales Network Media PASSENGER SAFETY EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS Human Resources & Employment Economic Growth SOCIETY SUPPORT Citizens Health & Safety RESPONSIBLE Associations and Unions Societal Support Employees MANAGEMENT Equality & Diversity Suppliers Shareholders Responsible Procurement Local Communities Training & Development ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT State Environment NGOs Air Quality & Energy Raw Materials & Solid Waste Water & Liquid Waste 66 1. Safety and Security Regarding previous legal cases, within 2018: Passenger Shipping Company Selection Criteria • A case of passenger injury onboard vessel in 2016 closed According to a survey conducted to 1,050 people in 2018, following out of court settlement. company trust is the No 3 passenger shipping company • Exemption decisions were issued for two court proceedings selection criterion for Attica residents and No 2 selection against a Company of the Group and its associates for passenger criterion for islands residents and among the top three injuries onboard vessels in 2015 and 2016, as well as an selection criteria for 35.7% and 25.1% of respondents overbooking violation in 2013. respectively. • Two lawsuits for passenger injuries onboard vessels in 2013 and 2015 were rejected by the competent judicial bodies. • Expected to be discussed within 2019: We ensure passenger safety onboard our vessels Three lawsuits for passenger injuries onboard vessels in 2012, We consider passenger health and safety onboard our vessels as 2016 and 2017. our indisputable obligation. Therefore, we: An investigative procedure regarding a professional driver’s • Were subjected to extensive vessel inspections from external injury from a truck driver during vehicle loading onboard bodies (Merchant Vessels Inspection and classification societies) vessel in 2016. in 2018. • Have established Safety Committee in each vessel, in order to examine and assess health and safety issues. <> • Train our employees on passenger safety procedures. We conducted internal drills and • Comply with the International Convention for the Safety of Life trainings on passenger safety procedures at Sea’s (SOLAS) standards regarding use of fire extinguishing to 100% of marine employees equipment, such as fire extinguishing systems in engines and all cabins, public areas and garages, and we train marine employees on the location and use of fire protection systems. • Carry out regular maintenance of rescue equipment. • Demonstrate use of lifejackets and display informative videos regarding use of lifejackets, assembly stations and rescue equipment. • Ensure that fire doors are not blocked from luggage, chairs or other items. • Have placed clear signs with fundamental safety information. • Have equipped all our vessels with the necessary medical and pharmaceutical equipment. • Have made the Cardio Express telemedicine support service available to all Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessels for Emergency Response Team the initial assessment of medical incidents at sea. We have created an Emergency Response Team to offer • Prohibit transportation of explosives, flammable, combustible guidance to vessels and communicate with third parties on and hazardous materials in general, except those permitted by their behalf (such as the Ministry of Shipping and Marine the relevant legislation. Policy’s Search and Rescue Center, rescue teams, experts and • Strictly prohibit smoking in areas such as cabins, elevators, Media), in order for vessels to focus on handling potential warehouses and garages. emergency situations, while at the same time, we have • Allow staying in vessel garages only to marine employees established a substitute Emergency Response Team. responsible to facilitate vehicles’ loading and unloading. • Operate 2 reservation and ticketing systems, which are certified In 2018, the Emergency Response Team’s members met for by the relevant authorities and ensure that the number of an internal drill onboard Nissos Rodos regarding response to issued tickets do not exceed the respective maximum number. a fire incident. 67 Addressing Infectious / Transmittable Diseases According to an established procedure and the internal drills conducted as required onboard all Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessels to address incidents of infectious / transmittable diseases, we immediately notify and request assistance from the respective port authorities and external authorities (e.g. Hellenic Center for Disease Control and Prevention) in case of respective incidents and lead the vessel to the nearest port. The patient is then rushed to the vessel’s infirmary, where we record in detail personal information and medical history and apply the necessary precautions for the crew or the doctor (such as hand disinfectant, surgical gloves and mask, disposable waterproof suit and apron and infectious waste disposal bags). Upon arrival, the patient is escorted outside the vessel and handed over to the respective authorities (e.g. HCDCP), while we disinfect the cabins and areas visited by the patient and place all items handled in appropriate bags, which we hand over to an external specialized company, following the competent authorities’ agreement. No incident of patient with infectious / transmittable disease was reported in 2018. We offer safe products and services Missing Onboard Person Search We strive to provide quality and safe products and services, in order to ensure our long-term business success. Therefore: Each Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessel has • Contractors comply with the requirements of ISO 9001 Quality developed a Missing Person Response Plan (SAA), in order to Management System and ISO 22000 Food Safety Management respond to confirmed cases of missing passengers onboard. System, in order to eliminate risks (such as materials or According to this procedure, we inform all passengers ingredients) that could potentially harm human health. Within regarding an incident and set up a search team to search this context, we are informed regarding regular audit results throughout vessel areas (initially cabins, lounges, decks and conducted by contractors and proceed with corrective actions if WCs and subsequently engine room, crew premises, garages required. and warehouses). In case the missing person is not found • Audit our Management Systems (Quality, Environmental and until the port of arrival, port authorities thoroughly check Food Safety Management Systems), as well as the quality of all passengers and search all vehicles during passenger products and services itself. disembarkation. Within 2018: • Record audit findings and potential corrective actions with • There was one reported missing person incident onboard specific remediation time plan, which are communicated to all Nissos Rodos, without any indication about its traces until involved parties. today, despite the respective search by port authorities. • Are annually audited by ABS (American Bureau of Shipping) • An investigative procedure regarding a missing person for Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessels and LRQA incident onboard Blue Horizon in 2015, whose body was (Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance) for Hellenic Seaways vessels later found and identified, is expected to be completed regarding ISO certificates, with respective audits to contractors within 2019. for their ISO 22000 certificates taking place from their own • We immediately responded and participated in port certification bodies. authorities’ search to locate a passenger of Blue Star Naxos • Perform a ‘Mystery Passenger’ survey in 17 and 19 service who jumped from the vessel’s deck to end his life while at categories in three stages of three visits per year onboard our sea. vessels in Domestic and Adriatic Sea lines respectively, in order to ensure effective vessel operation, quality services and prompt response to customer needs, without however conducting the survey within 2018, as in 2017. 68 Vessel Inspections from Local Authorities Besides ourselves inspecting our vessels, we are subjected to additional scheduled or unscheduled inspections from local authorities. These inspections address our vessels’ Hotel Operations & Customer Services Department for health issues or hygiene certificates, either when the vessel is docked or at sea. Upon inspection completion, we proceed with the required corrective actions, according to the results from the draft audit report, which is filed in the vessel’s inspection archive. We assess inspection results for each vessel twice a year, in order to: • Identify repeated comments or cases of non-compliance. • Assess corrective actions already taken. • Proceed with further corrective actions, if deemed Food hygiene and safety: We have defined specific food hygiene necessary. and safety procedures, in order to provide high quality products. Within this context, our food and catering contractors apply food safety management systems. More specifically, we: • Have the necessary cleaning/sanitation and food storage areas, as well as specific catering areas. • Provide employees with the necessary clothing during food preparation, such as uniforms and head caps. • Specify the use of disposable gloves to prepare cold kitchen meals (such as sandwiches and salads) and warm kitchen portions and we prohibit use of the same gloves to handle fresh and cooked foodstuffs, according to respective procedures. • Require employees to wash their hands before starting and finishing their work, and after waste handling, use of cleaners or chemicals, as well as after every contact with a phone, <> money, fresh foodstuffs or doorknobs, according to respective We were subjected to 49 inspections procedures. from local authorities for food hygiene • Strictly prohibit smoking in food preparation areas. and safety, with no recorded • Dining areas are daily inspected. non-compliance incidents • On average, audit compliance with our procedures and practices once per month per vessel. These inspections resulted in no findings or corrective actions taken within 2018, as in 2017. • Our contractor carried out 141 inspections during 2018 in areas of interest, such as kitchens and bars, with no findings registered or corrective actions being required, as was the case also in 2017. Hotel services hygiene and safety: We focus to provide high quality hotel services onboard our vessels, since customer satisfaction is directly associated with their safe accommodation. Therefore, we systematically sanitize public and accommodation areas. 69 Regarding previous legal cases: ‘PURE CABIN’ • A lawsuit for lost luggage onboard vessel in 2014 was rejected. We were the world’s first passenger shipping company to • Expected to be discussed within 2019: introduce the ‘PURE CABIN’ category in one Adriatic Sea line Three lawsuits due to vehicles damages within vessel garages vessel in 2010. Since 2011, we have expanded its use in three during vessel loading/unloading. additional vessels in Domestic lines and we added 4 cabins per vessel in two more vessels in 2017. Approximately 2.3% A lawsuit due to a delivery delay of a transported private of all cabins onboard Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vehicle. vessels are ‘PURE CABINS’ and 1% of our overall passenger volume in these vessels travel within ‘PURE CABINS’, which Items and Luggage Found are provided at an extra charge. ‘PURE CABINS’ feature a According to a formally established lost and found items state-of-the-art air and surface purifying system, in order procedure, we keep small and high value items which were to offer improved accommodation conditions to passengers found onboard a vessel for 21 and 30 days respectively. sensitive to airborne particles. After each use, ‘PURE CABINS’ are purified and a cleaning certificate with the corresponding inspection date is issued. More specifically, we: • Destroy various items after 21 days have elapsed, except for books (which are provided to the crew’s library), as well as foodstuffs, medicines and personal hygiene items (which are either immediately destroyed or after 3 days, depending on their kind). • Keep travel and personal documents for 7 days and then hand them over to port authorities. • After 30 days have elapsed for valuable items, we: Deposit monetary amounts to the charitable organization supported by each vessel (see Section V-2). Send electronic equipment for recycling by the Information Technology and Telecommunications Division, according to a specific procedure. There were over 80 electrical devices collected and forwarded for We ensure protection of personal items recycling within 2018. Indicating our commitment to ensure our passengers’ safety, safeguard their personal items and offer a quality travel experience, we: • Provide safe storage for any property, money and valuables whose value does not exceed €500 within each vessel’s Purser Office. • Utilize loudspeaker announcements to inform about safety of personal items during their journey. • Intensify inspections to luggage areas with additional marine employees on routes with increased passenger volume. • Have established a formal procedure to handle lost and found items. • Compensate passengers in cases marine employees are responsible for damaged or ruined luggage or vehicle during We ensure protection of personal data boarding/disembarkation or during the journey. Protection of Personal Data Compensations 2016 2017 2018 According to our Regulation of Professional Conduct & Lost/found or damaged items (number) 4,642 5,027 5,078 Business Ethics, we collect, process, use and store personal Adriatic Sea lines (number) 525 291 382 data only to the extent required for their intended purpose Domestic lines (number) 4,117 4,736 4,696 or to fulfill our contractual obligations in accordance Compensations paid for luggage and other damages (€) 33,777 52,438 32,937 with our policies and procedures, as well as the legal and Compensations paid for vehicle damages (€) 45,080 45,461 57,800 regulatory framework which governs our operation. 70 We strive to ensure protection of our customers’ personal data, in order to establish solid and concrete trust relationships. Therefore, we: • Within the context of the European Union’s new General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), we: Have created a Project Team to properly and effectively respond to the protection of individuals regarding personal data processing and a Personal Data Protection Team to monitor the Regulation’s proper implementation and compliance with its requirements. -C onducted a relevant training program and sent an informative guide for the new Regulation via e-mail to all office employees and posted a relevant informative leaflet on all our vessels’ bulletin boards to inform marine employees. Developed new policies and processes to comply with the new personal data protection requirements, such as the Employee Training Policy on GDPR Issues and the Personal Data Violation Management / Response to Personal Data Violation • Were certified according to PCI DSS SAQ D v3.2.1 standard Incidents process. (Data Security Standard) for our security methods, practices and Signed a contract with a specialized law firm to provide processes to safely handle, process and store cardholders’ data advisory services related to GDPR compliance issues. (including prevention, detection and response to cardholders’ Signed an insurance policy contract against cyber attacks. data breaches and losses), as a result of a relevant inspection Distributed a relevant Greek and English informative leaflet to and evaluation process within 2018. our vessels. • Keep personal data collected from customers, professionals and Sent an informative subscription / unsubscription e-mail to website visitors in a secure database. members of our Loyalty and Reward program seasmiles. • Do not disclose any information to third parties, unless required S ent an additional personal data processing act to our by law and/or competent authorities. partners, in order to ensure their compliance with the GDPR • Seek individual consent to process personal data, exclusively for Regulation. communication, statistical analysis and service improvement purposes. • Inform customers that incoming calls are recorded, prior to connect them with Customer Services and Call Center Divisions’ representatives. 2. Responsible Communication We responsibly advertise our products and services We aim to ensure our communication material is fair, legal, • Ensure use of proper communication and advertisements for sincere, corresponds to reality, does not display or promote our products and services, in collaboration with the Marketing stereotypes and respects people’s diversity. Therefore, we: and Sales Departments. • Follow the principles of the Hellenic Code of Advertising & • Have structured our Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries Communication, issued by the Communication Audit Council. websites, easily accessible by people with visual impairments. • Have developed a Code for Responsible Marketing and • Do not sell or provide any products and services which are either Communication for our commercial activities, which will be banned or disputed in foreign markets. incorporated into our future contracts. • Do not use texts, audio or images that promote stereotypes. 71 In 2018, there were: Responsible Communication • 6 social and environmental informative messages in every Blue We have included our compliance with the principles and Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessel, regarding: regulations of professional ethics and ethical behavior of Water sports safety. the Hellenic Code of Advertising & Communication, issued Fire prevention. by the Communication Audit Council, into our Regulation of Professional Conduct & Business Ethics and our Code Ultraviolet radiation protection. for Responsible Marketing and Communication, which Voluntary blood donation. are also binding for collaborating advertising agencies, in ‘Agoni Grammi Gonimi’ program. order to ensure the responsible advertising and marketing The 2 Blue Tomatoes program. promotion of our activities. • A dedicated Greek and English poster to inform passengers who travel with a pet regarding responsible attitude towards the vessel and other passengers. Furthermore, we state applicable conditions on Blue Star Ferries, We ensure prompt communication Hellenic Seaways and Superfast Ferries websites regarding: We strive to promptly inform our customers in case of cancellation • Regulations and boarding processes. or delays in scheduled routes, in order to minimize their potential • Reservations. discomfort. Within this context, we utilize a wide range of • Ticket issuing and cancellation. communication means, which include: • Transportation of pets. • The websites www.superfast.com, www.bluestarferries.com and www.hellenicseaways.gr. • Storage of personal belongings. • Radio. • Port authority representatives. <> • Various journal and information portals. We maintain 5 corporate websites, with • Communication via SMS (in case they have registered their over 4.9 million unique visitors annually mobile number). and handle 3 mobile applications with • Electronic newsletters. over 130,000 downloads • Social media. • Phone calls. • E-mails. At the same time, we maintain one corporate website and manage a mobile application for AML, with over 89,500 unique Furthermore, we proceed with at least Greek and English visitors and 8,900 downloads. informative audio announcements in case of delays during the journey, which include their cause and the estimated delay time. Labeling Allergens Informative SMS Messages We require from prepackaged foodstuff suppliers to comply with the European Regulation for Food Labeling 1169/2011 2016 2017 2018* 2018 259,472 and clearly display whether their products contain specific 233,894 ingredients included in the allergens list, according to Directive 2003/89/EC. At the same time, we have placed clear 91,482 and detailed signs to inform consumers about allergens for every non-prepackaged meal within our vessels (such as 68,954 gluten, eggs, soy and milk). Informative SMS messages sent (number) * Data refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. 72 3. Quality and Satisfaction We ensure equal treatment of customers Selection Criteria According to a survey conducted to 500 people in Attica in 2018, ticket price is the No 2 passenger shipping company Equal Treatment selection criterion and among the top three selection criteria for 51.7% of respondents. According to our Regulation of Professional Conduct & Business Ethics, we require from employees to equally treat all customers and partners, without any exceptions, and behave with caution and care during our transactions with vulnerable social groups. Awareness According to a survey conducted to 1,050 people in 2018, We ensure equal treatment of all our customers, in order to Blue Star Ferries, Hellenic Seaways and Superfast Ferries are enhance our customer-centric orientation. More specifically, we: the No 1, No 4 and No 5 passenger shipping companies in • Have equipped all our premises and vessels (except Flying brand awareness respectively. Cat and Flying Dolphin vessel types) with the necessary infrastructure to facilitate access from people with disabilities. • Do not impose extra charges on cabins for persons with We ensure that our services are affordable disabilities. We recognize the unfavorable economic situation for thousands • Are promptly informed about the number of passengers with of Greek households and we strive to provide affordable prices disabilities on each route, in order to plan the availability of for our services, without however compromising their quality, in wheelchairs. order to overcome the financial crisis and maintain transportation volume. Depending on line and destination, we offer: • Check that emergency switches in cabins for passengers with disabilities are fully operational before boarding. • Early booking tickets, with up to 20% discount. • Require that food rations for persons with sensitivity to • Ticket packages, with significant discounts. allergens are prepared with separate food preparation • Discounts in tickets for children, teenagers, young people and equipment (such as frying pans, cutting boards, knives). people above 65 years old. • Have introduced procedures for clothing management and • Discounts in selected destinations throughout the year. protection of passengers from allergens. • Discounts throughout the year (such as Super Economy, Special • Created 26 new pet accommodation facilities in 2 vessels. Economy, Supersaver Economy, Saver Economy, for passengers and private vehicles, for Naval and Coast Guard retirees, for combined Domestic and Adriatic Sea routes, for Officers and soldiers). <> • Discounts for members registered in our Loyalty and Reward We dispatched 851 notifications to serve program seasmiles. passengers with reduced mobility to our vessels Supporting Tourism in Islands For the third consecutive year within 2018, we supported the effort to reverse the negative tourism trend and <> strengthen the transportation volume in Lesvos, Chios, Leros We dispatched 2,411 notifications to and Kos, caused by the refugee crisis. For this reason, we serve passengers to Blue Star Ferries and offered a 30% discount to 1,499 passenger and 367 private Superfast Ferries vessels, out of which 17 vehicles and motorcycle tickets for those with at least four overnight stays in these islands, in collaboration with local concerning passengers with sensitivity to municipalities and hoteliers’ associations. allergens 73 We ensure our customers’ travel experience Family Cabins with Children Cartoons ‘We do local’ We have introduced family cabins marked with the Operating with respect for local communities is our main Bluestarino children cartoon and the Fasteritos children objective and we strive to enhance the quality of services cartoons in all Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessels provided, while at the same time highlight local cultures’ respectively, for families with small children who have unique features. Within this context, we have certified Blue booked a 4-bed external cabin. Upon availability, Reception Star 2, Blue Galaxy and Superfast XI according to the ‘We do desks offer these specially decorated cabins to our child local’ standard, through which an organization: passengers without any extra charge. • Promotes local customs and culture. • Presents local cuisine. • Supports local producers. • Operates with respect towards the environment. To this end, we implement the following indicative actions and initiatives: • Support local communities and cultural events and suggest visits to local sites and museums, as well as promote cultural activities. • Present local cuisine and support local producers of products such as talagani cheese from Mani, gruyere cheese from Crete, maceata spaghetti from Folegandros, skioufichta spaghetti from Crete, ouzo from Mytilene, Greek feta cheese and caper leaves from Naxos, while Passenger Service Innovations we also prepare Greek recipes in our vessels’ restaurants such as shrimps saganaki with feta cheese, Greek Salad, As we strive to develop new approaches to serve our traditional Cretan dakos, octopus with split peas and barley passengers and continuously improve the quality of our with seafood. services, we: • Respect the environment and implement environmental • Have launched an e-ticket application on the Crete and protection practices, such as paper and batteries recycling Adriatic routes. corporate initiatives, as well as use of a photovoltaic unit • Have specifically tailor-designed Blue Star Delos to address onboard one vessel (see Section VIII-1). the needs of its route and facilitate passenger boarding, by • Employ Greek employees and support local workforce. introducing: Wider boarding / disembarkation staircase with stair escalator, instead of two staircases on the vessel’s left and right side. Two vehicle ramps, one larger than the other, in order to select which one to use depending on the cargo requirements and port infrastructure. Ability to reach appropriate speed, to perform a shorttime journey. 74 We listen to our customers @sea Portal In order to effectively serve our customers, we have established mechanisms to communicate and receive comments and In order to improve the services offered to our customers, complaints, which are handled by our Customer Services Division. we have launched the interactive and multifunctional These mechanisms include: @sea portal, where all Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries • A call center and dedicated e-mail address for customers. passengers can connect with any device (laptop, smartphone or tablet) via the onboard WiFi network and • Written communication from customers. can access free-of-charge recreational material such as • Private meetings with customers. music, TV and games, as well as information about: • Comments form, complaints form, Pure Cabins questionnaire • Weather conditions. and A la Carte restaurants questionnaire, which are located in • Vessel location in real-time. various vessel areas, such as the Reception desk and the bar, regarding quality, variety and service. • Restaurant and bar menus. • A specific form which is completed by the Reception desk, in • Ports and destination information. case verbal complaints are received or incidents are noted. • Loyalty and Reward program seasmiles. • The Complaints form, located in all vessels’ restaurants. • The dedicated devices in all Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessels to evaluate the services provided. Evaluations Onboard Vessels* Utilizing Questionnaires 284,399 We have appointed a vessel Officer to collect and forward 2018 196,874 passenger questionnaires to the vessel’s Master, who 69.2 reviews them before being sent by the appointed vessel Officer to the Customer Services Division, which documents 271,674 observations in a ‘Passenger Observation Report’. The Report 2017 188,937 is forwarded monthly to our vessel Masters, the Divisions’ 69.5 directors and the catering contractor within each vessel and is the subject of meetings from all interested parties, in Total evaluations (number) order to assess and define further corrective and preventive Positive evaluations (number) Positive evaluations to total evaluations (%) actions, if deemed necessary. * Data refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. <> The average score of evaluations registered through dedicated devices onboard Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessels reached 3.82 on a 5 point scale 75 We monitor our customers’ satisfaction Potential Travel with a Passenger Shipping Compensations Company In case of journey delay, compensations are defined According to a survey conducted to 1,050 people in 2018, according to the European Union legislation and the 84% and 58% of Attica residents would select or seriously Greek Passenger Charter of Rights and Obligations, with consider to select Blue Star Ferries and Hellenic Seaways compensation being related to the journey duration. respectively for domestic destinations, with the respective Indicatively, passengers are entitled to compensation for percentages for island residents reaching 88% and 48%. delays: At the same time, 69% of Attica residents would select or seriously consider to select Superfast Ferries for a trip to Italy. • Of at least 1 hour, for journeys of less than 4 hours. • Of over 2 hours, for journeys between 4 and 8 hours. We recognize the importance and our responsibility to offer • Of over 3 hours, for journeys between 8 and 24 hours. reliable and responsible customer services, in order to ensure our business success. Within 2018, we: More specifically, in case the scheduled departure is • Received over 824,500 calls in all our corporate customer service delayed for over 90 minutes, passengers are entitled to telephone lines (including unanswered calls), responding to compensation according to their ticket, or to: 89.3% of incoming calls. • Remain onboard and receive free light meals or • Reduced unanswered calls from our Blue Star Ferries and refreshments until their destination is reached. Superfast Ferries Call Center Division by 53.3%. • Receive a free meal for delays of over four hours, as well • Sent 1,987 formal responses to customer complaints regarding as free on vessel or hotel accommodation, when feasible product or service information (e.g. labeling, pricing) and and necessary. product or service use (e.g. features), with no customer • Be compensated with 25% of the ticket value or other complaints regarding promotional activities (e.g. marketing, prior to agreement compensatory payment, in case they advertising, sales) and without including relevant e-mails and were forwarded to their destination with the same or incoming phone calls. another company vessel. Compensation depends on the delay itself (e.g. 1 hour for journeys up to 4 hours), with the Customer Service compensation increasing to 50% of the ticket value, in case 2016 2017 2018 the delay is double. Formal response letters to comments, 726 619 1,987 • Be compensated with 200% of the ticket value and complaints and requests (number) receive back the vehicle ticket value, in case on our own Adriatic Sea lines 137 120 176 responsibility they were not forwarded to their destination Domestic lines 589 499 1,811 with the same or another vessel within 24 hours from the Formal thank-you letters (number) 190 179 143 scheduled departure time. Adriatic Sea lines 40 27 47 Domestic lines 150 152 96 During 2018, there were: Questionnaires in vessels (number) 945 878 982 • 59 journeys with delayed arrival, for which we fully Total calls to customer service telephone NR 548,977 824,757 compensated passengers according to their rights, while lines (number) we acted beyond our obligations stipulated by Calls to Customer Services Division (number)* 107,123 66,318 66,846* the Passenger Charter of Rights and Obligations and Calls to Call Center Division (number) 176,456 162,813 232,583* offered additional benefits and compensations on 643 Calls to Help Desk Division (number) NR 12,315 15,162* occasions of passenger compensations. Calls to Loyalty Division (number) NR 49,728 59,382* • Two passenger lawsuits with compensation claims due Calls to Capacity Domestic / Adriatic Division to a journey delay in 2018, which are expected to be NR 194,999 141,156* (number) discussed within 2019. Calls to Cargo Domestic / Adriatic Division NR 62,804 64,405* (number) * Data refer to calls from Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries customers. NR: Not reported 76 <> <> We kept Blue Star Ferries and Superfast We increased our seasmiles loyalty Ferries vessels’ departure time in 61.8% and and reward program members by 8.2% Hellenic Seaways vessels’ departure time in 89.5% of our scheduled journeys Seasmiles Program In 2011 we established the Loyalty and Reward program seasmiles, which provides members with exclusive benefits, gifts, special offers and high quality services, within three card levels (Blue, Silver and Gold). Members collect points for every ticket and product bought from bars, restaurants and vessel stores, which are automatically registered in their personal account and can be redeemed for future journeys, meals and drinks. It must be noted that in 2018, we installed Infokiosks on all Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessels, where we will install an application specifically for online seasmiles registration, issue of plastic card for existing and new Blue level members, as well as inform members about their points. Seasmiles Loyalty & Reward Program 2017 2018 262,444 242,483 2016 199,673 Members in seasmiles program (number) 77 4. Achievements 2018 and Future Objectives We committed Progress We aim By To improve our performance on Corporate To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility issues related to Customers 75% Responsibility issues related to Customers 2020 by 17% (by 2020). by 17%. To establish a Customer Relationship Management To establish a Customer Relationship Management system (CRM) (by 2020). 0% system (CRM). 2020 To categorize complaints per category To categorize complaints per category (e.g. delays, price of tickets, price discrepancies) 0% (e.g. delays, price of tickets, price discrepancies). 2020 (by 2020). To systematically inform and train our customers To systematically inform and train our customers on Corporate Responsibility issues. 75% on Corporate Responsibility issues. 2019 To further reduce unanswered calls from our Call Center by 50%. 100% To achieve an ‘as scheduled’ routes rate in Crete, To achieve an ‘as scheduled’ routes rate in Crete, Dodecanese and Ancona routes of over 90%. 50% Dodecanese and Ancona routes of over 90%. 2019 To increase communication for early arrival at the To increase communication with our customers through SMS by 5%. 100% port of Piraeus and changes or cancellations of 2019 scheduled journeys through SMS by 5%. To formalize our Responsible Communication Policy. 100% To apply a Responsible Marketing and To apply a Responsible Marketing and Communication Code in our business activities. 75% Communication Code in our business activities. 2019 To apply a process to monitor potential recalls of To apply a process to monitor potential recalls of products or services from subcontractors due to 0% products or services from subcontractors due to 2019 possible health and safety issues (by 2019). possible health and safety issues. To extend the infotainment platform @sea to Hellenic Seaways vessels. 2019 To install Infokiosks about the seasmiles program on 8 Hellenic Seaways vessels. 2019 78 79 VIII. ENVIRONMENT We reduce our Environmental Impact 80 WE ARE €2.1 million environmental 13,791 TJ energy consumption 4,380 KWh energy produced from investment renewable energy sources WE COMMIT TO 1.06 million tonnes eCO2 Integrate sustainable development in our operations and apply environmentally friendlier business practices, in order to reduce, where feasible, our environmental impacts. WE FOLLOW Principles of the United Nations’ 118,896 kgr paper consumption /7/  Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges /8/  Promote greater environmental responsibility Global Compact /9/  Encourage development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies WE ACHIEVED •W  e conducted internal drills on • We reduced the consumption of • We transported from Islands free-ofenvironmental protection issues to plastic bags in our offices by 13.3%. charge over 153 tonnes of materials for 100% of marine employees. • We informed over 1.2 million recycling. •W  e informed 70% of our office customers on Corporate Responsibility • We reduced water consumption from employees on environmental issues, such as environmental Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries protection issues. protection. by 13.3%. • 8 0% of monitors and 40% of personal • We used 28.1% recycled paper for all and laptop computers we use have purposes from Blue Star Ferries and energy-saving specifications. Superfast Ferries. •W  e use refrigerants that do not affect • We used 69.8% recycled toners/ink the ozone layer (such as R134a, R404a, cartridges. R407a) in 100% of refrigerators and • We reduced the paper used for freezers onboard our vessels. commercial purposes from Blue Star •W  e reduced the total quantity of Ferries and Superfast Ferries by 15.2%. refrigerant materials used from Blue • We reduced the paper used for all Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries by purposes from Blue Star Ferries and 29.6%. Superfast Ferries by 12.5%. 81 WE FOCUS Air Quality & Energy Raw Materials & Solid Waste Water & Liquid Waste State Environment NGOs ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS Human Resources & Employment Safety & Security PASSENGER SAFETY Health & Safety RESPONSIBLE Customers Employees Responsible Communication MANAGEMENT Sales Network Equality & Diversity Media Quality & Satisfaction Shareholders Training & Development SOCIETY SUPPORT Citizens Associations and Unions Suppliers Local Communities Economic Growth Societal Support Responsible Procurement 82 82 1. Air Quality and Energy We operate in a systematic way We are committed to operate responsibly regarding the <> environment and to minimize the negative environmental impact, We conducted internal drills on which inevitably originates from our operations. Within this environmental protection issues to 100% context, we: of marine employees • Record our environmental performance. • Implement an Environmental Management System and evaluate our environmental impact annually. • Were the first group in the Greek passenger shipping industry to implement ISO 14001 for our vessels and have certified all Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries and 60% of Hellenic Seaways vessels (9 vessels) according to ISO 14001. • Were the first passenger shipping group in Greece to submit the Monitoring Plans for all Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessels and have certified all vessels for the proper and systematic monitoring, recording and disclosure of carbon dioxide emissions, much earlier than the projected deadlines of the European Regulation EU MRV 757/2015. • Have certified two vessels with the ‘Green Star’ environmental protection certificate from a foreign classification society to ensure pollution prevention from all operations, such as environmental training for marine employees. • Have Energy Efficiency certificates issued for all our vessels in international routes. • Demand an asbestos non-use certificate from our suppliers. • Discuss environmental protection issues during respective meetings of each Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessel’s Safety Committee. • Train employees on environmental issues and conduct internal <> trainings for all marine employees in all our vessels, on issues We informed 70% of our office employees such as waste management and responsible use of water. Within on environmental protection issues 2018, we conducted external trainings to 3 office employees on environmental issues, for a total duration of 28 hours, compared to 2 office employees and 32 hours in 2017. In 2018: • Have established a weekly drills and training plan for marine • We invested over €2.1 million for Blue Star Ferries and Superfast employees, in order to prevent pollution incidents (e.g. sea Ferries environmental protection programs (solid and liquid pollution) and train them to promptly and effectively respond to waste disposal investments, materials and equipment to such incidents. remediate pollution incidents, internal and external inspections • Have sent letters to inform all Blue Star Ferries and Superfast and environmental performance certificates). Ferries office employees on materials recycling. • There were no incidents or accidents with environmental • Have appointed an employee to monitor climate change risks impacts. and identify potential areas to implement energy conservation • An exemption decision was issued to a passenger complaint initiatives, who prepares a relevant report at least annually or regarding claimed air pollution in 2018. when deemed necessary. • Regarding previous legal cases, are expected to be discussed within 2019: -A recourse against fines with a total amount of €62,151 imposed by the Central Port Authority of Piraeus and the Central Port Authority of Ios due to a limited pollution incident caused by Blue Star Patmos in 2017. -Legal proceedings regarding a limited pollution incident caused by the vessel Artemis in 2016. 83 We manage our environmental footprint In order to identify the sources from which we can reduce our environmental impact, we calculate greenhouse gas emissions per energy source used, which mainly include oil (both as marine fuels and for onboard electricity generation, as well as for offices) and electricity (for office operations): Energy and Environmental Footprint Source Consumption Energy Environmental Consumption Energy Environmental 2017* Consumption Footprint 2018* Consumption Footprint 2017 (GJ) 2017 (tn eCO2) 2018 (GJ) 2018 (tn eCO2) Scope 1 Oil (vessels) 243,832 tn 9,821,683 760,016 340,610 tn 13,783,552 1,064,011 MGO 7,855 tn 335,409 25,183 36,396 tn 1,554,109 116,686 LSHFO 194,549 tn 7,820,869 605,826 263,457 tn 10,590,971 820,405 HFO 41,428 tn 1,665,405 129,007 40,758 tn 1,638,472 126,920 Heating oil (offices) 3,200 lt 1,015 8.6 9,500 lt 3,013 25.4 Diesel (offices) 1,200 lt 44 3.2 0 0 0 Gasoline (corporate vehicles) NR NR NR 6,121 lt 202 14 Scope 2 Electricity (offices) 1,331,453 KWh 4,793 892.1 1,252,448 KWh 4,509 839.1 TOTAL 9,827,535 760,920 13,791,276 1,064,890 * Vessel data refer to all vessels we operated within the year and office and corporate vehicles data refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. Sources of conversion factors: International Maritime Organization (MGO, LSHFO and HFO), GHG Protocol GHG emissions from stationary combustion Calculation Tool V 4.1 May 2015 (Heating oil), GHG Protocol GHG emissions from transport or mobile sources Calculation Tool V 2.6 May 2015 (Diesel, Gasoline), IEA CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion 2016 edition 1 (Electricity) NR: Not reported In order to manage our environmental footprint and achieve • Regularly clean vessel hulls and propellers for improved energy efficient energy consumption, which reached 8.3 GJ per nautical efficiency. mile travelled by Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessels, • Lower or turn down air conditioning in empty cabins. we: • Purchase office equipment (such as computers and monitors) • Have installed sunscreen films in our Blue Star Ferries and with ‘energy star’ specifications. Superfast Ferries offices’ ground floor and mezzanine. • Exclusively purchase and install LED advertising signs in our • Have installed solar absorption systems in selected areas of our vessels. Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries offices to improve energy • Expanded monitoring of our corporate fleet’s transportation efficiency. impact, which reached 78,360 km total distance travelled by • Have introduced automations into our Blue Star Ferries and Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vehicles and 6.2 lt/100 km Superfast Ferries offices’ BMS for efficient cooling / heating average fuel consumption. and implemented various interventions to increase energy management efficiency, such as installation of specialized control sensors and definition, schedule and communication of critical alarms, as well as scheduled timetables to reduce energy <> 80% of monitors and 40% of personal costs. and laptop computers we use have • Have installed energy saving light bulbs (LED) in our Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries offices with a 5-year warranty. energy-saving specifications • Ensure optimum efficiency level for vessel engines to be used in each journey, in order to both preserve engines and avoid unnecessary fuel consumption. • Used specialized low resistance silicone anti-fouling paint on Blue Star Patmos and Flying Cat 6 to reduce fuel consumption. • Adjust electrical appliances (such as refrigerators and freezers) at optimum use and operation levels, according to both legislation and manuals. • Deactivate electrical appliances when not in use. 84 Installing Photovoltaic Panels Participation in Programs Since 2014, we have installed a pilot photovoltaic panel unit We strive to be continuously informed about environmental onboard Blue Star Delos, in order to reduce fossil fuels used protection issues, as we participate actively in European to generate electricity and gaseous pollutants in the longUnion research programs and collaborate with internal term. During 2018, we continued its operation with positive combustion engine manufacturers (WNSD) in joint results, as we reduced the use of vessel power generators for research projects to reduce emissions. At the same time, we electricity and consequently prevented approximately 2,935 participate in the European-funded programs Poseidon Med kgr of carbon dioxide emissions. I and Poseidon Med II, which aim to explore the possibility to use environmentally friendlier marine fuels, as well as the Energy Produced from Renewable Energy Sources MareBonus program. More specifically: • Poseidon Med I aimed to establish the legal framework and conditions to use Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) as a marine 2017 2018 4,380 fuel in the Mediterranean and Adriatic Sea. Liquefied 4,380 Natural Gas is odorless, non-toxic and non-corrosive and is considered the world’s cleanest fossil fuel, as it has no SO2 2016 4,380 emissions and can achieve 95%-100% lower particulate Electricity produced (KWh) matter emissions (PM), 85% lower ΝΟx emissions and 25% lower CO2 emissions, compared to marine diesel oil. The program featured 19 partners from 5 member-States (Greece, Cyprus, Italy, Croatia and Slovenia) and our Group was actively involved to submit pilot projects regarding vessel upgrading and building new vessels. • Poseidon Med II is a follow-up to ‘Poseidon Med I’ and ‘Archipelago-LNG’ programs and is funded by the European Union, with the participation of 26 partners from three member-States (Greece, Italy and Cyprus), in order to utilize LNG in six main European ports (Piraeus, Patra, Heraklion, Venice, Igoumenitsa and Limassol) and LNG station in Revithousa. The program features studies to introduce and use LNG as a marine fuel in Southeastern Mediterranean Sea and design LNG supply network and related infrastructure on a broader scale. • MareBonus is a program of the Italian Ministry of Transportation, which is managed by RAM Spa to increase the use of vessels for freight transportation among Italian ports, in order to reduce traffic congestion on highways and air pollution. Furthermore, we have signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the Public Natural Gas Supply Company (DEPA) since 2016. Within this context, we continued our collaboration and information exchange to jointly examine parameters and conditions for use of LNG in our vessels and we seek to further develop our cooperation for new vessel design, based on the conclusions drawn. 85 We reduce our impact on the ozone layer Buildings/Vessels: We cooperate with suppliers that do not use At the same time, we replenish refrigerants and fire suppressant refrigerants which significantly affect the ozone layer (such as materials (which inevitably leak) in our offices and vessels with R22) during maintenance activities in offices and vessels, and environmentally friendlier refrigerants, as their Ozone Depleting instead exclusively use refrigerants that do not affect the ozone Potential (R-11 equivalent) is zero. layer (such as CO2, R134a, R404a, R407, R422). In 2018, the total quantity of refrigerants used by Blue Star Ferries Refrigerators/Freezers: As part of our efforts to reduce our and Superfast Ferries was 2,309 kgr, compared to 3,278 kgr in 2017. impact on the ozone layer, we have placed refrigerators and freezers with environmentally friendlier refrigerants in our vessels. <> <> We use refrigerants that do not affect the We reduced the total quantity ozone layer (such as R134a, R404a, R407a) of refrigerant materials used from in 100% of refrigerators and freezers Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries onboard our vessels by 29.6% Refrigerants and CO2 Liquids 2016 2017 2018 Stored Used Stored Used Stored Used (kgr) (kgr) (kgr) (kgr) (kgr) (kgr) Carbon dioxide (CO2)* 33,797 0 49,678 0 86,884 0 Refrigerants with impact on the ozone layer (e.g. R11, R22) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Refrigerants without impact on the ozone layer 9,446.2 3,124.5 9,394 3,278 9,394 2,309 (e.g. R134a, R404a, R407a)** TOTAL 43,243.2 3,124.5 59,072 3,278 96,278 2,309 * Stored quantities include CO2 in fire extinguishing systems. Stored quantity for 2017 and 2018 also includes CO2 stored in rescue equipment activation cylinders. ** Data refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. 86 We reduce our atmospheric impact We sensitize employees and customers Our air pollutants (except carbon dioxide, which is described Employee awareness: We recognize the importance our above) mainly emanate from vessel engines during their employees to be aware about the environment, and therefore operation. To manage their impact, we: implement initiatives to adopt environmentally responsible • Use marine gas oil (MGO) with 0.1% sulphur content when practices within the workplace. Within this context, we have vessels stay within ports for over 2 hours, as well as low sulphur placed designated signs to remind all Blue Star Ferries and heavy fuel oil (LSHFO) with up to 1.5% sulphur content when Superfast Ferries marine employees to turn off any unnecessary vessels are in European waters. lights. • Use machinery which complies with the legislative requirements regarding nitrogen oxides (NOX) and particulate matter (PM) emissions from vessel engines. • Perform the necessary maintenance activities to ensure proper machinery function, as well as regular internal and external inspections to certify their proper function through relevant certificates (such as the International Air Pollution Certificate). • Have initiated a feasibility study to install exhaust purification systems on 5 vessels to further reduce sulfur oxide emissions (SOX) from their exhausts. • Proceed with corrective measures, if deemed necessary. Reduce Air Pollutants Reduce Consumption of Plastic Bags In 2018, we were the first and only passenger shipping As we encourage our employees’ active participation company operating in Adriatic Sea lines to accept and through ideas related to environmental protection, we have sign the voluntary agreement ‘Ancona Blue Agreement’, launched the initiative ‘I want to be full before I leave…’, which was proposed by the Port Authority and Central which was proposed by an office employee to reduce the Adriatic Ports Administration to further reduce emissions repercussions from the use of plastic bags. of air pollutants in the atmosphere due to marine fuels, the implementation of which began in end of 2018. More specifically, since 2017 we have distributed doubleThe agreement includes measures beyond the relevant sided cards to all Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries legislative requirements, such as: office employees with the inscription ‘Please, do not replace • The use of marine fuel with 0.1% sulphur content from the me… / I want to be full before I leave…’ and encouraged vessel’s approach to the port until the complete vessel’s employees to place them over their individual office waste departure. bin, in case the cleaning staff does not need to replace the • Specific technical instructions to crews regarding the safe bin’s plastic bag. Hellenic Seaways office employees did switching of fuels for the engines’ smooth operation. not participate in this initiative during 2018, due to the integration of Hellenic Seaways into the Group. We monitor noise levels We strive to reduce noise pollution, since vessel docking and operation can be a potential source of noise. Indicatively, we ensure the use of machinery and mechanical equipment, which comply with the required standards on noise levels. <> We reduced the consumption of plastic bags in our offices by 13.3% 87 Customer awareness: We believe we are morally obliged to • Promote alternative and environmentally friendlier forms raise customer awareness regarding environmental protection, of transportation and travel, and offer travel packages which not only during their journey, but also in their daily activities. combine ‘Train and Vessel’ transportation for domestic and Within this context, we: European destinations. • Publish information and our activities related to • Participate in most Eurail & Interrail Pass products and have environmental protection in our: created our own Interrail Greek Islands Pass for 5 destinations, Corporate websites www.attica-group.com, which offers 5 free vessel journeys in Blue Star Ferries www.bluestarferries.com, www.hellenicseaways.gr and and Hellenic Seaways domestic routes to holders railway www.superfast.com. passengers. Corporate magazines ‘On Blue’ and ‘Route’. • Display on Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessel screens information on how to prevent forest fires, in Companies’ social media. cooperation with the General Secretariat for Civil Protection Relevant press releases. (GSCP), an agency within Ministry of Interior. • Distribute our own climate change brochure to all passengers onboard Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessels, which suggests environmentally friendlier practices onboard, at home, as well as during driving. • Have placed designated signs in all Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessel cabins to encourage passengers to turn off lights when not in use. <> We informed over 1.2 million customers on Corporate Responsibility issues, such as environmental protection 2. Raw Materials and Solid Waste We manage raw materials We recognize that raw materials are not inexhaustible, but finite, and prioritize the use of natural resources as efficiently as possible. To achieve this, we implement programs to: • Monitor use of materials. • Reduce materials used. • Reuse materials. • Recycle materials. • Dispose materials properly. Reduce Impacts from Consumption of Materials Monitor Use of Materials Reduce Reuse Recycle Dispose Materials Used Materials Materials Materials Properly 88 We reduce materials used We implement initiatives to reduce use of materials, within the context of our efforts for efficient use of natural resources. We used 69.8% recycled toners/ink <> Indicatively, we: • E ntirely use multifunction printers and photocopiers at cartridges our offices, whose 93% of mechanisms, spare parts and consumables are recycled and refurbished. Furthermore: The percentage of recycled or certified paper and recycled toners/ink cartridges we used for Blue Star Ferries and Paper Use for Commercial Purposes Superfast Ferries was 28.1% and 72.9% respectively, compared to 24.4% and 79.3% respectively in 2017. 2018 93.5 Besides using recycled paper and recycled toners/ink cartridges, we do not use any other recycled materials. 70.5 • Purchase refurbished electronic equipment, with 190 personal 2018* 24.6 computers, 19 laptops, 35 telephone devices, 16 servers, 1 rack, 140 hard disks, 17 storage devices, 53 computer monitors and 18 83.2 2017 server memory modules purchased for our offices and vessels 25.8 during 2018. 66.4 • Have installed air dryers in WCs of all our vessels, in order to 2016 18.8 reduce use of paper for hand drying. • Ensure the efficient use of spare parts and other supplies (such Paper use (tn) Use of recycled or certified paper (%) as consumables), in order not to store large quantities. • Have installed chemical dosimeters onboard our Blue Star * Data refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessels and train marine employees on their proper use, in order to ensure efficient use of cleaning chemicals. We used 28.1% recycled paper for all <> We reduced the paper used for <> purposes from Blue Star Ferries and commercial purposes from Blue Star Superfast Ferries Ferries and Superfast Ferries by 15.2% Paper Use for Printing 29.5% 70.5% Paper with <70% recycled content Paper with >70% recycled content We reuse materials We reuse consumables, where possible, as we: • Return loading pallets back to our suppliers, in order to reuse them. • Use clean damaged sheets, towels, pillowcases and other fabrics to clean various surfaces and as tows in the engine room, with 42,700 sheets, pillowcases, duvet cases and towels reused within 2018. 89 We recycle materials Waste associated with our activities is a direct result primarily of our vessel operations, and secondary a result of our office operations (i.e. paper, toners): Material Consumption and Recycling Material 2017 2018 Consumption Recycling Consumption Recycling Paper 100,761.3 kgr 570 kgr* 118,896 kgr 3,970 kgr** Toners/ink cartridges for printers/ faxes/photocopying 1,524 units 1,819 units 79 units 752 units** machines (1,209 were recycled) (1,270 were recycled) Domestic batteries 353 kgr 25 kgr 289.2 kgr 54 kgr** Vessel batteries 4,482 kgr 4,482 kgr 13,523 kgr** 9,723 kgr** 3,663.6 kgr (in use) 3,663.6 kgr (in use) UPS batteries 7.9 kgr 490.3 kgr 7.9 kgr (consumption) 490.3 kgr (consumption) 226 units 21.1 m3 IT equipment IT equipment (computers, printers etc.) 24 units from offices 782 units 27,934 light bulbs (152 units) electrical equipment and light bulbs 7.4 m3 from vessels 18,781 light bulbs (558 kgr) 12.2 m3 light bulbs Cooking oils 48,380 lt 28 m3 from vessels 75,565 lt 37.7 m3 from vessels Lubricants 1,580,414 lt 286.3 m3 2,397,160 lt 493.3 m3 Medicines and pharmaceuticals 9,715 units 321 units from vessels 6,603 units 743 units from vessels Chemical substances 130,230 lt NR 204,891 lt NR * Due to technical reasons, the amount of paper recycling refers to end October until December 2017. ** Data refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. NR: Not reported <> Paper Recycling i We reduced the paper used for all Paper recycling can significantly contribute to reduce purposes from Blue Star Ferries and consumption of raw materials and energy, as the use of one Superfast Ferries by 12.5% tonne of recycled paper instead of one tonne of non-recycled paper: • Consumes approximately 40%-50% less energy and water. Hazardous waste: The total quantity of 6,973 m3 liquid and solid • Reduces air pollution by 70%-75% and water pollution by hazardous waste collected in 2018 (such as waste which contain 30% -40%. oil or mercury, lubricants and biodegradable waste from kitchen and accommodation areas), was forwarded to specialized • Prevents logging of 17-20 trees. hazardous waste management companies, which comply with • Significantly reduces waste volume in landfills. strict standards regarding environmental protection and apply proper treatment methods, while no hazardous waste was transported abroad. Various materials: As part of our efforts to effectively manage material consumption and recycling, we: • Have initiated a process to redesign management of all types of waste produced due to our activities. • Have placed recycling bins in our Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries offices and vessels to collect and forward for recycling paper, packaging cardboard, toners, electronic equipment, fluorescent lamps, domestic batteries, as well as UPS / laptop / mobile phones batteries, in order to promote recycling throughout daily activities of employees and passengers. • Collect and forward for recycling used cooking oils from vessels. 90 Medicines and pharmaceutical materials: We forward expired medicines to pharmacies that have joined the collection program, regardless whether these have been used. However, We transported from Islands free-of<> we do not forward pharmaceutical materials such as syringes, charge over 153 tonnes of materials for mercury thermometers, scalpels and serums. recycling Materials Recycling 19.7 20.5 24.1 71.9 2018 100 57.4 11.2 49.9 We properly manage solid waste 2.8 We recognize our obligation to protect the environment from 18.1 solid waste and garbage, which mainly emanate from our vessels’ 7.1 operations. Therefore, we: 100 2017 100 • Train our marine employees on our ‘Waste Management 5.2 Manual’, which describes our waste collection procedures and is 3.3 accessible by all employees. 100 • Do not allow any hazardous waste and garbage disposal at sea, even if allowed to be disposed at sea by relevant legislation. 37.2 • Do not discharge food or any related garbage at sea. 18.4 • Have placed designated signs to remind passengers and 100 employees not to throw waste overboard. 100 2016 • Have determined specific collection points for waste generated 4.6 15.6 onboard our vessels. 59.9 • Deliver all garbage and solid waste from our Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessels to appropriate reception facilities Paper per employee (kgr/office employee)* of licensed contractors within ports after each journey, Lubricants (%) Domestic batteries (%)* exceeding the relevant legislative requirements. The respective Vessel batteries (%)* volume collected and delivered in 2018 reached 38,501 m3, out UPS batteries (%) of which 1% was recycled and 99% was transported to landfills, Τοners/ink cartidges (%)* Medicines and pharmaceuticals (%) while no solid waste was transported abroad. Cooking oils (%) * Data for 2018 refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. Solid and Hazardous Waste 49,821 2018 7,209 100 Sponsoring Recycling Activities 36,071 Within the context of our social contribution, we are 2017 9,000 the main sponsor of the Municipality of Leipsoi and 100 Municipality of Patmos in Dodecanese and all South Aegean Region islands, in order to transport recyclable 28,836 materials from islands to the Hellenic Recovery Recycling 2016 7,150 Corporation (HE.R.R.Co) in Attica. The total quantity of Solid waste (m3) free-of-charge transported materials (such as paper, plastic, Solid waste indicator (m3 per milion passengers) glass, aluminum and cans) for recycling on behalf of the Hazardous waste management (%) Municipality of Leipsoi and Municipality of Patmos through our vessels within 2018 was 153.5 tonnes. 91 3. Water and Liquid Waste We monitor water consumption We aim to contribute to better manage water resources in the long-term, being aware of the responsible approach required on this issue. Therefore, we: • Use extensively seawater onboard Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessels after appropriate treatment, for activities such as cooling engines and cleaning decks. • Perform only absolutely necessary external cleaning and washing activities, in cases of rainfalls or bad weather. • Have installed photocell-operated water faucets in public WCs onboard Blue Star Delos and Blue Star Patmos. • Have installed pilot flow control filters to conserve drinking water onboard Superfast I, Superfast II, Blue Star 1 and Blue Star 2. • Plan and select the minimum number of hydrants to be used during water supply. • Check water meters before water supply has began and after it Water has ended and have appointed a vessel Officer to monitor and 2016 2017 2018* confirm the actual water supply. Water consumption (m ) 3 215,967 237,255 205,690 • Use pressure machinery, where possible, and ensure their Vessels 214,125 235,331 203,733 proper maintenance. Offices 1,842 1,924 1,957 • Ensure proper and regular maintenance of water production Water sources (%) equipment and dictate immediate notification of any failures Public water supply 64.7 59.2 72.4 to the Technical Division. networks (139,792 m3) (140,365 m3) (148,985 m3) • Have placed designated signs to remind Blue Star Ferries and 35.3 40.8 27.6 Seawater 3 Superfast Ferries passengers and marine employees to use (76,175 m ) (96,890 m3) (56,705 m3) water responsibly in accommodation, sanitary and catering * Data refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. areas. The water consumption indicators for Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries, as well as for Hellenic Seaways, reached 0.0347 and 0.025 m3/passenger respectively in 2018. • Train employees to use water more efficiently. We reduced water consumption from <> • Proactively check and immediately respond to potential damages in our office water supply system. Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries • Ensure that water leakages (such as in pipes, shower heads and by 13.3% flushers) or any other leakages are immediately managed, as well as perform all necessary maintenance activities on vessel systems. Within 2018, there were no significant leakages of any material (e.g. oil or chemical substances spills) or marine pollution incidents. 92 We manage liquid waste Drinking Water Quality Assurance Being aware that uncontrolled liquid waste disposal at seas can We have established a procedure to supply, manage safely significantly affect the marine environment, we: and sample drinking water, in order to ensure the quality of • Do not dispose processed sewage water from sewage systems water used and consumed onboard our vessels, according to within ports, exceeding the respective legislation. which we: • Regularly monitor operation of wastewater treatment systems. • Use separate water hose to supply water, which is solely • Comply with relevant regulations regarding bilge and ballast intended for this purpose and is kept away from any water management. potential sources of contamination. • Deliver all liquid waste from our vessels (lubricants and fuel • Ensure water hose runs for a few minutes prior to connect it waste) to licensed contractors within ports. to the drinking water supply tank, in order not to introduce stagnant water or external materials to the supply tank, Liquid Waste* which could potentially pose health risks. • Regularly clean and sanitize drinking water tanks, 4,218 exceeding legislative requirements, and ensure continuous 2018 45 chlorination of drinking water. 1,376 • Sanitize shower heads, sprinklers in bars and filters in washbasins located in cabins, public areas, bars and 4,343 kitchen twice a month. 2017 46 1,755 • Collaborate with an external partner to collect drinking water samples. 4,598 • Analyze water samples in accredited laboratories, which 2016 139 issue a respective report with results and suggest corrective 724 actions, in case there are any problems. No such incidents Liquid waste (m3) occurred within 2018. Sewage water (tn)** Bilge water (m3)*** * Data refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. Response to Pollution Incident ** Quantities of sewage water refer to cases where vessels are docked or during maintenance/cleaning activities to the sewage network. We have equipped all our vessels with ‘Shipboard Oil *** Quantities of bilge water refer to quantities delivered to appropriate reception facilities Pollution Emergency Plan’ (SOPEP) to effectively respond of licensed contractors within ports. to any pollution incident or risk of pollution, which may arise during the vessel’s fuel supply or due to an accident (e.g. collision, grounding). According to SOPEP, we describe in detail and have specifically defined the employees responsible for immediate actions to reduce the impacts from a potential pollution incident. 93 We assess our impact on biodiversity Marine Biodiversity: We recognize the importance of marine Biodiversity ? biodiversity and our obligation to reduce the risk of disrupting it. Therefore, we: As water covers 71% of our planet, preserving the balance of marine ecosystems and biodiversity are crucial for • Abide to the relevant legislation concerning the abstraction humankind. The intense growth of human activities and and use of seawater as ballast water in our vessels, in order the associated environmental pollution have significantly to avoid transfer of marine organisms into other non-native degraded the natural environment within a very short period ecosystems. of time. Consequently, many organisms fail to adapt to • Do not use the toxic substance tributyltin (TBT) in anti-fouling these new conditions, with their survival being threatened. paints for our vessels. According to the United Nations’ ‘Millennium Ecosystem • Use exclusively environmentally friendlier cleaning agents Assessment’ report, the extinction of species due to human during cleaning activities of garages, decks and exterior intervention occurs 1,000 times faster than it would naturally surfaces in general. and 1/4 of the planet’s mammals face extinction in the coming years. The situation is even more critical for the • Promote beach cleaning by producing and distributing beach marine environment, as it is estimated that 60% of coral ashtrays for free through our central agencies and vessels. reefs will extinct by 2030, due to illegal fishing and pollution. Since 2007, we have distributed over 1.3 million ashtrays to passengers and citizens. Vessel Rippling Vessel navigation while approaching or exiting ports inevitably creates rippling, which may affect: • Commercial activities in coastal areas, such as business activities in shores (e.g. bars/cafés, sun beds on beaches). • Bathers’ safety due to sudden appearance of waves. For this reason, we comply with legislation and adhere to the cruising speed limits defined by the relevant provisions, in order to minimize the respective impact. Within 2018 ,there was a lawsuit regarding damage to another vessel due to rippling impact, which is expected to be discussed within 2019. Land Biodiversity: We recognize the importance of biodiversity for the ecosystems’ balance and we do not conduct any activities within protected areas, as our offices are located in an urban environment, without any adjacent protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value (even outside protected areas). 94 4. Achievements 2018 and Future Objectives We committed Progress We aim By To improve our performance on Corporate To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility issues related to Environment 25% Responsibility issues related to Environment 2020 by 34% (by 2020). by 34%. To apply a process to monitor risks due to climate change and identify potential areas to implement 100% energy conservation initiatives. To include environmental protection aspects as To include environmental protection aspects as specifications in our products’ and services’ design 75% specifications in our products’ and services’ design 2019 phase (e.g. vessels) (by 2019). phase (e.g. vessels). To upgrade our BMS system’s software (by 2019). 0% To upgrade our BMS system’s software. 2019 To train our office employees on environmental To train our office employees on recycling issues (by 2019). 50% protection issues (e.g. recycling, renewable energy 2019 sources and technologies). To further upgrade the photovoltaic panel unit To further upgrade the photovoltaic panel unit onboard Blue Star Delos (by 2020). 0% onboard Blue Star Delos. 2020 To reduce consumption of refrigerants by 2% (by 2019). 100% To create an Eurail/Interrail Greek Islands Pass To create an Eurail/Interrail Greek Islands Pass for 5 destinations in Greece (by 2019). 50% for 5 destinations in Greece. 2019 95 ΙΧ. SUMMARY 1. About this Report This is the 10th Corporate Responsibility Report published by Attica Group. Here in, we present the practices followed and the results achieved, through focusing on topics our Stakeholders are interested in and committing in the long-term towards responsible business operations. The Principles we follow: The Report follows: Your feedback: We welcome your thoughts, comments • For structure and content, the guidelines ‘Sustainability or proposals through the feedback form at the end of this Report Reporting Standards’ (version 2016) of the Global Reporting or at the following address: Initiative (GRI). Corporate Responsibility Team • For principles, the UN’s Global Compact. Attica Group • For presentation of quantitative data, the EFQM’s RADAR Card. 1-7 Lysikratous & Evripidou Street, 17674 Athens E-mail: csr@attica-group.com The scope we refer to: The annual Corporate Responsibility Report: The symbols we use: For convenient reading of this Report, • Refers to the period 1/1/2018-31/12/2018 (unless indicated please pay attention to the following main symbols, which are otherwise in certain points). widely used: • Addresses all activities of ATTICA HOLDINGS S.A. (Attica Group), namely the provision of maritime transportation Good Practice services for passengers, private vehicles and freight units in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea, with references to the Group’s Indicates examples of good practices implemented. activities in the Morocco – Spain route in Chapter III (Attica Group), which are not included in the scope of this Report. {} Policy Indicates sections from formal corporate Policies. • Includes, as a norm, quantitative data for the period 2016-2018 for all quantitative indicators. i Did you Know Indicates information of particular interest. • Includes data from direct measurement, while cases of data estimations or restatements of data provided in our previous ? Issue of Consideration Indicates issues of public interest and consideration. 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report, are clearly indicated. • Includes data for the entire Group, while cases of data that Your Opinion refer only to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries (i.e. Indicates results from surveys conducted. excluding Hellenic Seaways) or only Africa Morocco Links (AML) are clearly indicated. Development of Report: The Report has been developed by • Data presented have been collected internally, in order to be the Group’s Corporate Responsibility Team in cooperation with published in this Report. STREAM Management: (www.stream-eu.com) The limitations we recognize: We recognize limitations in the Report, which we intend to handle in future publications, such as presentation of more quantitative data and objectives. Yiota Krassakopoulou General Counsel Director Legal & Corporate Affairs The in accordance option of our Report: This Report has been Christina Grigora prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Brand Marketing Manager Domestic lines Georgia Kokaliari Recruiting & Training Manager Nikolaos Merkouris Internal Auditor of Management Systems Dimitrios Roggas Team Member Accounts Payable 96 100% = completion 75% = under completion 50% = progress 25% = off plan 2. Summary Data 0% = not achieved Section 2016 2017 2018 Objectives 2018 Achievements 2018 Future Objectives MANAGEMENT We commit to adopt responsible policies and practices in our To improve our overall To improve our overall operations and to performance on Corporate performance on Corporate harmoniously cooperate Responsibility issues by 25% Responsibility issues by with our Stakeholders, 24% (by 2020). 24% (by 2020). in order to create mutual long-term value. To improve our To improve our performance on Corporate performance on Corporate Responsibility issues 75% Responsibility issues related to Owners by 10% related to Owners by 10% (by 2020). (by 2020). To improve our To improve our performance related to performance related to 25% Management of Corporate Management of Corporate Responsibility issues by Responsibility issues by 25% (by 2020). 25% (by 2020). To develop a Corporate Responsibility Strategy Objectives in the Report and Action Plan (number) 33 55 42 2018-2020, based on 100% quantitative assessment and target setting. To integrate the Corporate To integrate the Corporate Responsibility Strategy Responsibility Strategy 50% 2018-2020’s target 2018-2020’s target assessment score within assessment score within the overall Group Strategy the overall Group Strategy. (by 2020). To include the Corporate To include the Corporate Responsibility Strategy Responsibility Strategy 2018-2020’s quantitative 2018-2020’s quantitative assessment score as assessment score as target in the formal appraisal process for Top 0% target in the formal appraisal process for Top Management members Management members and at least one Board and at least one Board of of Directors member (by Directors member. 2019). 97 Section 2016 2017 2018 Objectives 2018 Achievements 2018 Future Objectives MANAGEMENT To develop a process To develop a process to identify, prioritize to identify, prioritize and include Corporate and include Corporate Responsibility issues in 0% Responsibility issues in local and international local and international investment agreements. investment agreements. To conduct a Stakeholder To conduct a Stakeholder Engagement process on Engagement process on 25% issues related to Corporate issues related to Corporate Responsibility (by 2019). Responsibility. To include Corporate Responsibility Team’s responsibilities within 100% its members’ formal job descriptions. GRI disclosures in the Report (number, full + 58 + 14 56 + 18 66 + 18 partial coverage) We increased by 7% the number of quantitative Quantitative indicators in 200 210 225 indicators we make the Report (number) reference to within the Report. To include our Corporate To include our Corporate Responsibility Report’s Responsibility Report’s quantitative indicators in 0% quantitative indicators in our SAP ERP. our SAP ERP (by 2021). To include perception measurement questions regarding our Corporate Responsibility performance (e.g. 100% responsible promotion of products and services, personal data protection, society support) in our market surveys. No violation cases Violation cases concerning concerning our main our main principles and 0 0 0 principles and rules of rules of professional professional behavior behavior (number) occurred. 98 Section 2016 2017 2018 Objectives 2018 Achievements 2018 Future Objectives MANAGEMENT We have communicated To conduct trainings or Regulation of Professional briefings related to the Behavior to 100% of our Regulation of Professional employees. Conduct & Business Ethics. 100% We informed 100% of office employees about Office employees our anti-corruption informed on To develop an 100 NR 100 policies and procedures. anti-corruption Anti-Corruption Code. procedures (%) 100% Corruption incidents No corruption incidents 0 0 0 (number) occurred. No bribery incidents related to our employees occurred. We were subjected to 82 external audits regarding Non-compliance incidents Management Systems recoded during external 0 0 0* used by Blue Star Ferries Management Systems’ and Superfast Ferries, audits (number) with no recorded noncompliance incident. No non-compliance incident was recorded during audits of our contractors’ Management Systems. To establish a To establish a comprehensive Business comprehensive Business Continuity Plan to ensure Continuity Plan to ensure continuation of our 0% continuation of our operations following operations following unexpected events (by unexpected events (by 2020). 2020). SOCIETY We commit to combine our business success with our country’s and partners’ development, To improve our To improve our as well as support local performance on Corporate performance on Corporate communities affected by Responsibility issues Responsibility issues our operations, in order to related to Community by 75% related to Community by contribute to improving 10% (by 2020). 10% (by 2020). the quality of life and prosperity of our society in general. 99 Section 2016 2017 2018 Objectives 2018 Achievements 2018 Future Objectives SOCIETY To improve our To improve our performance on Corporate performance on Corporate Responsibility issues 0% Responsibility issues related to Suppliers by related to Suppliers by 180% (by 2020). 180% (by 2020). We distributed over €569 million in economic value: over €91.6 million to employees (for salaries, benefits and insurance payments), €71.3 million for taxes (including VAT and port taxes), €59.3 million to providers of capital (for interest and Turnover (total sales with 268.61 271.54 365.4 return payments), €20.6 VAT) (million €) million to agents (for commissions), €196.6 million to suppliers (for purchases of goods and services), €2.2 million to society (for discount tickets, implemented programs, sponsorships and donations) and €128 million for investments. Profits after taxes 20.25 1.25 17.27 (million €) Cost of employees (including salaries, 60.59 61.61 91.6 benefits and insurance payments) (million €) Payments to suppliers 145.1 130.75 196.6 (million €) Investments (million €) 4.06 7.18 128 We increased the number of Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries sales To increase sales network network employees trained Training of sales network 1,584 248 1,920 employees’ training hours by 16.6% and the number employees (hours) by 5%. of total training hours by over four times. 100% We increased the total value of societal support Social contribution (€) 1,398,436 1,599,360 2,224,319 activities through Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries by 14.7%. To support the activities To support the activities of charitable organizations 100% of charitable organizations and NGOs. and NGOs. 100 Section 2016 2017 2018 Objectives 2018 Achievements 2018 Future Objectives SOCIETY To apply a process to We allocated 47% identify and define needs of sponsorships and of local communities donations to local in products, services or communities. donations, as well as support the activities of organizations with a 100% charitable purpose. To design and implement We implemented or To design and implement 5 programs / activities to supported societal support 2 programs / activities to address local communities activities in 100% of the address local communities needs in the areas of islands we serve. needs in the areas of sports, culture, education sports, culture, education or health. 100% or health (by 2020). We increased the total number of discount tickets Discount tickets 44,747 48,052 75,322 offered through Blue Star (number) Ferries and Superfast Ferries by 11.8%. To implement at least 2 To implement at least 2 Employee volunteers volunteer activities with volunteer activities with (number) 121 165 170 the participation of our 100% the participation of our employees. employees. We collected 251 blood Blood units from units through our voluntary voluntary blood donation 68 70 113 blood donation programs programs (number) in the last three years. We welcomed 1,290 young Visiting school and people from schools and university students 866 739 1,290 universities visiting our (number) vessels. We supported the development of 83 students in Merchant Navy’s Officer academies. To consolidate/review To consolidate/review the various procurement the various procurement Suppliers (number) 1,202 1,110 1,451 processes per Department 75% processes per Department and establish a single and establish a single Procurement Process. Procurement Process. To develop a Policy for our To develop a Policy for our Contractors’ Suppliers (by 75% Contractors’ Suppliers. 2019). To develop a Code of To develop a Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Conduct for Suppliers, including selection criteria 75% including selection criteria to become a supplier. to become a supplier. To integrate contractual clauses for Corporate Responsibility issues into 0% contracts with significant suppliers (by 2019). 101 Section 2016 2017 2018 Objectives 2018 Achievements 2018 Future Objectives SOCIETY To integrate Corporate To integrate Corporate Responsibility issues Responsibility issues in selection criteria to 75% in selection criteria to become a supplier (by become a supplier. 2019). We maintained the percentage of Procurement expenditure 90.4 92.9 90.7 procurement expenditure to local suppliers (%) to local suppliers over 90%. We allocated 28.7% of total procurement Procurement expenditure NR 89.2 28.7 expenditure to small and to SME suppliers (%) medium-sized enterprises (up to 250 employees). EMPLOYEES We commit to cultivate a workplace focused on respect, equality, safety To improve our To improve our and merit, as well as offer performance on Corporate performance on Corporate training opportunities Responsibility issues Responsibility issues 75% to our employees, in related to Employees by related to Employees by order to facilitate their 6% (by 2020). 6% (by 2020). personal and professional development. We employ 100% of our Employees (number, 191 + 1,151 201 + 1,004 286 + 1,537 employees with full time offices + vessels) employment contracts. To conduct an Employee Satisfaction Survey (by 0% 2019). No grievances regarding our marine employees’ living conditions were filed. Women in overall 11.5 13.3 15.5 workforce (%) Women in Director 4.7 4.9 4.2 positions (%) 102 Section 2016 2017 2018 Objectives 2018 Achievements 2018 Future Objectives EMPLOYEES 100% of employees in Greek employees in 100 100 100 Director positions are Director positions (%) Greek. To define Managers formally responsible to manage Corporate Responsibility issues 100% within their formal job description. Discrimination incidents 0 0 0 (number) Employees with entry level wage equal or higher than the legal minimum 100 100 100 wage or collective agreement (%) We increased the number of employees trained and training hours in Blue Training hours (hours) 5,964 5,221 7,057* Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries by 124.6% and 35.1% respectively. To train all Managers on Corporate Responsibility. 75% To conduct a Corporate To conduct a Corporate Responsibility e-learning Responsibility e-learning course for our office 100% course for our new office employees. employees. To integrate Corporate To integrate Corporate Responsibility issues into Responsibility issues into the other categories of 0% the other categories of in-house training courses in-house training courses. (by 2019). To conduct the Skills To update our employees’ Development Program job descriptions according to 20 employees in all 0% to our new organizational hierarchical levels (by structure. 2019). Employees receiving their 100% of our employees annual leave, as planned 82.8 100 100 received their annual (%) leave, as planned. 103 Section 2016 2017 2018 Objectives 2018 Achievements 2018 Future Objectives EMPLOYEES We conducted internal Marine employees drills on Health and Safety participating in internal issues (such as response 100 100 100 drills on Health and Safety to emergency situations) issues (%) to 100% of marine employees. Fatal accidents (number, 0 0 0 employees) Accidents (number) 19 14 32 To apply a process to To apply a process to monitor health and safety monitor health and safety incidents (e.g. injuries, incidents (e.g. injuries, diseases, absences, diseases, absences, fatal accidents) of 0% fatal accidents) of subcontractors’ employees subcontractors’ employees working in our offices (by working in our offices. 2019). Accidents with absence >3 19 12 27 days (number) Injury rate (rate) 1.07 0.78 1.47* To conduct performance To conduct performance appraisal for 100% of Employees participating in appraisal for 100% of office employees with performance appraisal (%, 0 / 100 0 / 100 0 / 100 0% office employees with a new Performance offices / vessels) a new Performance Appraisal System (by Appraisal System. 2019). To include specific To include specific Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility objectives in formal objectives in formal appraisal process for employees, Managers 0% appraisal process for employees, Managers and at least one Board and at least one Board of of Directors member (by Directors member. 2019). To include specific To include specific Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility objectives in Top objectives in Top Management members’ 0% Management members’ formal appraisal process formal appraisal process (by 2020). (by 2020). 104 Section 2016 2017 2018 Objectives 2018 Achievements 2018 Future Objectives CUSTOMERS We commit to safeguard the health and safety of To improve our To improve our our passengers and offer performance on Corporate performance on Corporate them the best possible Responsibility issues Responsibility issues travel experience, in order related to Customers by 75% related to Customers by to meet their needs and 17% (by 2020). 17% (by 2020). expectations during their journey. We conducted internal Marine employees drills and trainings participating in internal 100 100 100 on passenger safety drills on passenger safety procedures to 100% of procedures (%) marine employees. Vessels’ evaluation within the context of ‘Mystery 81 / 79 Passenger’ (%, Domestic lines / Adriatic Sea lines) To systematically inform To systematically inform and train our customers on and train our customers on Corporate Responsibility 75% Corporate Responsibility issues. issues. We were subjected to Inspections from local 49 inspections from authorities for food local authorities for 59 45 49 hygiene and safety food hygiene and safety, (number) with no recorded noncompliance incidents. Items lost/found or 4,642 5,027 5,078 damaged (number) Compensations for vehicle 45,080 45,461 57,800 damages (€) Complaints regarding To formalize responsible 0 0 0 our Responsible 100% communication (number) Communication Policy. To apply a Responsible To apply a Responsible Marketing and Marketing and Communication Code in 75% Communication Code in our business activities. our business activities. To apply a process to To apply a process to monitor potential recalls monitor potential recalls Recalls of products and 0% of products or services of products or services services due to health and 0 0 0 from subcontractors due from subcontractors due safety impacts (number) to possible health and to possible health and safety issues (by 2019). safety issues. 105 Section 2016 2017 2018 Objectives 2018 Achievements 2018 Future Objectives CUSTOMERS Complaints regarding 0 0 0 customer privacy (number) We kept Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessels’ departure time To achieve an ‘as To achieve an ‘as in 61.8% and Hellenic scheduled’ routes rate in scheduled’ routes rate in Seaways vessels’ departure Delays in routes (number) 15 9 59 Crete, Dodecanese and Crete, Dodecanese and time in 89.5% of our Ancona routes of over Ancona routes of over scheduled journeys. 90%. 90%. 50% Formal response letters to comments, complaints 726 619 1,987 and requests (number) Formal thank-you letters 190 179 143 (number) The average score of evaluations registered through dedicated devices Questionnaires in vessels 945 878 982 onboard Blue Star Ferries (number) and Superfast Ferries vessels reached 3.82 on a 5 point scale. Total calls to customer service telephone lines NR 548,977 824,757 (number) To further reduce unanswered calls from 100% our Call Center by 50%. To establish a Customer To establish a Customer Relationship Management 0% Relationship Management system (CRM) (by 2020). system (CRM) (by 2020). To categorize complaints To categorize complaints per category (e.g. delays, per category (e.g. delays, price of tickets, price 0% price of tickets, price discrepancies) (by 2020). discrepancies) (by 2020). We maintain 5 corporate websites, with over 4.9 million unique visitors annually and handle 3 mobile applications with over 130,000 downloads. To increase communication for early To increase arrival at the port of SMS messages sent to communication with our 100% 68,954 91,482 259,472 Piraeus and changes or customers (number) customers through SMS cancellations of scheduled by 5%. journeys through SMS by 5%. 106 Section 2016 2017 2018 Objectives 2018 Achievements 2018 Future Objectives CUSTOMERS We dispatched 851 notifications to serve passengers with reduced mobility to our vessels. We dispatched 2,411 notifications to serve passengers to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessels, out of which 17 concerning passengers with sensitivity to allergens. We increased our To install Infokiosks about Members in loyalty and seasmiles loyalty and 199,673 242,483 262,444 the seasmiles program on reward program (number) reward program members 8 Hellenic Seaways vessels. by 8.2%. To extend the infotainment platform @ sea to Hellenic Seaways vessels. ENVIRONMENT We commit to integrate sustainable development in our operations and To improve our To improve our apply environmentally performance on Corporate performance on Corporate friendlier business Responsibility issues Responsibility issues practices, in order to related to Environment 25% related to Environment reduce, where feasible, by 34% (by 2020). by 34% (by 2020). our environmental impacts. We conducted internal Environmental protection drills on environmental 2.1 1.9 2.1* investments (million €) protection issues to 100% of marine employees. To train our office We informed 70% of employees on To train our office our office employees on environmental protection employees on recycling environmental protection issues (e.g. recycling, issues (by 2019). issues. renewable energy sources 50% and technologies). To create an Eurail/ To create an Eurail/ Interrail Greek Islands Interrail Greek Islands Pass for 5 destinations in 50% Pass for 5 destinations in Greece (by 2019). Greece. 107 Section 2016 2017 2018 Objectives 2018 Achievements 2018 Future Objectives ENVIROMENT To apply a process to monitor risks due to climate change and 100% identify potential areas to implement energy conservation initiatives. We informed over 1.2 million customers on Corporate Responsibility issues, such as environmental protection. To include environmental To include environmental protection aspects as protection aspects as specifications in our Energy consumption (GJ) 9,533,156 9,827,535 13,791,276 75% specifications in our products’ and services’ products’ and services’ design phase (e.g. vessels) design phase (e.g. vessels). (by 2019). To upgrade our BMS To upgrade our BMS system’s software (by 0% system’s software. 2019). 80% of monitors and 40% of personal and Electricity consumption 1,549,711 1,331,453 1,252,448* laptop computers we (KWh) use have energy-saving specifications. To further upgrade the To further upgrade the Electricity produced from photovoltaic panel unit photovoltaic panel unit renewable energy sources 4,380 4,380 4,380 0% onboard Blue Star Delos onboard Blue Star Delos (KWh) (by 2020). (by 2020). Prevention of CO2 due to energy use from 2,844 2,935 2,935 renewable energy sources (kgr) Total eCO2 emissions (tn) 738,104 760,920 1,064,890 We reduced the total quantity of refrigerant To reduce consumption materials used from Blue Use of refrigerants (kgr) 3,124.5 3,278 2,309* of refrigerants by 2% Star Ferries and Superfast (by 2019). Ferries by 29.6%. 100% We use refrigerants that do not affect the ozone Total ODP of refrigerants layer (such as R134a, 0 0 0 (number, R-11 equivalent) R404a, R407a) in 100% of refrigerators and freezers onboard our vessels. 108 Section 2016 2017 2018 Objectives 2018 Achievements 2018 Future Objectives ENVIRONMENT We reduced the paper Paper used for all used for all purposes 80.8 100.8 118.9 purposes (tn) from Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries by 12.5%. We used 28.1% recycled paper for all purposes from Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. We reduced the paper used Paper used for commercial for commercial purposes 66.4 83.2 93.5 purposes (tn) from Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries by 15.2%. We reduced consumption of plastic bags in our offices by 13.3%. Recycled toners/ink cartridges for printers/ We used 69.8% recycled 249 79 752* faxes/photocopying toners/ink cartridges. machines (units) We transported from Materials from recycling Islands free-of-charge over activities, transported for 78 79 153 153 tonnes of materials recycling (tn) for recycling. Solid waste (m3) 28,836 36,071 49,821 Solid waste indicator (m3 per million 7,150 9,000 7,209 passengers) We reduced water consumption from Blue Water consumption (m3) 215,967 237,255 205,690* Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries by 13.3%. Liquid waste (m3) 4,598 4,343 4,218* * Data refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. NR = Not Reported 109 3. Global Compact, Sustainable Development Goals, ISO26000 and GRI Tables The correspondence between the content of this Report and the Global Compact Principles, the Sustainable Development Goals, the ISO26000 International Guidelines, as well as the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI Standards 2016) General Disclosures, Management Approach and Topic-Specific Disclosures, is presented in the following tables. • Coverage of Global Compact Principles, ISO26000 Aspects and GRI Disclosures is characterized as Full (F), Partial (P) or Not Applicable (NA). • General Disclosures of GRI required for ‘Core’ option are indicated in grey background. • Management Approach, Topic Specific Disclosures and Boundaries for Material Topics (both for GRI related Topics and other Topics) are indicated on the Table, based on the Materiality Analysis conducted. • No external assurance has been conducted for the Material Topics. United Nations’ Global Compact Table Issue Principle Report Section Coverage Human Rights 1. Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights V-3, VI-3 F 2. Ensure not to be complicit in human rights abuses V-3, VI-3 F Labour Standards 3. Recognize freedom of association and right to collective bargaining V-3, VI-3 F 4. Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour V-3, VI-3 F 5. Abolish effectively child labour V-3, VI-3 F 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect to employment and occupation V-3, VI-3 F Environment 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges V-3, VIII-1-3 F 8. Promote greater environmental responsibility VIII-1-3 F 9. Encourage development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies VIII-1 F Corruption 10. Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery IV-1,2 F United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals Table Goal Principle Report Section 1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere V-1,2 2. End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture VII-3 3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages V-2, VI-2, VII-1 4. Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning V-2, VI-4 5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls VI-3 6. Ensure access to water and sanitation for all VIII-3 7. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all VIII-1 8. Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment and decent work for all V-1,2, VI-1-3 9. Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and foster innovation 10. Reduce inequality within and among countries VI-3 11. Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns VII-3, VIII-2,3 13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts VIII-1 14. Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources VIII-2,3 15. Sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation, halt biodiversity loss VIII-3 16. Promote just, peaceful and inclusive societies V-2 17. Revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development IV-VIII 110 ISO26000 Table Aspect Report Section Coverage 1. Scope IX-1 F 2. Definitions IX-4 F 3. Understanding Social Responsibility IV-1,2 F 4. Principles of Social Responsibility IV-2,3 F 5. Recognizing Social Responsibility & Engaging Stakeholders IV-3 F 6. Guidance on Social Responsibility Core Subjects a. Organizational Governance IV-1 F b. Human Rights VI-3 F c. Labor practices VI-3 F d. Environment V-3, VIII-1-3 F e. Fair operating practices IV-1 F f. Consumer issues VII-1-3 F g. Community involvement and development V-2 F 7. Guidance on Integrating SR throughout the Organization a. Enhancing Credibility IV-VIII F b. Communication IV-2,3, VI-1 F GRI Content Index GRI Standard Report Section Coverage Boundary of Disclosure General Disclosures GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Organizational Profile Yes (Group) 102-1 IX-1 F 102-2 III-2, VII-2 F 102-3 III-2, IX-1 F 102-4 III-2 F 102-5 III-2 F 102-6 III-2 F 102-7 III-2, V-1, VI-1 F 102-8 VI-1 F 102-9 III-2, V-3 F 102-10 III-2 F 102-11 V-3, VIII-1 F 102-12 IV-2, VI-3, VII-1, VIII-1 F 102-13 IV-2 F Strategy Yes (Group) 102-14 I F 102-15 I, IV-1 P Ethics and Integrity Yes (Group) 102-16 III-2, IV-1,2, VI-3, VII-2, VIII-1 F 102-17 IV-1 P Governance Yes (Group) 102-18 IV-1 F 102-19 IV-2 P 102-20 IV-2 F 102-21 IV-1 F 102-22 IV-1 F 111 GRI Standard Report Section Coverage Boundary of Disclosure 102-23 IV-1 F 102-24 IV-1 P 102-25 IV-1 F 102-26 IV-2 P 102-27 IV-1,2 P 102-28 IV-1 P 102-30 IV-1 P 102-32 IV-3 F 102-34 IV-1 F 102-35 IV-1 P 102-36 IV-1 P 102-38 VI-3 F 102-39 VI-3 F Stakeholder Engagement Yes (Group) 102-40 IV-3 F 102-41 VI-3 F 102-42 IV-3 F 102-43 IV-3 F 102-44 IV-3 F Reporting Practice Yes (Group) 102-45 V-1, IX-1 F 102-46 IV-3, IX-3 F 102-47 IV-3, IX-3 F 102-48 V-1,2, IX-1 F 102-49 IX-1 F 102-50 IX-1 F 102-51 IX-1 F 102-52 IX-1 F 102-53 IX-1 F 102-54 IX-1 F 102-55 IX-3 F 102-56 IX-1,3 F Economic Topics GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 IV-1,3, V-1-3, VI-1,3, IX-3 F 103-2 IV-1, V-1-3, VI-1,3 F 103-3 IV-1,3, V-1-3, VI-1,3 F GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 Yes (Group) 201-1 V-1 F 201-4 V-1 F GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 Yes (Group) 202-1 VI-3 P 202-2 VI-1 F GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 Yes (Group) 203-1 V-2 P 203-2 V-2 F GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 Yes (Group) 204-1 V-3 F GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 Yes (Group) 205-2 IV-1 P 205-3 IV-1 F GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 Yes (Group) 206-1 IV-1 F 112 GRI Standard Report Section Coverage Boundary of Disclosure Environment Topics GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 IV-3, VIII-1-3, IX-3 F 103-2 VIII-1-3 F 103-3 IV-1,3, VIII-1-3 F GRI 301: Materials 2016 Yes (Group) 301-1 VIII-2 F 301-2 VIII-2 F GRI 302: Energy 2016 Yes (Group) 302-1 VIII-1 F 302-2 VIII-1 P 302-3 VIII-1 P 302-4 VIII-1 P GRI 303: Water 2016 Yes (Group) 303-1 VIII-3 F 303-2 VIII-3 F GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 Yes (Group) 304-1 VIII-3 F 304-2 VIII-3 F GRI 305: Emissions 2016 Yes (Group) 305-1 VIII-1 F 305-2 VIII-1 P 305-5 VIII-1 P 305-6 VIII-1 F 305-7 VIII-1 P GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 Yes (Group) 306-2 VIII-2,3 P 306-3 VIII-3 F 306-4 VIII-2 P GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 Yes (Group) 307-1 IV-1, VIII-1 F GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 Yes (Group) 308-2 V-3 F Social Topics GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 IV-3, V-2,3, VI-1-4, VII-1,2, VIII-3, IX-3 F 103-2 V-2,3, VI-1-4, VII-1,2, VIII-3 F 103-3 IV-1,3, V-2,3, VI-1-4, VII-1,2 F GRI 401: Employment 2016 Yes (Group) 401-1 VI-1 F 401-2 VI-3 F 401-3 VI-1 P GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 Yes (Group) 402-1 VI-3 F GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 Yes (Group) 403-1 VI-2 F 403-2 VI-2 F 403-3 VI-2 F 403-4 VI-2 F GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 Yes (Group) 404-1 VI-4 F 404-2 VI-4 P 404-3 VI-4 F 113 GRI Standard Report Section Coverage Boundary of Disclosure GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 Yes (Group) 405-1 VI-1,3 F 405-2 VI-3 F GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 Yes (Group) 406-1 IV-1 F GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 407-1 VI-3 P GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 VI-3 P GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 VI-3 P GRI 410: Security Practices 2016 410-1 V-2 F GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous People 2016 411-1 NA GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 Yes (Group) 412-1 VI-3 P 412-2 VI-4 F 412-3 VI-3 F GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 Yes (Group) 413-2 V-2 F GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 Yes (Group) 414-2 V-3 F GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 Yes (Group) 415-1 IV-1 F GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 Yes (Group) 416-1 VII-1 P 416-2 IV-1, VII-1 F GRI 417: Marketing and Labelling 2016 Yes (Group) 417-1 VII-2 F 417-2 IV-1 F 417-3 IV-1 F GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 Yes (Group) 418-1 IV-1 F GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1 IV-1 F Other Topics (non GRI) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 IV-1,3, V-2,3, VI-1, VII-1-3, VIII-1-3, IX-3 F 103-2 IV-1, V-2,3, VI-1, VII-1-3, VIII-1-3 F 103-3 IV-1,3, V-2,3, VI-1, VII-1-3, VIII-1-3 F Products and Services Yes (Group) Customers informed on Corporate Responsibility issues VII-1,2, VIII-1-3 F Audits and inspections for products and services quality (by number, outcome) VII-1 F Customer satisfaction surveys and practices (results) IV-3, VII-3 F Reductions in products and services prices VII-3 F Lost/found or damaged passengers’ personal items (number, compensations) VII-1 F Business Continuity Yes (Group) Proactive approaches to ensure our uninterrupted operation IV-1 F 114 GRI Standard Report Section Coverage Boundary of Disclosure Vessel Operations and Impacts Yes (Group) Proactive approaches on vessel safety standards and respective compliance VII-1 F Accidents within vessels (by number, type, reason, results) V-2, VII-1 F Non-compliance with regulations regarding exceeding vessel capacity IV-1, VII-1 F (by number, outcomes) Non-compliance with regulations regarding rippling impacts to coastal areas IV-1, VIII-3 F (by number, outcomes) Responsible Buying Yes (Group) Average supplier payment time V-3 F Suppliers evaluation (by percentage, frequency) V-3 F Discontinuation of collaboration with suppliers (by number, reason) V-3 F Environment Yes (Group) Value of environmental protection investments VIII-1 F Employee training on environmental protection issues (by number, duration) VIII-1 F Marine pollution incidents (by number, type, reason, results) VIII-3 F Non-compliance with regulations regarding acoustic impact (by number, outcomes) IV-1 F Work Conditions Yes (Group) Percentage of employees informed regarding Corporate Responsibility issues VI-1 F Employees with overtime work (by percentage, average) VI-1 F Non-compliance with regulations regarding labour practices (by number, outcomes) IV-1 F Non-compliance with regulations regarding accommodation conditions IV-1 F for marine employees (by number, outcomes) Society Yes (Group) Participation in volunteering activities V-2 F Number of visiting school and university students V-2 F 115 116 4. Glossary Please pay attention to the following, frequently used terms: Term Refers to ‘Bilge water’ The mixture of water, lubricants and fuel produced during engine washing, as well as by accidental leaks. ‘Biodiversity’ The various living organisms in an ecosystem (land, marine and aquatic), as well as the extent of their genetic composition. ‘Carbon dioxide’, ‘CO2’ The gaseous chemical compound derived from the combustion of fossil fuels (oil, gasoline, natural gas, etc.) and organic compounds (wood, plastic, etc.), which contributes to the greenhouse effect. ‘Classification societies’ The maritime technical organizations who establish safety regulations for shipbuilding, as well as for the vessels’ equipment. ‘Corporate Responsibility’, ‘Corporate Social Responsibility’, The voluntary commitment of companies to include in their corporate ‘Sustainable Development’ practices economical, social and environmental criteria and activities, which are beyond the legislative requirements and are related to their impact on Stakeholders. The terms refer to the current economic growth that does not compromise the ability of future generations to satisfy their own needs. ‘Environmental footprint’ The total greenhouse gas emissions that arise directly (e.g. burning of fossil fuels for heating) or indirectly (e.g. by the use of products) from a company. ‘equivalent CO2’, ‘eCO2’ The measurement unit of all greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming (carbon dioxide-CO2, methane-CH4, nitrous oxide-N2O, fluorinated hydrocarbons-HFCS, perfluorocarbons-PFC’s, sulfur hexafluoride-SF6), expressed as equivalent carbon dioxide. ‘Global Compact’ The United Nations Global Compact, an initiative to encourage companies to align their business operation with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. ‘Group’, ‘we’, ‘Attica Group’ The legal entity ATTICA HOLDINGS S.A. (which this Report addresses). ‘IMO’ The International Maritime Organisation, which is a specialized organization to establish measures in order to improve safety of international shipping and prevent environmental pollution from vessels, and is also responsible for legal issues related to liability and indemnify cases of maritime accidents, as well as facilitate international maritime traffic. ‘MARPOL’ The Convention of the International Maritime Organization to adopt concrete measures, in order to control and prevent pollution from vessels. ‘Passengers’ The people transported with our vessels. ‘Report’ The Corporate Responsibility Report 2018. ‘VI-3’ etc. The Chapter and section of this Report (e.g. used in the GRI, Global Compact and Stakeholder Tables). For example, the term ‘VI-3’ makes reference to Chapter VI (Employees), section 3 (Equality and Fairness). ‘Universal Declaration of Human Rights’ The declaration adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1948 with the fundamental rights to which all human beings are inherently entitled. 117 118 5. Feedback Form 1. To which Stakeholder group do you belong? Employees Shareholders Customers Sales Network Suppliers State Associations and Unions Local Communities Citizens NGOs Media Other: 2. What is your impression, about the following Chapters of this Report? Chapter: Excellent Good Neutral Mediocre Bad IV. Management V. Society VI. Employees VII. Customers VIII. Environment 3. What is your impression, about the following elements of this Report? Element: Excellent Good Neutral Mediocre Bad Sections have the right balance Important topics are covered Structure supports easy reading Texts are comprehensive Quantitative elements are complete Graphs included are comprehensive Layout is attractive/pleasant 4. Are there any topics, which are not answered (or not adequately covered) in this Report or do you have questions you would like to be answered in our next Report? 5. Are there any other comments/proposals you might have? Personal Data (optionally): Name: Organization: Address: Tel/Fax: E-mail: Please fill out the form and send it to: Attica Group, Corporate Responsibility Team, 1-7 Lysikratous & Evripidou Street, 17674, Athens, e-mail: csr@attica-group.com All information on this form will be used only for evaluating this Report, through statistical analysis. Personal data are protected, as defined by the respective law regarding private information. 119 120 121 122 This Report has been printed on Fedrigoni X-PER paper with eco-certifications Long Life ISO 9706, Acid Free, ECF, Heavy Metal Absence CE 94/62. Printing: Development of content and layout: STREAM Management www.stream-eu.com ATTICA GROUP www.attica-group.com 1-7 Lysikratous & Evripidou 176 74 Αthens
