P. O. Box 74693, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Tel: +971-4-4571800, Fax: +971-4-4571801, E-mail: dubai@euromatech.com Website: www.euromatech.com Published on : 30th April 2019 Time Period : January 2018 to January 2019 Differentiation Level : GC Active Format : Stand Alone Document Self-Assessment  Includes a clear statement for continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles  Report of relevant policies and actions related to Human Rights  Report of relevant policies and actions related to Labour  Report of relevant policies and actions related to Environment  Report of relevant policies and actions related to Anti-Corruption  Includes a measurement of outcomes P. O. Box 74693, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Tel: +971-4-4571800, Fax: +971-4-4571801, E-mail: dubai@euromatech.com Website: www.euromatech.com Executive Summary EuroMaTech is strategically placed at a globally progressive region. Amidst the region’s continuously evolving growth & development activities, the UAE places significant priority to its economic and social well-being. Being part of this progressive business environment which embraces regional advancement has better facilitated EuroMaTech to observe the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. EuroMaTech ensures to uphold the principles of the UN Global compact and that they are maintained through its continued commitment and through the company’s robust policies and procedures. This report details the customs and methods applied in achieving this, focusing on four main areas human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This report highlights the policies and aims that we work towards, the ways in which we carry out said policies, and the techniques used to evaluate our outcome. Mission and Vision To provide professional and strategic consultancy and training services, to a world-wide circle of clients in a way that adds long term value to their organisation. To develop cutting edge training solutions that can be implemented at all levels within an organisation. Our public and in-house courses are developed to meet the specific demands of our clients. About the company EuroMaTech is a highly successful training company specialising in corporate training markets. We run approximately 500 high quality public seminars per year in areas such as; management and leadership, oil and gas, finance and accounting, HR, IT, project management, contract management plus many more. In addition to this, we also provide in-company training which can be tailored to your company’s specific needs. We successfully run in excess of 400 in-company training seminars per year all over the world. EuroMaTech has been trading for over 21 years and in that time have built successful, strategic relationships with our customers. Over 94% of our business is from repeat customers. We like to believe this is due to our superior service, our fantastic consultants and the general experience delegates receive from our training for their career enhancement. P. O. Box 74693, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Tel: +971-4-4571800, Fax: +971-4-4571801, E-mail: dubai@euromatech.com Website: www.euromatech.com Human Rights • Principle 1 : Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2 : make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals EuroMaTech constantly focuses at encouraging all our associates, partners, employees and the clients we serve to respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and environmental protection. In line with our commitment, we have underpinned its importance through the introduction of several policies, including: Equal Business Opportunity, Ethical Code of Conduct, Safety First and the Anti-Harassment policies. These policies are displayed on our notice boards to serve as a reminder for our employees and as a declaration statement to our suppliers, partners and clients. Implementation EuroMaTech has applied the following measures to ascertain that Human Rights are not being violated: ➢ Periodic staff meetings are carried out to contribute positively to all company related issues ➢ Collecting feedback from clients attending our training courses. This allows us to ensure that no unfair treatment is experienced by any of our customers and prompt corrective action is taken in case of any misconduct. ➢ Actively contacting clients who have reduced business cooperation with a view to reconnect and ensure that such reduction was not caused due to any sort of service dissatisfaction; and that it may be purely resultant out of budgetary constraints or policy driven reasons. ➢ Prompt handling of employee grievances or any concerns by the Human Resource Department email regarding any violations of the UAE Labour law. ➢ Conducting training for employees on Human Rights, on regular basis. ➢ Implementation of the Equal Business Opportunity, Ethical Code of Conduct, Safety First and the Anti-Harassment policies. Measurement of Outcomes There have been no circumstances faced from the commencement of our business operations reporting any Human Rights violations. Regular meetings are continuously implemented to tackle any suggestions and / issues raised by our employees and clients. Any such concerns highlighted in the HRD email were reviewed by Senior Management and resolved in the most appropriate manner. EuroMaTech will assess any issue with the existing policies and guidelines. If a violation of Human Rights has been found, it will be documented and the responsible party will be notified and will be given ample time to address and resolve the issue. Continued non-compliance of the concerned party will result in a disciplinary action or as per the U.A.E. law, depending on the weight of the violation. P. O. Box 74693, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Tel: +971-4-4571800, Fax: +971-4-4571801, E-mail: dubai@euromatech.com Website: www.euromatech.com Labour Principles • Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4 : the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5 : the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6 : the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals EuroMaTech strictly abides by the rules and regulations set by the U.A.E. Labour Law. Our company follows policies and employee rights, compensation and responsibilities. Labor related risks are also assessed. We will continue to develop our policy as appropriately needed or as advised by the U.A.E. Labour Law. Implementation EuroMaTech has applied the following measures to ascertain that Human Rights are not being violated: ➢ Human Resource Department email has been active in dealing with employees’ complaints and/or issues with regards to any violation of the U.A.E. Labour Law ➢ All employees have been offered coverage of proper medical insurance ➢ Employees are entitled to a round-trip economy class flight ticket to their respective home countries ➢ Regular weekly meetings are conducted to discuss any company related issues ➢ EuroMaTech follows equal compensation irrespective of gender, color, ethnic or national origin, age, marital status, disability, family circumstances, socioeconomic background, and so forth Measurement of Outcomes EuroMaTech has encouraged a multicultural working environment and has always supported diversity, hiring staff irrespective of gender, ethnicity, age, and so forth. The company has supported all staff with medical insurance and all employee related injuries and illnesses has been treated. All of the complaints/issues received in the HRD email were reviewed by the management and were investigated and resolved immediately and amicably. The weekly meeting that was recently implemented has proven to be a success; all issues and complaints received from employees and clients has been resolved. P. O. Box 74693, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Tel: +971-4-4571800, Fax: +971-4-4571801, E-mail: dubai@euromatech.com Website: www.euromatech.com Environmental Principles • Principle 7 : Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8 : undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9 : encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals EuroMaTech constantly focuses on building an environment friendly working culture. We value the significance of maintaining resources and minimal wastage. We strongly believe in practicing the “Three R’s” (Reduce, Reuse and Recycle). We are currently by and large practicing a paper-less training, through the introduction of e-tablets for our participants on our programmes. Implementation EuroMaTech has implemented the following measures to ensure that the environment is taken into consideration: ➢ Employees are reminded to switch off their office equipment/machines when leaving the office ➢ A listing chart on how to “Reduce, Reuse and Recycle” has been put up in the office notice board ➢ Paper waste is handed over to recycling companies to avoid wastage ➢ Office equipment are serviced on a timely basis to ensure good functioning and reduced power consumption ➢ E-tablets have been introduced to a major lot of our training courses instead of the traditional paper-based course manuals ➢ Biodegradable paper bags and cloth bags are being used instead of plastic bags ➢ More focus is given to enhancing online SEO’s to enhance marketing activities and reduced print material such as brochures, pamphlets are encouraged ➢ Adequate use of drinking water is encouraged ➢ Notices are posted at the lavatory about minimal use of water to avoid unnecessary waste ➢ The use of A/Cs and other cooling devices are also kept minimal to preserve energy Measurement of Outcomes With the implementation of the “Three R’s”, the company has minimized the waste production by 35%. The electricity and water bill has been reduced by 40% due to the practice of turning off all equipment during out of office hours. 90% of the waste production has been eliminated regarding the use of disposable cups, plates and cutlery, along with eliminating the use of plastic bags. P. O. Box 74693, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Tel: +971-4-4571800, Fax: +971-4-4571801, E-mail: dubai@euromatech.com Website: www.euromatech.com Anti-Corruption Principles • Principle 10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals EuroMaTech’s fight against corruption is a long standing one. We strongly stand against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. It is the policy of EuroMaTech to conduct all business transactions in an honest, transparent and ethical manner. EuroMaTech as a company, its employees and any person associated with the company will not offer and is strictly against illicit payments and/or any form of bribery. Implementation EuroMaTech has implemented the following measures to ensure that Anti-Corruption principles will be followed and strictly implemented: ➢ All employees have been briefed with an anti-corruption listing as well as the anti-corruption law of the U.A.E. ➢ Human Resource Department email has been active as a channel for reporting concerns regarding corruption and malpractice. Employees, clients and partners are encouraged to report any concerns to the given email address. ➢ Internal and external auditing are regularly conducted to ensure that all transactions are legitimate and legal Measurement of Outcomes EuroMaTech has never been involved in any criminal offense related to false statements and misrepresentations. EuroMaTech maintains its clean judicial record; all business duties and responsibilities in line with laws and regulations of its country of registration and demonstrate proper business conduct and ethics. Moreover, EuroMaTech is an advocate of anti-corruption and communicates this to all clients and suppliers where appropriate.
