environmental, soCial anD governanCe report 2018 stoCk CoDe : 1299 aia.com NEXT Contents About this Report SUSTAINABILITY 03 STATEMENT FROM 04 AT A GLANCE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Doing Business in the right way AND PRESIDENT THE RIGHT PEOPLE Contributing to SECTION 1 06 SECTION 2 14 SECTION 3 24 our communities About this Doing business The right operating responsibly report in the right way people FEEDBACK WHO WE ARE 07 Effective risk management 16 Developing our leaders 26 GRI and HKEx guide content OUR APPROACH TO ESG 10 Responsible business practices 17 Fostering a culture Index OUR APPROACH TO ESG REPORTING 12 Securing customer information 20 of people development 27 Customer engagement 23 Culture and engaging our people 29 Diversity and inclusion 30 recognising and rewarding our people 32 employee health, wellness and safety 32 embracing digital transformation 34 SECTION 4 35 SECTION 5 50 SECTION 6 59 Contributing to Operating FEEDBACK our communities responsibly Our products 36 Energy and emissions 51 SECTION 7 61 Continued innovation 44 Resource usage 56 Global Sustainable investment 45 Sustainable infrastructure 57 reporting Corporate social responsibility and community wellness 47 Our green buildings 58 initiative and hong kong stock exchange Guide Content Index 02 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 2018 SUSTAINABILITY About this Report AT A GLANCE Doing Business in the right way THE RIGHT PEOPLE Protection GREEN BUILDINGS Contributing to our communities Serve the holders of more than Two AIA Financial Centre in Nanhai, Foshan, China 33 million achieves the highest rating of LEED Platinum certification operating responsibly individual policies and over 16 million participating members of group insurance schemes FEEDBACK GRI and HKEx guide content Investments in Index Infrastructure Key ESG Key ESG As at 31 December 2018, Ratings Index Inclusions US$ 24 BILLION Awarded an ISS-oekom Prime Rating invested in infrastructure-related sectors such as electricity, transportation and telecommunications ENERGY Environmental Corporate Performance Performance Governance Total carbon emissions of AIA Group Ltd Board and Committees 4,117 kWh per employee composed almost entirely of independent non-executive directors Total energy use amounted to 55,761 tonnes 8 6 5 9 3 0 5 7 kWh 2.7 tonnes per AIA employee Investments in Healthcare Community Care ESG Signatories Over AIA is the first Hong Kong headquartered US$ 2.4 BILLION US$ 5 MILLION Asset Owner to join the Principles for Responsible Investment invested in the healthcare sector contributed to our communities 03 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 STATEMENT FROM About this Report GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Doing Business in the right way AND PRESIDENT THE RIGHT PEOPLE Contributing to our communities I am delighted to present the programmes and financial support Company’s Environmental, Social that are often not available at the operating and Governance (“ESG”) Report required scale. All of these factors responsibly 2018. At AIA we believe that mean that our communities are faced insurance is intrinsically linked with a growing “protection gap” – the FEEDBACK with the economic and social wellshortfall in insurance and savings being of our communities and it required to protect against health GRI and HKEx is imperative that we continue to and mortality risk. guide content act with integrity while innovating Index solutions that help address This year we launched our new challenges across the region. Our purpose-led brand promise – sustainable future is based both “Healthier, Longer, Better Lives” – on our ability to deliver real value which reflects what we stand for as a to our customers and shareholders company. As the largest independent while also making a meaningful publicly listed pan-Asian life contribution to the communities that insurance group, we see it as our we serve. mission to help address the health and wellness challenges faced by Rapid economic development has our communities. Our products brought tremendous improvements provide a safety net to millions and in standards of living in Asia. we continue to raise awareness Nevertheless, the significant about the importance of making progress made has not been without healthy choices to manage risks its challenges. Growing affluence in associated with disease, particularly the region has been accompanied through our flagship AIA Vitality by an increasing prevalence of wellness programme. lifestyle-related diseases. Industrial growth has resulted in higher levels of pollution. Advances in healthcare also mean that people are living longer, but ageing populations require levels of social welfare 04 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 About this Report Doing Business in the right way THE RIGHT PEOPLE Contributing to our communities operating responsibly FEEDBACK GRI and HKEx guide content Index This ESG Report has been structured of climate change impacts. AIA once again as a gender-inclusive to demonstrate how we manage also became the first Hong Kongcompany through our inclusion in the our impact and address priority headquartered asset owner to join the Bloomberg Gender Equality Index. sustainability issues. We have Principles for Responsible Investment mapped our disclosure against the (PRI), a testament to our commitment In 2019, our Centennial year, AIA United Nation’s 17 Sustainable to sustainable investment across our looks forward to continuing to Development Goals, aligning our markets. play a vital role in creating a more strategic commitments with these sustainable tomorrow as we help global objectives and the Principles I am proud of the significant progress the people we serve live Healthier, of the UN Global Compact. we have made in our journey toward Longer, Better Lives. building a sustainable future. Our ESG issues are rightly top of mind efforts in addressing material ESG for our stakeholders. As one of issues and enhancing our disclosures Asia’s leading companies, AIA has have earned commendations from an important role to play in driving international research and rating positive change. This year AIA agencies. In 2018 we received a supported the recommendations of “Prime” rating from ISS – oekom, the Task Force on Climate Related and have been included in the Financial Disclosures (TCFD), a global FTSE4Good Index Series for a Ng Keng Hooi initiative that seeks to generate second consecutive year. We were Group Chief Executive and President greater awareness and consideration also pleased to be acknowledged 15 March 2019 05 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 SECTION 1 About this Report Doing Business in the right way THE RIGHT PEOPLE Contributing to our communities ABOUT operating responsibly FEEDBACK GRI and HKEx THIS guide content Index REPORT 06 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Total sum assured of over OUR VISION is to be the world’s pre-eminent life insurance provider. US$1.58 trillion About this Report Serve the holders of more than 33 Doing OUR PURPOSE is to play MILLION INDIVIDUAL Business in the right way a leadership role in driving policies THE RIGHT economic and social development PEOPLE across the region. And over Contributing to 16 our communities Million participating operating responsibly members of FEEDBACK group insurance schemes GRI and HKEx guide content Index WHO WE ARE The Company and its subsidiaries (collectively “AIA” or AIA Group Limited (the “Company”) is the “Group”) comprise the largest independent publicly pleased to present its ESG Report 2018 listed pan-Asian life insurance group. AIA has a presence (the “Report”), which sets out in detail in 18 markets in Asia-Pacific-wholly-owned, branches our ESG priorities and the commitments and subsidiaries in Hong Kong, Thailand, Singapore, we are making toward our promise of Malaysia, China, Korea, the Philippines, Australia, enabling Healthier, Longer, Better Lives Indonesia, Taiwan, Vietnam, New Zealand, Macau, Brunei, across the Asia Pacific region. Cambodia, a 97 per cent subsidiary in Sri Lanka, a 49 per cent joint venture in India and a representative office in This Report describes how we address Myanmar. material sustainability issues and contains cross references to information With a total sum assured of US$1.58 trillion as of in AIA’s Annual Report 2018. 31 December 2018, AIA serves the holders of more than 33 million individual policies and over 16 million participating members of group insurance schemes. 07 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 About this Report Doing Business in the right way THE RIGHT PEOPLE Contributing to our communities operating responsibly FEEDBACK WHERE WE MAKE A DIFFERENCE GRI and HKEx guide content Index Deteriorating health associated with It is projected that more than ACROSS ASIA 25% lifestyle factors has resulted in an increase of non-communicable PACIFIC, RAPID diseases (“NCDs”), which account for Economic growth 71% of all deaths globally1. of the population in Asia Pacific will be over the age of 60 by 20502, straining economic growth and increasing demand for public services. has seen reductions in poverty and improvements in Air pollution contributes to the By 2050, urbanisation coupled with standards of living, premature deaths of about the overall growth of the world’s yet this has not been without its share 7 million 2.5 billion population could add of challenges. people globally each year3. more people to urban areas4. The shortfall in resources to ensure protection against mortality in the region is estimated to reach US$ 73 trillion by 20205. These issues present our markets with significant social and economic risks. 1 WHO 2018 2 UN 2016 3 WHO 2018 4 UN 2014 5 Our forecast is based on the 2014 mortality protection gap data of Swiss Re’s 2015 Mortality Protection Gap Report. 08 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 For 100 years, AIA has provided protection to individuals and families when they have needed it most. As a market leader, AIA About this Report focuses on the sustainability of our financial results, But we Doing Business in the also focus on helping to address right way the challenges faced by our THE RIGHT PEOPLE markets. We believe that this focus on sustainability is integral Contributing to our communities to our long-term growth and the sustainable and inclusive operating responsibly development of our communities. FEEDBACK GRI and HKEx guide content Index Given the array of ESG challenges across As the largest pan-Asian life insurer, we are well Asia, we have chosen to focus on those that positioned to meet these challenges. allow us to have the greatest impact and drive meaningful change. OTHER MATERIAL TOPICS AIA’s Environmental, Social and Governance AIA maintains a continuous dialogue with our Committee (“ESG Committee”) oversees the stakeholder groups and considers industry and development of ESG strategies and initiatives ESG specific research. These perspectives are at the Company. The role of the ESG Committee incorporated within our materiality assessment is discussed in detail in the ESG Governance process and are subject to further feedback section of this Report. from our ESG Committee. Other material ESG issues that impact our operations more broadly After consultation with various stakeholders, are outlined in the table below and discussed in the ESG Committee identified the following this Report. five issues that will be central to our efforts to operate in a sustainable way while supporting our communities: • The growing protection gap • Lifestyle related disease • Ageing populations • Urbanisation • Pollution Workforce wellness Recruitment & retention Digitalisation Climate change Cybersecurity Financial performance Effective governance Diversity & inclusion Data protection Staff development and training Responsible business practices 09 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 OUR APPROACH TO ESG About this Report In 2018, we launched our new purpose-led brand promise to help our customers lead Healthier, Doing Business in the Longer, Better Lives. With this promise at our core, right way and our commitment to our Operating Philosophy THE RIGHT of “Doing the Right Thing, in the Right Way, with PEOPLE the Right People… and the Right Results will come”, we devised the following ESG Approach. Contributing to our communities Environment Social Governance operating responsibly FEEDBACK Sustainable Our The Right Infrastructure Products People GRI and HKEx guide content Index Resource Sustainable responsible Usage Investment Business Practices Energy & CSR & Community Effective Risk Emissions Wellness Management OPERATING CONTRIBUTING TO DOING BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY OUR COMMUNITIES THE RIGHT WAY AIA’s brand promise speaks to why we do what we do as a company and We have structured this Report to communicate the policies, is central to all our ESG initiatives. initiatives and practices relevant We aim to address the sustainability to addressing material ESG challenges faced across our markets, issues. Our Approach provides to operate responsibly by mitigating a framework for the continued our environmental impact, and to communication of our ESG progress and the delivery of our ensure that we always do business brand promise. Please click on in the right way by adhering to the a topic to be redirected to the highest ethical standards. relevant section. 10 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 THE ROLE OF HEALTH OUR AND LIFE INSURANCE PROMISE About this Report Doing The insurance industry plays a At AIA we’re making this commitment to people Business in the right way all across Asia Pacific, and in every community broad role in contributing to the where we live and work. We’re not going to focus THE RIGHT social and economic fabric of the on sickness; we’re going to focus on health. PEOPLE communities where we operate. We’re not going to focus just on life; we’re going to focus on living. We believe the best way to live Contributing to This is not always evident given well is to be healthier. our communities the intangible nature of our operating products and services. Because when you’re healthier you get more out responsibly of life. You can do more. Experience more. Live The concept of pooling and sharing risk to life to its fullest. Why longer? Because when FEEDBACK provide businesses and people with security you’re healthy, you can enjoy an active and has been around for centuries. Life and meaningful life, for longer. And better. Because health insurance products provide individuals it’s not just about staying alive, it’s about living GRI and HKEx guide content with peace of mind knowing that they, their well. And that’s where we can really make a Index employees, and their loved ones are protected difference; with products and policies that don’t against life’s uncertainties. just protect lives but help make lives healthier, longer and better. Every single day. The industry is also a valuable enabler of Asia’s growth. Rapid urbanisation and economic development in the region have brought affluence, but disrupted the traditional family “At AIA we’re making a networks people have historically relied upon purpose-led promise. It’s a for security and support. This societal shift has promise that is at the heart exacerbated shortfalls in protection cover. Health insurance and savings options help to address of everything we do and these protection gaps and reduce the burden everything that drives the on families and on national healthcare systems, while providing people with a wider range of decisions we make: it’s a options in accessing medical treatment. promise to help people live healthier, longer, better lives.” Insurance also helps to mobilise investment, with the premiums paid from policies reinvested across productive sectors and businesses in Asia. This supports the growth and development of capital markets and provides valuable capital for infrastructure, economic growth and thereby the development of our region. 11 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 OUR APPROACH TO ESG REPORTING About this AIA has a responsibility to be To provide a comprehensive review Report transparent and accountable to all of our impact and performance, of our stakeholders. This includes this Report includes, unless Doing reporting on how we make a otherwise indicated, ESG data Business in the right way difference in our communities, from our operations in Hong Kong, addressing sustainability challenges Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia, China, THE RIGHT PEOPLE and making a lasting and meaningful Korea, the Philippines, Australia, impact within our markets. Our key Indonesia, Taiwan, Vietnam, New Contributing to stakeholders include our investors, Zealand6, Macau, Brunei, Cambodia our communities customers, regulators, business and Sri Lanka (collectively, the partners and our employees and “business units”)7. operating agents. responsibly For easy reference to our reporting This Report is produced in disclosures, the GRI Index, the UN FEEDBACK accordance with the “Core” option Global Compact, and the HKEx of the Global Reporting Initiative ESG content index are provided at GRI and HKEx (“GRI”) Standards and Financial the end of this Report. Additional guide content Services Sector Supplement, with information relevant to our ESG Index reference to the ESG Reporting Guide performance, including financial set out in Appendix 27 of the Rules data and corporate governance Governing the Listing of Securities matters, can be found in our Annual on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Report 2018. AIA makes every effort Limited (HKEx). As a signatory to to ensure consistency between the the United Nations Global Compact Chinese and English versions of this (the “UN Global Compact”), AIA also Report. However, in the event of any reports on our progress toward the inconsistency, the English version UN Global Compact Ten Principles. shall prevail. This year we have also added a This Report was reviewed and personal element to our Report by approved by the Company’s Board including stories from our customers, of directors (the “Board”) on agents, and employees – the people 14 March 2019. who bring our story to life. In July 2018 AIA completed the acquisition of ASB Group (Life) Limited (renamed as AIA Sovereign Limited) and its subsidiaries, 6  including Sovereign Assurance Company Limited, a licensed insurer in New Zealand (together, “Sovereign”). Unless otherwise noted, we have included ESG data from Sovereign in this Report for the first time. 7 Refers to all business units where AIA maintains majority operational control. 12 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 About this Report Doing Business in the right way THE RIGHT PEOPLE Contributing to our communities operating responsibly FEEDBACK GRI and HKEx guide content Index THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Developed by the United Nations (“UN”), the Sustainable Development Goals (“SDGs”) are 17 overarching goals that provide a global framework for peace and prosperity in consideration of the environment. Adopted in 2015 by all member states of the UN, they are strategically important to governments across Asia Pacific. As a life and health insurer, our business naturally aligns with several SDGs. In AIA’s ESG Report 2017, we mapped our progress toward the goals using the SDG Compass, a tool designed for businesses to outline their contributions to the SDGs. In response to the positive feedback we received, this Report continues to outline our support for related SDGs and, for the first time, includes SDG targets that align with our disclosure. Please click on the SDG icons above to be redirected to discussions on each goal. 13 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 SECTION 2 About this Report Doing Business in the DOING right way THE RIGHT PEOPLE Contributing to our communities BUSINESS operating responsibly FEEDBACK GRI and HKEx IN THE guide content Index RIGHT WAY 14 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 ESG GOVERNANCE ESG issues have potential to impact business About this Report performance, whether through regulation, stakeholder perception, or by directly affecting Doing the health and well-being of our customers. Business in the right way AIA seeks to understand these ESG issues, THE RIGHT mitigate our impact on the environment, and PEOPLE address the key health challenges facing our markets. This is core to who we are and how Contributing to our communities we operate. operating All employees at AIA are responsible for responsibly contributing to the realisation of our ESG priorities, whether through upholding our FEEDBACK principles for good governance or through an ESG focused role. GRI and HKEx guide content In 2018, to provide effective governance for Index DOING BUSINESS in integrating and addressing ESG issues within our business, we formed an ESG Committee, THE RIGHT WAY comprised of members of the Group Executive Committee. The Committee meets on at least a quarterly Strong corporate governance sets the basis and plays an integral role in overseeing the Company’s ESG strategy, policies and foundation from which we are able to disclosure, including reporting to the Board grow our business, realise our Purpose, on a biannual basis. The Committee also and make a positive difference in considers ESG research, feedback raised by key stakeholders and reports by rating people’s lives. agencies, and provides input on material ESG issues relevant to the Group. Our approach is based on the Group’s Operating Philosophy of “Doing the Right Thing, in the Right In 2018, the Committee approved AIA’s Way, with the Right People... the Right Results will membership in the PRI and TCFD. come.” This approach applies across all our operations and is embedded within our governance practices and culture programmes. “Doing the Right Thing, in the Right Way, with the Right People... the Right Results will come ” For further details on our leadership team, please click here. 15 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 About this Report Effective Risk Doing Business in the Management right way THE RIGHT PEOPLE Contributing to our communities Investors increasingly consider ESG may have immediate operational risks in making their investment impacts and are therefore treated Risk Culture operating decisions, with research showing as operational risks. Long-term responsibly that companies with better challenges such as pollution and A key element in the effective capacity to manage ESG-related lifestyle risk factors impact the management of risk, including FEEDBACK risks produce higher returns health and well-being of people ESG risk, is a strong risk culture. over the long term8. At AIA, a across our markets, and are viewed comprehensive approach to risk as insurance risks given the impact Risk culture refers to how an GRI and HKEx guide content management ensures that we have they may pose. Such emerging ESG organisation behaves as it Index the frameworks in place across our issues may be discussed by the encounters opportunity and business to address relevant risks. BRC, eRC or the ESG Committee. manages risk. Strong risk awareness, as a part of AIA’s The Board retains ultimate AIA conducts scenario testing desired broader culture, is responsibility for the oversight and business continuity analysis integral to our RMF. Our Vision of the Group’s risk management to ensure sufficient capital is and Purpose are aligned with activities and monitors material earmarked to provide protection a strong and sustainable risk Group-wide risks, whether they are to our policyholders and to ensure culture. relevant to the industry or unique to business continuity under stressed the Group and its businesses. The conditions. For further details, AIA’s Operating Philosophy, Code Board is supported by the Board Risk please refer to page 155 of the of Conduct (the “Code”) and Committee (“BRC”) and executive Annual Report 2018. brand promise further outline risk committees (“eRC”), such as expectations on professional the Operational Risk Committee and Our internal audit team provides conduct, risk behaviours, and Financial Risk Committee, which are independent assurance on the channels of recourse and comprised of our senior executives. effectiveness of our key controls reporting on potential risks. and recommends control Frequent training and internal AIA’s Risk Management Framework improvements as necessary. The communications ensure that (“RMF”) ensures that across our team’s efforts cover a number of all employees and agents are Group, we have the capabilities current and emerging ESG risk familiar with reporting relevant and processes in place to identify, areas, such as people management, risk issues. quantify, monitor and report risk. technology and data privacy, The Board and business unit to provide assurance that the boards of directors are responsible appropriate controls are in place organisations, and by playing a for reviewing this framework to to address these risks. proactive role through our business ensure that it is sufficiently effective where we remain committed to given local business environments AIA recognises that long-term enabling Healthier, Longer, Better and context. ESG risks, such as climate change, Lives across the region. pollution and life-style related We address ESG related risks disease, have far reaching impacts according to the process outlined on our markets and require in the RMF and categorise them concerted contributions from based on the nature of the risk to business, government and the our operations. Data protection, general public alike. AIA aims cybersecurity, people management to address these issues through and responsible business practices discussion within our ESG member MSCI 2015 8  16 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Responsible Business Practices Our customers place CODE OF CONDUCT About this Report a high degree of supplemented with an ethical At the heart of our approach to good trust in our business, governance is the AIA Code. The Code leadership programme in business, Doing Business in the and in our ability to provides clear guidance on how we which equips AIA’s leaders with right way provide protection conduct business at all times and practical tools in managing situations involving ethical dilemmas. THE RIGHT PEOPLE applies to everyone who works at AIA. and financial security It reflects our Operating Philosophy to millions across the of “Doing the Right Thing, in the Each employee is expected to take Contributing to our communities region. We take pride Right Way, with the Right People… personal responsibility for observing the highest standards of integrity the Right Results will come.” It also in our reputation of defines how we hold ourselves to the and conduct, and to report any operating responsibly being a reliable and highest standards of professionalism, violations without fear or hesitation. trustworthy brand, which is key to maintaining trust and Non-compliance with the Code is subject to disciplinary action, which FEEDBACK building sustainable relationships and continue to act with our stakeholders – customers, may include dismissal. AIA’s business with integrity agents, distribution partners and partners, including its agents, GRI and HKEx guide content throughout our shareholders. suppliers, distribution partners and others who act on behalf of AIA, are Index operations. The Code has been translated into expected to apply the same standards six languages across the Group’s and to follow the same responsible markets and employees are required practices as our employees. to undertake training to familiarise themselves with the Code on joining AIA. All employees are required to complete an annual certification For further details, we invite you of understanding and compliance. to read our Code linked here. Training on the Code is 17 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 PREVENTING BRIBERY PREVENTING About this AND CORRUPTION FRAUD Report AIA has zero-tolerance for AIA is committed to the high Doing Business in the corruption. Under our policies, ethical standards outlined in right way employees and other persons the Code and espouses a zeroTHE RIGHT representing AIA are prohibited tolerance approach towards fraud. PEOPLE from offering, accepting, paying AIA’s Anti-Fraud Policy sets out or authorising any bribes or any standards for managing the risk of Contributing to form of corruption in any business fraud, including training as well as our communities interaction that involves AIA preventive and detective measures. and government officials, our Our operating entities implement operating responsibly customers, or employees. procedures to prevent and facilitate early detection of fraudulent FEEDBACK Our Group-wide Anti-Corruption practices to protect customer Policy (the “Policy”) sets a high interests and those of AIA, in line standard that is observed across with this policy. GRI and HKEx our operations. Anti-corruption guide content Index training is compulsory for Incidents and allegations or all employees. Reviews and suspicions of fraud are assessed assessments are conducted and investigated. If allegations from time to time to monitor or suspicions are substantiated, compliance with the Policy. The AIA is committed to taking a fair Policy also outlines the roles and and proportionate approach in responsibilities of employees administering disciplinary actions. to ensure compliance. Our Other actions may include the business units are responsible loss of employment-related for implementing processes and benefits, reporting the fraud to controls to reduce the risk of law enforcement authorities for corruption and ensure compliance prosecution or seeking a legal with Group standards, as well as all remedy against the employee for relevant local laws and regulations. the fraud that has been committed. 18 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 OUR APPROACH TO ANTI-MONEY About this LAUNDERING (“AML”) AND COUNTER Report TERRORIST FINANCING (“CTF”) AND SANCTIONS Doing Business in the right way AIA is committed to a strict THE RIGHT programme of compliance with PEOPLE all applicable AML/CTF laws and WHISTLE-BLOWER POLICY regulations to prevent the use of its Contributing to products and services for money our communities AIA provides channels for all of our All allegations are assessed laundering and terrorist financing stakeholders, including employees, and investigated. Reporting purposes. operating responsibly customers, and suppliers, to raise through internal channels (such concerns about any violation of as Human Resources, Audit and The AIA Group AML/CTF Policy FEEDBACK the Code or other behaviour that Compliance) accounted for 76 and Guidelines set out the detailed falls short of the high standards per cent of the reports received requirements of the Group AML/ demanded by the Group. during the year. Issues raised via CTF Programme. This programme GRI and HKEx the ethics hotline are handled by includes a risk based approach guide content Index To that end AIA maintains a AIA’s Group Compliance team. to conducting customer due comprehensive Whistle-blower The Whistle-blower programme diligence, ongoing monitoring, Programme designed to handle is overseen by the Board Audit suspicious activity reporting, reports of misconduct and Committee, who receive regular training and record keeping. AIA inappropriate behaviour with multiple reports from Group Internal Audit uses a comprehensive AML/CTF reporting channels, including a and Group Compliance on the monitoring software or online tool 24-hour, multi-lingual third-party number and nature of issues to screen, risk profile and monitor administered compliance hotline raised and the progress of all customer activity. which permits complete anonymity. material investigations. AIA’s Whistle-blower Protection Policy All new employees are required to prohibits any form of retaliation complete AML and CTF training. Further details on our ethical against any employee providing Tied agents also are required compliance hotline can be a good faith report of an actual or to receive appropriate AML/ found here. CTF training. In addition, our suspected violation of the Code. AIA Group Economic Sanctions Compliance Policy & Guidelines Proportion of reports received in 2018 by reporting channel9 set out standards to manage the risk of dealings with governments, individuals and entities subject to sanctions programmes. 24% 2018 External Hotline 76% Internal ChannelS Reporting through internal channels accounted for 76% of the reports received during the year 9 Proportion of reports received by reporting channel remains the same for both the twelve-month and thirteen-month periods ended 31 December 2018. 19 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Securing customer information About this DATA PROTECTION Report Among our most important assets is Appropriate data protection controls Doing Business in the the trust placed in AIA to handle the are also integrated into relevant right way personal information of our customers, operational processes and are regularly THE RIGHT employees and business partners. AIA tested by our internal audit team. For PEOPLE has in place Group-wide Data Privacy example, procedural controls are built Compliance Policy and Guidelines to into our interactive Point of Sale “iPoS” Contributing to ensure adequate safeguards for our and interactive Mobile Office (iMO) our communities customer and business data as well systems that have been adopted by as compliance with data protection our insurance agents in their sales operating responsibly legislation. These policies and processes and broader day-to-day guidelines are communicated to all operations. These controls include FEEDBACK employees and our insurance agents user authentication, secure storage of when they join AIA and are regularly customers’ data on servers controlled reinforced through refresher training. by AIA and transaction audit trails. GRI and HKEx All employees and agents are required guide content Index to safeguard customers’ personal AIA also reviews the data security information and are prohibited from standards of our third-party vendors disclosing customer information to through our Third Party Security unauthorised parties. Assessment process. This process regularly assesses a broad range AIA also has in place a number of of security controls of our vendors, Information Technology standards, including data security and encryption, such as a Cloud Security Standard, against industry standards such as a Data Protection Standard and a ISO27001 and those by the National Mobile Application Security Standard, Institute of Standards and Technology to ensure sufficient operational controls of the United States (NIST). which meet our information security objectives. Any cloud services providers we engage must also adhere to our AIA’s Privacy Policy Statement is publicly available and can be Cryptography Standard. viewed here. 20 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 CYBERSECURITY PREPAREDNESS SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT AIA is committed to protecting the interests We work with many different product and of our customers, partners, employees and service providers across our business. stakeholders by providing a world-class Sustainability is a key element of our supply About this Report information and security environment. AIA’s chain as summarised in our Supplier Code Group Information Security Policy is aligned to of Conduct (“Supplier Code”). The Supplier Doing industry leading standards to ensure that our Code was developed to complement the Business in the systems, processes and information are secured. Code, which is also applicable to our right way suppliers, and references international THE RIGHT Our Group Chief Technology and Operations conventions such as the UN Declaration on PEOPLE Officer and a dedicated information security Human Rights and AIA’s ESG memberships. team oversee the quality and consistency of The Supplier Code encourages sound ESG Contributing to our communities technology risk management and cybersecurity practices among our suppliers and a general across the Group. The team maintains a focus on culture of integrity in all matters. operating protecting AIA from the latest cyber threats by responsibly detecting any anomalies, effectively responding As a Group, we work with suppliers that to cybersecurity issues, enhancing defensive demonstrate best practice. Dedicated due FEEDBACK controls and investing in security analytics. We diligence processes form a part of our also partner with leading information security existing supply chain management and services providers to provide further capability monitoring system. This includes conducting GRI and HKEx guide content on ensuring a secure operational environment. supplier and third-party assessments where Index necessary, as well as requesting information AIA focuses on protecting our critical assets on employment and environmental practices from cyber threats using classification and threat from selected material suppliers through our modelling techniques. This includes focusing on supplier registration process. our key systems that process our customer data as well as key supporting business processes, and software specifically designed to address cyber risk in this area. All cybersecurity issues are handled by the Director of Information Security who reports directly to the Head of Group Technology Governance. AIA believes that cybersecurity is the responsibility of every employee. Therefore, we educate our employees about how to protect themselves and AIA from cyber threats through web-based awareness and readiness training and conducting regular cyber-defence assessments including incident management drills. 21 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS People are at the heart of our business, and To assist our customers in making wellthis means ensuring that we adhere to the informed decisions, internal standards on high standards of quality and customer sales illustrations also promote a consistent About this approach to fair disclosure in accordance Report service expected by our customers. with regulations. Doing AIA has in place a robust business quality Business in the framework which allows us to meet these All business units and subsidiaries have right way expectations. The framework includes the checks and controls in place to ensure THE RIGHT following key elements: compliance with our standards. PEOPLE • An agency Code of Conduct 10 outlines Contributing to our communities our standards of integrity, behaviour and compliance obligations applicable to our operating tied agents. responsibly • An agency training programme on sales FEEDBACK conduct and a guideline on the agency sales process. AIA’s agency sales process provides GRI and HKEx a framework for how agents should sell our guide content products. This includes Know-Your-Customer Index diligence and need-based sales practices to establish clients’ needs, priorities and circumstances, including the amount of existing life insurance coverage they already have. This allows agents to recommend suitable products with appropriate coverage. • Our iPoS technology guides our agents through the sales process and helps ensure a consistent, high-quality customer experience. • Monitoring of adherence to our standards, through various means, including direct verification calls with customers and a mystery shopping programme. Misrepresenting, or attempting to mislead or deceive customers by agents, for example through use of unsupported or fictitious claims about AIA products or those of our competitors, is not acceptable and may result in disciplinary action. 10 Applicable to AIA’s tied agents, and intended to be referred to in conjunction with the Code. 22 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT About this With more than 33 million individual policies To understand how we can continue to enhance Report and over 16 million participating members the customer experience at all stages of the of group insurance schemes, the scale and journey, one of our initiatives is running an Doing Business in the footprint of our customer base presents a annual customer relationship survey. Insights right way huge growth opportunity as we actively engage provided by our customers’ feedback from the THE RIGHT and nurture long-term relationships with survey have helped us enhance our customer PEOPLE our customers. engagement and experience, and ultimately drive retention, repurchase and recommendation level. Contributing to Achieving our promise of enabling Healthier, We also conduct deep research to understand our communities Longer, Better Lives requires that we engage the needs of various customer segments in order in a meaningful way with our customers at to customise our propositions to them. In Hong operating responsibly each touchpoint in their journey, allowing us to Kong, this research has allowed us to develop develop a deep understanding of their unique digital sales tools such as segmentation toolkits, FEEDBACK needs and wants, and meet their requirements. which support our team and our agents in engaging our customers. In 2018, we continued to improve the customer GRI and HKEx data we capture and used propensity models guide content Index and advanced machine learning methodologies to address customer protection and savings gaps and develop the right propositions, delivered at the right time and in the right way. ListENing to customer feedback Staying at the forefront of our customer needs where required. The industry relies on us being able to system also helps to drive structural place our customers at the heart of improvements, enabling us to identify our business. This involves collecting key issues in our processes if and and responding to customer when they arise. feedback, while delivering a holistic support experience through each The system is an integral part of AIA and every interaction with AIA. China’s customer communication strategy. AIA China takes pride Closed loop feedback management in reviewing and analysing each systems provide companies with comment, so that it is able to continue the tools they need to identify key to improve on its service and provide touchpoints throughout the customer an unparalleled customer experience. lifecycle, and seek feedback at these stages. This enables companies to Feedback from the system revealed continue a dialogue with customers an overall customer satisfaction rate regarding their feedback. for AIA China of 99 per cent, with 96 per cent of customers being satisfied These systems are in place at AIA with our customer service centres as China, allowing it to understand at 31 December 2018. what matters to its customers on an ongoing basis, as it collects customer Overall customer satisfaction rate of feedback at every touch point with its business. This has enabled AIA China to take prompt action to address 99% 23 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 SECTION 3 About this Report Doing Business in the right way THE RIGHT PEOPLE Contributing to our communities THE operating responsibly FEEDBACK GRI and HKEx RIGHT guide content Index PEOPLE 24 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 About this Report We are proud of our people OUR EMPLOYEE WORKFORCE and the culture at the heart of As at 31 December 2018, AIA had a total of Doing Business in the our Company. right way At AIA, equipping our employees for success 22,263 EMPLOYEES11 THE RIGHT PEOPLE is vital to serving our customers and enabling our communities to live Healthier, Longer, which included full-time and part-time staff, Contributing to as well as employees on fixed term contracts12. our communities Better Lives. operating Our vision to be the world’s pre-eminent responsibly Percentage of employees across markets life insurance provider is supported by (as a percentage of total employees)13 our many employees and agents. Guided FEEDBACK by our Operating Philosophy of “Doing the Right Thing, in the Right Way, with the Right Hong Kong 11.5% China 15.0% People... the Right Results will come”, we 17.6% Singapore 6.4% GRI and HKEx focus on recruiting, developing and retaining Malaysia guide content Index capable, engaged and high-performing employees who can continuously learn and grow while delivering their best work. These Thailand 11.3% Other Markets 38.2% are people who thrive in our customercentric culture, embrace AIA’s brand promise Permanent employee turnover 14 and exhibit our leadership characteristics. Permanent employee turnover across the Group was AIA’s people strategy is designed to build 16.6% in 2018. The APAC region provides many career capabilities for the future, transform the opportunities with increasing demand and competition way we work and recognise sustained high for skilled talent. We actively monitor our employees’ performance. levels of engagement and the programmes we offer them to create an environment in which they can do their best and ensure we retain our talent. 11 The increase compared to 30 November 2017 is primarily due to our acquisition of Sovereign. 12 Excludes interns, agents and employees of Tata AIA. 13 Figures for Hong Kong include Group Office employees, figures for China and Malaysia include our employees in our shared services centres. 14 Permanent employees exclude employees on fixed term contracts. As part of an update to the methodologies we apply to certain data of the Group this year, permanent employee turnover excludes involuntary turnover. Turnover is calculated using monthly average headcount for the twelve months ended 31 December 2018. 25 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 About this Report Doing Business in the right way THE RIGHT PEOPLE Contributing to our communities operating responsibly FEEDBACK GRI and HKEx guide content Index DEVELOPING OUR LEADERS The ALC has now entered its third year of operation. In 2018, it hosted more than Our AIA Leadership Centre (“ALC”) based in Bangkok is a world-class learning facility offering various programmes to our senior executives, top agency leaders and key 240 events partner executives. With a clear focus on Delivered more than AIA’s strategic and governance priorities, the ALC continues to deliver impactful leadership development programmes, 20 customised leadership programmes partnering with world renowned including those focusing on: business schools and consulting firms. Executive Leadership Technical Leadership At AIA, we make it a top priority to Targeting AIA’s current Designed to develop technical develop our people and their leadership and future executives, our and professional capabilities and functional capabilities. We believe programmes are designed to within our core functions to in growing our leaders from within and accelerate executive leadership promote operational excellence. in 2018, we closed a large proportion as well as management of our senior management positions capabilities. Our Enterprise Distribution Leadership through internal progression. Committed Leadership Programme Designed for AIA’s senior to having a strong pipeline of senior continues to be our signature distribution leaders, senior leaders, we conduct a comprehensive programme offering to all agents and partners, these Group-wide people review process markets. programmes develop the sales annually to identify and plan for the leadership and technical skills succession of key roles. In 2018, we required to produce consistent reviewed approximately 1,400 senior best in class results. positions across the Group, ensuring we consider succession planning from a Ethical leadership training is also provided to our senior holistic perspective. finance leaders at the ALC to help ensure ethical risk issues are considered in their decision making and behaviour. 26 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 FOSTERING A CULTURE OF PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT About this Report EMPLOYEE LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT We continuously review feedback from our Doing We foster a robust learning culture at AIA employees, the content of our courses and Business in the right way that empowers our people to develop critical training material to ensure our programmes capabilities for their current roles and deliver value for the business and develop our THE RIGHT PEOPLE career aspirations. AIA’s enterprise-wide people for the future. development framework aligns our people development with our business strategy and AIA practices a holistic approach to learning Contributing to our communities talent needs. Core development modules and development, whereby skills and for senior employees such as the People knowledge are accumulated from on-the job operating Manager Accelerator Programme and the experience, activities such as mentoring and responsibly AIA Manager Series remain foundational coaching and classroom and online based curriculum items offered throughout the learning. We present below the average training FEEDBACK year. These core modules are complemented hours in 2018 by employee category and with a wide variety of skills-based training to gender. The numbers do not capture all online target individual development needs as well. learning activities, mentoring and coaching, GRI and HKEx guide content knowledge sharing sessions or professional Index In 2018 we expanded the digitisation of development courses undertaken by our learning content and delivery methods employees. with the launch of a new learning platform that centrally houses an extensive range of Through our programmes, we aim to cultivate content. This platform (“Catalyst”) provides forward looking leadership and managerial employees with flexibility regarding the mindsets, and skills that will ensure the subject matter they would like to develop sustained growth and development of our while addressing some key principles of people. The strengthening of these skills modern learning – access to content is onenables us to capture the vast growth demand, anytime and anywhere. opportunities in the region, allowing us to provide the right solutions for our customers’ Courses offered on Catalyst include technical protection and savings needs. skills, crisis management, effective leadership and healthy living practices, among many As we transform our functional operating others. Catalyst has been rolled out at Group model, we have also outlined capability Office and six business units, with plans for roadmaps to provide our leaders and employees further expansion in 2019. with key knowledge, skills and behaviours required for their success in future roles. We offer internal mobility opportunities in other teams, functions and markets to broaden our employees’ perspectives and present new career experiences. Average hours of training15 by gender by Employee category Male 14.3 Junior Staff 12.4 Female 14 Middle Management 18.4 Senior Management 22.2 15 Training hours for Sovereign employees are not included. 27 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Lo Si Io EMPLOYEE MENTORING Lo Si Io, an agent with AIA Macau, shares her About this Mentorship programmes are currently offered passion for her job, interests and getting Report and supported at our Group Office and in many of started in her career. our markets. These programmes are structured Doing “I used to think that it was important to choose your Business in the to allow our employees to expand their networks, right way benefit from guidance, and foster communication career early on, and then stick with the job you’d across departments and seniority. chosen the rest of your life. That was what made you THE RIGHT PEOPLE successful. AGENT LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT Contributing to AIA’s Premier Agency strategy offers our In 2013, I was a first-year student at university, our communities agents world-class training and development studying to be a professional chef when I met my opportunities. Since the launch of our Premier current manager. I was inspired by her success and operating Agency strategy, we have focused on developing her ability to speak to many different types of people responsibly best-in-class agents that enable us to offer highwith ease. While her job was challenging, her work quality advice to customers and provide them with was meaningful, and I could see that she was really FEEDBACK the savings and insurance cover they need. Please making a difference in people’s lives. I decided refer to the Business Review Section of Annual shortly after to take up a new challenge, and work GRI and HKEx Report 2018 for further details on AIA’s Premier for her. guide content Index Agency Strategy. While my performance was not ideal the first As part of the onboarding process, all prospective year, through hard work, dedication and under the agents are required to attend training and guidance of my manager, I qualified as an MDRT16 development programmes that are tailored to their member in my second year, and have continued to needs and are designed to equip them with the be an MDRT member thereafter. This is probably necessary skills to be productive. what I am most proud of. This year, we continued to innovate new It’s not been too difficult to strike a balance between approaches to training and development through work and leisure. Healthier, Longer, Better Lives digital classroom and mobile learning platforms, has always been a way of life to me. It’s something making learning easier and more accessible to that we can all relate to. Personally, I think it’s our new agents and agency leaders in major quite important to manage one’s schedule, and this cities. We plan to roll out these initiatives to other includes making time for leisure. I love yoga and cities and all agents and agency leaders in 2019. taking it up as practice also helps me relax. Structured courses allow us to encourage the right behaviours, enabling our agents to be more Healthy living is just as important to my clients. effective in their jobs. This includes a training I even play badminton with them sometimes. AIA’s roadmap, online assessments, study materials and efforts to promote healthy living have always been course evaluations, all of which are accessible a talking point when I meet my clients, especially on mobile devices and within a paperless nowadays when people are more conscious of their environment. health. Many of them are interested in AIA Vitality, and always ask me for advice on ways to earn points and collect rewards. “It’s now been six years since I made my career switch. it’s been an exciting journey!” I also rely on a lot of different apps and technology on a day to day basis, this includes staying in touch with friends, family or clients. AIA’s iPoS is a tool that I use very often. Previously, I’d need to meet a client about four to five times until I had all the necessary information for a policy, but now it only takes one or two meetings. It’s also a lot easier to service customers and their needs, this includes providing them with policy information or changing their address. Plus, there’s little need for me to carry around a lot of paper.” 16 M  DRT is internationally recognised as the standard of excellence in the life insurance and financial services business. Its members are required to generate a certain level of premium, commission or income, and demonstrate professional knowledge, strict ethical conduct and outstanding client service. 28 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 CULTURE AND ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE Disclosure in this section About this supports SDG Target 4.4, to Report increase the levels of relevant To foster AIA’s culture and ensure consistency, all new skillsets, including technical Doing Business in the employees are required to undergo an orientation and and vocational skills, for right way complete a set of e-Learning modules centred on our employment, decent jobs and THE RIGHT Operating Philosophy and Code. Core development entrepreneurship. PEOPLE courses are available across our business units to maintain consistency in our approach to talent Contributing to our communities development across the region. operating Each year AIA conducts an annual Employee Engagement responsibly Survey that provides our senior leadership team with • GTI Media recognised AIA Malaysia Shared Services insights into the levels of engagement among our within the “Most Popular Graduate Employer of the Year FEEDBACK workforce and how this compares across geographies, 2018” for the BPO & Shared Services Sector. business units and functions, as well as against industry benchmarks. In 2018, approximately 97 per cent of our people responded to the survey and the employee • Both AIA Sri Lanka and AIA Vietnam were recognised GRI and HKEx guide content as a “Great Place to Work” by The Great Place to Work Index engagement scores for the Group placed us in the Institute. top quartile of Gallup’s global financial services and insurance industry benchmark. • Additionally, AIA Sri Lanka was recognised as a “Best AIA Group was one of 39 companies globally and the Workplace for Women” and received a Bronze award in only international life insurer to be conferred a Great the Large Sized Enterprise category by The Great Place Workplace Award from Gallup in 2018. In addition, in to Work Institute. 2018 several of our markets won prestigious local and regional awards, including the following: • AIA Taiwan was one of the winners of “Taiwan’s Best Companies to Work for in Asia 2018” by HR Asia. • In recognition of its commitment to professional education, our Group Office received the “Excellence in • Tata AIA won Aon’s “Best Employers” India Award for Education Award” by LOMA. the third time since 2016. • AIA won Aon’s 2018 “Best Employers” Asia Pacific • AIA Group became the first insurance company in the Regional Award for the second consecutive year. world to be accredited under the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries Quality Assurance Scheme. • AIA China also won Aon’s 2018 “Best Employers” China Award for the fourth consecutive year, along with winning a Top Employer China award by Top Employers Institute. • AIA Singapore won GTI Media’s “Most Popular Graduate Employer 2017” in the Insurance and Risk Management Sector, and was recognised as one of “Singapore’s 100 Leading Graduate Employers in 2017”. 29 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION AIA believes in the power of diverse, We have been included on the 2019 Bloomberg About this Report talented people to create value and deliver Gender-Equality Index, which is released on our customer and shareholder expectations. annually and distinguishes companies Doing Fundamental to all our inclusion efforts is committed to transparency in gender reporting Business in the zero-tolerance for discrimination or and advancing women’s equality. This is our third right way harassment in any form, across all aspects of year as an index constituent and we were one of THE RIGHT diversity, including gender, race, nationality two Hong Kong headquartered organisations to PEOPLE and sexual orientation. be included. As at 31 December 2018: Contributing to our communities Our recruitment policies include guidelines for recruiting and assessing candidates based • 38 per cent of our senior management roles were represented by women. operating on their skills and experience. Employment, responsibly remuneration, promotion and termination are based on performance and conducted through • 60 per cent of our middle management and FEEDBACK fair, transparent, and accountable processes. junior roles were represented by women. Our approach to inclusion and nonGRI and HKEx guide content discrimination is also addressed in our Index mandatory e-learning training on the Code, which all employees are required to complete as part of their orientation upon joining AIA. In addition, this year AIA developed an anti-harassment policy, outlining expected workplace conduct and professionalism, including channels for escalation in case of any non-compliance. With 59 per cent of employees17 across the Group being women as at 31 December 2018, we are proud to be an employer of choice to women across the region, and strive to provide an inclusive and collaborative workplace. Percentage of employees BY GENDER AND AGE GROUP MALE 7% Below 30 FEMALE 31% 30-50 41% Gender 59% Age Over 50 Group 62% Refers to employees on permanent and fixed term contracts. 17  30 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 About this Report The White Camellia Awards Doing The White Camellia Awards celebrate Business in the right way organisational commitment to the Women’s Empowerment Principles, a THE RIGHT PEOPLE UN Women and UN Global Compact initiative, which encourages gender Contributing to equality in the workplace. This year our communities AIA Sovereign won two White Camellia Awards, recognising their ongoing operating commitment towards inclusion. responsibly FEEDBACK GRI and HKEx guide content Index OUR AFFINITY NETWORKS We created the Network to further foster a supportive work environment. This umbrella organisation enables employee affinity groups to come together, facilitating the professional and personal development of our people through Disclosure in this section networking and leadership programmes. aligns with SDG Target 5.5 on gender equality At AIA Australia, an employee led and Executive for women, and in Committee sponsored Women@Work Committee ensuring the full and provides networking events, professional effective participation development sessions and opportunities that and equal opportunities support and enable female employees to realise for leadership at all levels their potential and support gender equality. of decision-making in political, economic and In the Philippines, Philam Life offers a range of public life. interest groups for sporting activities, religion and Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”). This year, AIA Korea launched Juniors of AIA, a networking group comprised of millennial employees that focuses on communication, culture and systems, providing feedback that allows for a more inclusive AIA. AIA is a member of the Hong Kong Chapter of the 30% Club, and in 2018 we joined Women in Finance Asia. 31 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 RECOGNISING AND EMPLOYEE HEALTH, REWARDING OUR PEOPLE WELLNESS AND SAFETY About this Report Our total rewards policies and programmes play HEALTH AND WELLNESS Doing an important role in supporting the execution AIA understands the importance of a healthy Business in the of AIA’s strategy and the delivery of AIA’s work-life balance and in line with our brand right way performance. Using a combination of market promise of Healthier, Longer, Better Lives, we THE RIGHT competitive financial and non-financial rewards, provide employees with opportunities and PEOPLE our policies and programmes are designed to facilities to balance their work-life, and maintain attract, engage and retain high-calibre employees health and wellness while at work. Contributing to our communities and motivate them to help AIA execute its short and long-term business goals. #HealthierLonger operating Our remuneration programmes are tied to BetterLives responsibly our Performance Development Dialogue for FEEDBACK permanent employees, which is designed to enable line managers to assess the performance and behaviours of their staff, and recommend GRI and HKEx guide content development activities to help meet defined Index career objectives. We strive to recognise and reward our workforce and to drive desired behaviours that comply with our RMF. Flexible working, on-site gyms, discounted gym memberships, or other sporting and recreational An important element of our total rewards facilities are offered by some of our business framework is our recognition, benefits and units. We encourage employees to stay active, wellness programmes that work together to understand their health profile, and take steps enhance employee wellbeing both in and outside to safeguard their well-being. AIA Vitality is of work. We appreciate the evolving and varied also offered as a free resource to many of our needs of our diverse workforce. For example, employees. we have piloted flexible benefits in some of our businesses to provide more choices to our AIA also provides supportive facilities and care employees. to working mothers. Dedicated nursing rooms are currently offered at our Group Office and a We are proud to offer our employees the majority of our business units. opportunity to become AIA shareholders through our Employee Share Purchase Plan. This year the percentage of eligible employees and the number of participating employees in the plan grew to their highest levels to date. We rolled out the plan in Cambodia for the first time in 2018, resulting in a total of 17 of our markets providing employees the opportunity to invest in AIA’s future. Together with the launch of our new brand promise in 2018, we rolled out wellness initiatives in various markets. This included discussions on health, sporting competitions, and employees making public pledges to improve their health and quality of life. 32 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 HL Wat About this Head of our Data Privacy Programme at Report Group Office, talks about his journey at AIA and how he strikes a work-life balance. Doing Business in the right way THE RIGHT “I’ve been with AIA for more than thirty years PEOPLE now. I started in the Actuarial Department and now work in Compliance. There are a lot of Contributing to career opportunities in the Company, and I feel our communities lucky to be an example of mobility at AIA. operating responsibly When it comes to my own health, my colleagues may recall that I was not always FEEDBACK the fittest. It was the unfortunate passing of a colleague that caused me to re-evaluate my own wellness priorities. GRI and HKEx guide content Index Honestly, it can be challenging in Hong Kong with the city’s fast paced lifestyle. People tend to not get a lot of rest because of work and other commitments. Managing stress is always a challenge, but I’ve learnt it’s definitely possible. HL Wat (First Right) completed his fourth Oxfam Trailwalker this year. To me, the key to health has been to maintain a healthy lifestyle and to focus on my mental well-being. I’ve found that it’s possible to do both through regular exercise. I’ve always been a morning person, and so I begin with running each morning. I love to run, either with friends or just by myself. Running through Hong Kong’s WORKPLACE SAFETY nature trails is one way that I am able to relax AIA is committed to offering a safe and secure and practice mindfulness in nature. environment for our employees, agents and customers when they visit our facilities. Our I try to exercise as often as I can, which can corporate security governance framework be every day. One of my accomplishments this applies to all markets and includes a set of year was taking part in the Hong Kong Oxfam minimum standards relating to business travel Trailwalker, completing the 100km MacLehose and fire safety. trail to raise money for Oxfam’s poverty alleviation programmes. This is the fourth one Air quality is a concern in some of our cities, that I’ve taken part in with the AIA team. so we take measures to ensure our employees operate in a healthy environment. The offices I also try to eat a lot of fruit and vegetables, and of our Group Office and AIA Hong Kong have avoid eating too much meat. But sometimes you been certified as having “Excellent Indoor Air just have to have some comfort food. Ultimately, Quality”. Air quality is also monitored at our it’s about balance. offices in Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia and Philippines. At our operations in China, air So to me, Healthier, Longer, Better Lives is purifiers are also provided in various office about living my life to the fullest. It’s also a areas. pledge that I am making to my family.” For details on AIA’s emission reduction initiatives, please refer to the Operating Responsibly chapter of this Report. 33 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 EMBRACING DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION About this Report In 2018, we embarked on a strategic initiative Doing to deliver greater business insights, operational Business in the efficiencies and line manager empowerment. It right way includes replacing the current human resources THE RIGHT information system and thereby redefining the PEOPLE human resources service delivery model. Over the next 18 months, we plan to work closely Contributing to our communities across all our markets to standardise, optimise and streamline towards a more customeroperating centric service for our employees, increasing responsibly efficiencies, business reporting and people analytics capabilities. FEEDBACK GRI and HKEx guide content Index 34 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 SECTION 4 About this Report Doing Business in the right way THE RIGHT PEOPLE Contributing to our communities CONTRIBUTING operating responsibly FEEDBACK GRI and HKEx TO OUR guide content Index COMMUNITIES 35 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Our ability to sustain our success AIA’s promise of enabling Healthier, Longer, Better Lives is in the future involves having an aligned directly with the aims of understanding of the sustainability Sustainable Development Goal challenges our markets face, identifying 3, to promote good health and About this Report well-being for all. the impacts these issues have on our business, and being able to proactively This section outlines our Doing Business in the address these in a manner that creates contributions toward achieving right way this objective, in line with the lasting and meaningful value. SDG Target 3.1: THE RIGHT PEOPLE This section elaborates on the challenges and By 2030, reduce by one third* Contributing to our communities opportunities that we face in achieving this ambition. premature mortality from This includes how we address the significant risk non-communicable diseases operating factors associated with the spread of NCDs, closing through prevention and responsibly the protection gap, and in catering to the needs of treatment and promote mental ageing populations. health and well-being FEEDBACK *Compared to 2015 levels Our Products GRI and HKEx guide content Index The region faces many health challenges. The World What is the protection gap? Health Organisation (“WHO”) estimates that 41 million The protection gap is the shortfall in people die from NCDs each year globally. These NCDs resources required to protect individuals include cancers, diabetes, and cardiovascular and and families against unforeseen mortality respiratory diseases. risks. Based on our analysis, this gap is estimated to reach US$73 trillion Unfortunately, 15 million of these deaths are premature by 2020. and affect people between the ages of 30 and 69, with low and middle-income countries being at greatest Contributions to this gap include rising risk, further compromising poverty reduction and healthcare costs and the growth of lifestyle development efforts. In addition to pollution, lifestyle related disease, particularly diabetes, risk factors such as tobacco use, physical inactivity, hypertension and high cholesterol. harmful use of alcohol and unhealthy diets, can greatly increase the prevalence of these diseases. The lack of sufficient protection cover in light of these diseases can bring about Our approach to wellness also includes considering broader social and economic consequences how we can make a difference in the mental health across the region, not to mention causing space and in addressing related topics such as sleep personal stress. deprivation. According to the WHO, one in four people will be affected by mental or neurological disorders at AIA serves the holders of more than some point in their lives18. In Asia, mental disorders are 33 million individual policies and over poised to affect the productivity of our economies and 16 million members of Group insurance societies, while a lack of treatment options and stigma schemes across the region. As the largest traditionally associated with these conditions have Pan-Asian Life insurer, we are in a unique remained challenges to addressing these issues. position to address these challenges. As part of our commitment to enable people across Through our commitment to enable the region to live Healthier, Longer, Better Lives, we Healthier, Longer, Better Lives, AIA seeks continue to develop new approaches to address these not only to address the protection gap, but challenges and make a meaningful difference in the also play a role in mitigating the risk factors lives of millions of people. This chapter outlines our associated with diseases so that we are able products, partnerships and initiatives that help us to make a meaningful and lasting impact in achieve this aim. our markets. 18 WHO 2001 36 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 To date we have captured AIA Wellness Programmes AIA Vitality is currently offered in more than three million health assessments and two million BMI AIA Vitality is an award-winning Vietnam readings. We are also tracking more About this health and wellness programme that Sri Lanka than 600,000 workouts submitted Report encourages participants to make Korea via fitness trackers each day. measurable improvements to their health. In 2018, we continued to monitor The programme relies on concepts of Singapore and report on the health impacts of Doing Business in the right way behavioural economics, where members Australia the AIA Vitality Programme on our are incentivised to understand and improve Philippines members with verifiable health THE RIGHT PEOPLE their well-being, earning Vitality points and Hong Kong data, outlined below19: benefitting from rewards in the process. Key areas of the programme are outlined below. Macau Contributing to our communities Malaysia Total steps walked: Know your health AIA Vitality health assessments allow Thailand 601 billion operating responsibly members to better understand their health AIA has also developed profiles and identify areas for improvement. a wellness programme Total kcal burned: FEEDBACK This includes nutritional and wellness 384 billion to meet the specific assessments, as well as health checks, needs of our customers GRI and HKEx screenings, and vaccinations that members in China. guide content are encouraged to complete with their Index healthcare providers. Vitality points are earned for each assessment completed. Improve your health The programme also encourages members to set health goals, and awards Vitality points for exercise and activity. As points are earned, participants progress across Health impacts of the AIA vitality programme the four Vitality tiers, ranging from Bronze to Platinum. Members also benefit from 21% discounts on health food, gym memberships and purchase of fitness devices to assist Of Members moved from an unhealthy BMI RANGE to a them on their health journey. Healthy Range 56% Rewards For the positive steps taken to improve their Of members moved from an unhealthy Blood Pressure health, members benefit from the rewards Range to A healthy range that we offer. These include discounts of up to 15 per cent on our insurance products and 38% discounts on shopping, entertainment and Of members moved FROM an unhealthy Cholesterol travel purchases, among other benefits. range to a healthy range Through AIA Vitality we are enabling and 74% incentivising our customers and employees to take charge of their well-being, while members moved From an unhealthy Glucose range to a addressing many of the risk factors healthy range associated with the spread of NCDs. In doing so, we aspire to drive meaningful change A member’s AIA Vitality Age is their actual age relative in the lives of individuals and their wider to a variety of heath factors. communities as we fulfil our promise of enabling Healthier, Longer, Better Lives across the region. Members improved improvement in their Vitality their age an average Age since joining the programme. 0.29 yRs 16% 19 The sample represents the health data of AIA Vitality members across markets where it was offered in 2018. Only health data that was verified and reported by medical practitioners was considered in this sample. Based on a comparison between the first and most recent health checks (at least 3 months apart) conducted by members during their Vitality membership using data as at 31 December 2018. 37 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 About this Report Doing Business in the right way THE RIGHT PEOPLE Contributing to our communities operating responsibly FEEDBACK GRI and HKEx guide content Index Physical inactivity is a contributing factor to and expansion of this partnership until 2022, the spread of NCDs, however getting sufficient with AIA becoming the Club’s Global Principal exercise can often be a challenge to many Partner. across our markets. AIA’s Healthy Living Index 2018 found that only 62 per cent of people were Throughout the year, two dedicated Spurs happy with the amount of exercise that they coaches stationed with AIA in Hong Kong have were getting, with 42 per cent of respondents conducted training camps and coaching clinics identifying the effort required to exercise as a in our communities across the Asia-Pacific barrier to staying active. region. These programmes are designed both to encourage youth participation and train AIA recognises the importance of sport and the local coaches and also provide much needed role that it can play in encouraging physical equipment to communities that may not yet have activity and enabling Healthier, Longer, Better the sporting infrastructure to support regular Lives. Sport has the ability to bring people participation. together encouraging physical activity, while also conveying the positive values of teamwork To date, the coaches have hosted football clinics and discipline, all within a fun-filled atmosphere. across our markets, engaging with communities and truly bringing our purpose-led brand Our partnership with Tottenham Hotspur promise to life. This year, approximately 25,000 Football Club (Spurs) has been helping AIA children, parents, customers and employees promote healthy living across Asia since 2013. benefitted from football sessions with our Spurs In May 2017, we announced the extension coaches. Tottenham Coaches have hosted activities which have benefitted Hotspur Football Club 25,000 People throughout the region 38 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Innovating to address health challenges About this Report Doing Business in the right way THE RIGHT PEOPLE AIA continues to develop new products that provide care to our customers Contributing to throughout their lives. This is through our communities prevention, treatment, and management of health outcomes. operating responsibly FEEDBACK A-PLUS HEALTH GRI and HKEx guide content This year, AIA Malaysia launched A-Plus Health. checks or screening, mobility and hearing Index This product uses an innovative approach to support, or even for cosmetic surgery assist our customers in their health journey by required due to an accident or cancer. rewarding them with “health dollars” for each year without a claim. This allows us to continue Integrated with AIA Vitality, customers may be to play a valuable role as health partner eligible for further cover or more bonus points through challenges faced by our customers. based on their Vitality tier, further encouraging awareness of and improvements in health. Health dollars are redeemable and may be used for preventative care such as health A-Plus Health offers cover up to the age of 100. CANCER CARE PRODUCTS In Hong Kong, new cancer cases reached a Cancer Guardian 2 offers a number of unique historic high of 31,468 in 201620, an increase features including a one-year premium waiver of 3.8 per cent compared to the previous year. and continuous cancer protection. It also Research also shows an alarming trend of features continuous cancer protection in which people developing cancer at a younger age, the covered cancer limit is reset every three with cancer incidence growing 9 per cent years. AIA Vitality members are eligible for among youth over the last decade. further discounts based on their Vitality tier. AIA Hong Kong launched two products this Being there for our customers during times of year, Cancer Care Essence and Cancer Guardian need, AIA also takes the added step of providing 2 to support customers on their treatment reimbursements for wigs and voice boxes, and journey. Focusing on affordability, Cancer Care providing counselling for the insured and family Essence was launched with a low premium members. starting from HK$3 a day. 20 Hong Kong Cancer Registry 39 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Customer journey Bronwyn About this Report Carmichael Doing Business in the right way THE RIGHT PEOPLE Claims on Wheels is a free service at AIA Australia, where a consultant makes home Contributing to our communities visits to people facing significant health issues to personally assist with the claims operating process. The initial focus was cancer patients, responsibly and it has now been extended to coronary care, income protection and all other types of FEEDBACK claims. In Australia, Bronwyn fell ill at a difficult time GRI and HKEx guide content in her life. She and her children told us about Index her journey to recovery and experience with Claims on Wheels. “In 2014, I separated from my husband and thought that it was time I make sure that everything was organised in my world for me and my kids. I sought advice from a financial planner so that things would be in order in case things went wrong in life, as it sometimes “Surgery went well. What was amazing was does. enacting the process of income protection, and then my crisis recovery. Within a week, I started noticing odd bruises on my skin one my Claims on Wheels consultant, Michelle, day. A visit to the doctors told me that I had a visited with a big cancer care package which very low platelet count, and that I had a rare AIA gives to clients. The income protection but treatable condition. At the time, I thought went through straight away. A year after my that well, this is treatable, this is do-able. first diagnosis, Michelle rang and said the crisis recovery payments had been approved, The medications, however, didn’t work, and my and that the money would be in the bank liver soon started to malfunction. That was tomorrow, and it was there. when I began to feel really unwell. A follow-up with my surgical consul also told me that It just makes everything so much easier. It just they’d found a tumour on my kidney. Well, my takes an edge off worry. At the moment all my poor kids then had to deal with that then! blood work is normal, and it’s really nice being They’d had this horrible year and had been normal! I’m so grateful for the kindness and amazing throughout, but it just got worse. how quickly everything was handled.” That was a hard day for them.” Bronwyn’s children had the following to add on this time with their mum: “We’re very close with mum. It was very sudden and came out of nowhere I suppose. She’s always been there, being the one looking after us, and we’ve had to spin that around. Even when she was in pain all the time or uncomfortable she was still going about, going to work and doing life.” – Archie and Lily, Bronwyn’s children 40 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Our Research The research that we conduct allows us Researching attitudes toward health About this to better understand the evolving health We conducted the fourth Asia-Pacific wide Report challenges and concerns faced by people AIA Healthy Living Index Survey this year. across the region. This also contributes to The survey examines prevailing health Doing our development of new products, and trends and indicates areas where people can Business in the right way initiatives that motivate people across Asiamove towards sustaining healthier lifestyles. Pacific to adopt healthier lifestyle habits. An independent market research agency THE RIGHT PEOPLE conducted the research and surveyed 11,000 adults in 16 of our markets. Contributing to Research into healthy workplace practices our communities Investing in the wellness of employees is The detailed results of the survey showed linked to reduced absenteeism, lower staff that people were overall less satisfied with operating turnover and higher levels of productivity. their health compared to the 2016 Health responsibly Understanding and addressing the risks Living Index Survey but adopting more associated with these health issues can save healthy behaviours. The survey also raised FEEDBACK businesses money, in addition to improving growing concerns with air quality, the costs productivity, satisfaction and well-being at of maintaining health and benefits obtained GRI and HKEx the workplace. from using activity trackers. guide content Index The Healthiest Workplace by AIA Vitality A snapshot of these health results has been was conducted for a second year in 2018. included below. This is a comprehensive survey designed to better understand the health profiles and wellness needs of employees. The survey We encourage you to read the detailed report and was distributed to participants across a range results of the research linked here. of industry sectors in Australia, Hong Kong, Malaysia and Thailand. Once employees had completed the survey, they received a personal report detailing their wellness profile. Employers also received useful strategies to support employees in achieving their healthy living goals and to improve company-wide productivity. Research like this enables AIA to better understand the wellness needs of employees in our key markets, while at the same time encouraging businesses to take proactive steps to foster a healthier workforce. For further details on the research, please click here. HEALTHY LIVING INDEX 2018 Satisfaction with health Weekly exercise has increased 62% of people were worried about impact of pollution on health 81% 84% 3.6 hours per week 3.0 hours per week in 2018 in 2016 in 2018 in 2016 41 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Addressing mental Work with Small and Medium health issues Enterprises About this The World Bank recognises mental health as AIA is a major provider of group insurance, Report a key challenge to sustainable development. supporting businesses and protecting their In addition to affecting quality of life, mental employees across the region. Doing Business in the health disorders can lead to premature loss right way of life and worsen treatment outcomes for Small and Medium Enterprises (“SMEs”) account THE RIGHT diseases such as cancers, cardiovascular for 97 per cent of all business and employ more PEOPLE disease and diabetes. than half the labour force in Asia-Pacific20. SMEs contribute significantly to the development of Contributing to AIA currently offers mental wellness tools local economies, with potential to grow into our communities integrated into AIA Vitality which provide scalable businesses over the long term. customers with an understanding of their operating responsibly mental health profile. Select products across AIA continues to make protection affordable and the region also provide coverage for counselling accessible to small business owners and their FEEDBACK due to injury, disability or illness, for example employees through our dedicated suite of SME Super Adults Shield and Cancer Care Guardian insurance products. This enables us to maximise 2 which are offered in Hong Kong. In Malaysia, our reach, close the protection gap and make a GRI and HKEx A-Life Lady 360 also provides a one off difference in the lives of Asia’s employees. guide content Index payment for the treatment of anxiety and depression. In 2018, AIA Hong Kong was honoured to receive the “Best SMEs Partner Award”, presented by Addressing mental health issues remains the Hong Kong General Chamber of Small and a challenge in Asia. While there is growing Medium Business. The accolade recognises awareness of these diseases, there has been AIA Hong Kong’s commitment to be a preferred a traditional stigma attached to mental health SME partner by providing suitable products issues and a reluctance to seek assistance and excellent services that support business when help is needed. There has also been a operation and development. lack of health and social services for those who are affected by these conditions. AIA continues to explore opportunities for us to make a meaningful difference in addressing mental wellness so that our customers are able to live Healthier, Longer, Better Lives. This includes raising awareness of mental wellbeing and developing new products which will extend protection coverage. 21  PEC 2018 A Strategic Partnerships Through our partnerships we are able to top-tier hospitals, 220,000 doctors, and over leverage expertise, distribution channels, 15,000 pharmacies in 30 provinces across and maximise the value that we bring to our China. AIA will become WeDoctor’s preferred Please also refer communities. provider of life and health insurance solutions. to the Business Review section of AIA’s Annual This year we announced a long-term strategic WeDoctor’s registered customers will be able Report 2018 for partnership with We Doctor Holdings Limited to access AIA’s market-leading protection details on our (“WeDoctor”), China’s leading technologysolutions in the areas where AIA China other partnerships enabled healthcare solutions platform. AIA operates, helping to reduce the protection gap and distribution China’s customers will gain preferred access for millions of people across China. channels. to WeDoctor’s leading healthcare services including appointment, online consultation and offline clinics, as well as its network of 2,700 42 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Our Global About this Report Ambassador Doing Business in the right way David Beckham THE RIGHT PEOPLE AIA’s Global Ambassador, David Beckham, Contributing to is a global football and lifestyle icon who our communities plays a key role in helping to promote health and wellness for people and their families operating across Asia. In 2018, he headlined the next responsibly phase of AIA’s “What’s Your Why?” campaign, where he answered questions about health FEEDBACK and wellness in family life. The intention was to get viewers to think about their own GRI and HKEx motivation for wanting to lead a better life and guide content feel prompted to take action. Index Beckham also travelled to Beijing, Guangzhou, Hong Kong, Sydney and Bangkok to support large-scale events and media activities which launched AIA’s new brand promise to promote Healthier, Longer, Better Lives. Promotion of these events generated significant value for the brand and reached millions of people through social media. 43 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Continued Innovation About this Report Doing Business in the right way THE RIGHT PEOPLE Contributing to our communities operating responsibly FEEDBACK GRI and HKEx guide content Index AIA’s future rests on our ability to continuously customers by responding to general enquires improve the way we do business. Throughout about the insurer and its customer service our operations we encourage people to centres, providing details on customers’ challenge established ways of working, policy loans and submissions on some policy propose new ideas and take personal transactions requests, as well as other common ownership of projects to improve what we do enquiries while promoting AIA Singapore’s and how we do it. customer portal, AIA eCare, to encourage self-help. AIA continues to explore the potential uses of Artificial Intelligence (“AI”), and its application AIA is committed to placing the customer at the in improving the ease of business. centre of everything we do, and we continue to explore new ways in which we can enhance the AIA Hong Kong launched an industry-first customer experience. Customer Service Robot, named “Andy” in 2018. “Andy” can establish connections with customers through lively and fun interactions. While Andy is located at our AIA Wealth Centre, he is also able to assist customers online and respond to questions related to eClaim AIA Singapore wins Innovator submissions and policy premiums, amongst of the Year Award others via the AIA Connect mobile application. AIA Singapore also celebrated the opening With a commitment to elevate our service standards of its renovated, digitally-enabled customer and customer experience, AIA Singapore launched POS service centre by welcoming two humanoid EZ, a digital platform focused on improving robots, Nadine and Pepper, to assist in after-sales service. The platform enables insurance customer service. Both robots engage with agents to facilitate customer requests remotely, and helps resolve issues such as a change in address in a few minutes, without the need for any paper submissions or extensive processing time. In recognition of POS EZ and our customer service efforts, AIA Singapore was awarded with Innovator of the Year for Life Insurance at the Singapore Management Excellence Awards 2018. 44 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Sustainable ESG in INVESTments assessment process Investment ESG DATA ESG Research ESG reports About this Report Through our investments we are able to secure Doing investment income to deliver on the savings Business in the and protection needs of our customers, while right way also contributing to the social and economic THE RIGHT development of our markets. PEOPLE Analyst At AIA, we are aware of the impact that our Contributing to our communities investments have on people’s lives and the importance of screening for ESG factors in our operating investment decisions to drive the creation of ESG Engagement responsibly long term value. with issuer StandarD FEEDBACK AIA Had Total assets of US$ 230 billion GRI and HKEx guide content PORTFOLIO Index Compliance MANAGER as at 31 December 2018 Check we investED a total of US$ 2.4 billion in the healthcare sector Contribution to Investment Decision Our Approach Research continues to show that companies comply. The ESG Standard was developed with who have good ESG performance are able to detailed input from the senior Group Office deliver higher returns and create sustainable Investment leadership as well as the Chief For further value over the long term22. As an insurer, we Investment Officers of our business units. This details on how are committed to the needs of our customers leadership group has ownership of our approach we address ESG issues within over many years, and this requires investing in including appropriate documentation, as well our investments, businesses that practice good governance in as training and development of the portfolio please refer to addition to understanding the impacts of social managers and analysts at business units. This our Responsible and environmental factors on their operations. may include, but is not limited to, any courses Investment Policy, run through our ESG memberships or ESG data linked here. This year, AIA became the first Hong Kong providers. headquartered business to become a signatory to the PRI as an Asset Owner. This allows us In each market, our experienced local fixedto benefit from the resources of the PRI as we income and equity analysts are responsible continue to integrate ESG considerations within for consideration of ESG matters in investment Please also refer our process, and demonstrate our commitment decisions. They monitor ESG issues relating to the Operating Responsibly to sustainable investment. to their businesses and update our portfolio section of this managers using a variety of sources, including Report for further The consideration of ESG issues is incorporated ESG reports, research reports, news media, and details on our as part of our investment governance framework. other publicly-available information. AIA also investments in Our approach is consistent across our Group, and engages with businesses on ESG topics before green bonds, and infrastructure. mandated internally though an “ESG Standard”, making an investment decision, and thereafter with which our investment functions must on any material concerns where they arise. 22 MSCI 2018 45 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Challenges that we face Tobacco use is a significant health risk factor, killing up to half of its users23. About this Report 7 million people Doing The lack of sufficient ESG disclosure and Business in the understanding of long term sustainability right way risks in Asia can pose a challenge in the THE RIGHT integration and assessment of material ESG PEOPLE issues. ESG has previously been associated die each year from tobacco use, with 890,000 of them due with Corporate Social Responsibility or to second-hand smoke24. Contributing to our communities Community Investment, as opposed to being a factor in value creation. More than operating 50% responsibly While AIA has been encouraged by the development of ESG reporting, we continue FEEDBACK to voice support for consistent, comparable, and material ESG disclosure. of people addicted to smoking live in Asia Pacific, posing risks to GRI and HKEx health and the continued development of the region25. guide content Index Investment Exclusions AIA is committed to enabling Healthier, Longer, Better Lives across Asia and integrating this promise within all aspects of our business. As such, this year we took the significant initiative of excluding tobacco manufacturing from our investment portfolio, divesting US$500 million in corporate equities and bonds. We also committed to excluding cluster munitions from our investments. Cluster munitions are a controversial weapon that causes significant civilian causalities, with some of our markets signing treaties to ban their manufacture. AIA does not invest in such businesses and updated our investment exclusion list to reflect this commitment. All of our investment operations, including assets managed by our external managers, are required to abide by AIA’s exclusion list. 23  HO 2018 W 24  HO 2018 W 25  HO 2017 W 46 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Corporate Social Target 10.1 Responsibility and Our commitments to financial Community Wellness About this inclusion align with SDG 10 and Report related target of 10.1 to empower and promote the social, economic Doing and political inclusion of all, Business in the right way Enabling Financial Inclusion irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or THE RIGHT PEOPLE economic or other status by 2030. Financial education is a fundamental step in the development of local communities. The Contributing to our communities knowledge of how to prepare for financial well-being empowers people to make the operating right decisions for both themselves and their responsibly families. FEEDBACK Max Ventura GRI and HKEx guide content Index The Philam Foundation (the “Foundation”) is the CSR arm attached to our business in the Philippines. This year, the Foundation was awarded for its work with the Philam Saves programme at the Asia Responsible Entrepreneurship Awards (AREA). Max Ventura, the President of the Foundation, shared with us how the Foundation conducts financial planning workshops, and how its initiatives are impacting our employees and communities. “Our goals at the Foundation are to help Filipinos achieve financial security, and to enable people to live Healthier, Longer, Better Lives, important ambitions in the development of any nation. This year, the Foundation was awarded for its work with Philam Saves at the Asia Responsible Entrepreneurship Did you know that the Philippines has a low Awards (AREA) savings rate? Only one in four Filipinos save, while many remain uninsured. These numbers are far from ideal and, as a financial services company, this is very relevant to us. This was We have so far reached close to 15,000 individuals the reason why we developed the Philam with the help of over 700 volunteers. But it doesn’t Savings Awareness and Values Education stop there. With the support of our employees and Sessions (Philam SAVES) initiative. It allows us agents, we have set an ambitious goal of reaching 2.5 to address a very basic problem that, if given million individuals in five years. attention, can make a difference in the lives of so many people. There’s also more in the pipeline for us as a community partner. There are many SME’s in the Philippines, who The programme teaches the principles of contribute significantly to the growth our country. We are financial management to students, their now working on a programme that focuses on livelihood parents and teachers. We were also quite development and entrepreneurships so that we can continue happy to receive the endorsement of the our work as a valuable partner.” Philippine Government’s Department of Education, which allows us to expand our Max Ventura reach, holding Philam SAVES workshops President, Philam Foundation across the country. 47 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Disclosure in this section supports SDG Target 1.5 of building THE ROLE OF MICROINSURANCE resilience of the poor and those in About this Billions of people around the world lack any vulnerable situations and reduce Report type of formal social security protection. their exposure and vulnerability to climate-related extreme Doing Microinsurance products can help provide events and other economic, social Business in the right way this protection to communities in rural areas, and environmental shocks and where traditional insurance solutions are not disasters. THE RIGHT PEOPLE affordable. AIA offers microinsurance products in India and the Philippines, which provide Contributing to protection to communities underserved by our communities traditional life and health insurers. In India, we continue to rely on a novel Community Initiatives operating responsibly approach to distribution, with protection available through the purchase of rechargeable FEEDBACK mobile telephone contracts. Using such Our teams across 17 local markets pursue channels allows us to cut distribution and their own CSR programmes. They support service costs, making protection more initiatives that align with their business GRI and HKEx guide content affordable to India’s lower income communities. objectives and to the communities around Index them. In turn, at the Group level we work closely with our markets to assess relevant CSR Engagement with Government opportunities and help to generate optimal value from them. AIA is also focused on enabling people to make the right financial At times, our commitments to ensuring welldecisions to achieve financial security for being involves taking a proactive approach on themselves and their families through our our views toward potential regulation or policy outreach initiatives. as highlighted in the following example from AIA Australia this year. In Australia, default life insurance is offered In 2018, we donated over US$ 5 million through employee pension funds. This year, a proposed bill recommended removing default cover for people under the age of 25 and people with low account balances, leaving segments of youth, their families, and those on to community causes lower incomes uninsured. This had potential to affect the livelihoods of everyday Australians, in addition to carrying broader social and Our employees volunteereD more than 93,000 Hours economic consequences, where people are left uninsured and at risk. AIA was active in writing to members of the Australian senate to highlight the importance of ensuring coverage to these groups, and avoiding any discrimination on the basis of age, occupation or wealth. The bill failed to pass in December 2018. For further details, please click here. 48 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 In Cambodia, breast cancer is the second most Fit For Hope common form of cancer with more than 12,000 new cases and 500 deaths reported each year. Despite the disease being widespread in the country, breast cancer screening is still not About this Report commonplace. Doing Through our commitment to enabling Healthier, Business in the Longer, Better Lives, we aim to change this. AIA right way Cambodia hosted its Fit for Hope initiative for THE RIGHT the second year during Breast Cancer Awareness PEOPLE Month. The event saw a series of fun-filled activities with funds raised from the events used Contributing to our communities to help increase awareness on the importance of cancer screening. The event raised US$30,000 operating which educational materials to be distributed responsibly to two million people, and subsidised the cost of X-ray examination for 4,000 individuals at a FEEDBACK local hospital. On the day 1,300 people were also offered free GRI and HKEx guide content breast cancer check-ups and consultations by Index a team of experts. For further details on our CSR activities please click here. The event raised US$ 30,000 ON the day 1,300 CHECK-UPS WERE OFFERED 49 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 SECTION 5 About this Report Doing Business in the right way THE RIGHT PEOPLE Contributing to our communities Operating operating responsibly FEEDBACK GRI and HKEx Responsibly guide content Index 50 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 The environment has a direct impact on the health and well-being of our customers, our employees and our communities. It is therefore important that we strive About this Report to mitigate our own impact, and where possible, influence positive environmental Doing Business in the practices within our markets. right way THE RIGHT PEOPLE Energy and Emissions Contributing to our communities operating responsibly POLLUTION FEEDBACK Air quality is a significant environmental risk factor that How does pollution impact GRI and HKEx undermines the health and well-being of millions of people health? guide content across the region. It is a contributor to NCDs such as stroke, Pollutants and their impact Index lung and heart disease, with a recent report by the WHO on our health vary based on suggesting up to a third of such illnesses are directly linked both the source and type of to pollution. pollution. Sulphur dioxide and ozone originate from vehicles Pollution is a material issue to our business, and it is also of and machinery, while other increasing concern to the public. AIA’s Healthy Living Index pollutants such as nitrogen 2018 found that 62 per cent of people are concerned with dioxide may be produced from the impacts that pollution has on health. indoor sources such as gas cookers. All of these gases can Addressing pollution is a challenge that goes beyond the irritate the respiratory system influence of a single business, and requires the concerted and cause inflammation, effort and action of both the private and public sectors. resulting in respiratory illness. AIA’s memberships in ESG organisations provide us with one Other pollutants such as such forum to discuss environmental issues with peers and particulate matter known as other leading businesses. AIA is also involved in a multi-year “PM2.5”, are too small to be research project with the University of Leeds on air quality. filtered by lungs and so enter The project aims to identify and communicate realistic and the blood stream, damaging achievable air pollution mitigation options, providing clear blood vessels and contributing recommendations for translating policy into action. This to diseases such as heart includes identifying recent trends and sources of pollution disease and stroke. Addressing in China. Findings published in 2018 examined measurements PM2.5 remains a significant at 1,600 locations across China, and noted rises in the levels challenge in cities such as New of the pollutant ozone, but decreases in fine particulates and Delhi and across South East sulphur dioxide. Asia. As an organisation that has no manufacturing facilities, we Studies have also noted the do not produce material amounts of pollution. Instead, our links between mental health influence lies in raising awareness on the health impacts of and pollution, with research in pollution, and in exploring ways in which we can assist our Hong Kong showing that the customers in reducing their exposure to specific pollutants. chance of death rises 2.9% We continue to explore solutions that enable us to play a more from mental and behavioural active role in addressing this risk factor and enabling our disorders during days with high customers to live Healthier, Longer, Better Lives. levels of ambient air pollution. Detailed results of the study can be accessed here. 51 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 CLIMATE CHANGE This section outlines our support of SDG 13 on climate action, and Target 13.3 to improve education, awareness-raising and human Climate change is a growing topic of interest to our and institutional capacity on About this Report stakeholders. climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and Doing AIA launched a Climate Change Statement in 2018, early warning. Business in the right way summarising how we address climate change as a strategic issue throughout our business. AIA also THE RIGHT PEOPLE voiced support for the Paris Agreement by becoming a signatory to the TCFD. Contributing to our communities To view the AIA Climate Change Statement, please click here. Business disruption from climate change operating Climate change issues are also considered responsibly in relation to the development of new As a life and health insurer, climate change does not buildings in AIA’s real estate investment FEEDBACK impact us in the same manner as it does with property portfolio. Specifically, we conduct risk and casualty insurers. However, in the long term, assessments to ensure all new buildings GRI and HKEx insurers such as AIA will have an instrumental role to meet relevant Green Building standards guide content play through our insurance solutions and investments (e.g. LEED), and consider other related Index to help communities adapt and achieve resilience aspects such as flood risk. against adverse health or weather-related climate outcomes. AIA’s Business Continuity Management Framework, adopted across the Group, Addressing climate risk in our insurance operations considers the potential impact of Climate change risk forms part of our overall environmental hazards and natural insurance risk profile through its role in the frequency disasters in building development, with and intensity of certain diseases and the health and the aim of ensuring the safety of our mortality impacts of natural disasters. We assess employees, safeguarding the company’s the overall level of insurance risk by taking into physical assets, and minimising business consideration a range of diverse risk factors across disruption in such cases. the many categories in our product range. This diversity of risk, combined with our reinsurance programme and broad geographic footprint helps us to distribute risk and provide protection against the impacts of short-term climate change effects. 52 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 About this Report Doing Business in the right way THE RIGHT PEOPLE Contributing to our communities operating responsibly FEEDBACK Addressing climate impacts in our investment What happens if the 2°C target is missed? GRI and HKEx portfolio A global commitment by governments in guide content AIA’s Responsible Investment Policy outlines climate 2015, known as the “Paris Agreement”, Index change as one of many ESG criteria considered commits to limiting warming to less than by our analysts and portfolio managers during 2°C. our investment decisions. AIA is aware of both the physical and transitional risks posed as a result of This year, the Intergovernmental Panel on climate change and impacts that these may have on Climate Change published a report on our investments. Where such topics are material, AIA’s progress since the agreement, highlighting analysts may engage in discussion with our investee that the world will need to reduce carbon companies on addressing such climate risks. emissions by 45 per cent from 2010 levels by 2030 to prevent the dangerous effects In 2018, AIA began the significant task of carbon of climate change. footprinting our investment portfolio. This exercise is discussed within the Our Energy and Emissions While a 2°C rise may not seem like a Footprint section of this chapter. significant increase, this will not be uniform across the world. Scenario analysis The report highlighted that consequences The TCFD outlines the need for climate risk and for not achieving the 2°C target will be scenario planning, including potential impacts on our the disappearance of most coral reefs, financial performance. exposure of coastal cities to flooding, broad disruptions to food supply, and exposure of As outlined above, severe climate change conditions large sections of the population to extreme may impact economic performance across Asia heat. This is likely to affect the health and Pacific, in addition to having a bearing on mortality well-being of people across our markets and morbidity rates. in addition to the productivity of business globally. Climate scenario analysis is encouraged by the TCFD, and AIA continues to explore feasibility for conducting Should climate change continue unabated, such analysis. We also welcome the development of AIA like many other businesses, will be local and international frameworks to support such affected by its long-term impacts. assessments. 53 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3 8,596 2018 2017 2016 About this Report 4,149 TOTAL GHG Scope 126 4,149 4,935 1,746 EMISSIONS Scope 227 43,016 45,519 47,652 Doing Business in the Scope 328 8,596 7,388 5,277 right way PER SCOPE Total GHG Emissions 55,761 57,842 54,675 THE RIGHT (IN TONNES OF CO2e) PEOPLE Total GHG Emissions Scope (1,2,3) Intensity Contributing to per employee 2.7 2.9 3.3 our communities 43,016 operating responsibly FEEDBACK GRI and HKEx guide content Index Our Emissions and Energy Footprint AIA’s operational emission footprint is largely from the In 2018, AIA produced 55,761 electricity we use in our buildings. Secondary sources of emissions are from our corporate vehicle fleet and overseas TONNES business travel. OF C02e We conduct an annual cross-market data collection exercise under which we compile details of the emissions and energy footprint for each of our business units. This equates to This increase in scope, coupled with the completion of our acquisition of Sovereign resulted in a higher total emission footprint for the Group. In 2018, the Group produced 55,761 tonnes of CO2e, or 2.7 2.7 TONNES OF C02e PER EMPLOYEE tonnes per employee. Emissions from Group Office, Singapore, Total emissions from Group Office, Singapore, Hong Kong, and Malaysia in this Report were assured by an Hong Kong and Malaysia were assured in this external auditor. Total greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1, 2, 3) Report. Total GHG emissions (Scope 1, 2, 3) from from these markets amounted to 24,895 tonnes of CO2e or 45 markets amounted to 24,895 per cent of our total emission footprint. Total energy consumption across the Group was TONNES 86,593,057 kWh, a decrease from 91,852,947 kWh the previous OF C02e year. Energy use from Group Office, AIA Singapore, Malaysia and Hong Kong in this Report were assured by an external auditor. or 45% of our total Total energy use from markets amounted to 42,020,678 kWh✓. emission footprint Please refer to page 75 for the Auditor’s Assurance Statement. For further details on how we address our operational footprint, please refer to our Environmental Policy, linked here. 26 Emissions from the fuel burnt by our corporate vehicle fleet, private air travel, generators and corporate kitchens. Scope 1 emissions include all markets where AIA has operational control. 27 Emissions produced as a result of the electricity that we use. Scope 2 emissions include all AIA markets where AIA has operational control. 28 Emissions produced indirectly from commercial business travel by airplane. 54 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Data Calculation Methodologies Our Green Products AIA calculates emissions according to the AIA Company (Trustee) Limited has long guidelines provided by the Environmental Protection understood the importance of positive Department of the Hong Kong SAR Government. We environmental stewardship in generating financial identify emission factors on electricity consumption return, and options that take into account both About this Report for each operating region via the sustainability environmental ratings and financial performance reports of utility companies, or the Green House Gas of companies are available to our MPF customers. Doing Protocol database. For business travel, emissions Business in the data for Group Office and AIA Hong Kong, are In select markets, as part of our unit linked right way provided directly by our travel agent. With our investment products, our customers are also able THE RIGHT other markets, including AIA Malaysia, we refer to to choose options associated with renewable PEOPLE the Carbon Neutral Calculator for Short – Medium energy and/or healthcare. haul flights by the United Kingdom’s Department Contributing to our communities for Environment, Food, and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) emission factors. Emissions from any private air operating travel are calculated according to the recommended responsibly practice of the International Air Transport Association (IATA). AIA also refers to the Fifth FEEDBACK Assessment Report from the International Panel on Climate Change, in reference to any Global Warming Potential (GWP) factors used. GRI and HKEx guide content Index Carbon Footprinting our Investment Portfolio As an asset owner, our environmental influence also extends to our investment footprint and the diverse sectors that we invest in across Asia. AIA is committed to being transparent with our stakeholders and focusing on areas of impact in our ESG reporting. As such, this year we engaged a third-party consultant to assist us in the significant initiative of carbon footprinting our investment portfolio. Results from this exercise will provide us with For further details, please click here. a complete emissions profile of our broader impact and provide the foundation for any future reduction initiatives. This carbon data will also be incorporated into our ESG assessment process in investments, assisting our analysts with sectoral comparisons, and raising awareness of risks such as those posed from potential carbon regulation in our markets. Information will also be used by analysts on discussions of climate risk, and emissions mitigation. 55 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 About this This year we used a total of Report 242,000 TONNES OF WATER Doing Business in the right way THE RIGHT Water intensity amounts to PEOPLE 16.8 Tonnes PER EMPLOYEE Contributing to our communities operating responsibly FEEDBACK Resource Usage GRI and HKEx guide content Index Water Usage Water usage was reported for Group Office Paper Usage and nine business units where AIA had direct Insurance has traditionally been a paper-intensive responsibility for the management and payment of industry. We are mindful of the imperative to address water consumption. this and continue to explore ways in which we can digitalise aspects of our operations and reduce the Although our water footprint is not directly reliance on paper. AIA’s ambition is to ultimately operate material to the nature of our operations as a in a paperless environment. financial services provider, we believe that reporting on this metric is part of operating in In 2018, AIA created a framework to measure the levels a responsible manner. of digitalisation and automation in operations across all our markets and provide a view of how we are tracking as a Group towards our paperless ambition. This framework covers customer interactions across product The digital submission rate for customer service requests purchase, claims and service transactions and enables was 28 per cent as at 31 December 2018, with numerous us to measure the rate and impact of transaction initiatives now in place across the business to promote digitalisation across these three areas as part of our the use of paperless channels. overall strategic focus. Where the use of paper is still necessary in our As discussed in previous ESG reports, AIA continues to operations, AIA encourages our markets to use recycled leverage the use of iPoS, a secure, mobile point-of-sale or Forest Stewardship Council Certified Paper (FSC technology to enable a paperless sales process from the Paper) in their operations. Forest Stewardship Council completion of the customer’s financial-needs analysis (FSC) certified businesses are those which manufacture to the generation of a proposal. This has been extended paper in a responsible and sustainable manner. with digital tools to help agents provide servicing support FSC or recycled paper is used at AIA Hong Kong, to their customers, including the ability for customers Malaysia, Indonesia, Australia, New Zealand and at our in some markets to remotely authenticate transactions, Group Office. so these can be completed without the need for a face to face meeting, for example through PoS EZ. iPoS has significantly reduced our use of paper, speeding up turnaround times, increasing productivity and improving the overall customer experience. iPoS is now used by 12 of our markets, with over 90 per cent of new business cases submitted digitally in 2018. 56 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Sustainable The following section outlines our support of sustainable Infrastructure cities and communities, including alignment with Target 11.3. to enhance inclusive and About this Report sustainable urbanisation and Rapid urbanisation has brought with it challenges capacity for participatory, Doing such as increased air pollution, stress on existing integrated and sustainable Business in the human settlement planning right way infrastructure and unplanned urban sprawl. This impacts health and well-being, but also provides us with an and management. THE RIGHT PEOPLE opportunity to take a lead in investing in the sustainable development of our communities. The UN estimates Contributing to that urban areas will need to accommodate an extra 2.5 our communities billion people by 2050, with 90 per cent of this increase taking place in Asia and Africa. operating responsibly Much of the investment needed to close the infrastructure Our investments in green bonds and and climate funding gap will be from the private sector. infrastructure-related sectors is outlined FEEDBACK The Asian Development Bank estimates that US$26.2 below: trillion is needed by 2030 to address the region’s GRI and HKEx infrastructure needs, which is inclusive of costs to mitigate guide content and adapt to the impacts of climate change. Green bonds Index As the largest pan-Asian life insurer, AIA has been active in providing funding for many infrastructure projects. Out of our total fixed income and equity investments, US$ 575 million approximately US$24 billion is invested in infrastructure-related sectors. Infrastructure This has enabled us to play a role in contributing to the sustainable development of our communities in Asia, while also securing appropriate returns that deliver on our customers’ savings and protection needs. US$ 24 billion This year, AIA was proud to be a founding Green bond issuance continues to grow in Asia, providing member of the Hong Kong Green Finance opportunities for investors to contribute to the transition to Committee, an association which aims to cleaner energy and the climate resilience of communities. assist the government in developing green AIA monitors investment opportunities and developments finance policies and promote the adoption in the field of green finance, in consideration of our of best practices in green finance. liabilities and above all, in ensuring the financial security of our clients. 57 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 OUR GREEN BUILDINGS About this Through our investments, we are able to commit Our portfolio of green buildings also continues to Report resources to real estate projects that develop and play an important role in reducing our impact and acquire green buildings. This allows us to secure providing energy-efficient and low carbon spaces to Doing Business in the investment income to deliver on the savings and employees and tenants. This year, Two AIA Financial right way protection needs of our customers, while also Centre at the Nanhai District in Foshan, China THE RIGHT enabling us to provide our markets with sustainable, received a LEED Platinum rating, the highest possible PEOPLE energy-efficient low carbon tenancy options. LEED Rating. AIA incorporates green standards as a part of the Contributing to design concept for all its real estate development The full details on our portfolio of green buildings our communities projects, ensuring that environmental principles is listed below: are “built in” and not included as an afterthought. operating responsibly Award Name Building Location Year FEEDBACK Dual GOLD LEED certifications (New Construction + Existing AIA Capital Centre Bangkok, 2018 GRI and HKEx Buildings: Operations & Maintenance Thailand guide content LEED Platinum Rating in the category of Existing Buildings: Two AIA Financial Nanhai, China 2018 Index Operations & Maintenance Center LEED Platinum Rating in the category of Existing Buildings: One AIA Financial Nanhai, China 2017 Operations & Maintenance Center Pre-certification of LEED Silver Philam Life Center Cebu, 2017 Cebu Philippines Certificate of Green Building Design Label Two AIA Financial Nanhai, China 2015 Center The LEED Gold Certification AIA Sathorn Tower Bangkok, 2015 Thailand Best Commercial Development (Thailand), Best Green AIA Sathorn Tower Bangkok, 2015 Development, Best Office Development and Highly Commended Thailand Architectural Awards in Thailand Best Commercial Development in Thailand 2014 Award AIA Capital Centre Bangkok, 2014 Thailand Best Commercial Development in South East Asia in 2014 AIA Capital Centre Bangkok, 2014 Thailand LEED Silver Certification for Existing Buildings: Operations & AIA Central Hong Kong, 2012 Maintenance China Excellent Rating of the Hong Kong Building Environmental AIA Central Hong Kong, 2005 Assessment Method HK-BEAM for New Office Designs China 58 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 SECTION 6 About this Report Doing Business in the right way THE RIGHT PEOPLE Contributing to our communities FEEDBACK operating responsibly FEEDBACK GRI and HKEx guide content Index 59 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Feedback on this Report About this Report Doing Thank you for your If you have any questions or feedback, Business in the right way interest in this Report. please contact our ESG team at Your feedback will help esg@aia.com or write to the address below: THE RIGHT us to improve our overall PEOPLE ESG performance and AIA Group Limited disclosure. Contributing to 35/F, AIA Central our communities No. 1 Connaught Road Central Hong Kong operating responsibly FEEDBACK GRI and HKEx guide content Index 60 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 SECTION 7 About this Report Doing Business in the right way THE RIGHT PEOPLE Contributing to our communities Global Reporting operating responsibly FEEDBACK Initiative and GRI and HKEx guide content Index Hong Kong Stock Exchange Guide Content Index 61 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Global Reporting Initiative and Hong Kong Stock Exchange Guide Content Index About this Report Doing Business in the As set out in this content index, this This Report also serves as our 2018 right way Report complies with the comply or explain communication regarding the progress THE RIGHT requirements of the Hong Kong Stock of our implementation of the UN Global PEOPLE Exchange ESG Guide, and the “Core” option Compact (UNGC) Ten Principles, which of the GRI Standards. These disclosures have have been outlined below. Contributing to our communities been set out in the table below in accordance with the guidelines of the GRI, and to allow operating for easy navigation to relevant sections responsibly of the Report. FEEDBACK General HKEx ESG Detail Section and Page Standard Reporting Disclosure Guide GRI and HKEx Reference guide content Including Index UNGC 102-1 -Name of organisation About this Report, 6 102-2 -Primary brands, products, and services About this Report, 6 102-3 -Location of headquarters About this Report, 6 Feedback, 59 102-4 -Location of operations About this Report, 6 102-5 -Nature of ownership and legal form About this Report, 6 102-6 -Markets served About this Report, 6 102-7 -Scale of the organisation About this Report, 6 The Right People, 24 Please also refer to the Financial Statements of AIA’s Annual Report 2018 for details on total revenue. 102-8 KPI B1.1 Information on employees and The Right People, 24 other workers Please also refer to the GRI and HKEx Guide Commentary Table. 102-9 KPI B5.1 Supply chain description Supply Chain Management, 21 102-10 -Significant changes to the organisation About this Report, 6 and its supply chain 102-11 -Report how the precautionary Effective Risk Management, 16 approach is addressed 102-12 -External Initiatives The Right People, 24 Memberships, 74 102-13 -Membership of associations ESG Memberships, 74 102-14 Statement from senior decision maker Statement from Group Chief Executive and President, 4 102-16 Values, principles, standards and About this Report, 6 norms of behaviour Responsible Business Practices, 17 Please also refer to AIA’s Code of Conduct. 62 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 General HKEx ESG Detail Section and Page Standard Reporting Disclosure Guide Reference Including About this UNGC Report 102-18 -Governance structure of the About this Report, 6 organisation Doing Business in the Right Way, 14 Doing Business in the right way Please refer to the Corporate Governance Section of Annual Report 2018. THE RIGHT PEOPLE Please also refer to information on our leadership team, linked here. Contributing to our communities 102-40 -List of stakeholders engaged by the Doing Business in the Right Way, 14 organisation AIA engages with all our stakeholder groups through various channels. operating responsibly Please also refer to the GRI and HKEx Guide Commentary Table. FEEDBACK 102-41 -Collective bargaining agreements GRI and HKEx Guide Commentary Table 102-42 -Identifying and selecting stakeholders About this Report, 6 GRI and HKEx guide content 102-44 -Report any key topics and concerns About this Report, 6 Index raised by stakeholders Doing Business in the Right Way, 14 Climate Change, 52 102-45 -Entities included in the consolidated About this Report, 6 financial statements Unless otherwise noted, all entities included in the Annual Report 2018 are included in the scope of this Report. 102-46 -Defining report content and topic About this Report, 6 boundaries 102-47 -List of material topics About this Report, 6 102-48 -Restatements of information N/A 102-49 -Changes in reporting GRI and HKEx Guide Commentary Table 102-50 -Reporting period About this Report, 6 102-51 -Date of most recent Report AIA’s ESG Report 2017 was published on 21 March 2018. 102-52 -Reporting cycle AIA’s ESG Report is published annually. 102-53 -Contact point for questions Feedback, 59 regarding the report 102-54 -Claims of reporting in accordance About this Report, 6 with the GRI Standards 102-55 -GRI Content Index GRI and HKEx Content Index, 62 102-56 -External Assurance Assurance Statement, 75 63 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Material HKEx ESG Detail Section and Page Standard Reporting Disclosure Guide Reference Including UNGC About this Principles Report Economic Performance Doing GRI 103-1 Discussion of management approach Please refer to the Financial and Operating Business in the KPI B8.2 right way and related policies Review Section of the Annual Report 2018. EC103-1, 103THE RIGHT 2, 103-3 PEOPLE Contributing to 201-1 -Direct Economic Value generated and Please refer to the Financial and Operating our communities distributed Review Section of the Annual Report 2018. 201-2 Financial implications and other risks Climate Change, 52 operating -responsibly and opportunities due to climate change Please also refer to AIA’s Climate Change Statement linked here. FEEDBACK Market Presence GRI 103-1, 103-Discussion of management approach Diversity and Inclusion, 30 GRI and HKEx 2, 103-3 and related policies guide content Index Indirect economic impacts GRI 103-1, 103-Discussion of management approach Operating Responsibly, 50 2, 103-3 and related policies UNGC 7 Sustainable Infrastructure, 57 UNGC 8 UNGC 9 203-1 -Infrastructure investments and services Operating Responsibly, 50 supported Sustainable Infrastructure, 57 Anticorruption GRI 103-1, 103-Discussion of management approach Responsible Business Practices, 17 2, 103-3 and related policies 205-2 Communication and training about Responsible Business Practices, 17 anti-corruption policies AIA Code of Conduct GD B7 Compliance with relevant laws and GRI & HKEx Guide Commentary Table regulations that have a significant impact on the issuer relating to bribery, extortion, fraud and money laundering Energy GRI 103-1, 103GD A2 Discussion of management approach Operating Responsibly, 50 2, 103-3 GD A3 and related policies (Environmental UNGC 7 policies) UNGC 8 UNGC 9 302-1 KPI A2.1 Energy consumption within the Energy and Emissions, 51 KPI A2.3 organisation GRI and HKEx Guide Commentary Table Energy intensity per full-time employees Reduction of energy consumption 302-3 KPI A3.1 Energy Intensity Energy and Emissions, 51 GRI and HKEx Guide Commentary Table 302-4 KPI A3.1 Reduction of energy consumption Energy and Emissions, 51 64 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Material HKEx ESG Detail Section and Page Standard Reporting Disclosure Guide Reference Including UNGC About this Principles Report Emissions Doing GRI 103-1, GD A2 Discussion of management approach Energy and Emissions, 51 Business in the right way 103-2, 103-3 GD A3 and related policies (Environmental UNGC 7 policies) THE RIGHT UNGC 8 PEOPLE 305-1, 305-2, GD A1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Energy and Emissions, 51 305-3, 305-4, KPI A1.1 (scope 1) Contributing to GRI & HKEx Guide Commentary Table our communities 305-5 KPI A1.2 KPI A1.5 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 2) operating responsibly Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 3) FEEDBACK Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity GRI and HKEx Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) guide content Index emissions Environmental Compliance GRI 103-1, GD A1 Discussion of management approach Operating Responsibly, 50 103-2, 103-3 and related policies (Environmental UNGC 7 policies) UNGC 8 307-1 GD A1 Non-compliance with environmental GRI & HKEx Guide Commentary Table UNGC 7 laws and regulations Water Consumption totals -KPI A2.2 Water consumption in total and Resource Usage, 56 intensity Employment GRI 103-1, GD A1 Employment related policies and The Right People, 24 103-2, 103-3 approaches GRI & HKEx Guide Commentary Table Compliance with relevant human resources related laws and regulations that have a significant impact on the issuer Employment GD B1 New employee hires and employee The Right People, 24 UNGC 6 KPI B1.1 turnover GRI & HKEx Guide Commentary Table GRI 401-1 65 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Material HKEx ESG Detail Section and Page Standard Reporting Disclosure Guide Reference Including UNGC About this Principles Report Occupational Health and Safety Doing Health and GD B2 Information on policies and compliance The Right People, 24 Business in the right way Safety with relevant laws and regulations relating to providing a safe working GRI & HKEx Guide Commentary Table THE RIGHT environment PEOPLE -KPI B2.3 Description of occupational health and The Right People, 24 safety measures adopted, how they are Contributing to our communities implemented and monitored Training and Education operating responsibly GRI 103-1, GD B3 Employment related policies The Right People, 24 103-2, 103-3 and approaches on training and development FEEDBACK Training and -Average hours of training per year per Fostering a Culture of People education employee Development, 27 GRI and HKEx UNGC 6 guide content Index GRI 404-1 -KPI B3.2 The average training hours completed Fostering a Culture of People per employee by gender and employee Development, 27 category GRI 404-3 -Percentage of employees receiving Recognising and Rewarding our People, 32 regular performance and career development reviews Diversity and Equal opportunity GRI 103-1, GD B1 Employment related policies and The Right People, 24 103-2, 103-3 approaches related to inclusion and anti-discrimination Diversity KPI B1.1 Total workforce by gender, employment The Right People, 24 and equal type, age group and geographical opportunity region UNGC 6 Human Rights GRI 103-1, -Businesses should uphold the freedom The Right People, 24 103-2, 103-3 of association and the effective Doing Business in the Right Way, 14 recognition of the right to collective UNGC 3 bargaining Child Labour GD B4 Businesses should uphold the effective Doing Business in the Right Way, 14 abolition of child labour UNGC 5 Please also refer to our Supplier Code of Conduct. Forced or GD B4 Businesses should uphold the Responsible Business Practices, 17 Compulsory elimination of all forms of forced and Labour compulsory labour Please also refer to our Supplier Code of Conduct. UNGC 4 66 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Material HKEx ESG Detail Section and Page Standard Reporting Disclosure Guide Reference Including UNGC About this Principles Report Society Doing GRI 103-1, GD B8 Policies on community engagement Corporate Social Responsibility and Business in the right way 103-2, 103-3 to understand the needs of the Community Wellness, 47 communities where the issuer operates THE RIGHT and to ensure its activities take into PEOPLE consideration the communities’ interests Contributing to our communities Local GD B8 Percentage of operations with Total resources contributed to communities KPI B8.1 implemented local community community programmes disclosed in KPI B8.2 engagement, impact assessments, and lieu of the percentage of operations operating UNGC 1 development programme with implemented local community responsibly engagement to align with the HKEx GRI 413 requirement. FEEDBACK Local -Initiatives to improve access to financial Corporate Social Responsibility and Communities services for disadvantaged people Community Wellness GRI and HKEx FS14 guide content Index Anti-Corruption GRI 103-1, GD B7 Policies to ensure compliance relating Responsible Business Practices, 17 103-2, 103-3 to bribery, extortion, fraud and money laundering Anti-corruption GD B7 Communication and training on antiResponsible Business Practices, 17 corruption policies and procedures UNGC 10 GRI 205 Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 103-1, GD B4,B2,B1 Policies related to compliance within Doing Business in the Right Way, 14 103-2, 103-3 GD A1,A2,A3 all social and environmental areas, including human resources The Right People, 24 Contributing to our Communities, 35 GRI 419 -Significant fines and non-monetary GRI & HKEx Guide Commentary Table sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations in relation to social and economic areas Product Responsibility Product GD B6 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy Corporate Social Responsibility and Responsibility by type of beneficiary Community Wellness, 47 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Active -Percentage and number of companies Sustainable Investment, 45 Ownership held in AIA’s portfolio with which AIA has interacted on environmental or Please also refer to the AIA Responsible GRI FS10, FS11 social issues. Investment Policy. Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening Sustainable -Type and number of sustainability Sustainable Infrastructure, 57 Buildings certification, rating, and labelling schemes for new construction, Our Green Buildings, 58 CRE 8 management, occupation, and redevelopment 67 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Material HKEx ESG Detail Section and Page Standard Reporting Disclosure Guide Reference Including UNGC About this Principles Report Data Protection and Privacy Doing Data KPI B6.5 Description of consumer data Responsible Business Practices, 17 Business in the right way Protection and protection and privacy policies, how Cybersecurity they are implemented and monitored THE RIGHT measures PEOPLE Contributing to our communities operating responsibly FEEDBACK GRI and HKEx guide content Index 68 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Global Reporting Initiative and Hong Kong Stock Exchange Guide Commentary Table About this Report Doing Business in the Supplementary information which addresses The GRI and ESG Guide disclosures that are right way the disclosure requirements of the GRI and not covered in the above sections of the Report THE RIGHT HKEx is outlined below for easy reference. are explained in the following commentary PEOPLE table. The information provided in the following tables covers the twelve-month period ended Contributing to our communities 31 December 2018 and the thirteen-month period ended 31 December 2018. operating responsibly Disclosure HKEx ESG DETAIL remarks Including UNGC Reporting FEEDBACK Guide Reference GRI and HKEx 102-8 KPI B1.1 Report the total number of Across the Asia-Pacific region, AIA guide content employees by employment employs a total of 22,263 employees29, Index contract and gender which includes full-time and part-time staff, as well as employees on fixed term Report the total number of contracts. This total excludes interns, permanent employees by agents and employees of Tata AIA. employment type and gender 59% of these employees are female and Report the total workforce by 41% of employees are male. region and gender Please refer to the Right People Section of this Report for percentage of workforce by age group and geographic region. 102-10 -Significant changes to the In July 2018, AIA completed the organisation and its supply acquisition of Sovereign. chain We have included ESG data from this entity in the Report for the first time. 102-41 -Collective bargaining While labour unions are in place across agreements select business units, we do not collect UNGC 3 data regarding percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 102-49 -Changes in reporting In 2018, AIA's financial reporting period was changed to cover the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. The data provided in this Report is consistent with our Annual Report 2018 and covers the thirteen month period from 1 December 2017 to 31 December 2018. 29 The increase compared to 30 November 2017 is primarily due to acquisition of Sovereign. 69 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Disclosure HKEx ESG DETAIL remarks Including UNGC Reporting Guide Reference Energy usage for the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 (12 months) About this Report 302-1 KPI A2.1 Energy consumption within • Direct energy consumption at AIA: 302-3 KPI A2.3 the organisation 17,074,544 kWh Doing 302-4 KPI A3.1 Business in the Energy intensity per full-time • Indirect energy consumption at AIA: right way employees 77,356,009 kWh Reduction of energy • Total energy use at AIA: 94,430,553 THE RIGHT kWh PEOPLE consumption • Energy intensity per employee: 4,490 kWh Contributing to our communities • Direct energy consumption at Group Office, Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia: 10,709,397 kWh ✓ operating responsibly • Indirect energy consumption at Group Office, Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia: 34,786,638 kWh ✓ FEEDBACK • Total energy use at Group Office, Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia: 45,496,035 kWh ✓ GRI and HKEx guide content 302-1 KPI A2.1 Energy consumption within • Direct energy consumption at AIA Index 302-3 KPI A2.3 the organisation Group: 14,798,197 kWh 302-4 KPI A3.1 Energy intensity per full-time • Indirect energy consumption at AIA: employees 71,794,859 kWh Reduction of energy • Total energy use at AIA: 86,593,057 consumption kWh • Energy intensity per employee: 4,117 kWh • Direct energy consumption at Group Office, Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia: 9,748,162 kWh ✓ • Indirect energy consumption at Group Office, Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia: 32,272,516 kWh ✓ • Total energy use at Group Office, Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia: 42,020,678 kWh ✓ Emissions footprint for the period from 1 December 2017 to 31 December 2018 (13 months) 305-1, 305-2, GD A1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) • Total Scope 1 emissions for the 305-3, 305-4, KPI A1.1 emissions (scope 1) Group: 4,499 tonnes of CO2e 305-5 KPI A1.2 KPI A1.5 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) • Total Scope 2 emissions for the emissions (scope 2) Group: 46,330 tonnes of CO2e Other indirect greenhouse gas • Total Scope 3 emissions for the (GHG) emissions (scope 3) Group: 9,111 tonnes of CO2e • Total emissions for the Group: Greenhouse gas (GHG) 59,941 tonnes of CO2e emissions intensity • Total emissions per employee: 2.85 Reduction of greenhouse gas tonnes of CO2e (GHG) emissions • Total scope 1 emissions for Group Office, Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia: 2,770 tonnes of CO2e ✓ • Total Scope 2 emissions for Group Office, Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia: 20,020 tonnes of CO2e ✓ • Total Scope 3 emissions for Group Office, Hong Kong and Malaysia: 4,009 tonnes of CO2e ✓ • Total emissions for Group Office, Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia: 26,799 tonnes of CO2e ✓ 70 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Disclosure HKEx ESG DETAIL remarks Including UNGC Reporting Guide Reference Emissions footprint for the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 (12 months) About this Report 305-1, 305-2, GD A1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) • Total Scope 1 emissions for the 305-3, 305-4, KPI A1.1 emissions (scope 1) Group: 4,149 tonnes of CO2e Doing 305-5 KPI A1.2 Business in the KPI A1.5 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) • Total Scope 2 emissions for the right way emissions (scope 2) Group: 43,016 tonnes of CO2e THE RIGHT Other indirect greenhouse gas • Total Scope 3 emissions for the PEOPLE (GHG) emissions (scope 3) Group: 8,596 tonnes of CO2e Greenhouse gas (GHG) • Total emissions for the Group: Contributing to our communities emissions intensity 55,761 tonnes of CO2e Reduction of greenhouse gas • Total emissions per employee: 2.7 operating (GHG) emissions tonnes per employee responsibly • Total scope 1 emissions for Group FEEDBACK Office, Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia: 2,522 tonnes of CO2e ✓ • Total Scope 2 emissions for Group GRI and HKEx Office, Hong Kong, Singapore and guide content Index Malaysia: 18,616 tonnes of CO2e ✓ • Total Scope 3 emissions for Group Office, Hong Kong, and Malaysia: 3,757 tonnes of CO2e ✓ • Total emissions for Group Office, Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia: 24,895 tonnes of CO2e ✓ ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT INITIATIVES HKEx KPI Total hazardous waste As a life insurer, our policies do not A1.3 produced (in tonnes) and, require the input of any hazardous where appropriate, intensity materials, nor do we produce any (e.g. per unit of production hazardous substances. As a result, volume, per facility) the production of hazardous waste is immaterial to our operations. HKEx KPI Total non-hazardous waste AIA’s waste consists of food and office A1.4 produced (in tonnes) and, products such as paper and cans, which where appropriate, intensity does not have a material impact at this (e.g. per unit of production time. volume, per facility) Going forward we will consider the need to measure our waste footprint. HKEx KPI Description of how hazardous Non-hazardous waste is sorted and A1.6 and non-hazardous wastes are recycled at select business units. handled, reduction initiatives and results achieved We continue to raise awareness on the importance of waste reduction through signage and internal communications. As a life insurer the production of hazardous waste is immaterial to our operations. HKEx KPI Description of whether there There is no material issue in sourcing or A2.4 is any issue in sourcing water using water that is fit for purpose. that is fit for purpose, water efficiency initiatives and results achieved HKEx KPI Total packaging material Packaging material is immaterial to the A2.5 used for finished products nature of our operations as a life insurer. (in tonnes) and, if applicable, with reference to per unit produced 71 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Disclosure HKEx ESG DETAIL remarks Including UNGC Reporting Guide Reference Compliance with ESG Regulation About this Report 307-1 GD A1 Monetary value of significant There were no significant fines or nonUNGC2 GD B1 fines and total number of monetary sanctions for non-compliance Doing GD B2 non-monetary sanctions for with laws and regulations during the Business in the GD B4 non-compliance with laws reporting period. right way GD B6 and regulations related to GD B7 the HKEx ESG Subject Areas There are no newly applicable or THE RIGHT PEOPLE KPI B7.1 of Emissions, Employment, developing laws or regulations related Health and Safety, Labour to ESG areas that have had a significant Standards, Product impact on our business. Contributing to our communities Responsibility and AntiCorruption operating Permanent Employee Turnover30 for the period from 1 December 2017 – 31 December 2018 (13 months) responsibly Employment GD B1 Number and rate of employee All permanent employee turnover applies UNGC 6 KPI B1.2 turnover by gender, age group to the region of Asia. FEEDBACK and geographical region GRI 401-1 By Age Group Below 30: 24.1% GRI and HKEx 30-50: 15.2% guide content Over 50: 15.9% Index By Gender Male: 19.5% Female: 16.5% AIA does not report employee turnover numbers at this time. Permanent Employee Turnover31 for the period from 1 January 2018 – 31 December 2018 (12 months) Employment GD B1 Number and rate of employee All permanent employee turnover applies UNGC 6 KPI B1.2 turnover by gender, age group to the region of Asia. and geographical region GRI 401-1 By Age Group Below 30: 22.4% 30-50: 14.3% Over 50: 15.4% By Gender Male: 18.4% Female: 15.4% AIA does not report employee turnover numbers at this time. 30 Permanent employees exclude employees on fixed term contracts, and their permanent turnover excludes involuntary turnover. Turnover is calculated using monthly average headcount for the reporting periods ending 31 December 2018. 31 Same as above. 72 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Disclosure HKEx ESG DETAIL remarks Including UNGC Reporting Guide Reference New Permanent Employee Hires32 for the period from 1 December 2017 to 31 December 2018 (13 months) About this Report Employment GD B1 Number and rate of new All new employee hires apply to the UNGC 6 permanent employee hires region of Asia. Doing by age group, gender and Business in the GRI 401-1 geographical region In ’000s right way By Age Group THE RIGHT Below 30: 3.13 PEOPLE 30-50: 2.65 Over 50: 0.21 Contributing to our communities By Gender Male: 2.60 Female: 3.37 operating responsibly AIA does not report on rate of new employee hires at this time. FEEDBACK New Permanent Employee Hires33 for the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 (12 months) Employment GD B1 Number and rate of new All new employee hires apply to the GRI and HKEx UNGC 6 permanent employee hires region of Asia. guide content by age group, gender and Index GRI 401-1 geographical region In ’000s By Age Group Below 30: 2.97 30-50: 2.50 Over 50: 0.20 By Gender Male: 2.47 Female: 3.19 AIA does not report on rate of new employee hires at this time. Training and Education Statistics34 for the period from 1 December 2017 to 31 December 2018 (13 months) Training and KPI B3.2 The average training hours Male: 14.6 education completed per employee by Female: 15.0 UNGC 6 gender GRI 404-1 KPI B3.2 The average training hours Junior Staff: 12.9 completed per employee Middle Managers: 19.3 by employee category (e.g. Senior Managers: 23.0 senior management, middle management) Training and Education Statistics35 for the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 (12 months) Training and KPI B3.2 The average training hours Male: 14.3 education completed per employee by Female: 14.0 UNGC 6 gender GRI 404-1 KPI B3.2 The average training hours Junior Staff: 12.4 completed per employee Middle Managers: 18.4 by employee category (e.g. Senior Managers: 22.2 senior management, middle management) 32 New permanent employees exclude employees on fixed term contracts. As part of an update to the methodologies we apply to certain data of the Group this year, permanent new hires represent all new hires in the reporting periods ending 31 December 2018. 33 Same as above. 34 Training hours for Sovereign employees are not included. 35 Same as above. 73 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 ESG Memberships About this Report Doing Business in the Organisation Level of membership right way THE RIGHT United Nations Global Compact Signatory PEOPLE Women in Finance Asia (Wifa) Member Contributing to our communities Task Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Supporter Principles for Responsible Investment Signatory operating responsibly Hong Kong Green Finance Association (HKGFA) Member FEEDBACK 30% Club (Hong Kong Chapter) Member GRI and HKEx guide content Index 74 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 INDEPENDENT PRACTITIONER’S LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT About this TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF AIA GROUP LIMITED Report Doing Business in the right way THE RIGHT PEOPLE Contributing to our communities We have undertaken a limited assurance Selective quantitative data was provided for engagement in respect of the selected four of the Company’s locations and related operating sustainability information of AIA Group Limited operations and these are the only locations responsibly (the “Company”) listed below under the included in the Identified Sustainability ‘Identified Sustainability Information’ section Information for the twelve-month period from FEEDBACK and identified with a ✓ in the Company’s 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 and the Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”) thirteen-month period from 1 December 2017 Report that covers the twelve-month period to 31 December 2018, namely: GRI and HKEx guide content from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 and Index the thirteen-month period from 1 December • the Company’s Group Office operations 2017 to 31 December 2018 (“ESG Report in Hong Kong, as defined as AIA Group 2018). in the ESG Report 2018, conducted from its premises located at AIA Central (1 Identified Sustainability Information Connaught Road, Central) and AIA Building The Identified Sustainability Information for the (1 Stubbs Road, Wan Chai); twelve-month period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 and the thirteen-month period • the Company’s operations in Hong Kong, as from 1 December 2017 to 31 December 2018 is defined as AIA Hong Kong in the ESG Report summarised below: 2018, conducted from its premises located at AIA Hong Kong Tower (734 King’s Road, • Electricity usage (indirect energy use) Quarry Bay), and AIA Financial Centre (712 Prince Edward Rd E, San Po Kong); • Energy consumption from use of fossil fuels and gas (direct energy use) • the Company’s operations in Singapore, as defined as AIA Singapore in the ESG • Total energy consumption Report 2018, conducted from its premises at AIA Alexandra (371 Alexandra Road), • Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) emissions AIA Tampines (3 Tampines Grande), AIA (Note 1) Tower (1 Robinson Road), and Telepark (5 Tampines Central 6); and • Scope 2 GHG emissions • the Company’s operations in Malaysia, as • Scope 3 GHG emissions (Note 2) defined as AIA Malaysia in the ESG Report 2018, conducted from its premises at AIA • Total GHG emissions (Scope 1, 2, 3) Menara (99, Jalan Ampang, 50450, Kuala Lumpur) and AIA Wisma (89, Jalan Ampang, Note 1: Emissions produced directly from fossil fuel Kuala Lumpur). including unleaded petrol, diesel oil, Towngas, Liquid Petroleum gas and private jet fuel. Data relating to the activities of the Company’s Note 2: Emissions produced indirectly from commercial insurance agents has been excluded from the business travel by airplane, except Singapore. selective quantitative data provided to us. 75 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 For the purposes of this limited assurance Our firm applies International Standard report, the selected quantitative data is on Quality Control 1 and accordingly defined above as the “Identified Sustainability maintains a comprehensive system of quality Information”. control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical About this Report Our limited assurance report is in respect of the requirements, professional standards and twelve-month period from 1 January 2018 to 31 applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Doing December 2018 and the thirteen-month period Business in the from 1 December 2017 to 31 December 2018 Our Responsibility right way information for the Identified Sustainability Our responsibility is to express a limited THE RIGHT Information only and we have not performed assurance conclusion on the Identified PEOPLE any procedures with respect to earlier periods, Sustainability Information based on the other locations or any other elements included procedures we have performed and the Contributing to our communities in the ESG Report 2018 and, therefore, do not evidence we have obtained. We conducted our express any conclusion thereon. limited assurance engagement in accordance operating with the International Standard on Assurance responsibly Criteria Engagements 3000 (Revised), Assurance The criteria used by the Company to prepare Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of FEEDBACK the Identified Sustainability Information is Historical Financial Information, and, in respect set out in section “OUR APPROACH TO ESG of greenhouse gas emissions, International REPORTING” of the ESG Report 2018. Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410, GRI and HKEx guide content Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Index The Company’s Responsibility for the Statements, issued by the International Auditing Identified Sustainability Information and Assurance Standards Board. These The Company is responsible for the preparation standards require that we plan and perform of the Identified Sustainability Information in this engagement to obtain limited assurance accordance with the Criteria. This responsibility about whether the Identified Sustainability includes the design, implementation and Information is free from material misstatement. maintenance of internal controls relevant to the preparation of the Identified Sustainability A limited assurance engagement involves Information that is free from material assessing the suitability in the circumstances misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. of the Company’s use of the Criteria as the basis for the preparation of the Identified Inherent Limitations Sustainability Information, assessing the risks The absence of a significant body of established of material misstatement of the Identified practice on which to draw to evaluate and Sustainability Information whether due to fraud measure non-financial information allows or error, responding to the assessed risks as for different, but acceptable, measures and necessary in the circumstances, and evaluating measurement techniques and can affect the overall presentation of the Identified comparability between entities. In addition, Sustainability Information. A limited assurance GHG quantification is subject to inherent engagement is substantially less in scope uncertainty because of incomplete scientific than a reasonable assurance engagement in knowledge used to determine emission factors relation to both the risk assessment procedures, and the values needed to combine emissions of including an understanding of internal control, different gases. and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks. Our Independence and Quality Control We have complied with the independence The procedures we performed were based and other ethical requirements of the Code of on our professional judgement and included Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by inquiries, observation of processes performed, the International Ethics Standards Board for inspection of documents, analytical procedures, Accountants, which is founded on fundamental evaluating the appropriateness of quantification principles of integrity, objectivity, professional methods and reporting policies, and agreeing or competence and due care, confidentiality and reconciling with underlying records. professional behaviour. The maintenance and integrity of the AIA Group Limited website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the assurance provider does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the assurance provider accepts no responsibility for any differences between the Identified Sustainability Information of AIA Group Limited on which the assurance report was issued or the assurance report that was issued and the information presented on the website. 76 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Given the circumstances of the engagement, in Limited Assurance Conclusion performing the procedures listed above we: Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing • made inquiries of the persons responsible has come to our attention that causes us About this for the Identified Sustainability Information; to believe that the Company’s Identified Report Sustainability Information for the twelve-month • understood the process for collecting and period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December Doing reporting the Identified Sustainability 2018 and the thirteen-month period from 1 Business in the Information; December 2017 to 31 December 2018 is not right way prepared, in all material respects, in accordance THE RIGHT • performed limited substantive testing with the Criteria. PEOPLE on a selective basis of the Identified Sustainability Information to check that data Our report has been prepared for and only Contributing to our communities had been appropriately recorded, calculated for the board of directors of the Company and reported; and and for no other purpose. We do not assume operating responsibility towards or accept liability to any responsibly • considered the disclosure and presentation other person for the contents of this report. of the Identified Sustainability Information. FEEDBACK The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and GRI and HKEx guide content timing from, and are less in extent than Index for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. PricewaterhouseCoopers Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable Certified Public Accountants assurance opinion about whether the Company’s Identified Sustainability Information Hong Kong has been prepared, in all material respects, in 10 April 2019 accordance with the Criteria. The maintenance and integrity of the AIA Group Limited website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the assurance provider does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the assurance provider accepts no responsibility for any differences between the Identified Sustainability Information of AIA Group Limited on which the assurance report was issued or the assurance report that was issued and the information presented on the website. 77 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018
