Leading Together Annual Report 2018 Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 02 In this year’s report 03 Message from our CEO Business review Governance Performance Investors 06 Group highlights 31 Group key indicators 53 Our Management Board Financial Sustainability 234 Share performance 32 Group financial review and Executive Committee 235 Shareholder returns 89  onsolidated income C 215 Introduction Who we are 47 Group sustainability 55 Our Supervisory Board statement 236 Key dates 218 Progress towards 2020 09 Where we operate performance review 57 Corporate governance 90 C  onsolidated statement 237 Shareholder structure 220 Sustainable Retailing data 50 Definitions: Performance 63 Supervisory Board report of comprehensive income 10 Market overview 226 Definitions 238 Five-year overview measures 70 Remuneration 91 Consolidated balance 12 Our stakeholders 230 Assurance report of the 240 Contact information sheet 14 Our role in the value chain 77 How we manage risk independent auditor 241 Cautionary notice 92 Consolidated statement 15 Our Leading Together 86 Declarations of changes in equity strategy 93 Consolidated statement 16 Our business model of cash flows 17 Our promises 94 Notes to the consolidated 18 Our growth drivers financial statements 20 Our response to 190 Parent company stakeholder needs financial statements 192 Notes to the parent company financial statements 202 Other information For more information visit our website at www.aholddelhaize.com Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 03 Message from our CEO While we completed the merger and Our strong results underscore that Frans Muller delivered the synergies we promised, we have Ahold Delhaize is well-positioned to succeed. President and CEO continued our strong business performance We have top-notch talent across all our “Our strong results in a rapidly changing industry and maintained brands and at our support offices, along with a robust financial profile. This has enabled the specialized experience that comes from underscore that Ahold us to continue to invest in future growth and being in the food retail business for more Delhaize is well-positioned return excess liquidity to shareholders. than 150 years. to succeed.” I am pleased to report that Ahold Delhaize Our new brand-centric organization in and its great local brands had another strong the United States, our updated structure in financial performance in 2018. Net sales rose Europe, and our tremendous regional support Against this backdrop, we performed an 2.5% to €62.8 billion at constant exchange – bolstered by the establishment of Retail in-depth strategic review to fully understand rates, with higher sales across all segments Business Services and Peapod Digital Labs how we are positioned in this very dynamic and market share gains in most of our markets. in the U.S. – give us the right structure to set market and the opportunities and challenges Net consumer online sales rose 24.8% to our local brands up for success. In short, we’ve we face. The outcome was an updated Dear reader, €3.5 billion at constant exchange rates. built a solid platform for growth – both in bricks strategy we call “Leading Together,” which and mortar and online. I’m happy to present our Our full-year underlying operating margin will drive our growth and help us gain market Annual Report for the first time was 4.1%, up from 3.9% in 2017, driven share in a sustainable, omnichannel way. Launching a new strategy by synergies that amounted to €432 million as Chief Executive Officer. In 2018, In 2018, we already took our first steps toward “Leading” means that we want to be at the by the end of 2018. Free cash flow was we essentially finalized our merger €2.3 billion, enabling us to continue to invest the next phase of our company. forefront of innovation and strengthen our and integration and turned our leading positions in our markets – and that in our stores, digital capabilities and online We operate in an industry that is going through we have trusted leaders to take our teams focus to the next, exciting chapter channels. a period of significant change, fueled by shifts forward. And we will do it “Together,” of our company. I’m very proud We completed a €2 billion share buyback in consumer behavior, rising competition from with colleagues across the local brands of the associates across our great and launched a new €1 billion program for online players and advancing technology. and in partnership with vendors, communities local brands who have made our 2019. Our strong financial position enables These changes are pressuring traditional and the other stakeholders our business business models, prompting retailers to rethink success possible. us to propose a dividend of €0.70 a share, touches every day. Especially in the areas an increase of 11.1% compared to last-year’s their strategies and find new and innovative of technology and sustainability, the world’s dividend, representing a payout ratio of 42% of ways to serve customer needs and operate challenges today are too big for companies underlying income from continuing operations. more efficiently. to tackle on their own. We need strong As of 2019, we have committed to making partnerships to further innovate and improve semi-annual dividend payments, and we have our business, but also to make a difference the ambition to maintain a sustainable growth in addressing challenges such as climate of our full-year dividend per share. change and plastic waste. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 04 Message from our CEO continued Accelerating our growth For years we’ve had a strong focus on making Finally, our fifth growth driver recognizes that our offering healthy and sustainable. More our people are our greatest assets. We have Our updated strategy focuses on five growth drivers that will help us accelerate in the areas and more customers are conscious of the link outstanding store teams that serve customers “Our updated strategy between food, health and sustainability and in our stores and work with our communities, we believe will make a difference in the future want to know where our products come from strengthened by colleagues in distribution focuses on five growth food retail landscape. The first is growing our omnichannel business, which includes and how they are produced. Our third growth centers and support offices. We are aware drivers that will help driver is focused on creating healthier solutions that technological advances are changing the our network of stores in great locations and for our customers, which will have an impact way people work. Every day we are engaged us accelerate in the areas our online businesses. We want to ensure that customers can shop how, where and when they on overall disease prevention, while also in attracting and retaining the best talent with we believe will make a becoming more sustainable in the way we the specific skills and the right capabilities, want, and that we can help them get a healthy source, the way we work, the way we deal both for our current business and to adapt us difference in the future and affordable dinner on the table in a fast and easy way. with our people, and the way we operate as for and propel us into the future. It is making food retail landscape.” a company. a difference, and I am pleased to report that Secondly, we will invest in technology to further our 2018 associate engagement score was 79%, As a signatory member of the UN Global improve our customer proposition and increase up from 78% in 2017, with higher marks on all Compact, we join the other member companies efficiency. Our customers are embracing dimensions of engagement. around the world to align our strategies and technology – and it is helping us provide operations with the Compact’s ten universal Diversity and inclusion are crucial factors in them with a more personalized, convenient principles around human rights, labor, having the best workforce, both now and in the shopping experience. environment and anti-corruption. We support future. We believe that our people should reflect We are partnering on technologies that multiple UN Sustainable Development Goals the diversity in our local communities, as well are not only helping us make the customer through our sustainability efforts. as bring diverse thinking and experience in experience even more personal and relevant our leadership. Companies who do both are The fourth driver is portfolio and scale but also operate more efficiently and manage more successful. Therefore, we are committed efficiencies. This is about investing in profitable labor shortages in our markets. This includes to making further progress in this area, and growth – both organically and inorganically – exciting new collaborations in artificial I recognize that there is room for improvement to expand our strong local brands, extend intelligence and robotics. in our top leadership team. our customer reach and deepen our footprint. At the same time, it’s about capturing the benefits of our scale through our Save for our Customers program and by sharing best practices. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 05 Message from our CEO continued Leadership changes In October, Wouter Kolk officially took on Underlying income per share from continuing the role of CEO Ahold Delhaize Europe and operations is expected to grow by high single For associates to reach their potential, “Every day we are engaged we need the right leadership in place, so Indonesia. And, in January 2019, we also digits as a percentage compared to last year. appointed a new Chief Digital Officer, Farhan We expect free cash flow in 2019 to be around in attracting and retaining we continue to strengthen our management Siddiqi, to help us drive digital transformation €2.0 billion, as we are increasing our capital teams, promoting people from within the the best talent with the company and finding external talent when and innovation across our local brands. expenditures to €2.0 billion, in particular at Stop & Shop and our eCommerce business, as well right capabilities, both for it helps us gain new capabilities. Together with the hundreds of thousands as to further strengthen our digital capabilities. of associates across our businesses, we have our current business and We thank Mats Jansson, who retired as a tremendous team to take us into the future. I want to thank everyone who contributed Chairman in 2018, for his leadership of our to adapt us for and propel Supervisory Board, especially during the to making 2018 such a great year for Ahold Outlook for the future us into the future.” merger period. Jan Hommen has taken on the Delhaize: our associates, our vendors and partners in the industry, our communities and role of Supervisory Board Chairman once again. We confirm our target for 2019 of realizing €750 million gross synergies, resulting in our customers – and you, our shareholders. During the year, Johnny Thijs and Patrick De Maeseneire stepped down from the Supervisory €500 million net synergies from the integration Best wishes, Board due to other commitments – we are of the two companies. In addition, we expect to save €540 million in 2019 as part of our Frans Muller grateful for their valuable contributions while President and CEO on the Board. €1.8 billion Save for Our Customers program for 2019-2021. As previously announced, And of course, Dick Boer retired as CEO we expect the full 2019 group margins to at the end of June. We are very grateful for be in line with last year. his leadership and for helping us shape the company to be what it is today. Marc Croonen, who stepped down from the Executive Committee in November, contributed much to advancing our commitment to sustainability. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 06 Group highlights Net sales Underlying operating income Underlying operating margin Net income €62.8bn €2.6bn Pro forma underlying operating income 4.1% Pro forma underlying operating margin €1,793m Pro forma net income 2017: €62.9bn 2017: €2.5bn 2017: 3.9% 2017: €1,817m -0.2% (+2.5% at constant rates) +4.0% (+6.7% at constant rates) +0.2% pt -1.4% (0.0% at constant rates) 2.6 1,817 1,793 62.9 62.8 2.5 4.1 62.3 3.9 2.3 3.7 1,078 20161 2017 2018 20161 2017 2018 20161 2017 2018 20161 2017 2018 Net consumer online sales Free cash flow2 Underlying income per share Dividend per common share from continuing operations €3.5bn €2.3bn €1.60 €0.70 2017: €2.8bn 2017: €1.9bn 2017: €1.26 2017: €0.63 +23.4% +21.6% +26.3% +11.1% Own-brand food sales from healthy products Associate engagement score3 Dow Jones Sustainability Index Carbon-equivalent emissions per m2 47% 79% 72 456kg/m2 2017: 46% 2017: 78% 2017: 674 20175: 471kg/m2 +1% pt Industry benchmark: 80% +5 -3.2% Industry average: 35 1 The 2016 figures presented in the graphs are pro forma figures. To read more about the 2016 pro forma figures, see our Annual Report 2016. For the definitions of alternative performance measures, 2 In 2018, after €1.8 billion capital expenditure (2017: after €1.7 billion capital expenditure). see Definitions: Performance measures. For definitions 3 2018 and 2017 figures include Peapod, Gall & Gall and Etos. of sustainability indicators, see Definitions under 4 DJSI changed its methodology in 2018 and restated the 2017 score from 73 to 67 for comparability to 2018. Performance: Sustainability. 5 We have restated our 2017 figures to include more accurate GWP for our refrigerants, sales area and actual fuel usage. The 2017 figure excludes Gall & Gall and Etos. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 07 09 Where we operate 10 Market overview 12 Our stakeholders 14 Our role in the value chain 15 Our Leading Together strategy 16 Our business model 17 Our promises 18 Our growth drivers 20 Our response to stakeholder needs Who we are Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 08 Who we are Ahold Delhaize at a glance Ahold Delhaize is one of the world’s largest food retail groups, a leader in supermarkets and eCommerce, and a company at the forefront of sustainable retailing. Our family of great local brands serves over 50 million customers each week, in Europe, the United States and Indonesia1. Our Leading Together strategy, launched in November 2018, provides a framework for success, leveraging both our scale and local strength. It guides our decisions and defines shared values and promises, while giving our great local brands the flexibility to best serve their customers, associates and communities. 372 thousand associates 50 million customers served 19 great local brands2 6,769 stores serving our local communities every week in Europe and the United States Store formats include: supermarkets, convenience stores, online shopping, compact 1 Joint venture operations. hypermarkets, hypermarkets, cash and carry, 2 Including the brands of our joint venture partners. drugstores and wine and liquor stores. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 09 Where we operate Our great local brands We operate across the United States and Europe with a joint venture The United States The Netherlands Belgium Central and in Indonesia. 1,961 stores 2,151 stores 777 stores Southeastern Europe 333 pick-up points 63 pick-up points 127 pick-up points 1,880 stores Our strong and trusted local brands 39 pick-up points are leaders in their markets and are at the heart of our businesses. They serve customers through a total of 6,769 stores and 562 grocery 59.7% Net sales: The United States 40.3% Net sales: Europe pick-up points, broken down by segment in the map. In addition, our bol.com brand operates a network of pick-up points. For more information about our brands, see our United States Belgium The Netherlands website at www.aholddelhaize.com/en/brands/ Czech Republic Serbia Romania 2 Portugal 1 Greece Net sales by region The United States (59.7%) The Netherlands (22.6%) Belgium (8.1%) Indonesia 1 Central and Southeastern Europe (9.6%) 1 Pingo Doce and Super Indo are joint venture brands. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 10 Market overview Technology, new business models and empowered consumers are Technology Online and mobile Convenience accelerating change in the retail industry. Retailers are transforming The development of technology is moving at We see eCommerce growing rapidly and In general, customers have busy lifestyles in response to these trends. an unprecedented rate and has the potential swiftly reshuffling the established order and less time and ability to shop for and to completely reshape retail. of retail. prepare nutritious food than in the past. At Ahold Delhaize1, we are constantly Artificial intelligence makes it possible to This is partly fueled by mobile technology, But at the same time, many people are on the lookout for better ways to automate and optimize almost every aspect which is broadening fast access to information striving towards healthier diets. Retailers are anticipate and address the changes of the value chain. Over the next decade, voice and increasing customer expectations around diversifying their assortments to include healthy impacting the consumer and the and natural language processing are expected speed, convenience and personalization. and nutritious ready-to-eat or ready-to-heat retail industry landscapes. to become the norm for interaction between This ongoing shift will disrupt established options to meet these needs. humans and machines. The trends described here are the ones retail models, forcing both consumer packaged Consumers also have growing expectations we believe are most relevant to our business, The fifth generation of mobile communications, goods companies and retailers to build their of convenience in the shopping experience. and around which we will accelerate our 5G, is likely to accelerate the adoption of digital capabilities. Complexity in logistics Today, they have the ultimate control over activities in coming years through our wearable technology that can access cloud and fulfillment are expected to grow, requiring how they browse, shop, and receive products Leading Together strategy. capabilities directly rather than relying on retailers to serve varying customer needs and services, often enabled by technology. mobile phones. at every point of the day and offer services Consumers want products to be available For more information, see Our growth drivers. like same-day and instant delivery. when they want them, where they want them Finally, the data collected from Internet of Things and how they want to purchase them – either (IoT)-enabled devices will drive opportunities While traditional grocers are partnering with online or offline – and be readily comparable. to personalize the customer experience, third-party players to better address these optimize operations and develop new, digitally-enabled needs, pure online companies Retailers are responding with data-driven previously unimaginable propositions and are looking for physical touchpoints to enhance personalization, the rise of (almost) instant operating models. their services to consumers. And they manage delivery and a range of new store formats. to do this by rolling out innovative store formats that range from hyper-convenient checkout-free outlets to full-sized supermarkets that seamlessly integrate offline and online services. The rise of eCommerce and the increasing use of interfaces such as mobile or voice make it ever more important for retailers to have a multi-channel strategy. 1 “Ahold Delhaize” or “the Company” refers to Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. and /or any of its subsidiaries, if applicable. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 11 Market overview continued Operating model and Health and well-being Resource availability Consolidation workforce of the future Consumers’ perception of what “healthy” Climate change and a growing demand We expect to see increased future Technological innovation and digitalization means has changed, as people have become for food could impact our ability to secure consolidation in grocery retail, especially will permeate every functional area of retail more knowledgeable about the relationship basic resources. in markets that are still facing a high degree businesses. between the food they eat and their overall of fragmentation. Climate change poses an existential threat, Technology will impact the labor force of the health and well-being. as it risks disrupting the stable temperatures Across our industry, consolidation is considered future, and companies are already looking for Many consumers today are inspired to that have allowed human civilization to flourish a favorable strategy to counter low growth and solutions to ensure employees have the right eat healthier diets. What this means is over thousands of years. Combined with an decreasing margins by creating significant skills going forward. different for everyone – one customer could increasing global demand for food, this is putting synergy opportunities. Intelligent automation and artificial intelligence see it as prioritizing fruits and vegetables, natural resources under stress all over the world. At the same time, vertical integration is will increase efficiency and accuracy, enhancing another as adopting a paleo or vegan diet. The current climate scenario predicts decreased also accelerating. Grocers are integrating human abilities and freeing workers to drive A growing number of consumers are seeking agricultural yields and productivity. This could backwards through businesses like food farms market growth and deploy creative strategies. products that are made with simple, natural lead to an inability to source basic products and and processing plants to guarantee supply Successful organizations will continuously ingredients that they recognize and understand, serve our customers and communities. and quality and lower costs. evaluate the external environment and nimbly and this is reflected in growing sales of “cleaner In addition, common agriculture practices adjust to changing conditions, becoming label” foods. Consumer packaged goods companies are leading to soil depletion, which impacts more agile. are integrating forward and developing Consumers want advice that fits their specific food yields and the quality and nutritional value direct-to-consumer sales models enabled Furthermore, an authentic, purpose-driven goals and needs. We are seeing a rapidly of produce. Water quality – which affects food by eCommerce. This is helping them build culture that allows for personalization will be emerging trend towards personalized nutrition, safety and quality – and quantity are also at more meaningful relationships with consumers, critical to engaging the workforce of the future. where consumers receive individual advice risk in some areas as climate change worsens while at the same time creating a threat to the Employees will work in networked, highly based on their own health data. the availability of freshwater resources and traditional retail model. collaborative teams, while seeking to define industries compete for these resources. Consumers are also moving beyond the idea their unique contribution in line with the that health is tied just to physique. Solutions To address these issues, retailers and organization’s purpose. for “being healthy” are no longer limited to suppliers will have to work together and invest In response to the changing market conditions, diet and exercise. Consumers seek a more in sustainable production practices, while companies will employ a fluid workforce. well-rounded approach to health and wellness engaging and enabling consumers to shift They will source and manage talent through that is both personal and functional, taking into their consumption behaviors. employment models that include permanent account the physical, mental, financial, social employees, affiliates, partners, publicly and spiritual aspects of life. available talent and even customers. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 12 Our stakeholders As a global company, we have Our stakeholders help us to get better every Other memberships include regional and a large variety of stakeholders. day by challenging us, sharing insights into local industry associations, such as the Customers their concerns, offering feedback on how Food Marketing Institute, the Dutch Food To customers, associates and we are doing, and collaborating with us to Retail Association (“Centraal Bureau communities – the three primary solve problems. We engage with them in both Levensmiddelenhandel”), the European Our business is built on our relationships groups that Ahold Delhaize impacts formal and informal ways throughout the year. Retail Round Table, and Eurocommerce. with our customers. – we promise to be a better place During 2018, we invited key internal and Ahold Delhaize is a signatory of the United Our great local brands engage with them every to shop, a better place to work and external stakeholders to give us their feedback Nations Global Compact – an initiative time they visit the stores or shop online. We stay a better neighbor. We also commit on Ahold Delhaize’s most material economic, for businesses committed to aligning their tuned in to what they want through third-party to transparency and high integrity social and environmental impacts. Stakeholders operations and strategies with 10 universally surveys, consumer studies, focus groups, and were selected to represent a broad range of accepted principles in the areas of human through the immediate feedback they provide with a broad list of stakeholders perspectives, including those that challenge rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. to our customer service departments, associates who have a strong interest in our and websites and through social media. our business choices, while including a strong These 10 principles are addressed in our policies, company, including shareholders, sample size from associates, customers, practices, and Leading Together strategy. Customers in our markets continue to global and local suppliers, NGOs, investors and others. The results tell us they are looking for value and want governments and NGOs. are consolidated in our updated materiality an easy shopping experience, supported by matrix; see Our response to stakeholder needs. technology. They want high-quality products, We collaborate with other retailers and and are increasingly looking for options that are manufacturers, through memberships in healthier, while staying accessible and delicious. industry associations and other partnerships, Customers also tell us they want to be informed to improve global health, sustainability, about sustainable production and responsible transparency, compliance monitoring and the consumption and they value products that well-being of workers in our communities and are made with respect for people, animals around the world. Ahold Delhaize has a strong and the planet. They underline the importance collaboration with the Consumer Goods Forum, of recycling, sustainable packaging and the a platform to work on non-competitive issues joint responsibility to minimize food waste. such as sustainability and health and wellness. Ahold Delhaize CEO Frans Muller succeeded former CEO Dick Boer as a Forum board member in July 2018. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 13 Our stakeholders continued Associates Communities Shareholders Associates bring our Leading Together Our brands are closely connected to their We strongly believe that by serving strategy to life every day, working together to communities, playing a role in the lives of customers, associates and communities serve customers across stores, warehouses millions of people every day. well, our businesses will prosper and our and support offices. shareholders will benefit. The brands engage with many different entities Our brands seek the input of their associates in their local communities, including food banks, Our shareholders put their trust in us by investing to shape our strategy and leverage ideas to governments, civic organizations, schools, in Ahold Delhaize financially, and we seek and improve. Every associate plays an important research institutes, industry bodies, charitable value their input because it helps us become role as we build relationships with customers, organizations, franchisees and affiliates, a better retailer. with our neighbors and with each other. and suppliers. Investors and shareholders monitor our company We strive to offer an inclusive place to work, Each brand partners locally with community closely and support and challenge us on our where differences are respected and valued, organizations and collaborations to deliver strategy and how we manage our businesses. and where all associates can achieve their on our strategy and improve outcomes for our We communicate with them through quarterly full potential. stakeholders. For example, they partner with disclosures and both financial and non-financial In 2018, the annual associate engagement educational organizations to increase healthy performance briefings – such as during our survey was conducted across all of our Ahold eating education for children and with food banks annual General Meeting of Shareholders and Delhaize brands. We had a strong participation to redistribute unsold food. capital markets days. rate of 83% and saw an overall engagement rate With our suppliers, we maintain multiple To demonstrate our commitment to long-term of 79%, a one percentage-point improvement communication channels, including facesuccess, our disclosures cover both our over last year’s results. to-face meetings, online communication and financial as well as Environmental, Social The survey showed that associates are proud supplier events. and Governance (ESG)-related performance. and strong advocates of our brands. They enjoy We aim to be transparent about our progress Input from our suppliers, both local and global, a work environment where they feel included, on our Leading Together strategy, including helps us to create better products for customers, respected and well-informed about expectations. performance against our targets to build find new ways to reduce food waste, and a more sustainable business. We aim to run strong businesses that offer increase economic, social and environmental stable jobs and great career opportunities. value for the communities we source from For more information on our financial performance, Our businesses are committed to the principles throughout the supply chain. see page Group financial review. of equal employment opportunities, freedom For more information on our sustainability of association and respecting legal rights to performance, see page Group sustainability performance review. collective bargaining. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 14 Our role in the value chain Production Retail Consumption Online Retail stores Shop now Raw materials Production Distribution Retail operations Consumption Communities 66% of own-brand production 93% of own-brand 79% associate engagement 2% food waste reduction 57,599 36% 47% tonnes of food of sales are from of own-brand food sales are locations in high-risk production locations are score 2017 – 2018 (tonnes of food donated own-brand products from healthy products countries are audited for food safety-certified waste per million € sales) working conditions As a food retailer, Ahold Delhaize With our scale and leading position, we can We work to conserve resources right from Ahold Delhaize associates serve millions is positioned in the middle of the have a significant influence on making each the raw materials stage. We set sustainable of customers every day – helping them shift stage of the value chain more sustainable, sourcing targets for seven critical commodities, to healthier diets. Through local initiatives, value chain, delivering products in partnership with our stakeholders. and we partner with farmers, suppliers and the brands support the neighborhoods around from farmers and suppliers to industry groups to reach them. their stores as well as local communities in consumers through our retail stores We are committed to increasing our positive the supply chain. Increasing the transparency Our local brands work to map and understand and online operations. impact and driving sustainable practices their supply chains and assess how natural of environmental and social impacts along the throughout the global value chain – for the value chain is a challenge, but one that we strive resources are being used, or how good benefit of our customers, associates and towards, as it helps us evaluate where and how working conditions are monitored and ensured. communities – and we have implemented we can improve together with our partners. performance indicators and targets to help We reduce our carbon footprint through For more information on material impacts us do this. energy-efficient stores, offices, distribution as identified by our stakeholders, see centers and transportation. Our response to stakeholder needs. For more detailed information on Sustainable Retailing data and definitions see Performance: Sustainability. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 15 Our Leading Together strategy Our purpose Our growth drivers Our growth drivers are the areas Together, we build Great Local Brands, we will invest in to accelerate bringing Fresh Inspiration Every Day profitable growth through our Leading Together strategy. 1= Omnichannel Our business model Our promises growth Save for our customers: Invest in our customer 2 ... ... • Buy better to D proposition: A better Technology • Operate smarter ve • Fresher & healthier place to shop Sa ri ves • Waste less • Best own brands 3 a m e s to r e s a • Local, personal Great Every Local Brands & convenient Day Healthy and Offer an omnichannel • Dependable value A better A better sustainable experience: • Sustainable place to work neighbor • Supermarkets ... A ... 4 le d s and smaller stores fu n nd • eCommerce grow th... Portfolio and • Meal solutions scale efficiencies See page 16 See page 17 5 Best talent Our values Courage Integrity Teamwork Care Humor We drive change, are We do the right thing Together, we take ownership, We care for our customers, We are humble, down-toopen-minded, bold, and earn customers’ trust. collaborate, and win. our colleagues, and our earth, and we don’t take and innovative. communities. ourselves too seriously. For more information on our strategy, see our website at www.aholddelhaize.com See page 18 Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 16 Our business model Our business model is a continuous cycle that shows how our great Save for our Invest in our customer Offer an omnichannel local brands create value for all customers proposition experience our stakeholders. To jump-start this continuous cycle, Our brands invest into the local customer Ahold Delhaize seeks to fund growth in three Across Ahold Delhaize, each brand we always look for ways to save for our proposition to provide a great shopping key channels – supermarkets and smaller customers. We evaluate every area of our experience that meets consumers’ changing stores, eCommerce and meal solutions works to save, drive same-store sales businesses to see where we can do things needs and builds loyalty. – so that our brands can be there wherever and fund growth. smarter and better to save money, conserve and however customers shop, providing By continuously looking for ways resources and reduce waste. Fresher and healthier more of the meals our customers enjoy each With broad fresh and healthier product day. We are building a portfolio of strong to buy better, operate smarter and Buy better brands that reach #1 or #2 positions in their assortments, our brands are making healthier waste less, we maintain the ability Our great local brands cultivate long-term eating easy, tasty, affordable and rewarding. local markets. to invest in our evolving customer partnerships with suppliers, working together proposition and offer an omnichannel to innovate and develop own-brand product Best own brands Supermarkets and smaller stores ranges. They also achieve savings through Each brand focuses on building innovative Supermarkets are our core channel and the shopping experience: buying alliances. In sourcing practices, own-brand product ranges to keep differentiating main focus of our investments. Our brands we aim to always operate in a competitive itself and maintain its competitive edge. work to keep the stores regularly refreshed and and fair way. remodeled so they remain appealing to customers. Local, personal and convenient In addition, some of our brands operate smaller Operate smarter We strive to build stronger relationships with formats and are continuously developing them to Our brands are streamlining operations and customers – through the service provided fulfill customers’ growing demand for convenience. implementing new technologies and automation by our associates and through personalized to achieve cost efficiencies. offers and convenience, enabled by technology. eCommerce Our brands tailor the shopping experience Across our brands, we continue to develop Waste less to the needs of people in their neighborhoods eCommerce solutions, to make shopping more Our local businesses are striving to reduce and sell a wide range of local products. convenient, personal and inspiring. Our great waste by improving their everyday operations. local brands constantly aim to improve the quality They do this through initiatives such as Dependable value of their service, tailor the assortment to meet or next-generation replenishment, re-engineering We want every family to be able to do their exceed customer expectations, and make online packaging, reducing plastic waste and driving weekly shopping with our brands, regardless shopping available to more people. energy efficiency. of their budget, so our local businesses continue to make pricing more competitive. Meal solutions We are continuing our expansion into meal Sustainable solutions to meet customer demand for easier, We work to develop more sustainable practices fresher and healthier meal options. Our efforts and provide transparency across the value chain. are focused on meal kits, food counters and meals-on-demand. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 17 Our promises We promise customers, associates and communities that our brands A better place to shop A better place to work A better neighbor will always strive to be a better People everywhere are demanding more As one of the world’s largest retailers, The world around us is changing fast, and place to shop, a better place to work, convenience from the shopping experience. people are at the center of everything we do. as a global retailer, we can have a significant and a better neighbor – every day. They expect to be able to shop whenever Today, maybe more than ever, people want impact on issues important to people in our to feel engaged in their work and know that local communities, such as climate change, All of our brands share these and however they want, in large stores with it has a purpose. health and waste reduction. wide assortments, small stores for on-the-go, promises and fulfill them according and online shopping for the ultimate convenience We want to foster a healthy and diverse working It is important to us to be closely connected to to what’s best for their local markets. of home delivery or pickup. They want the food environment where people can develop both our communities – after all, they are home not they buy to be fresh and healthy and expect professionally and personally. Our brands are only to our customers but also to our colleagues. retailers to help them make the right choices to dedicated to being good employers, providing In all our local communities, we promise to meet their needs and those of their loved ones. enriching career opportunities and treating become a better neighbor, every day. associates with appreciation and respect. We promise that we will always work to deliver our customers a better place to shop. We will Our brands strive to be a better place to work, make shopping easier, fresher and healthier every day. for customers, every day. How we measure success How we measure success How we measure success Net promoter score Overall engagement score Score on the DJSI Net promoter score, which gauges Associate engagement, as measured Progress against our Sustainable Retailing customers’ willingness to recommend our by an annual survey of all associates targets and the assessment of our sustainability great local brands to others. by an external vendor. performance by the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 18 Our growth drivers We have a strong foundation and top-notch talent – and are well-positioned to win. Through our five growth drivers, we will accelerate on what will make a difference in the future food retail landscape. 1 2 3 4 5 Omnichannel Technology Healthy and Portfolio and scale Best talent growth sustainable efficiencies Making it possible for our Partnering to invest in Taking the lead in Having both the ambition Staying in the lead by customers to shop however the technology of the future offering our customers and the opportunity to grow attracting, developing and and whenever is most and deploy it across our healthier and more our business in a fragmented retaining the best talent, convenient through our company today, to improve sustainable options. retail market, while scaling with new capabilities. omnichannel offering. the customer experience our efficiencies to partially and increase efficiency. self-fund our growth. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 19 Our growth drivers continued 1 2 3 4 5 Omnichannel Technology Healthy and Portfolio and scale Best talent growth sustainable efficiencies We will boost our omnichannel Technology will help us improve Customers and communities We have built a solid platform Our leadership team has the growth by investing in our store our customer offering and increase across all our markets are looking and the right capabilities to enable strength and experience to drive network and online capabilities – efficiency. for ways to eat cleaner, smarter us to pursue both organic and our strategy and grow our business and our scale will help us do this. and healthier, and are concerned inorganic growth. even further. We are using technology to make about the impact of their shopping We will continue to reposition our the three billion offers we send out We will continue to evolve our portfolio: And the larger team of more than on people and the environment. store brands – including our largest each year more personalized and building and strengthening our 372,000 associates are engaged, brand, Stop & Shop – to be even compelling. Our vision is to be the leading leading market positions, leveraging experienced and passionate about more customer-centric and locally sustainable retailer in our markets our scale and expanding our strong serving customers and communities When we adjust our assortment differentiated. by innovating to improve health, local brands, customer reach and across all our brands. using machine learning, our customers drive sustainable consumption and geographical presence. We strive for At the same time, we are investing find more of the products they want. It is essential we offer them the right maximize human potential. To meet a #1 or #2 position in each market, more in our home delivery capabilities, By simplifying the checkout process opportunities because they make the increasing demand for healthier and will also grow in attractive existing developing our pick-up points and and rolling out technology to help everything we do possible. Our brands diets, we will continue improving or adjacent markets. further leveraging our online brands customers navigate stores and will continue to improve their working the nutritional value of our products such as bol.com and Peapod. build shopping lists, we are making Our commitment is to partially environment with an engaged, and supporting customers in finding shopping easier. self-fund our growth investments inclusive, balanced and healthy People are cooking less and want healthier options, while accelerating and acceleration through our Save workplace for all associates. easier, fresher, healthier meal options. We are also making fulfillment more our focus on affordability and for Our Customers cost program. We see a great opportunity to keep efficient by investing in fully mechanized personalization. Save for Our Customers is in our DNA, expanding into meal solutions, distribution centers, micro-fulfillment We are committed to creating more and we believe there are many more focusing on meal kits, food counters and optimized forecasting and circular systems for plastic packaging, efficiencies to go after and to scale and meals-on-demand. replenishment. and are testing blockchain and other across our group. methods to improve transparency about our products. In addition, we will build new, ambitious climate targets to accelerate emission reduction from our operations and supply chain. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 20 Our response to stakeholder needs To drive a sustainable business, we are committed to creating value for our many stakeholders. We are making it easier for our customers to eat more nutritious food, which helps to reduce the prevalence of diseases and increase overall vitality. We are reducing food waste, to responsibly manage the earth’s resources. Our work with food banks helps feed the undernourished in our communities. And we are committed to celebrating a diverse and inclusive workforce and seeing associates reach their potential and thrive in life and business. We are continuously driving performance improvements in climate impact, product safety and sustainability, safety at work and local community connection. For more information on our sustainable retailing vision and strategy, and the way we manage material topics, please visit our website. www.aholddelhaize.com/en/sustainable-retailing/ Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 21 Our response to stakeholder needs continued Each year, we perform a materiality assessment, gathering input from associates, customers, investors and other external stakeholders to assess our biggest impacts Product safety and quality on society. Our current material topics are plotted on the matrix to the right. The matrix reflects Transparency Associate safety, health and well-being Influence on stakeholder assessments and decisions stakeholders’ feedback on the scale of Ahold Delhaize’s impact and how much the Human rights topics influence their decision-making on Sustainable agriculture Healthy and sustainable diets environmental, social and economic topics. The 2018 material topics have not changed Plastics Economic performance Affordable and healthy products significantly from the 2017 assessment, Local sourcing and production but four topics have moved up noticeably: Carbon emissions Associate wages human rights, sustainable agriculture, plastics and transparency. Price of products Impact on local communities Our materiality assessment helps us to ensure Deforestation and biodiversity Food waste Diversity of our workforce that our strategy and reporting are in line with our most significant impacts and stakeholder Strategic sourcing expectations. The results of this assessment, which often drive key business risks and Animal welfare opportunities, have been included in our Enterprise Risk Management process; see Personal data and privacy How we manage risk for more information. Automation and Responsible tax socio-economic impact The 2018 materiality analysis will be used as an input as we move forward on our Leading Together strategy and set new sustainable retailing goals. Animal-based protein Significance of Ahold Delhaize’s economic, environmental and social impacts Areas impacted by the material topics People Planet Product Performance Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 22 Our response to stakeholder needs continued We use the UN Sustainable Stakeholder engagement Management approach We use global KPIs and targets to drive progress Development Goals (SDGs) as toward our 2020 sustainability agenda. However, In 2018, we engaged with stakeholders on The purpose of our management approach is because some specific market characteristics a compass for our strategy, and various topics including human rights, sustainable to enhance positive impacts and avoid, mitigate require a local approach – for example, on local as a reference when completing agriculture practices, sustainable protein, or remediate negative economic, social and sourcing or serving local communities – the plastic waste reduction and animal welfare environmental impacts of our businesses on our annual materiality assessment. management approach on material topics is not improvements. We are committed to promptly society at large. The material topics can have The 10 SDGs that we contribute and thoughtfully responding to requests and impacts that are limited to the Ahold Delhaize only driven globally. Material topics addressed to the most through our global in the table below are those with a high influence feedback from stakeholders on these complex organization, including its stores, offices, on stakeholder decisions and on which Ahold strategy are shown below. In addition, issues. As many of these challenges require distribution centers and associates, or go beyond Delhaize has a significant impact. We have as we work together with many industry-wide solutions, we often partner with to impact society. We manage our material topics included references to the SDGs most supported partners in the value chain to drive other retailers, manufacturers, and expert at multiple levels in the organization, through by our efforts. organizations to co-create solutions that, for our daily business practices within the brands progress on the SDGs and achieve instance, improve human rights protection in and globally through our Sustainable Retailing Please visit our website for a more comprehensive our sustainability agenda, we see complex supply chains, or find the right balance strategy (see Performance: Sustainability and view on how we manage material topics and for a Reference Table linking our activities to the Global SDG 17 as an enabler for success. between reducing plastic packaging while Definitions for more details). Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards. ensuring fresh and safe food. For more information on our strategy and The leaders of our local brands are responsible how we support the SDGs, see Performance: Our dialogue with stakeholders gives us greater for developing and implementing local Sustainability in this Annual Report and our website www.aholddelhaize.com. visibility into impacts along our value chain, and strategies to address relevant material topics, helps us identify new partnerships and actions. and they set annual targets on all the Ahold We value the interactions and feedback – which Delhaize Sustainable Retailing performance happen directly with our brands or at a regional indicators. On a quarterly basis, each brand or global level – as they help us evaluate leader performs an assessment on the brand’s trade-offs and be strategic about the changes year-to-date data and discusses progress we implement in our business. and potential data quality improvements with the Ahold Delhaize President and CEO and We continue to improve how we communicate the VP Sustainable Retailing. about the stakeholder feedback we receive and the related positions we take, particularly through our global website. We recognize the increasing importance of transparency to customers and other stakeholders. The SDGs that we contribute to the most through our global strategy: Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 23 Our response to stakeholder needs continued People Management approach, KPIs and targets SDG reference Associate safety, health and well-being We integrate safe working conditions into workplace designs and operational procedures and 3.4 Promote mental health and well-being measure and monitor accidents, occupational illness and related absenteeism. Annual targets 8.5 Achieve decent work for all and equal pay are set to further increase safety measures and support associates’ health and well-being for all equal work through brand-level programs. See our website at www.aholddelhaize.com for more details 8.8 Protect labor rights and promote safe and and information on our programs. secure working environments for all workers 2020 target • Score of 75% on index of healthy workplace questions in associate engagement survey KPIs • Rate of lost days due to accidents • Rate of occupational illnesses per million hours worked Human rights We are committed to respecting the human rights of associates, customers, communities and the 8.7 Eradicate forced labor people who work throughout our supply chains. In 2018, we began a human rights due diligence 8.8 Protect labor rights and promote safe and process based on the UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights. secure working environments for all workers 2020 target • 80% of own-brand production units meeting social compliance standards Associate wages Our remuneration policy is based on our commitment to the key principle of fair and equitable treatment of associates. Compensation and benefits levels are set by our brands in line with associates’ job levels and local market practices. The remuneration practices in each of our local markets are regularly reviewed to take into account market dynamics and economic conditions. KPI • Associate engagement survey score Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 24 Our response to stakeholder needs continued People (continued) Management approach, KPIs and targets SDG reference Impact on local communities Charitable contributions and community investments focus on promoting healthier eating, fighting 2.1 Ensure access to nutritious food for all hunger and strengthening communities. Our brands engage with local communities through a diverse set of programs, including partnerships with local food banks and sponsorship of educational programs on healthier eating for children. For more information on our Framework for Community Connections and examples of our actions, see our website at www.aholddelhaize.com. KPIs • Cash donations by the company to charities • Cash equivalent donations by the company to charities • Cash and cash equivalent donations by customers to charities, facilitated by Ahold Delhaize brands • Tonnes of food donated Diversity of workforce Associate perception on diversity is measured through an annual associate engagement survey 5.5 Achieve equal opportunities and annual targets are set to drive progress. Our brands are committed to creating an inclusive 8.5 Achieve decent work for all workplace, and diversity and inclusion are integrated into associates’ value propositions through 10.2 Promote inclusion hiring practices, innovative training and leadership development programs. 10.3 Ensure equal opportunity and reduce inequalities of outcome KPIs • Index of inclusive workplace questions in the associate engagement survey • Percentage of female and male associates • Percentage of females on the Executive Committee and Supervisory Board • Percentage of associates by generation Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 25 Our response to stakeholder needs continued Planet Management approach, KPIs and targets SDG reference Food waste We minimize food waste in own operations by preventing it, through optimized store replenishment 12.3 Halve food waste and on-shelf management, and by re-directing unsold food to feed people. For the food waste that we cannot eliminate, we continue to expand recycling. Our brands identify new ways to partner with food banks and entrepreneurial businesses to redistribute unsold food to still feed people. 2020 targets • 20% food waste reduction against 2016 baseline (tonnes / € million food sales) • 90% food waste recycled KPIs • Tonnes of food waste sent to disposal per food sales • Percentage of unsold food donated to feed people Sustainable agriculture Through our work on critical commodities we collaborate with partners in the industry to drive 2.4 Ensure sustainable food production systems sustainable farming practices and protect ecosystems. We also source organic products and many 12.2 Achieve efficient use of natural resources fresh products from suppliers who are improving the sustainability of agriculture, for example through Integrated Pest Management, the reduction of chemical applications and better grazing practices. 2020 targets • 100% sustainable sourcing for seven commodities in our own-brand products (tea, coffee, cocoa, palm oil, seafood, soy and wood fibers) KPIs • Percentage of total food sales from certified-organic products • Sales from “free-from” or organic own-brand product lines Plastics At Ahold Delhaize, we appreciate the benefits that plastic packaging brings to our business, but 12.5 Reduce waste generation support the need to move to a more circular system to reduce the negative impacts of mismanaged 14.1 Prevent and reduce marine pollution plastic waste. We set a goal related to plastics at the end of 2018, when we joined nearly 300 organizations worldwide in signing the New Plastics Economy Global Commitment for 2025. Our brands have been working on reducing plastics in our operations and optimizing product packaging for years, and this new commitment will guide our next actions. 2025 target • 100% of our own-brand plastic packaging is reusable, recyclable or compostable Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 26 Our response to stakeholder needs continued Planet (continued) Management approach, KPIs and targets SDG reference Carbon emissions Our brands are working to improve energy-efficiency, reduce refrigerant leakage, increase the use 13.2 Integrate climate change measures of natural refrigerants, and improve transport efficiencies. We have set targets to cut food waste and 7.3 Increase energy efficiency source sustainable commodities linked to deforestation. Our brands are also taking steps to reduce supply chain emissions and working with suppliers to develop and transport products to us with fewer emissions. We continue to work to solve the challenge of measuring emissions along our value chain so that we can further reduce climate impact. 2020 targets • 30% reduction in CO2 -equivalent emissions (compared to 2008) from our own operations • 100% certified sustainable sourcing of palm oil, soy, and wood fibers in own-brand products • 20% food waste reduction compared to 2016 (tonnes / € million food sales) Deforestation and biodiversity Driving sustainability in the supply chain is a difficult challenge for a single retailer to solve. We take 12.2 Achieve efficient use of natural resources our responsibility seriously and play an active role in our industry to help speed the global shift to 14.4 End destructive fishing practices sustainable practices. We continue our long-standing commitment to source sustainable seafood, 15.1 Ensure sustainable ecosystems protecting biodiversity in oceans and rivers. Our brands work directly with suppliers, particularly 15.2 Halt deforestation for fruits and vegetables, to encourage the use of practices that protect biodiversity. 2020 targets • 100% certified sustainable sourcing of tea, coffee, cocoa, palm oil, soy and wood fibers in own-brand products • 100% of own-brand seafood product sales certified as sustainable Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 27 Our response to stakeholder needs continued Product Management approach, KPIs and targets SDG reference Product safety and quality Our product integrity policies and procedures set high standards for both safety and quality with 2.4 Ensure sustainable food production systems our own-brand suppliers. Our operations policies ensure strong safety and quality management 12.2 Responsible production & consumption from our distribution centers to our stores, including regular facility audits by third parties to confirm compliance. We require our suppliers to go beyond what is legally required for food safety practices, and work directly with Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises to help them achieve an acceptable level of assurance and identify areas for improvement. 2020 target • 100% of own-brand food production sites certified against GFSI (Global Food Safety Initiative), or in compliance with an acceptable level of assurance standard Affordable and healthy products Offering affordable, healthy products is a key component of our Leading Together strategy. 2.1 Ensure access to nutritious food for all We support customers in shifting to a healthier diet through product innovation, assortment 3.4 Reduce non-communicable disease changes, promotions and pricing. We leverage our own-brand healthy and organic or free from products to provide affordable choices, and guide customers to healthy options through navigation systems like Guiding Stars in the U.S. and Nutri-Score in Belgium. 2020 targets • 50% of own-brand food sales from healthy products • 100% of own-brand products with front-of-pack nutritional labeling Healthy and sustainable diets To meet our commitment to promote healthier eating among customers and associates, the brands 2.4 Ensure sustainable food production systems are driving innovation towards healthier products, introducing new product lines, improving product 3.4 Reduce non-communicable disease sustainability and providing information on healthier diets in the stores and online. In addition, the brands offer services to help customers shift their diets, such as employing dietitians in the stores and guiding customers towards more sustainable products. In response to consumer demand, we are also increasing our organic range and offering more products that do not contain artificial ingredients. We are increasing our focus on supporting associates in moving toward healthier habits, with each brand developing annual plans for improvement. 2020 targets • 50% of own-brand food sales from healthy products • 100% sustainable sourcing for seven commodities in our own-brand products • 80% of own-brand production units meeting social compliance standards KPIs • Percentage of total food sales from certified-organic products • Sales from “free-from” or organic own-brand product lines Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 28 Our response to stakeholder needs continued Product (continued) Management approach, KPIs and targets SDG reference Transparency Consumers increasingly want to understand the impact of their choices. For example, they want 2.4 Ensure sustainable food systems to understand how what they eat impacts their health and the environment. Ahold Delhaize aims to 12.8 Ensure information & awareness improve transparency throughout its business operations and its communications with stakeholders. For example, the Ahold Delhaize brands make product information available to consumers, through on-pack, online and digital communications. We aim to provide clear nutritional information, as well as sustainability certifications, supplier information and other relevant communications. 2020 target • 50% of own-brand food sales from healthy products • 100% of own-brand products with front-of-pack nutritional labeling • 100% sustainable sourcing for seven commodities in our own-brand products Local sourcing and production Local sourcing and production is important in all our markets. We offer fresh fruit and vegetables in 2.4 Ensure sustainable food systems season coming from local producers where possible, and we search out local producers for many 12.2 Achieve efficient use of natural resources types of products to respond to customer demand and support local economies. Price of products Local price strategies are influenced by various local market specifics, our competitors and our perceived and desired brand position in these markets. Our brands monitor and analyze pricing to perform competitively in their local markets, drive economic performance and market share, and ensure healthy food remains affordable. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 29 Our response to stakeholder needs continued Performance Management approach, KPIs and targets SDG reference Economic performance The financial performance of the company is essential for operating a sustainable business and 8.2 Increase economic productivity is closely managed by executive management at group and brand level. We have a clear financial control framework to support our strategy and aim to maintain a high return on capital. Ahold Delhaize’s primary objective in terms of managing capital is the optimization of its debt and equity balances in order to sustain the future development of the business, maintain its investment grade credit rating and maximize shareholder value. Ahold Delhaize may balance its overall capital structure in a number of ways, including through the payment of dividends, capital repayment, new share issues and share buybacks as well as the issuance of new debt or the redemption of existing debt. As part of our promise to be a better neighbor, we seek to make a positive impact on the communities in which our brands operate. One way Ahold Delhaize does this is through the taxes we pay. Our overall tax approach is in line with Ahold Delhaize’s business principles and Code of Ethics. Our tax policy is published on our website. See Group financial review for more information and specific financial performance indicators. Other topics shown in the materiality matrix but not in the table above are relatively less material but monitored as part of daily business operations – particularly when they have a high influence on stakeholders’ decisions or are areas on which Ahold Delhaize has a significant impact. We use the complete results of the materiality analysis each year to evaluate the effectiveness of our management approaches and identify key opportunities or risks for our business. For more information on the material topics definitions see Definitions under Performance: Sustainability and for examples of initiatives underway, please visit the Sustainable retailing in practice section on our website www.aholddelhaize.com Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 30 31 Group key indicators 32 Group financial review 47 Group sustainability performance review 50 Definitions: Performance measures Business review Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 31 Group key indicators These are the key indicators that Financial performance Other information help us to monitor our progress % 2018 2017 Change versus 2018 2017 change € million € million prior year towards our goals and measure € million € million Change constant rate Net debt 3,105 2,503 24.1% our success. We include them Net sales 62,791 62,890 (0.2)% 2.5% Free cash flow 2,342 1,926 21.6% to help give readers a better Operating income 2,395 2,225 7.7% 10.5% Capital expenditures included understanding of our company’s Underlying EBITDA1 4,305 4,249 1.4% 4.1% in cash flow statement overall performance. Underlying EBITDA margin 6.9% 6.8% 0.1% pt (excluding acquisitions) 1,780 1,698 4.8% Underlying operating income 2,554 2,456 4.0% 6.7% Credit rating / outlook BBB / BBB / Underlying operating margin 4.1% 3.9% 0.2% pt Standard & Poor’s stable stable — Income from continuing upgrade operations 1,809 1,817 (0.4)% 0.9% Baa1 / Baa2 / and change Net income 1,793 1,817 (1.4)% 0.0% Credit rating / outlook Moody’s stable positive in outlook Underlying income from continuing operations 1,880 1,582 18.8% 21.9% Sustainability indicators 1 Underlying operating income was adjusted for depreciation and amortization in the amount 2018 2017 Change of €1,751 million for 2018 and €1,793 million for 2017. The €7 million difference between the total amount of depreciation and amortization for 2018 of €1,758 million and the €1,751 million Associate engagement score (%)1 79% 78% 1% pt mentioned above relates to an item that was excluded from underlying operating income. Healthy own-brand food sales as a proportion of total own-brand Shareholders food sales (%) 47% 46% 1% pt 2018 2017 Production units of own-brand food € € Change products that are Global Food Net income per common share Safety Initiative (GFSI)-certified (basic) 1.52 1.45 4.9% or comply with an acceptable level Underlying income per share of assurance standard 93% 91% 2% pt from continuing operations 1.60 1.26 26.3% Total CO2 -equivalent emissions Dividend payout ratio1 42% 47% (5.0)% pt per m2 sales area (kg CO2 -eq/m2)2 456 471 (3.2)% Dividend per common share 0.70 0.63 11.1% Tonnes of food waste per food 1 The dividend payout ratio for 2018 is based on underlying income from continuing operations. sales (t/€ millions) 5.2 5.3 (1.9)% In 2017 it is based on pro forma underlying net operating income from continuing operations. DJSI score 72 67 5 To read more about the 2017 pro forma figures, see our Annual Report 2017. MSCI ESG Rating A A Certain key performance indicators contain 1 2018 and 2017 figures include Peapod, Gall & Gall and Etos. alternative performance measures. The definitions 2 We have restated our 2017 figures to include more accurate GWP for our refrigerants, of these measures are described in Definitions: sales area and fuel usage. The 2017 figure excludes Gall & Gall and Etos. Performance measures section of this Annual Report. Also see Definitions under Performance: Sustainability for more information. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 32 Group financial review Group performance Net sales Change Net sales in the financial year ended December 30, 2018, were €62,791 million, a decrease versus prior of €99 million, or 0.2%, compared to net sales of €62,890 million for the financial year ended € million 2018 2017 year % change December 31, 2017. At constant exchange rates, net sales were up by €1,533 million or 2.5%. Net sales 62,791 62,890 (99) (0.2)% This would be 2.8% when adjusted for remedy stores sold over the course of 2017. Cost of sales (45,839) (46,121) 282 0.6% Change Gross profit 16,952 16,769 183 1.1% versus prior year at % change at Operating expenses (14,557) (14,544) (13) (0.1)% Change constant constant versus prior exchange exchange Operating income 2,395 2,225 170 7.7% € million 2018 2017 year % change rates rates Net financial expense (246) (297) 51 17.2% Net sales 62,791 62,890 (99) (0.2)% 1,533 2.5% Income before income taxes 2,149 1,928 221 11.5% Of which gasoline sales 1,017 977 40 4.2% 77 8.3% Income taxes (372) (146) (226) (154.8)% Net sales excluding gasoline 61,774 61,913 (139) (0.2)% 1,456 2.4% Share in income of joint ventures 32 35 (3) (8.6)% Of which online sales 2,817 2,393 424 17.7% 456 19.3% Income from continuing operations 1,809 1,817 (8) (0.4)% Net consumer online sales 3,494 2,831 663 23.4% 695 24.8% Income (loss) from discontinued operations (16) — (16) — Gasoline sales increased by 4.2% in 2018 Net sales Net income 1,793 1,817 (24) (1.4)% to €1,017 million. At constant exchange rates, € million gasoline sales increased by 8.3%, due to an 62,890 62,791 Operating income 2,395 2,225 170 7.7% increase in gasoline prices, while volume was slightly down. 49,695 Adjusted for: Impairments 58 64 (6) Net sales excluding gasoline decreased in 2018 (Gains) losses on the sale of assets (7) (47) 40 by €139 million, or 0.2%, compared to 2017. 38,203 Restructuring and related charges At constant exchanges rates, net sales excluding 32,774 and other items 108 214 (106) gasoline increased in 2018 by €1,456 million, or Underlying operating income 2,554 2,456 98 4.0% 2.4% compared to 2017. Sales growth was driven 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 by the growth of our eCommerce businesses, Underlying operating income margin 4.1% 3.9% 0.2% pt new store openings, and positive comparable Underlying EBITDA margin1 6.9% 6.8% 0.1% pt sales growth in all segments. 1 Underlying operating income was adjusted for depreciation and amortization in the amount of €1,751 million for 2018 and €1,793 million for 2017. The €7 million difference between the total amount of depreciation and amortization for 2018 of €1,758 million and the €1,751 million mentioned above relates to an item that was excluded from underlying operating income. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 33 Group financial review continued Ahold Delhaize continued to see strong sales growth in its online businesses. The Company’s online Net sales contribution Operating expenses include impairments, businesses contributed €2,817 million to Ahold Delhaize’s net sales in 2018 (2017: €2,393 million). by segment gains and losses on the sale of assets, Ahold Delhaize’s net consumer online sales amounted to €3,494 million and increased in 2018 by restructuring and related charges, and other 24.8% at constant exchange rates. The United States 59.7% items that management believes can distort The Netherlands 22.6% an understanding of the trend related to the Online sales Net consumer online sales Belgium 8.1% development of our underlying business. Central and Southeastern Impairments, gains and losses on the sale of € million € million Europe 9.6% assets and restructuring and related charges are summarized below. 3,494 2,817 2,831 Impairment of assets 2,393 2,280 Ahold Delhaize recorded the following 1,991 1,807 1,646 impairments and reversals of impairments of 1,267 1,356 Gross profit assets in 2018 and 2017: 3.9 4.3 4.0 3.8 4.5 Ahold Delhaize’s gross profit was up by €183 € million 2018 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 million, or 1.1%, compared to 2017. At constant The United States (32) (61) Contribution to Ahold Delhaize’s net sales (%) exchange rates, gross profit increased by €660 The Netherlands (12) 2 million, or 4.1%. Gross profit margin (gross profit Central and as a percentage of net sales) for 2018 was 27.0%, Southeastern Europe (14) (5) Net sales by segment an increase of 0.3 percentage points compared Total (58) (64) % change Comparable to 26.7% in 2017, mainly driven by synergy constant Comparable sales growth savings, partly offset by higher logistics and $ million 2018 2017 % change rates sales growth1 ex gas1 Impairment charges in 2018 were €58 million, distribution costs. The United States 44,174 43,357 1.9% 1.9% 2.3% 2.1% down by €6 million compared to 2017. € million Operating expenses The impairments in 2018 mainly related to The United States 37,460 38,440 (2.5)% 1.9% 2.3% 2.1% In 2018, operating expenses increased by underperforming stores and investment property. The Netherlands 14,218 13,706 3.7% 3.7% 3.8% 3.8% €13 million, or 0.1%, to €14,557 million, compared In 2017, these primarily related to underperforming Belgium 5,095 4,953 2.9% 2.9% 2.2% 2.2% to €14,544 million in 2017. At constant exchange stores and the closure of bfresh locations in rates, operating expenses increased by €433 the U.S. Central and Southeastern Europe 6,018 5,791 3.9% 3.1% 0.9% 0.9% million, or 3.1%. As a percentage of net sales, Total 62,791 62,890 (0.2)% 2.5% 2.5% 2.4% operating expenses increased by 0.1% to 23.2%, 1 For the definition of comparable sales (excluding gas) see Definitions: Performance measures at the end of this section. compared to 23.1% in 2017. Excluding gasoline sales and at constant exchange rates, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased by 0.2 percentage points. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 34 Group financial review continued Gains and losses on the sale of assets Restructuring and related charges Operating income The 2018 tax expense, including the one-time Ahold Delhaize recorded the following gains and other items Operating income in 2018 up by €170 million, impact of statutory corporate income tax rate (losses) on the sale of non-current assets in 2018 Restructuring and related charges and other or 7.7%, to €2,395 million compared to €2,225 changes due to the Dutch and Greek tax and 2017: items in 2018 and 2017 were as follows: million in 2017. The increase of €170 million is reforms, was €372 million. The effective tax rate, € million 2018 2017 € million 2018 2017 the difference between the higher gross profit calculated as a percentage of income before The United States 7 39 The United States (56) (142) of €183 million and the increase of €13 million in income tax, including the one-time impact The Netherlands – 16 The Netherlands (5) (25) operating expenses. The changes in gross profit of statutory corporate income tax rate changes and operating expenses are explained above. due to the Dutch and Greek tax reforms, was Belgium — (8) Belgium (15) (17) 17.3% in 2018 (2017: 7.6%). The impact of the Total 7 47 Central and Net financial expenses statutory corporate income tax rate changes Southeastern Europe (1) (1) Net financial expenses in 2018 decreased by was €23 million in 2018 and €407 million in 2017. The gains in 2018 were €7 million, which was Global Support Office (31) (29) €51 million, or 17.2%, to €246 million compared €40 million lower than 2017. In 2017, the gains Total (108) (214) to €297 million in 2017. The decrease was Share in income of joint ventures were mainly due to the sale of remedy stores in primarily the result of €38 million higher interest Ahold Delhaize’s share in income of joint The United States and the sale of a store portfolio income compared to a year ago. ventures, which relates primarily to our 49% Restructuring and related charges and other in The Netherlands. shareholding in JMR and 51% share in Super items in 2018 were €108 million, down by €106 Income taxes Indo, was €32 million in 2018, down by €3 million million compared to 2017. In 2018, income tax expense excluding the compared to last year. For further information impact of statutory corporate income tax rate In 2018, the restructuring and related charges about joint ventures, see Note 14 to the changes due to Dutch and Greek tax reforms of €108 million included €79 million of integration consolidated financial statements. was €395 million, down by €158 million compared costs related to the merger between Ahold and to €553 million in 2017 (excluding the impact of Delhaize, €18 million related to other one-time statutory corporate income tax rate changes due costs, including costs from Hurricane Florence to U.S. and Belgian tax reforms). in the U.S. and €11 million related to the set-up of the U.S. brand-centric organization. The effective tax rate, calculated as a percentage of income before income tax, excluding the In 2017, the restructuring and related charges impact of statutory corporate income tax rate of €214 million included €107 million of integration changes due to Dutch and Greek tax reforms, costs related to the merger between Ahold and was 18.4% in 2018 (2017: 28.7%). The decrease Delhaize, €36 million related to the divestment in the effective tax rate from 28.7% to 18.4% and of the remedy stores and other divestments the decrease in income tax expense are mainly and €40 million related to the set-up of the U.S. the result of the lower statutory corporate income brand-centric organization. The 2017 integration tax rates in the U.S. and Belgium and one-time cost included a one-time €25 million benefit items in 2018. related to an alignment of pension benefits at our U.S. operations. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 35 Group financial review continued Underlying operating income and underlying In 2018, the following net synergies were Underlying operating income and underlying operating income margin for 2018 and 2017 operating income margin delivered: were as follows: Underlying operating income was €2,554 million in € million 2018 2017 2016 Underlying operating income Underlying operating margin 2018, up €98 million, or 4.0%, versus €2,456 million The United States 291 159 8 $ million 2018 2017 % change 2018 2017 % pt change in 2017. Underlying operating income margin Europe 102 78 7 The United States 1,842 1,734 6.2% 4.2% 4.0% 0.2% pt in 2018 was 4.1%, compared to 3.9% in 2017. € million Global Support Office 39 31 7 At constant exchange rates, underlying operating Total 432 268 22 The United States 1,563 1,535 1.9% 4.2% 4.0% 0.2% pt income was up by €160 million, or 6.7%, compared The Netherlands 715 676 5.8% 5.0% 4.9% 0.1% pt to 2017, mainly as result of higher gross profit as Tight cost management remains a core objective Belgium 141 111 26.6% 2.8% 2.2% 0.6% pt a result of synergy savings, partly offset by higher of our business model. This enables us to Central and underlying operating expenses. continue to invest in our customer proposition Southeastern Europe 237 242 (1.8)% 3.9% 4.2% (0.3)% pt In 2018, net synergies of €432 million were and, at the same time, provides our businesses Global Support Office (102) (108) (4.8)% delivered: an additional €164 million of synergies with optimized store processes and improved Total 2,554 2,456 4.0% 4.1% 3.9% 0.2% pt compared to 2017. Additional synergies have sourcing conditions. mainly been realized in sourcing initiatives, including not-for-resale. Underlying operating income Underlying operating income contribution € million by segment1 2,554 2,456 The United States 58.8% 1,899 The Netherlands 26.9% 1,461 Belgium 5.3% 1,267 Central and Southeastern 4.1 Europe 8.9% 3.9 3.8 3.8 3.9 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Underlying operating margin (%) 1 Before Global Support Office costs. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 36 Group financial review continued The United States The launch of Peapod Digital Labs, an entity The United States’ underlying operating income Change % change at focused on driving digital and eCommerce margin in 2018 was 4.2%, up 0.2 percentage versus prior constant innovation, technology and experience is points compared to 2017, mainly driven by higher € million 2018 2017 year % change rates helping the Ahold Delhaize USA brands meet gross profit as a result of strong synergy savings. Net sales 37,460 38,440 (980) (2.5)% 1.9% the changing needs of customers. Underlying expenses increased slightly compared Of which online sales 751 713 38 5.4% 10.3% to last year, mainly driven by cost inflation and Operating income of €1,482 million increased Comparable sales growth 2.3% 0.7% non-recurring items, and were partly offset by by €111 million, or 8.2% compared to 2017. Comparable sales growth excluding gasoline 2.1% 0.5% our Save for Our Customers program. Underlying operating income was €1,563 million Operating income 1,482 1,371 111 8.2% 12.9% and is adjusted for the following items, which Property overview Adjusted for: impacted operating income: Number of stores 2018 2017 Impairments 32 61 (29) Stop & Shop 415 414 • Impairments: In 2018, impairment charges (Gains) losses on the sale of assets (7) (39) 32 amounted to €32 million, while in 2017 they Food Lion 1,029 1,027 Restructuring and related charges amounted to €61 million. In 2018, the impairments Giant/Martin’s 172 171 and other items 56 142 (86) related primarily to underperforming stores and Hannaford 181 181 Underlying operating income 1,563 1,535 28 1.9% 6.2% investment property. The impairments in 2017 Giant Food 164 167 Underlying operating income margin 4.2% 4.0% related primarily to underperforming stores and Total The United States 1,961 1,960 the closure of bfresh locations. In 2018, net sales were €37,460 million, down Stop & Shop unveiled a new look and improved Sales area of own-operated • Gains and losses on the sale of assets: stores (in thousands of m2) 5,852 5,853 by €980 million or 2.5% compared to 2017. in-store experience starting in 21 stores in No individually significant gains or losses At constant exchange rates, net sales were the Hartford, Connecticut area. The changes were recorded in 2018. In 2017, the majority up by 1.9%, or 2.3% adjusted for remedy stores included a modernized store format with a The United States ended the year with one more of the gains related to remedy stores that were sold over the course of 2017. Online sales were focus on delivering more fresh, fast, local and store, net of nine openings and eight closings. divested as part of the merger. €751 million, up by 10.3% compared to last year healthy options and a new logo that is a nod The total number of pick-up points was 333 in • Restructuring and related charges and at constant rates, driven by same-day, thirdto the brand’s past and its legacy of leading 2018, an increase of 83 compared to 2017, mostly other items: The 2018 charges decreased by party delivery, Hannaford To Go and Peapod. in convenience. due to the launch of Food Lion To Go. €86 million compared to 2017. In 2018, these Comparable sales excluding gasoline for Food Lion continued to benefit from the rollout charges mainly related to integration costs In addition to departmental upgrades, the Ahold the segment increased by 2.1%, with positive of its “Easy, Fresh and Affordable” program, as a result of the merger (€37 million), the Delhaize USA brands remodeled, expanded, volumes. All of the U.S. brands had positive implemented in 70% of its stores by the end set-up of the U.S. brand-centric organization relocated or reconstructed 232 stores in 2018 as comparable sales growth for the year. of the year. In 2018, the brand purchased three (€10 million) and other items (€9 million), part of a continuous focus on keeping stores fresh Farm Fresh stores in the greater Norfolk, Virginia, including Hurricane Florence. In 2017, and up-to-date. Total capital investments at Ahold Ahold Delhaize USA implemented a brandmarket and acquired four Bi-Lo stores, further these charges mainly related to integration Delhaize USA amounted to 3.2% of sales. centric operating model in which the brands strengthening its position in South Carolina. costs and the set-up of the U.S. brandare supported by the shared services entity At the end of 2018, Ahold Delhaize USA operated centric organization. Retail Business Services (RBS). This enables Hannaford rolled out its digital My Hannaford 223 fuel stations, which was one more than last the Ahold Delhaize USA brands to achieve Rewards program and reached over one million In 2018, underlying operating income was €1,563 year. The majority of these stations are located in efficiencies in back office and support functions household enrollments. million, up by €28 million or 1.9% compared to the Giant/Martin’s and Stop & Shop market areas. and leverage RBS’ scale to build retail expertise last year. At constant rates, underlying operating in own brand, digital and IT. income increased by 6.2%. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 37 Group financial review continued The Netherlands brand achieve operational improvements, flat compared to 2017 as a result of saving Change for example, in forecasting, replenishment and programs, including synergy savings, and good versus prior customer service. Through the AI Lab for Retail cost control, offset mainly by the growth of ah.nl. € million 2018 2017 year % change (AIRLab), bol.com collaborates on applied Net sales 14,218 13,706 512 3.7% Our net sales in The Netherlands consist of sales AI research with the University of Amsterdam Of which online sales 1,999 1,627 372 22.9% to consumers and to franchise stores. Franchise and Albert Heijn. stores operate under the same format as Ahold Net consumer online sales 2,677 2,065 612 29.6% Operating income increased by €29 million, or Delhaize-operated stores. Franchisees purchase Comparable sales growth 3.8% 4.5% 4.2%, to €698 million, affected by the following merchandise primarily from Ahold Delhaize, pay Operating income 698 669 29 4.2% items that Ahold Delhaize adjusts for to arrive a franchise fee and receive support services. Adjusted for: at underlying operating income: Property overview Impairments 12 (2) 14 • Impairments: The 2018 impairment charges Number of stores 2018 2017 (Gains) losses on the sale of assets — (16) 16 of €12 million in The Netherlands were mainly Albert Heijn: the Netherlands 887 884 Restructuring and related charges and other items 5 25 (20) related to underperforming stores. Underlying operating income 715 676 39 5.8% Albert Heijn: Belgium 42 37 • No individually significant gains or losses Albert Heijn to go: the Underlying operating income margin 5.0% 4.9% were recorded in 2018. In 2017, The Netherlands 83 78 Netherlands sold assets with an aggregate Net sales in 2018 were €14,218 million, up by For the full year, market share at Albert Heijn Albert Heijn to go: Germany — 11 gain of €16 million. €512 million or 3.7% compared to 2017 and decreased from 35.3% in 2017 to 34.7% in Etos 547 552 4.0% adjusted for remedy stores sold over the 2018 (Source: Nielsen). • Restructuring and related charges and other Gall & Gall 592 601 course of 2017. items: In 2018, the charges were mainly Bol.com accelerated its net consumer online Total The Netherlands 2,151 2,163 related to IT integration costs, while in 2017 This increase was due to a 3.8% growth sales growth from 28.8% in 2017 to 32.0% in they related mainly to integration costs and Sales area of own-operated in comparable sales, driven by strong sales 2018. The business in Belgium and the Plaza also included restructuring costs related to stores (in thousands of m2) 1,004 996 growth at bol.com and ah.nl. Albert Heijn platform – which currently offers a marketplace the closure of stores in Germany. continued its effort to provide customers with to more than 20,000 merchant partners in the In 2018, our brands in The Netherlands opened healthier food choices in 2018. It further Netherlands and Belgium – remain important In 2018, underlying operating income in The 34 stores and closed another 46 reducing the reduced sugar, salt and saturated fat in its growth drivers. Netherlands was €715 million, up by €39 million total to 2,151. own-brand product lines, with the goal of saving or 5.8% compared to 2017. The underlying Once more, bol.com has been named “Best operating margin of The Netherlands was 5.0% Ah.nl operated a total of 63 pick-up points at the one billion sugar cubes by 2020. In addition, Shop in the Netherlands” for its wide range, in 2018, up 0.1 percentage points compared end of 2018. In addition, bol.com customers could Albert Heijn rolled out a unique online tool, fast delivery and convenient shopping. to 2017. Margins mainly improved as a result pick-up their orders at one of 6,260 pick-up points “My Nutritional Value,” that provides customers of synergies realized from the merger with located in the Netherlands and Belgium. with insights into the nutritional value of their Bol.com is using artificial intelligence (AI) and groceries. the Delhaize Group and an improvement in A total of 140 stores were remodeled, expanded, machine learning in order to improve its the dilutive impact of our online businesses as relocated or reconstructed in the past year as relevance and value to customers, in areas that Albert Heijn to go rolled out its first checkouta result of their improved performance; these include product search and recommendations, part of the regular process of maintaining and free stores, enabling customers to skip waiting were partly offset by higher logistics costs. relevant promotions, assortment optimization modernizing the business property portfolio. in lines by using either their “tap to go” card or and digital marketing. AI is also helping the Excluding bol.com, the underlying operating Total capital investments in The Netherlands an Android app to pay. income margin was 5.6% in 2018. This was amounted to 2.7% of sales. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 38 Group financial review continued Belgium Delhaize continued to promote healthy food Property overview Change choices for both children and adults with various Number of stores 2018 2017 versus prior new campaigns. The brand also introduced the Delhaize Belgium 726 714 € million 2018 2017 year % change Nutri-Score food label, that visually summarizes Net sales 5,095 4,953 142 2.9% Delhaize Luxembourg 51 50 nutritional information, helping customers Of which online sales 51 40 11 25.7% Total Belgium 777 764 understand complex nutrient tables more Comparable sales growth 2.2% (0.2)% easily to quickly compare products and make Sales area of own-operated Operating income 126 86 40 46.2% balanced food choices. stores (in thousands of m2) 281 282 Adjusted for: Operating income increased by €40 million In 2018, our brands in Belgium operated 777 Impairments – – – or 46.2% to €126 million. Underlying operating stores, or thirteen more than the year before as (Gains) losses on the sale of assets — 8 (8) income is adjusted for the following items, a result of 28 openings and 15 closings. During Restructuring and related charges which impacted operating income: the year, Delhaize introduced a new concept and other items 15 17 (2) store format, which has been – in full or in part • Impairments: No impairments were recorded Underlying operating income 141 111 30 26.6% in 2018 or 2017. – rolled out to 20 stores. In total, 26 stores Underlying operating income margin 2.8% 2.2% were remodeled or expanded and an additional • Gains and losses on the sale of assets: 19 stores were optimized to enhance the No individually significant gains or losses Net sales in 2018 were €5,095 million, up Our market share in Belgium for the year customer experience. were recorded in 2017 and 2018. €142 million or 2.9% compared to 2017, and increased to 24.0% from 23.8% last year • Restructuring and related charges Belgium operated 127 pick-up points at the end comparable sales increased by 2.2%. Net sales (Source: Nielsen). and other items: The charges in 2018 mainly of 2018. growth was 3.1% adjusted for remedy stores Delhaize further improved the customer related to restructuring costs of €13 million. sold over the course of 2017. Delhaize showed Total capital investments in Belgium amounted experience by implementing new features in the Integration costs amounted to €2 million. an improved performance across all store to 2.9% of sales. stores and introduced promotional campaigns In 2017, Belgium had integration costs of formats. The affiliated network and stores to continue to offer the best value for customers. €4 million and restructuring costs of €12 million. in Luxembourg continued to show strong The brand launched a new supermarket growth, while comparable sales growth Underlying operating income in 2018 was €141 concept in Nivelles, and plans to integrate it in the company-operated stores improved million, up by €30 million, or 26.6%, compared into other store banners as well. In addition, the significantly compared to last year, mainly to last year. Underlying operating income margin first stores were opened with Delhaize’s newest driven by improved operational performance. in 2018 was 2.8%, up 0.6 percentage points banner, “Fresh Atelier,” that focuses on healthy Delhaize.be, our online business in Belgium, convenience food while combining the physical compared to 2017. Underlying operating income accelerated growth from 7% in 2017 to 25.7% with the digital store experience. benefited from improved gross profit, partly in 2018, as more customers utilized the offset by increased logistics costs and higher convenience of home delivery. labor costs. Our net sales in Belgium consist of sales to consumers and to affiliate stores. Affiliates receive goods at a wholesale price that includes a mark-up on our purchase price. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 39 Group financial review continued Central and Southeastern Europe 2018 underlying operating income in CSE Our Greek brand expanded its store network Change % change at was €237 million, down by €5 million or 1.8% by 48 stores, operating a total of 460 at the end versus prior constant from €242 million in 2017. Underlying operating of the year. € million 2018 2017 year % change rates income margin was 3.9%, which was 0.3 Net sales 6,018 5,791 227 3.9% 3.1% Serbia also expanded its store network by percentage points lower than in 2017, mainly Of which online sales 16 13 3 24.2% 24.5% six stores, operating a total of 420 at the end driven by an increase in labor costs across the of the year. In addition, the brand invested Comparable sales growth 0.9% 0.9% region and lower sales in Greece. in remodeling, expanding, relocating or Comparable sales growth excluding gasoline 0.9% 1.0% Property overview reconstructing 26 stores to further strengthen Operating income 222 236 (14) (5.8)% (6.0)% its portfolio. Number of stores 2018 2017 Adjusted for: Czech Republic 326 329 Mega Image, our Romanian brand, ended the Impairments 14 5 9 Greece 460 412 year with the net addition of 79 stores to its Restructuring and related charges Serbia 420 414 portfolio. Besides expanding in the Bucharest and other items 1 1 — Romania 674 595 area with 46 stores, the brand successfully Underlying operating income 237 242 (5) (1.8)% (2.0)% entered several new markets including Cluj, Total Central and Underlying operating income margin 3.9% 4.2% Giurgiu and Timisoara. Mega Image operated Southeastern Europe 1,880 1,750 674 stores at year-end. In 2018, net sales in Central and Southeastern Operating income decreased by €14 million to Sales area of own-operated Europe (CSE) were €6,018 million, up by €227 €222 million, compared to €236 million in 2017. stores (in thousands of m2) 1,247 1,231 Total capital investments in Central and million or 3.9% compared to 2017. At constant Underlying operating income is adjusted for Southeastern Europe amounted to 4.3% exchange rates, net sales were up by 3.1%. the following items, which impacted operating At the end of 2018, our operations in Greece, of sales. income: the Czech Republic, Serbia and Romania held Sales growth was driven by comparable a portfolio of 1,880 stores, including 130 net sales growth of 0.9% and by the net addition • Impairments: The 2018 impairment charges additions compared to the prior year. During of 130 stores in 2018, which contributed 2.2% of €14 million in CSE were mostly related the year, 57 stores were remodeled, expanded, to sales growth. Comparable sales growth to underperforming stores in Greece. In 2017, relocated or reconstructed as part of the was driven by our businesses in the Czech no individually significant impairments Company’s continued process of maintaining Republic, Romania and Serbia, while Greece’s were recorded. and modernizing our store network and an comparable sales growth remained negative • Gains and losses on the sale of assets: additional 46 stores were optimized to enhance as a consequence of competitive re-openings. No individually significant gains or losses the customer experience. Mega Image, our brand in Romania, were recorded in 2018 or 2017. In the Czech Republic, Albert invested in launched a personalized loyalty card called • Restructuring and related charges and other remodeling and upgrading 64 stores to further “Connect.” This card allows Mega Image items: No individually significant charges optimize its supermarket portfolio. to offer personalized discounts to customers. were recorded in 2018 or 2017. In addition, customers receive an one-time discount of 10% when they register their loyalty cards. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 40 Group financial review continued Global Support Office Capital investments and property overview Change Capital expenditure, including acquisitions and additions to finance leases, amounted to €2,060 million versus prior € million 2018 2017 year % change in 2018 and €1,822 million in 2017. Global Support Office costs (133) (137) 4 (2.9)% Change versus % € million 2018 2017 prior year of sales of which restructuring and related charges The United States 1,187 950 237 3.2% and other items (31) (29) (2) 6.9% The Netherlands 380 363 17 2.7% Underlying Global Support Office costs (102) (108) 6 (4.8)% Belgium 148 192 (44) 2.9% of which related to self-insurance activities 51 40 11 24.9% Central and Southeastern Europe 261 182 79 4.3% Underlying Global Support Office costs excluding self-insurance (153) (148) (5) 3.3% Global Support Office 49 36 13 — Total regular capital expenditures1 2,025 1,723 302 3.2% Global Support Office costs in 2018 were Underlying Global Support Office costs Acquisition capital expenditures2 35 99 (64) — €133 million, down €4 million compared to last were €102 million, €6 million lower versus 2017. Total Ahold Delhaize 2,060 1,822 238 3.3% year. Global Support Office costs were adjusted Excluding the impact of our self-insurance for restructuring and related charges and other activities, underlying Global Support Office Consisting of: items that amounted to €31 million in 2018, costs were €153 million, or €5 million higher Property plant & equipment 1,707 1,462 245 or €2 million higher than last year. than last year, mainly driven by non-recurring Investment property 22 29 (7) expenses. Intangible assets 331 331 – 1 The amounts represent additions to property, plant and equipment; investment property; and intangible assets. The amounts include new finance leases and exclude discontinued operations. 2 Including conversion expenditure of acquired stores and acquired finance leases. Capital investments were primarily related to Capital expenditures the construction, remodeling and expansion of € billion 16.8 our stores and supply chain (including online), as well as IT infrastructure improvements. Excluding 1.8 acquisitions, capital expenditures in 2018 totaled 1.2 €2.0 billion. The increase, compared to 2017, 1.0 0.8 mainly relates to extensive remodeling programs 2.5 2.8 2.7 being carried out in the U.S. operations in 2018. 2.3 2.1 0.8 0.7 0.8 1.4 1.7 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Regular capex Acquisition capex Regular capex as % of sales Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 41 Group financial review continued As of December 30, 2018, Ahold Delhaize operated 6,769 stores. The Company’s total sales area Franchisees operated 1,676 stores in the The following table breaks down the ownership amounted to 9.4 million square meters in 2018, an increase of 0.6% from the prior year. The total Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg and structure of our 5,628 retail locations (inclusive of number of stores (including stores operated by franchisees) is as follows: Greece, 1,163 of which were either owned stores subleased to franchisees) and 1,078 other Opening Opened / Closing by the franchisees or leased independently properties as of December 30, 2018: balance acquired Closed / sold balance from Ahold Delhaize. Retail Other The United States 1,960 9 (8) 1,961 % of total locations properties At the end of 2018, Ahold Delhaize operated Company-owned 23% 51% The Netherlands1 2,163 34 (46) 2,151 562 pick-up points, which was 57 more than Belgium 764 28 (15) 777 Leased, of which 77% 49% in 2017. These were either stand-alone, in-store Central and Southeastern Europe 1,750 151 (21) 1,880 or office-based. Finance leases 10% 7% Total number of stores 6,637 222 (90) 6,769 Operating leases 67% 42% Ahold Delhaize also operated the following 1 The number of stores as of December 30, 2018, includes 1,139 specialty stores (Etos and Gall & Gall) (December 31, 2017: 1,153 other properties as of December 30, 2018: Our leased properties have terms of up to specialty stores). Warehouse / distribution centers / 25 years, or in limited instances up to 30 years, The total number of retail locations, including the 5,606 stores owned or leased by Ahold Delhaize production facilities / offices 121 with renewal options for additional periods. and 22 pick-up points in stand-alone locations, was 5,628 in 2018, higher by 96 compared to 2017. Store rentals are normally payable on a monthly Properties under construction / Ahold Delhaize Franchisees Total development 67 basis at a stated amount or, in a limited number Number of stores leased or owned 5,606 1,163 6,769 Investment properties 890 of cases, at a guaranteed minimum amount plus Number of stores subleased to franchisees (513) 513 — a percentage of sales over a defined base. Total 1,078 Number of stores operated 5,093 1,676 6,769 Number of stand-alone pick-up points 22 – 22 The investment properties consist of buildings Total number of retail locations 5,115 1,676 6,791 and land. The vast majority of these properties were subleased to third parties. Of these, most were shopping centers containing one or more Ahold Delhaize stores and third-party retail units generating rental income. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 42 Group financial review continued Earnings and dividend per share Ahold Delhaize’s policy is to target a dividend Underlying income from continuing operations amounted to €1,880 million in 2018 and €1,582 million payout of 40-50% of its underlying income from in 2017, respectively, and was determined as follows: Income from continuing operations per common continuing operations (in 2017, the policy was to share (basic) was €1.54, an increase of €0.09 or € million 2018 2017 target a dividend payout of 40-50% of pro forma1 5.8% compared to 2017. The main drivers of this Income from continuing operations 1,809 1,817 underlying net operating income from continuing increase were higher underlying operating profits Adjusted for: operations). As part of our dividend policy, after tax from continuing operations, which were Impairments 58 64 we adjust income from continuing operations partially offset by the tax benefits recorded in for impairments of non-current assets, gains and (Gains) losses on the sale of assets (7) (47) 2017 due to local tax reforms, and a decrease losses on the sale of assets, restructuring and Restructuring and related charges and other items 108 214 in the number of outstanding shares as a result related charges, and other unusual items. Unusual items in net financial expense (7) – of a €2 billion share buyback program carried out in 2018 (see Note 20 to the consolidated Reflecting the confidence we have in our strategy Tax effect on adjusted and unusual items (59) (59) financial statements for more information on and our ability to generate cash, we propose Tax rate changes due to local tax reforms1 (22) (407) the share movements). a cash dividend of €0.70 per common share for Underlying income from continuing operations 1,880 1,582 the financial year 2018, up 11.1% from last year. Underlying income from continuing operations This reflects our ambition to sustainably grow the Income from continuing operations per common share (basic) was €1.60, an increase dividend per share and represents a payout ratio per share attributable to common shareholders 1.54 1.45 of €0.34 or 26.3% compared to 2017, driven of 42%, based on the expected dividend payment Underlying income from continuing operations by higher underlying operating profits after tax on underlying income from continuing operations, per share attributable to common shareholders 1.60 1.26 and, to a lesser extent, lower underlying net which is in line with our dividend policy. financial expenses. 1 The statutory corporate income tax rate changes as a result of local tax reforms show the impact of recalculating Ahold Delhaize Netherlands’ deferred tax positions and applying the reduced statutory Dutch corporate income tax rates. In 2017, this line shows the impact of recalculating Ahold Delhaize USA’s and Ahold Delhaize Belgium’s deferred tax positions and applying the reduced Underlying income from continuing statutory U.S. and Belgian corporate income tax rates; see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for more information. operations per common share (basic) Dividend per common share € € As of 2019, Ahold Delhaize commits to semi-annual dividend payments. The interim dividend per share will be announced on the date of the release of the second quarter results and will be equal to 40% 1.60 of the year-to-date underlying income per share from continuing operations. Ahold Delhaize has the 1.20 1.26 0.70 ambition to maintain a sustainable growth of its full year dividend per share. 0.63 0.57 0.52 0.48 0.5 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 1 To read more about the 2017 pro forma figures, see our Annual Report 2017. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 43 Group financial review continued Financial position Property, plant and equipment increased by Ahold Delhaize’s net debt was €3,105 million as of €458 million, primarily due to the strengthening December 30, 2018 – an increase of €602 million Ahold Delhaize’s consolidated balance sheets as of December 30, 2018, and December 31, 2017, of the U.S. dollar against the euro, while capital from December 31, 2017. Cash, cash equivalents, are summarized as follows: expenditure was slightly higher than depreciation short-term deposits and similar instruments, and December 30, December 31, € million 2018 % of total 2017 % of total and impairments. Intangible assets increased current portion of investments in debt instruments Property, plant and equipment 11,147 33.4% 10,689 31.6% by €379 million, also primarily due to the the were lower by €1,240 million as a completion of strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro. the €2 billion share buyback program, payment Intangible assets 12,013 36.0% 11,634 34.3% of common stock dividend (€757 million) and Pension assets 24 0.1% – – Group equity decreased by €354 million. This the decrease in gross debt (€638 million) more Other non-current assets 1,305 3.9% 1,578 4.7% decrease was mainly driven by the completion than offset our strong free cash flow generation Cash, cash equivalents and short-term deposits of the €2 billion share buyback and a dividend (€2,342 million) and the positive impact from and similar instruments, and current portion payment of €757 million in 2018. The current the foreign exchange translation. investment in debt instruments 3,507 10.5% 4,747 14.0% year’s net income and a positive currency translation impact of €495 million provided Net debt does not include our contractual Inventories 3,196 9.6% 3,077 9.1% a partial offset. commitments under operating lease contracts, Other current assets 2,139 6.5% 2,146 6.3% which, on an undiscounted basis, amounted to Total assets 33,331 100.0% 33,871 100.0% In 2018, gross debt decreased by €638 million €10,108 million at year-end 2018 (2017: €9,631 Group equity 14,816 44.5% 15,170 44.8% to €6,612 million, primarily due to a decrease million). The off-balance sheet operating lease of the overdraft position of a notional cash pooling Non-current portion of long-term debt 5,517 16.6% 5,174 15.3% commitments impact our capital structure. For arrangement. Other gross debt changes – Pensions and other post-employment benefits 532 1.6% 567 1.7% more information, see Note 33 to the consolidated while material – broadly offset each other. Other non-current liabilities 2,445 7.3% 2,655 7.8% financial statements. They included the issuance of €800 million bonds Short-term borrowings and current portion in March (an eight-year €500 million fixed coupon of long-term debt 1,094 3.3% 2,077 6.1% and a three-year €300 million floating coupon), Gross and net debt Payables 5,816 17.4% 5,277 15.6% and the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against € billion Other current liabilities 3,111 9.3% 2,951 8.7% the euro. These were offset by the redemption 7.6 7.3 of a €400 million bond on maturity in October, 6.6 Total equity and liabilities 33,331 100.0% 33,871 100.0% the $350 million bond buyback and regular 3.2 3.1 3.5 2.5 3.2 payments of finance lease and financing 1.3 1.1 transaction liabilities. 1.9 2.4 3.5 4.3 4.7 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Gross debt Cash, short-term deposits and similar instruments Net debt Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 44 Group financial review continued Our defined benefit plans showed a net deficit Liquidity and cash flows Group credit facility Ahold Delhaize has notified the relevant of €508 million at year-end 2018 compared to Ahold Delhaize has access to a €1.0 billion lenders of the change to the manner in which the Liquidity a net deficit of €567 million at year-end 2017. committed, unsecured, multi-currency and financial statements are prepared following the Ahold Delhaize views available cash balances This decrease was the result of €66 million syndicated credit facility that was amended implementation of IFRS 16, see also Note 3 to the and funds from operating activities as its primary of actuarial remeasurements and €6 million and extended in February 2015, whereby the consolidated financial statements. The Company sources of liquidity, complemented by access of excess contributions over annual expenses, Company reduced the size of the credit facility does not expect the changes in accounting policy to external sources of funds when deemed to be which were partly offset by a strengthening from €1.2 billion to €1.0 billion (providing for to impact compliance with the general terms and required. Ahold Delhaize manages short-term of the U.S. dollar (€13 million). the issuance of $275 million in letters of credit). provisions of its loan agreements, but may enter liquidity based on projected cash flows. As At the same time, the facility was extended into discussions with its lenders to update those A significant number of union employees in of December 30, 2018, the Company’s liquidity to 2020 with two potential extensions after loan agreements to reflect the technical changes the United States are covered by multi-employer position primarily consisted of €2,812 million 12 and 24 months that would take the facility arising from the implementation of IFRS 16. plans. With the help of external actuaries, of cash (including short-term deposits and similar to 2021 and 2022 respectively. The Company we have updated the most recent available instruments and current portion of investments Credit ratings successfully agreed both extensions with information that these plans have provided in debt instruments, adjusted for cash held Maintaining investment grade credit ratings the lenders. (generally as of January 1, 2017) for market under a notional cash pooling arrangement), is a cornerstone of Ahold Delhaize’s strategy trends and conditions through the end of 2018. and the undrawn portion of the €1 billion The credit facility contains customary covenants because such ratings serve to lower the cost revolving credit facility. and is subject to a financial covenant that of funds and facilitate access to a variety of We estimate our proportionate share of the total requires Ahold Delhaize, in the event that its lenders and markets. Ahold Delhaize’s current net deficit to be $1,228 million (€1,073 million) at Based on the current operating performance corporate rating from Standard & Poor’s and credit ratings from the solicited rating agencies year-end 2018 (2017: $912 million or €760 million). and liquidity position, the Company believes Moody’s is lower than BBB / Baa2, respectively, are as follows: These amounts are not recognized on our that cash provided by operating activities and not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio of 4.0:1. balance sheet. While this is our best estimate available cash balances will be sufficient for • Standard & Poor’s: corporate credit rating BBB, During 2018 and 2017, the Company was in based on the information available to us, it is working capital, capital expenditures, interest with a stable outlook as of June 2009 (previous compliance with these covenants. However, it imprecise and a reliable estimate of the amount payments, dividends, the announced €1 billion rating BBBassigned in 2007). was not required to test the financial covenant as of the obligation cannot be made. For more share buyback program, and scheduled debt • Moody’s: issuer credit rating Baa1, with a stable a result of its credit rating. As of December 30, information see Note 23 to the consolidated repayments for the next 12 months and the outlook as of February 2018 (previous rating 2018, there were no outstanding borrowings financial statements. foreseeable future. In addition, the Company has Baa2 assigned in August 2015). under the facility other than letters of credit to an access to the amount available on its revolving aggregate amount of $165 million (€144 million). credit facility and to the debt capital markets based on its current credit ratings. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 45 Group financial review continued Cash flows Operating cash flows from continuing operations Outlook Ahold Delhaize’s consolidated cash flows for 2018 and 2017 are as follows: were higher by €628 million. At constant We confirm our target for 2019 of realizing €750 exchange rates, operating cash flows from € million 2018 2017 million gross synergies, resulting in €500 million continuing operations were higher by €707 Operating cash flows from continuing operations 4,328 3,700 net synergies from the integration of the two million, or 19.5%. The purchase of non-current Purchase of non-current assets (cash capital expenditure) (1,780) (1,698) companies. assets was higher by €82 million, or €119 million Divestment of assets / disposal groups held for sale 27 142 higher at constant exchange rates. In addition, we expect to save €540 million Dividends from joint ventures 17 70 in 2019 as part of our €1.8 billion Save for Our Free cash flow Interest received 74 32 Customers program for 2019-2021. As previously Free cash flow, at €2,342 million, increased by Interest paid (324) (320) announced, we expect the full 2019 group €416 million compared to 2017. In 2018, the main Free cash flow 2,342 1,926 margins to be in line with last year. uses of free cash flow included: Proceeds from long-term debt 798 747 Underlying income per share from continuing • Share buyback program, for a total amount Repayments of loans (783) (474) operations is expected to grow by high single of €2,003 million. Repayments of finance lease liabilities (177) (190) digits as a percentage compared to last year. • Common stock dividend at €0.63 per share Changes in short-term loans (733) 212 We expect free cash flow in 2019 to be around resulting in a cash outflow of €757 million. Dividends paid on common shares (757) (720) €2.0 billion, as we are increasing our capital • Bond repayment of €400 million on maturity Share buyback (2,003) (992) expenditures to €2.0 billion, in particular at and bond buyback of €350 million. Acquisition / divestments of businesses, net of cash (33) (53) Stop & Shop and our eCommerce business, Other cash flows from derivatives (29) 262 as well as to further strengthen our digital capabilities. Other 30 9 Change in cash, cash equivalents and short-term deposits and In 2019, we will implement a new accounting similar instruments, and the current portion of investment in debt standard, IFRS 16 Leases. We refer to Note 3 instruments (before impact of exchange rates) (1,345) 727 of the consolidated financial statements for an Changes in short-term deposits and similar instruments, explanation of the impact of this new accounting the current portion of investments in debt instruments and standard. On March 25, 2019, we will provide changes in restricted cash (242) 100 the restated 2018 quarterly financial statements, Net cash from operating, investing and financing activities (1,587) 827 as well as an update on the impact of IFRS 16 on our guidance for 2019. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 46 Group financial review continued Key financial and non-financial information The key financial and non-financial information per segment for 2018 and 2017 is presented below: The United States The Netherlands Belgium Central and Southeastern Europe 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Net sales (€ millions) 37,460 38,440 14,218 13,706 5,095 4,953 6,018 5,791 Net sales ($ millions) 44,174 43,357 Net sales growth in local currency1 1.9% 27.1% 3.7% 4.6% 2.9% 125.2% 3.1% 63.9% Comparable sales growth 2.3% 0.7% 3.8% 4.5% 2.2% (0.2)% 0.9% 0.9% Comparable sales growth (excluding gasoline sales) 2.1% 0.5% 3.8% 4.5% 2.2% (0.2)% 0.9% 1.0% Operating income (€ millions) 1,482 1,371 698 669 126 86 222 236 Operating income ($ millions) 1,748 1,548 Underlying operating income (€ millions) 1,563 1,535 715 676 141 111 237 242 Underlying operating income ($ millions) 1,842 1,734 Underlying operating margin 4.2% 4.0% 5.0% 4.9% 2.8% 2.2% 3.9% 4.2% Number of employees / headcount (at year-end in thousands) 207 204 102 102 13 13 50 49 Number of employees / FTEs (at year-end in thousands) 136 136 32 32 11 12 45 44 Contribution to Ahold Delhaize net sales 59.7% 61.1% 22.6% 21.8% 8.1% 7.9% 9.6% 9.2% Contribution to Ahold Delhaize underlying operating income2 58.8% 59.9% 26.9% 26.4% 5.3% 4.3% 8.9% 9.4% 1 Net sales from former Delhaize businesses are included as of July 24, 2016, impacting the growth rate of 2017. 2 Before Global Support Office costs. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 47 Group sustainability performance review The following key indicators show group performance against our Sustainable Retailing 2020 strategy. Planet We have grouped these indicators by impact categories: people, planet and product. 2018 2017 change 2020 targets People Tonnes of food waste per food sales (t/€ millions) 5.2 5.3 (1.9)% 4.25 Selected indicators 2018 2017 change 2020 targets % of total food waste recycled 77% 68% 9% pt 90% Associate engagement score (%)1 79% 78% 1% pt – Waste recycled (%) 76% 73% 3% pt 80% Healthy workplace score 74% 73% 1% pt 75% Inclusive workplace score 78% 77% 1% pt 79% Total CO2 -equivalent emissions per m2 sales area (kg CO2 -eq/m2)1 456 471 (3.2)% 445 Associate development score 72% 71% 1% pt 73% % change in CO2 -equivalent emissions Rate of lost days due to accidents2 2.4 2.5 (4.0)% — per m2 of sales area (from baseline 2008)1 (28)% (26)% 2% pt (30)% 1 2018 and 2017 figures include Peapod, Gall & Gall and Etos. % ozone-friendly refrigerants1 77% 74% 3% pt 85% 2 Safety at work data excludes offices. 2018 data includes bol.com, Etos and Gall & Gall. 2018 data for Delhaize Belgium is reported Average Refrigerant Global Warming for Q4 2017-Q3 2018. 2017 data for Delhaize Belgium is reported for Q4 2016-Q3 2017. 2017 Albert Heijn data may include an overestimation of the number of incidences, due to reporting limitations. Potential (GWP)1 2,320 2,370 (2.1)% 2,230 Our Ahold Delhaize-wide associate engagement scores increased by one percentage point in 2018, 1 We have restated our 2017 figures to include more accurate: GWP for our refrigerants, sales area and actual fuel usage. The 2017 figure excludes Gall & Gall and Etos. in line with our 2020 targets. The healthy workplace score is driven by associates’ perceptions of the statements, “My company makes it easy for me to eat healthy foods” and “My company supports me in living a healthy lifestyle.” The inclusive workplace score is driven by associates’ perceptions of the statement, “At our company, diversity is valued; and I am encouraged to share my ideas Carbon emissions per m2 of sales area about improving our work environment.” The associate development score is driven by associates’ 600 perceptions of the statement, “I am given the opportunity to improve my skills at our company.” 500 Rate of lost days due to accidents rates fell by 4.0%, of which 1.1% was due to the inclusion of bol.com, 400 Etos, and Gall & Gall in 2018 data. Other key factors that contributed to lowering the rate of lost days due to accidents included the development of action plans for injury and risk reduction by all the brands, fully 300 supported by local leadership. Unfortunately, a fatal accident occurred in one of the brands during 2018, 200 which increased the global focus on reducing risks that lead to serious injuries and fatalities. The brands 100 have been working to increase awareness among associates about the importance of safety, reinforced by World Day for Safety activities. 2017 2018 Facilities energy consumption equivalent emissions per m2 sales area Refridgerants equivalent emissions per m2 sales area Transport equivalent emissions per m2 sales area Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 48 Group sustainability performance review continued Planet (continued) Product 2018 2017 change 2020 targets Our brands are working to improve operating efficiency, reduce carbon emissions and reduce food waste. In 2018, Ahold Delhaize brands reduced food waste per sales by 1.9%, making progress Total sales from free-from or organic toward the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 12.3 and our 2020 target of 20% reduction. Our own-brand lines (€ millions) 1,554 1,451 7.1% – brands have reduced their tonnes of food waste since 2016 by improving stock management and Healthy own-brand food sales increasing the donations of unsold food that would have otherwise been wasted. However, our 2020 as a proportion of total own-brand target remains ambitious, and may be difficult to reach. As we continue to drive healthier eating, food sales (%) 47% 46% 1% pt 50% increase our fresh assortment and promote sales of fresh and convenient products, we run the risk % of own-brand products with of increasing shrink at the same time. It remains important to improve our ability to redistribute unsold front-of-pack nutritional labeling 88% 87% 1% pt 100% food and recycle waste. In 2018, we increased food waste recycling by 9 percentage points and % of own-brand production locations total waste by 3 percentage points. certified for food safety standards 93% 91% 2% pt 100% CO2 -equivalent emissions per sales area were 456 kg/m2, a decrease from 2017 and a 28% reduction % of own-brand production locations in from Ahold Delhaize’s 2008 baseline. Although this was, in part, driven by our progress towards high-risk countries audited for working a lowered average refrigerant global warming potential and initiatives to reduce energy consumption, condition standards 66% 59% 7% pt 80% changes to emission factors played a significant role in our achievement of a CO2 -equivalent emissions In 2018, our brands increased sales from free-from or organic own-brand lines by 7.1% compared reduction. Our refrigerant leakage increase is primarily due to the impact of high temperatures in to 2017. By better meeting consumer needs for healthier assortments, our brands increased sales Europe over the summer. of healthy own-brand food by 1.0% compared to 2017. Two examples of how the brands are helping In 2018, we completed an initial assessment for setting long-term, science-based climate targets. customers gain insights into the nutritional value of products are Delhaize’s introduction of Nutri-Score We will continue this work in 2019 and use the outcomes for setting our future climate strategy. at-a-glance guidance on the nutritional quality of its own-brand products, and Albert Heijn’s launch of the “My Nutritional Value” online tool. In line with our efforts to continuously ensure that we sell safe food from suppliers that meet our standards related to working conditions, we also focus on increasing the percentage of audits performed at own-brand production units for both food safety and social compliance. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 49 Group sustainability performance review continued Commodities in our own-brand products that comply with our sourcing standards ESG Ratings 2018 2017 change 100 DJSI score1 72 67 5 MSCI ESG Rating A A 80 1 DJSI changed its methodology in 2018 and restated the 2017 score from 73 to 67 for comparability to 2018. 60 The 2018 Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI World), a key global sustainability benchmark, 40 ranked Ahold Delhaize among the industry leaders in the Food and Staples Retailing sector for the third consecutive year. Within the industry, Ahold Delhaize was particularly recognized for Health and 20 Nutrition, Operational Eco-Efficiency and Occupational Health and Safety. Ahold Delhaize increased % Tea Coffee Cocoa Palm oil Seafood Soy Wood fiber its score by five percentage points and achieved an overall score of 72 out of 100, well above the sector average score of 35. 2018 2017 Mass balance or segregated 1 Book and claim 1 1 For more information on “Mass balance or segregated” or “Book and claim”, see Definitions under Performance: Sustainability. MSCI ESG Ratings help investors identify environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks and opportunities within their portfolios. MSCI researches and rates companies on a “AAA” to “CCC” Ahold Delhaize drives sustainable sourcing practices through sourcing targets on seven critical scale according to their exposure to industry-specific ESG risks and their ability to manage those commodities (tea, coffee, cocoa, palm oil, seafood, soy and wood fiber). To reach these targets, risks relative to peers. Ahold Delhaize shows a constant solid A performance. With this performance, we partner with farmers, suppliers and industry groups to achieve more sustainable production. according to MSCI, we fall into the highest scoring range for all the companies assessed, relative to All of our brands made positive progress in this area, with the exception of sourcing sustainable global peers, indicating that the Company’s corporate governance practices are generally well-aligned cocoa. The decrease in our cocoa figures is due to changes in the assortment of products containing with shareholder interests. cocoa at each of our brands. As we have eliminated non-certified products over the course of 2018, the percentage of certified products should go up in 2019. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 50 Definitions: Performance measures The financial information included The definitions of non-financial performance Comparable sales Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation in this Annual Report is prepared measures included in the Annual Report can Comparable sales are net sales, in local currency, and amortization, or EBITDA be found in the Performance: Sustainability – from exactly the same stores – including stores Ahold Delhaize defines EBITDA as operating in accordance with International Definitions section. that are replaced within the same market area income / (loss) plus depreciation and Financial Reporting Standards – and online sales in existing market areas for amortization. EBITDA is considered to be as adopted by the European Union, This Annual Report also includes alternative the most recent comparable period. For markets a useful measure for investors to analyze performance measures (also known as nonas explained in Note 2 Basis of GAAP measures). The definitions of these that sell gasoline, Ahold Delhaize also calculates profitability by eliminating the effects of preparation and Note 3 Significant the comparable sales excluding gasoline sales, financing (i.e., net financial expense), capital alternative performance measures can be to eliminate gasoline price volatility in the investments and the impact of the purchase price accounting policies to the found below. comparison. Ahold Delhaize measures a store allocation (i.e., depreciation and amortization). consolidated financial statements, Management believes that these alternative for comparable sales after it is open for a full unless otherwise indicated. Free cash flow performance (non-GAAP) financial measures 56 weeks. Ahold Delhaize defines free cash flow as allow for a better understanding of Ahold Comparable sales and comparable sales operating cash flows from continuing operations Delhaize’s operating and financial performance. excluding gasoline sales are not reflected minus net capital expenditures and net interest These alternative performance measures in Ahold Delhaize’s financial statements. paid plus dividends received. Ahold Delhaize should be considered in addition to, but not However, the Company believes that disclosing has included free cash flow as the Company as substitutes for, the most directly comparable comparable sales and comparable sales believes it is a useful measure for investors, IFRS measures. excluding gasoline sales provides additional because it provides insight into the cash flows useful analytical information to investors available to, among other things, reduce debt regarding the operating performance of and pay dividends. Free cash flow is derived Ahold Delhaize as it neutralizes the impact from the financial statements; however, this is not of, for example, newly acquired stores, in the a measure calculated in accordance with IFRS calculation of sales growth. and may not be comparable to similar measures presented by other companies. Accordingly, free cash flow should not be considered as an alternative to operating cash flow. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 51 Definitions: Performance measures continued Global Support Office costs Net debt Operating income in local currency Underlying income from Global Support Office (GSO) costs relate Net debt is the difference between (i) the sum In certain instances operating income is continuing operations to the responsibilities of the Global Support of loans, finance lease liabilities, cumulative presented in local currency. Ahold Delhaize’s Ahold Delhaize defines underlying income from Office, including Finance, Strategy, Mergers & preferred financing shares and short-term debt management believes this measure provides continuing operations as income from continuing Acquisitions, Internal Audit, Legal & Compliance, (i.e., gross debt) and (ii) cash, cash equivalents, better insight into the operating performance operations adjusted for impairments of nonHuman Resources, Information Technology, current portion of investment in debt instruments, of Ahold Delhaize’s foreign subsidiaries. current assets, gains and losses on the sale Insurance, Tax, Treasury, Communications, and short-term deposits and similar instruments. of assets, restructuring and related charges, Return on capital Investor Relations, Sustainable Retailing and In management’s view, because cash, cash and other items considered not to be directly Return on capital (RoC) is calculated as the majority of the Executive Committee. Global equivalents, current portion of investments in debt related to the underlying operating performance, underlying operating income before depreciation, Support Office costs also include results from instruments, and short-term deposits and similar as well as material non-recurring finance costs amortization and rent expense divided by the other activities coordinated centrally but not instruments can be used, among other things, and income tax expense, and the potential annual rolling average of the sum of property, allocated to any subsidiary. Underlying Global to repay indebtedness, netting this against gross effect of income tax on all these items. plant and equipment at purchase price, intangible Support Office costs exclude impairments of debt is a useful measure for investors to judge assets at purchase price, operating working Underlying income per share from non-current assets, gains and losses on the sale Ahold Delhaize’s leverage. Net debt may include capital components and rent expense, divided continuing operations of assets, and restructuring and related charges certain cash items that are not readily available by 8%. Underlying income per share from continuing and other items, including business acquisition for repaying debt. operations is calculated as underlying income transaction costs. Underlying operating income and margin Net sales at constant exchange rates from continuing operations, divided by the Underlying operating income is defined as total Gross rent Net sales at constant exchange rates excludes weighted average number of shares outstanding. operating income, adjusted for impairments Gross rent comprises all of the rent that the impact of using different currency exchange of non-current assets, gains and losses on the Underlying earnings before interest, Ahold Delhaize is required to pay to third rates to translate the financial information of sale of assets, restructuring and related charges, taxes, depreciation and amortization, parties and is not corrected for rental income Ahold Delhaize subsidiaries or joint ventures and other items considered not to be directly or underlying EBITDA and margin Ahold Delhaize receives from other third parties. to euros. Ahold Delhaize’s management believes related to the underlying operating performance. Ahold Delhaize defines underlying EBITDA as this measure provides a better insight into the Net consumer online sales Ahold Delhaize’s management believes underlying operating income plus depreciation operating performance of Ahold Delhaize’s Net consumer online sales is defined as online this measure provides better insight into the and amortization. Underlying EBITDA is foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures. sales including sales of third parties via bol.com's underlying operating performance of Ahold considered to be a useful measure for investors Plaza. Ahold Delhaize’s management believes Net sales in local currency Delhaize’s operations. Underlying operating to analyze profitability by eliminating the effects that this measure provides more insight into the In certain instances, net sales are presented income margin is calculated as underlying of financing (i.e., net financial expense), capital growth of our online businesses. Online sales is in local currency. Ahold Delhaize’s management operating income as a percentage of net sales. investments and the impact of the purchase price net sales generated through electronic ordering believes this measure provides a better insight allocation (i.e., depreciation and amortization). by the final customer at the fair value of the into the operating performance of Ahold Underlying EBITDA margin is calculated as consideration received or receivable. Delhaize’s foreign subsidiaries. underlying EBITDA as a percentage of net sales. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 52 53 Our Management Board and Executive Committee 55 Our Supervisory Board 57 Corporate governance 63 Supervisory Board report 70 Remuneration 77 How we manage risk 86 Declarations Governance Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 53 Our Management Board and Executive Committee Our Management Board Executive Committee diversity1 Gender 1 7 Female Male Frans Muller Jeff Carr Kevin Holt Wouter Kolk President and Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer; Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer Officer; Chairman and member Member Management Board Ahold Delhaize USA; Europe and Indonesia; of Management Board and and Executive Committee Member Management Board Member Management Board 1 Including the members of the Nationality Management Board. Executive Committee Jeff Carr has served as Chief Financial Officer and Executive Committee and Executive Committee Frans Muller started as President and Chief of Ahold Delhaize since July 24, 2016. Jeff Kevin Holt has served as Chief Executive Wouter Kolk started as Chief Executive Executive Officer of Ahold Delhaize on July 1, joined Ahold on November 14, 2011, as acting Officer Ahold Delhaize USA since January 1, Officer Europe and Indonesia on October 1, 3 2018. Before that, he served as Deputy Chief member of the Management Board and CFO. 2018. Prior to that, Kevin had been Chief 2018. He had been Chief Operating Officer Dutch Ahold’s shareholders appointed him to the Executive Officer and Chief Integration Officer Operating Officer Ahold USA since October the Netherlands and Belgium and member of since 2016. He was also Acting Chief Management Board on April 17, 2012. 2016, after serving as COO Delhaize the Executive Committee of Ahold Delhaize Operating Officer for Delhaize America from Jeff began his career at Unilever, and held America since July 24, 2016. He had earlier since September 8, 2017. 2 British October 2016 until January 2018. Prior to senior roles in finance at Grand Metropolitan served as Executive Vice President of Wouter re-joined Ahold in 2013 as EVP Ahold Delhaize, Frans served for three years plc, Reckitt Benckiser and Associated British Delhaize Group and CEO of Delhaize Specialty Stores and New Markets at Albert 3 as President and CEO of Delhaize Group. Foods. From 2005 to 2009, he was group America, starting in 2014. Heijn following a six-year period as CEO American Before joining Delhaize Group, Frans worked finance director and a member of the board Before joining Delhaize Group, Kevin was of international retailer WE Fashion. He for German retailer Metro AG for more than at easyJet plc. Jeff was then appointed to the president of retail operations for SuperValu. became Chief Executive Officer Albert Heijn 15 years, serving in various leadership role of group finance director and a member During his tenure there, the company owned in January 2015. He first started at Ahold in positions at Metro AG, including managing of the board at FirstGroup plc, a leading the Albertsons, Jewel-Osco and Save-A-Lot 1991, and over the next 16 years served in director of Makro, member of the board of transport operator in the UK and the United chains and was the third largest food several international commercial and general Metro Cash & Carry International, president States. Jeff serves as non-executive director retailing company in the United States. management roles, including Commercial for Asia Pacific and Russia / Ukraine, and of Kingfisher plc, Europe’s leading home Director Asia-Pacific based in Singapore, improvement retailer. Prior to SuperValu, Kevin worked for three CEO of Metro Group Buying. From 2006 years with Sears Holding Company and Regional Director Albert Heijn, General until 2013, he was a member of the Metro AG Jeff has lived and worked in Europe and the 14 years with Meijer, serving in various Manager Gall & Gall and General Manager of Management Board and served as CEO United States. leadership positions, including executive Etos. Wouter is a member of the supervisory of Metro Cash & Carry from 2008 until 2013. Age: 57 vice president of retail operations and senior boards of the Hortus Botanicus Amsterdam From 1988 to 1997, Frans held various vice president of information technology / and concert hall Paradiso. Nationality: British management and executive positions at KLM services and strategic planning. Age: 52 Cargo in Amsterdam, Frankfurt, Vienna and Before joining the retail industry, Kevin spent Nationality: Dutch Singapore. nine years at NCR delivering technology Frans is president of the European Retail solutions to large and complex organizations. Round Table and serves on the board of Age: 60 directors of the Vlerick Business School. Nationality: American Age: 57 Nationality: Dutch Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 54 Our Management Board and Executive Committee Our Executive Committee Executive Committee diversity1 Nationality 3 Dutch 2 British Abbe Luersman Jan Ernst de Groot Ben Wishart Farhan Siddiqi 3 American Chief Human Resources Officer; Chief Legal Officer; Global Chief Information Officer; Chief Digital Officer; Member Executive Committee Member Executive Committee Member Executive Committee Member Executive Committee 1 Including the members of the Abbe Luersman has served as Chief Human Jan Ernst de Groot has served as Chief Ben Wishart became a member of the On January 28, 2019, Farhan Siddiqi joined Management Board. Resources Officer and member of Ahold Legal Officer since July 24, 2016. Prior to Executive Committee on January 1, 2018. Ahold Delhaize as Chief Digital Officer and Delhaize’s Executive Committee since that, he was Chief Legal Officer and member Ben joined Ahold in 2013 in the role of member of the Executive Committee. He is July 24, 2016. She is responsible for Global of Ahold’s Executive Committee since Global Chief Information Officer and has responsible for driving digital transformation Human Resources, including Talent and February 1, 2015. Jan Ernst is responsible continued in this role for Ahold Delhaize. and innovation across Ahold Delhaize’s local Diversity; Leadership and Development; for Ahold Delhaize’s legal affairs, governance He is responsible for leadership and brands, focusing on loyalty, data analytics Organizational Effectiveness and Design; and compliance functions, safety, public governance on technology matters globally, and personalization. and Total Rewards. Prior to this, Abbe had affairs and product integrity. including strategy and solution delivery, Before joining Ahold Delhaize, Farhan served served as Ahold’s Chief Human Resources Before joining Ahold, Jan Ernst was enabling digital platforms, cyber defense as chief digital officer at McDonald’s, and led Officer and member of the Executive general counsel and managing director and sourcing. the restaurant chain’s digital transformation, Committee from November 1, 2013. at TNT Express. Prior to that, he worked for He previously served as CIO of Morrisons including the launch of mobile commerce in Before that, Abbe worked for Unilever, KLM Royal Dutch Airlines in a wide range plc and Whitbread plc and held various 20,000 restaurants, a new mobile app and where she held various HR leadership roles, of business and corporate roles, most senior Information Technology roles at Tesco the upgrade of self-service ordering kiosks. most recently as head of human resources recently as managing director and a member plc. following early career roles in consulting He was also responsible for data analytics for Unilever Europe. Prior to Unilever, Abbe of the board of management. Jan Ernst with Cap Gemini and sales and marketing and extending Customer Relationship worked at Whirlpool Corporation, holding started his career at law firm De Brauw with American Express. Management capabilities. a number of senior roles in human resources, Blackstone Westbroek. Age: 56 Prior to this, Farhan held various key both in the United States and internationally. Jan Ernst is chairman of the supervisory leadership positions within Bank of America, Nationality: British Abbe is a member of the Network of council of Hivos, a supervisory board Target and General Electric, where he Executive Women board of directors, the member of ADG Dienstengroep and focused on implementing successful Gartner CHRO Global Leadership board a board member of the Hermitage Museum customer loyalty programs and digital of directors and the Netherlands American Amsterdam. payment solutions and launching strategic Chamber of Commerce board of directors. Age: 55 partnerships. Age: 51 Nationality: Dutch Age: 50 Nationality: American Nationality: American Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 55 Our Supervisory Board Supervisory Board diversity Gender 2 7 Female Male Jan Hommen Bill McEwan Jacques de Vaucleroy René Hooft Graafland Chairman and Chairman of the Vice Chairman and Chairman Vice Chairman Chairman of the Audit, Governance and Nomination of the Remuneration Committee Jacques de Vaucleroy has served on Ahold Finance and Risk Committee Committee Bill McEwan has served on Ahold Delhaize’s Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, René Hooft Graafland has served on Ahold Nationality Supervisory Board since July 24, 2016, and is 2016, and is member of the Audit, Finance Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, Jan Hommen has served on Ahold Delhaize’s and Risk Committee and the Sustainability and Supervisory Board since July 24, 2016, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and 2016, and is Chairman of the Audit, Finance a member of the Sustainability and Innovation Innovation Committee. Prior this, he served on and Risk Committee and member of the and as its Chairman since April 11, 2018. Delhaize’s Board of Directors starting in 2005 1 Jan is also the Chairman of the Governance Committee. Prior to this, he served on Sustainability and Innovation Committee. Canadian 2 Delhaize’s Board of Directors as of 2011 and and was Chairman of its Governance and Prior to this, he was appointed to the Ahold American and Nomination Committee and a member Nomination Committee. of the Sustainability and Innovation Committee. was Chairman of its Remuneration Committee. Supervisory Board on April 16, 2014, with In addition, he served as Chairman of Ahold’s Bill is the former president and CEO of Jacques has spent most of his career within effect from January 1, 2015. Supervisory Board since 2013. Jan was Vice Sobeys Inc., and was a member of the board the ING group, where he was a member of the René previously held the position of CFO and 2 Belgian Chairman of Ahold’s Supervisory Board and of directors of its parent company, Empire executive board and CEO of ING Insurance member of the executive board of Heineken Chairman of its Audit Committee from 2003 Company Limited. and Investment Management Europe. Jacques N.V. until April 2015. Before being appointed to 2007. was a member of AXA Group’s management as a member of Heineken’s executive board Between 1989 and 2000, Bill held a variety committee and CEO of the company’s 4 Jan is the former CEO of ING Group N.V., in 2002, he held various international Dutch of progressively senior marketing and Northern, Central and Eastern Europe CEO of KPMG the Netherlands, CFO and merchandising roles with Coca-Cola Limited management positions with the company business unit from 2010 until 2016. He also in Europe, Asia and Africa. vice chairman of the board of management and Coca-Cola Bottling as well as with The assumed global responsibility for the AXA of Royal Philips Electronics N.V. and CFO Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company (A&P), Group’s life and savings and health businesses René is vice-chairman of the supervisory of Aluminum Company of America Inc. both in Canada and in the United States. from 2011 until 2016. board and chairman of the audit committee Currently, Jan is chairman of the supervisory Bill served as president of A&P’s Canadian of Wolters Kluwer N.V. and a member of operations before his appointment as Currently, Jacques is a member of the boards the supervisory board and audit committee board of Koninklijke VolkerWessels N.V., of directors of Swiss Re Ltd, Swiss Re Europe, chairman (senior advisor) of BlackRock president and chief executive officer of the of Koninklijke FrieslandCampina N.V. He is company’s U.S. Atlantic Region. Fidelity International Ltd, Zabka Polska and chairman of the boards of the Royal Theatre Netherlands, chairman of the board of Colt Technology Services Group plc. He is also trustees of United World College Nederland Bill is a member of the board of Aimia Inc. Carré Fund and the Stichting African Parks a member of the advisory boards of Artexis Foundation. René is also a member of the and a member of the supervisory board of Age: 62 Easyfairs and CVC Belgium. ProteoNic B.V. Monitoring Commission Corporate Nationality: Canadian Age: 58 Governance Code. Age: 75 Nationality: Belgian Age: 63 Nationality: Dutch Nationality: Dutch Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 56 Our Supervisory Board continued Rob van den Bergh Mary Anne Citrino Dominique Leroy Mark McGrath Ben Noteboom Chairman of the Sustainability Mary Anne Citrino has served on Ahold Dominique Leroy has served on Ahold Mark McGrath has served on Ahold Delhaize’s Ben Noteboom has served on Ahold Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, Supervisory Board since July 24, 2016, and is Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, and Innovation Committee 2016, and is a member of the Audit, Finance 2016, and is member of the Governance and a member of the Governance and Nomination 2016, and is a member of the Remuneration Rob van den Bergh has served on Ahold and Risk Committee and the Sustainability Nomination Committee and the Sustainability Committee and the Sustainability and Committee and the Sustainability and Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, and Innovation Committee. Prior to this, and Innovation Committee. Prior to this, Innovation Committee. Innovation Committee. Prior to this, he was 2016, and is Chairman of the Sustainability she was appointed to the Ahold Supervisory she served on Delhaize’s Board of Directors He was first appointed to the Ahold first appointed to the Ahold Supervisory and Innovation Committee and member of Board on March 14, 2016. starting in 2015. Supervisory Board on April 23, 2008. Mark is Board on April 28, 2009. the Remuneration Committee. Prior to this, Mary Anne is a senior advisor to Blackstone. Dominique has been the CEO of Proximus a director emeritus of McKinsey & Company. Ben is former CEO and chairman of the he was first appointed to the Ahold She joined the Blackstone Advisory Partners (formerly Belgacom) and a member of the He led the firm’s Americas Consumer Goods executive board of Randstad Holding N.V., Supervisory Board on April 20, 2011. Group as senior managing director in 2004. board of directors of Proximus since 2014. Practice from 1998 until 2004, when he retired to which he was appointed in 2001. He Rob is former CEO of VNU N.V. Before that, Mary Anne was employed at Morgan Stanley She began working at Belgacom SA in 2011 from the company. Mark is a former director of had first joined Randstad in 1993 and held he held various other executive positions within for over 20 years, during which she served as vice president of sales for the consumer GATX and Aware Inc. various senior management positions during VNU, was a member of the executive board as the global head of consumer products division. In 2012, Dominique held the position Mark serves on the advisory council of the his time with the company. from 1992 and was appointed CEO in 2000. investment banking, co-head of healthcare of executive vice president of the consumer University of Chicago’s Booth Graduate School Ben is chairman of the supervisory board services investment banking, and as a business unit of Belgacom and was a member of Business. He is a trustee and serves on the of Koninklijke Vopak N.V., chairman of its Rob is a member of the supervisory boards mergers and acquisitions analyst. of the management committee of Belgacom executive committee of the Chicago Symphony selection and appointment committee and of Pon Holdings B.V., Iddink Groep B.V. Group. Orchestra Association. a member of its remuneration committee. and Novamedia. He is also a member of Currently, Mary Anne is a director of the advisory board of CVC Capital Partners Aluminum Company of America Inc. and Prior to this, Dominique worked for 24 years Age: 72 He is also a member of the supervisory and member of the Netherlands Committee a member of its governance and nominating at Unilever. She was managing director at board of Aegon N.V., chairman of its Unilever (BeLux) and member of the Unilever Nationality: American remuneration committee and a member of Human Rights Watch. committee and public issues committee. Mary Anne is chair of the audit committee Benelux management committee. of its risk committee. In addition, he serves Age: 68 as a member of the supervisory board and and member of the finance, investment and Dominique is also chairwoman of the Nationality: Dutch technology committee of Hewlett Packard, audit committee of Wolters Kluwer N.V., boards of the Proximus subsidiaries BICS Inc. Mary Anne also serves as non-executive and Be-Mobile and member of the board and as a member of the board of the director and member of the board risk of Proximus Art. In addition, Dominique is an Cancer Center Amsterdam. committee of Barclays plc. independent board member for the French Age: 60 Age: 59 construction materials group Saint Gobain and Nationality: Dutch chairwoman of the international advisory board Nationality: American of the Solvay Brussels School of Economics and Management. Dominique was board member of Lotus Bakeries till May 2018. Age: 54 Nationality: Belgian Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 57 Corporate governance We have designed our corporate Governance structure Governance structure governance structure to best Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. (“the Company” General Meeting of Shareholders Audit, Finance and Risk Committee support our business, meet the or “Ahold Delhaize”) is a public company under needs of our stakeholders and Dutch law, structured to execute our strategy Remuneration Committee and to balance local, regional and global comply with laws and regulations. Supervisory Board decision-making. Governance and Nomination Committee This section contains an overview of our In 2018, our Company comprised a Global corporate governance structure and includes Sustainability and Innovation Committee Support Office and four reportable segments: Management Board information required under the new Dutch The United States, The Netherlands, Belgium, Corporate Governance Code, effective January Executive Committee and Central and Southeastern Europe (CSE) – 1, 2017 (Dutch Corporate Governance Code). each of which are made up of a number of local brands. See also Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. Central and The United Ahold Delhaize has a two-tier board structure The Netherlands Belgium Southeastern States with a Supervisory Board and Management Europe Board that are accountable to our shareholders. Our Management Board has ultimate responsibility for the overall management The above diagram shows Ahold Delhaize’s Management Board of Ahold Delhaize. The Supervisory Board governance structure. A list of subsidiaries, joint and Executive Committee supervises and advises the Management Board. ventures and associate companies is included in Our Management Board has the responsibility Note 36 to the consolidated financial statements. The Executive Committee comprises our for the overall management of the Company Management Board and other key officers of Transition and oversees corporate governance. It is also the Company, led by the Chief Executive Officer. Following the Company’s progress since the responsible for the actions and decisions of the The Executive Committee has been established merger, 2018 was a year of transition, during Executive Committee, which manages our general to involve a broader leadership team in the which Ahold Delhaize moved into the next phase affairs and ensures effective implementation of decision-making process to optimize strategic of its governance. The roles of Deputy CEO and the strategy and achievement of the Company’s alignment and operational execution while Chief Integration Officer and Chief Sustainability, objectives. having the flexibility to adapt to developments Transformation and Communications Officer were The Management Board and Executive Committee in the business and across the Company and no longer required. In addition, the number of together support our business, meet the needs the industry. Supervisory Board members was reduced from of our stakeholders and ensure we comply with 12 to nine and the Presidium was terminated. relevant rules and regulations. The members of Executive Committee are invited to the meetings For a more detailed description of the of the Supervisory Board by invitation of the responsibilities of the Management Board and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and attend the Executive Committee, see the Rules of Procedure Supervisory Board committee meetings relevant in the Governance section of Ahold Delhaize’s public website at www.aholddelhaize.com to their respective functional responsibilities. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 58 Corporate governance continued Composition of the Management Board At the same time we aim for the best fit, in Management Board members are appointed Evaluation and Executive Committee combination with the availability of qualified for four-year terms and may be reappointed for In 2019, the Management Board and the According to our Articles of Association, the candidates. At this moment, Ahold Delhaize has additional terms not exceeding four years. The Executive Committee conducted a selfManagement Board must consist of at least a Management Board in which all four members Supervisory Board may at any time suspend assessment by means of a structured dialogue three members. The current members are: Frans are male and an Executive Committee in which a Management Board member and Executive chaired by the CEO. Items that were assessed Muller, President and Chief Executive Officer; one member is female and seven members are Committee member. The other members of the and discussed included diversity in relation to the Jeff Carr, Chief Financial Officer; Kevin Holt, male. We recognize there is room for improvement Executive Committee are appointed, suspended composition of the Management Board and the Chief Executive Officer Ahold Delhaize USA; and and we continue to seek to identify potential Board and dismissed by the Supervisory Board, at the Executive Committee, meeting processes and Wouter Kolk, Chief Executive Officer Europe and members who would enhance the diversity of the proposal of the CEO. procedures, discussions and decision-making, Indonesia. The current members of the Executive Boards in the above-mentioned areas. and team dynamics. Remuneration Committee are the members of the Management In order to meet our diversity ambitions and On April 19, 2016, Ahold Delhaize’s General Board along with Abbe Luersman, Chief Supervisory Board comply with statutory guidelines for gender Meeting of Shareholders adopted the current Human Resources Officer; Jan Ernst de Groot, The Supervisory Board is responsible for diversity in the coming years, we continue to work remuneration policy for Management Board Chief Legal Officer; Ben Wishart, Global Chief supervising and advising our Management Board to ensure we build robust development and members. Information Officer; and Farhan Siddiqi, and overseeing the general course of affairs, succession plans; generate diverse, balanced Chief Digital Officer1. You can find details of this policy in strategy, operational performance and corporate slates; and take the necessary actions to retain Remuneration. For detailed information on governance of the Company. The Supervisory On July 1, 2018, Dick Boer stepped down as our current diverse talents so we can build our the individual remuneration of Management Board is guided in its duties by the interests of the President and Chief Executive Officer and on talent pipeline and drive greater diversity at all Board members, see Notes 31 and 32 to the Company and the enterprise connected with the November 1, 2018, Marc Croonen stepped down levels in our organization. consolidated financial statements. Company, taking into consideration the overall from the Executive Committee. Appointment, suspension and dismissal well-being of the enterprise and the relevant Possible reappointment schedule At Ahold Delhaize, we believe that a diverse and The General Meeting of Shareholders can Management Board interests of all its stakeholders. The Supervisory fully representative Management Board and appoint, suspend or dismiss a Management Board is responsible for monitoring and Date of first Year of possible Executive Committee contributes to well-balanced Board member by an absolute majority of votes Name appointment reappointment assessing its own performance. decision-making processes and the optimal cast, upon a proposal made by the Supervisory Frans Muller March 14, 20161 20202 functioning of both the Management Board and Board. If another party makes the proposal, an Ahold Delhaize’s Articles of Association require Jeff Carr April 17, 2012 2020 the Executive Committee. In accordance with absolute majority of votes cast, representing at the approval of the Supervisory Board for certain Kevin Holt March 14, 20161 2020 major resolutions by the Management Board, provision 2.1.5 of the Dutch Corporate Governance least one-third of the issued share capital, is Wouter Kolk April 11, 2018 2022 including: Code, Ahold Delhaize’s diversity policy states required. If this qualified majority is not achieved, 1 Effective July 24, 2016. that the composition of the Executive Committee but an absolute majority of the votes exercised • Issuance of shares 2 At the 2018 General Meeting of Shareholders, the Company and the Management Board and the combined was in favor of the proposal, then a second expressed its intent to propose to shareholders in 2019 the • Acquisitions, repurchases of shares, and any experience and expertise of their members meeting may be held. reappointment of Frans Muller for a term of four years, after the 2019 General Meeting of Shareholders. reduction in issued and outstanding capital should reflect the profile of the Company as In the second meeting, only an absolute majority • Allocation of duties within the Management it relates to nationality, age, education, gender of votes exercised, regardless of the number of Board and the adoption or amendment of the and professional background. shares represented at the meeting, is required to Rules of Procedure of the Management Board adopt the proposal. and the Executive Committee • Significant changes in the identity or the nature 1 As of January 28, 2019. of the Company or its enterprise Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 59 Corporate governance continued More detailed information on the Supervisory Conflict of interest Shares and shareholders’ rights Adoption of resolutions Board can be found in the Supervisory Board A member of the Supervisory Board is required Subject to certain exceptions provided by Dutch General Meeting of Shareholders report. The Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory to immediately report any potential conflict of law or our Articles of Association, resolutions are Ahold Delhaize’s shareholders exercise Board are available in the Governance section interest to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board passed by an absolute majority of votes cast their rights through annual and extraordinary of Ahold Delhaize’s public website at and provide all relevant information. In the event without a requirement for a quorum. General Meetings of Shareholders. The Company www.aholddelhaize.com. of a potential conflict of interest, the member of is required to convene an annual General Meeting Proposals submitted to the agenda by the Management Board concerned is required Appointment of Shareholders in the Netherlands each year, shareholders require an absolute majority to immediately report this to the Chairman of the The General Meeting of Shareholders can no later than six months after the end of the of votes cast at the annual General Meeting of Supervisory Board and to the other members of appoint, suspend or dismiss a Supervisory Board Company’s financial year. Extraordinary General Shareholders representing at least one-third of the Management Board and provide them with member by an absolute majority of votes cast, Meetings of Shareholders may be convened at any the issued shares. If this qualified majority is not all relevant information. upon a proposal made by the Supervisory Board. time by the Supervisory Board, the Management achieved but an absolute majority of the votes If another party makes the proposal, an absolute Should a conflict of interest arise, the Supervisory Board, or by one or more shareholders (and / or exercised was in favor of the proposal, then majority of votes cast, representing at least Board or the relevant Management Board holders of depository receipts) representing at a second meeting may be held. In the second one-third of the issued share capital, is required. member may not participate in the discussions least 10% of the issued share capital. meeting, an absolute majority of votes exercised If this qualified majority is not achieved but an and decision-making process on subjects or is required to adopt the proposal, regardless of The agenda for the annual General Meeting of absolute majority of the votes exercised was in transactions relating to the conflict of interest. the number of shares represented at the meeting Shareholders must contain certain matters as favor of the proposal, then a second meeting may (unless the law or our Articles of Association We will record any such transactions in the annual specified in Ahold Delhaize’s Articles of be held. In the second meeting, only an absolute provide otherwise). report for the relevant year, with reference to the Association and under Dutch law, including the majority of votes exercised, is required, conflict of interest and a confirmation that we adoption of our annual financial statements. The A resolution to dissolve the Company may regardless of the number of shares represented have complied with best practice provisions General Meeting of Shareholders is also entitled be adopted by the annual General Meeting at the meeting. 2.7.3 and 2.7.4 of the Dutch Corporate to vote on important decisions regarding Ahold of Shareholders following a proposal of the A Supervisory Board member is appointed for Governance Code. During 2018, no member Delhaize’s identity or character, including major Management Board made with the approval a four-year term and may be reappointed for of the Supervisory Board or the Management acquisitions and divestments. of the Supervisory Board. Any proposed another four-year period. The Supervisory Board Board had a conflict of interest that was of resolution to wind up the Company must be Shareholders (and / or holders of depository member may subsequently be reappointed for material significance to the Company. disclosed in the notice calling the annual receipts) are entitled to propose items for the a period of two years, which may be extended General Meeting of Shareholders at which In addition, no transactions between the agenda of the annual General Meeting of by, at most, two years. that proposal is to be considered. Company and legal or natural persons who Shareholders provided that they hold at least hold at least 10% of the shares in the Company 1% of the issued share capital or the shares occurred in 2018, corresponding to the best or depository receipts that they hold represent practice provision 2.7.5 of the Code. a market value of at least €50 million. Proposals for agenda items for the annual General Meeting of Shareholders must be submitted at least 60 days prior to the date of the meeting. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 60 Corporate governance continued Voting rights Cumulative preferred financing shares Cumulative preferred shares SCAD and the members of its board are Each common share entitles its holder to cast one All outstanding cumulative preferred financing In March 1989, the Company entered into an independent from the Company. As of February vote. Dutch law prescribes a record date to be shares have been issued to SAPFAA. Holders agreement with the Dutch foundation Stichting 26, 2019, the members of the board of SCAD are: set 28 days prior to the date of the annual General of depositary receipts can obtain proxies from Continuïteit Ahold Delhaize (SCAD, previously Name Principal or former occupation Meeting of Shareholders to determine whether SAPFAA. named Stichting Ahold Continuïteit), as amended W.G. van Hassel, Lawyer and former chairman a person may attend and exercise the rights and restated in April 1994, March 1997, chairman of Dutch Bar Association In accordance with its articles, the board relating to the annual General Meeting of December 2001 and December 2003 (the G.H.N.L. Former Chairman of of SAPFAA consists of three members: one Shareholders. Shareholders registered at that Option Agreement). The Option Agreement was van Woerkom Detailhandel Nederland A member, one B member and one C member. date are entitled to attend and to exercise their designed to, in accordance with the purpose The A member is appointed by the general J. van den Belt Former CFO Océ rights as shareholders in relation to the annual of SCAD under its articles, potentially exercise meeting of depositary receipt holders, the B B. Vree Former CEO APM General Meeting of Shareholders, regardless of a influence in the event of a public offer or a member is appointed by the Company and the Terminals Europe sale of shares after the record date. Shareholders potential change of control over the Company, C member is appointed by a joint resolution of the may be represented by written proxy. to safeguard the interests of the Company and A member and the B member. On February 26, For further details on Ahold Delhaize’s cumulative all stakeholders in the Company and to potentially We encourage participation in our General 2019, the members of the board of SAPFAA are: preferred shares, including restrictions on avert, to the best of its ability, influences that Meetings of Shareholders. We use Deutsche transfer, see Note 20 to the consolidated financial Member A: J.L. van der Giessen might conflict with those interests by affecting the Bank Trust Company Americas, the Depositary statements. The related documents are available Member B: C.W. de Monchy Company’s continuity, independence or identity. for the Company’s American Depositary Receipt on our public website at www.aholddelhaize.com. (ADR) facility, to enable ADR holders to exercise Member C: R. ter Haar, chairman Pursuant to the Option Agreement, SCAD has Issuance of additional shares their voting rights, which are represented by the been granted an option for no consideration to Ahold Delhaize pays a mandatory annual and preemptive rights common shares underlying the ADRs. acquire cumulative preferred shares from the dividend on cumulative preferred financing Shares may be issued following a resolution Company from time to time. After actively engaging Neither Ahold Delhaize nor any of its subsidiaries shares, which is calculated in accordance with by the General Meeting of Shareholders on a with its shareholders and other stakeholders, may cast a vote on any share they hold in the the provisions of article 39.4 of the Company’s proposal of the Management Board made with the Company agreed with SCAD in May 2018 Company. These shares are not taken into Articles of Association. For further details on the approval of the Supervisory Board. The to extend the Option Agreement for a period of account for the purpose of determining how cumulative preferred financing shares, including General Meeting of Shareholders may resolve to 15 years, effective December 15, 2018. Building on many shareholders are represented or how restrictions on transfer, and the related voting delegate this authority to the Management Board shareholder feedback, the Company has agreed much of the share capital is represented at the rights, see Note 22 to the consolidated financial for a period of time not exceeding five years. with SCAD on two additional commitments: General Meeting of Shareholders. statements. A resolution of the General Meeting of • Within six months after the option is exercised, Holders of depositary receipts of cumulative Shareholders to issue shares, or to authorize the the Company will call a shareholders meeting preferred financing shares may attend the Management Board to do so, is also subject to to discuss the situation with shareholders. General Meeting of Shareholders. The voting the approval of each class of shares whose rights rights on the underlying shares may be exercised • Within one year after the option is exercised, would be adversely affected by the proposed by the Stichting Administratiekantoor Preferente the Company will call a shareholders meeting issuance or delegation. Financierings Aandelen Ahold (SAPFAA), to vote on cancellation of the shares issued to SCAD; SCAD will not vote on its shares in On April 11, 2018, the General Meeting of a foundation organized under the laws of the relation to that matter. Shareholders approved a delegation of this Netherlands. authority to the Management Board, relating to the issuance and / or granting of rights to acquire Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 61 Corporate governance continued common shares up to a maximum of 10% of 1. Shareholders’ equity minus the payment November 13, 2018. The program is expected to The following table lists the shareholders on the issued share capital through October 11, required to make the acquisition is not less be completed before the end of 2019. record in the AFM register on February 26, 2019, 2019, and subject to the approval of the than the sum of paid-in and called-up capital that hold an interest of 3% or more in the share Major shareholders Supervisory Board. and any reserves required by Dutch law or capital of the Company1. Ahold Delhaize is not directly or indirectly owned Ahold Delhaize’s Articles of Association; and Upon the issuance of new common shares, or controlled by another corporation or by any • BlackRock, Inc – 5.01% shareholding (6.97% holders of Ahold Delhaize’s common shares 2. Ahold Delhaize and its subsidiaries would government. The Company does not know of any voting rights) disclosed on February 21, 2019 have a preemptive right to subscribe to common not, as a result, hold a number of shares arrangements that may, at a subsequent date, exceeding a total nominal value of 10% of • DeltaFort Beleggingen I B.V. – 10.82% shares in proportion to the total amount of their result in a change of control, except as described the issued share capital. shareholding (3.43% voting rights) disclosed existing holdings of Ahold Delhaize’s common under Cumulative preferred shares. on July 25, 20162 shares. According to the Company’s Articles of In line with the above, the Management Board Significant ownership of voting shares Association, this preemptive right does not apply has been authorized by the General Meeting • NN Group N.V. – 4.89% shareholding (2.54% According to the Dutch Financial Markets to any issuance of shares to associates. The of Shareholders on April 11, 2018, to acquire voting rights) disclosed on August 9, 20172 Supervision Act, any person or legal entity who, General Meeting of Shareholders may decide a number of shares in the Company. Such directly or indirectly, acquires or disposes of an • Stichting Administratiekantoor Preferente to restrict or exclude preemptive rights. The acquisition of shares, at the stock exchange interest in Ahold Delhaize’s capital or voting rights Financierings Aandelen Ahold – 15.88% General Meeting of Shareholders may also or otherwise, will, for common shares, take must immediately give written notice to the shareholding (5.43% voting rights) disclosed resolve to designate the Management Board place at a price between par value and 110% Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets on October 2, 20183 as the corporate body authorized to restrict of the opening price of the shares at Euronext (Autoriteit Financiële Markten or AFM) if the 1 In accordance with the filing requirements, the percentages or exclude preemptive rights for a period not Amsterdam by NYSE Euronext on the date of acquisition or disposal causes the percentage shown include both direct and indirect capital interests and exceeding five years. their acquisition. voting rights and both real and potential capital interests and of outstanding capital interest or voting rights held voting rights. Further details can be found at www.afm.nl. On April 11, 2018, the General Meeting of For cumulative preferred financing shares, this by that person or legal entity to reach, exceed 2 The interest on record for DeltaFort Beleggingen I B.V. and Shareholders delegated to the Management will take place at a price between 100% and 110% or fall below any of the following thresholds: NN Group N.V. includes the indirect and / or potential interest from depositary receipts, as well as the direct and real Board, subject to the approval of the Supervisory of the amount paid up (including share premium) 3% 5% 10% 15% 20% interest from common shares. Board, the authority to restrict or exclude the on the relevant shares. The authorization takes 3 SAPFAA holds all outstanding cumulative preferred financing 25% 30% 40% 50% 60% preemptive rights of holders of common shares into account the possibility of cancelling the shares and it issued corresponding depositary receipts to upon the issuance of common shares and / or repurchased shares. This authorization is valid 75% 95% investors that were filed under DeltaFort Beleggingen I B.V. and NN Group N.V. Therefore, in relation to the outstanding upon the granting of rights to subscribe for through October 11, 2019. Ahold Delhaize may cumulative preferred financing shares, disclosures are The obligation to notify the AFM also applies made by both SAPFAA (for the shares) and by DeltaFort common shares through October 11, 2019. acquire shares in its capital for no consideration Beleggingen I B.V. and NN Group N.V. (for the corresponding when the percentage of capital interest or voting or for the purpose of transferring these shares to depositary receipts). Repurchase by Ahold Delhaize rights referred to above changes as a result of associates through share plans or option plans, of its own shares a change in Ahold Delhaize’s total outstanding For further details on the number of outstanding without such authorization. The share buyback Ahold Delhaize may only acquire fully capital or voting rights. In addition, local rules shares, and the percentages of the issued share program of €2 billion that started on January 2, paid-up shares of any class in its capital for may apply to investors. capital they represent, see Note 20 to the 2018, was successfully completed on December a consideration following authorization by the consolidated financial statements. For details on 20, 2018. In total, 100,723,877 of the Company’s General Meeting of Shareholders and subject capital structure, listings, share performance and own shares were repurchased at an average price to the approval of the Supervisory Board dividend policy in relation to Ahold Delhaize’s of €19.86 per share. On January 2, 2019, the and certain provisions of Dutch law and the common shares, see Investors. Company commenced the €1 billion share Company’s Articles of Association, if: buyback program that was announced on Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 62 Corporate governance continued Articles of Association External independent auditor The information required by the Decree Article 10 • The information concerning compliance with the Our Articles of Association outline certain of the The General Meeting of Shareholders appoints EU Takeover Directive is included in this Dutch Corporate Governance Code, as required Company’s basic principles relating to corporate the external independent auditor. The Audit, Corporate governance section, in the Investors by article 3 of the Decree, can be found in the governance and organization. The current text Finance and Risk Committee recommends to section, as well as in the notes referred to in these section Compliance with the Dutch Corporate of the Articles of Association is available at the the Supervisory Board the external independent sections or included in the description of any Governance Code. Trade Register of the Chamber of Commerce auditor to be proposed for (re)appointment by relevant contract. • The information concerning Ahold Delhaize’s and Industry for Amsterdam and on our public the General Meeting of Shareholders. In addition, diversity policy, as required by article 3a website at www.aholddelhaize.com. the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee evaluates Compliance with Dutch Corporate sub d of the Decree, can be found in the The Articles of Association may be amended by and, where appropriate, recommends the Governance Code Management Board and Executive Committee replacement of the external independent auditor. and Supervisory Board sections of Corporate the General Meeting of Shareholders. A resolution Ahold Delhaize complies with the relevant to amend the Articles of Association may be On April 11, 2018, the General Meeting of principles and best practices of the Dutch governance as well as in the Supervisory adopted by an absolute majority of the votes cast Shareholders appointed Corporate Governance Code applicable to the Board report. upon a proposal of the Management Board. If PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. Company in 2018, as reported in the Governance • The information concerning Ahold Delhaize’s risk another party makes the proposal, an absolute as external independent auditor for the Company section. The Dutch Corporate Governance Code management and control frameworks relating to majority of votes cast representing at least for the financial year 2018. can be found at www.mccg.nl. the financial reporting process, as required by one-third of the issued share capital is required. article 3a sub a of the Decree, can be found in At the Extraordinary General Meeting of If this qualified majority is not achieved but an Decree Article 10 EU Shareholders on March 3, 2004, our shareholders the relevant section under How we manage risk. absolute majority of the votes is in favor of the Takeover Directive consented to apply the Dutch Corporate • The information regarding the functioning proposal, then a second meeting may be held. of Ahold Delhaize’s General Meeting of According to the Decree Article 10 EU Takeover Governance Code. Ahold Delhaize continues to In the second meeting, only an absolute majority Shareholders and the authority and rights of our Directive, we have to report on, among other seek ways to improve its corporate governance, of votes, regardless of the number of shares shareholders, as required by article 3a sub b of things, our capital structure; restrictions on voting including by measuring itself against international represented at the meeting, is required. the Decree, can be found in the relevant sections rights and the transfer of securities; significant best practice. The prior approval of a meeting of holders of shareholdings in Ahold Delhaize; the rules under Shares and shareholders’ rights. a particular class of shares is required for a governing the appointment and dismissal of Corporate Governance statement • The information regarding the composition and proposal to amend the Articles of Association members of the Management Board and the The Dutch Corporate Governance Code requires functioning of Ahold Delhaize’s Management that makes any change in the rights that vest Supervisory Board and the amendment of the companies to publish a statement concerning Board, Executive Committee and Supervisory in the holders of shares of that particular class. Articles of Association; the powers of the their approach to corporate governance and Board and its committees, as required by article Management Board (in particular the power to compliance with the Code. This is referred 3a sub c of the Decree, can be found in the Right of inquiry issue shares or to repurchase shares); significant to in article 2a of the decree on additional Management Board and Executive Committee The thresholds for shareholders to exercise the agreements to which Ahold Delhaize is a party requirements for management reports “Besluit and Supervisory Board sections included right of inquiry (“het enquêterecht”) are based on and which are put into effect, changed or inhoud bestuursverslag” last amended on in Corporate governance as well as in the article 2:346 sub clause 1 under c of the Dutch dissolved upon a change of control of Ahold January 1, 2018 (the Decree). The information Supervisory Board report. Civil Code, regardless of the current nominal Delhaize following a takeover bid; and any required to be included in this corporate • The information concerning the inclusion of the share capital of the Company. More information agreements between Ahold Delhaize and the governance statement as described in articles 3, information required by the Decree Article 10 EU on the nominal value of shares can be found members of the Management Board or 3a and 3b of the Decree, which are incorporated Takeover Directive, as required by article 3b of in Note 20 and Note 22 to the consolidated associates providing for compensation if their and repeated here by reference, can be found in the Decree, can be found in the section Decree financial statements. employment ceases because of a takeover bid. the following sections of this Annual Report: Article 10 EU Takeover Directive. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 63 Supervisory Board report Dear shareholder, the Company into its next phase. At the same Composition of the Supervisory Jan Hommen I am pleased to present our Supervisory Board time, we thank Dick Boer for his outstanding Board Chairman of the report for 2018. leadership and total dedication throughout his Ahold Delhaize’s Supervisory Board determines Supervisory Board 20-year career at Ahold and Ahold Delhaize. the number of its members. The Supervisory During 2018, the Supervisory Board fulfilled its Also in 2018, our Chairman, Mats Jansson, retired Board profile is published on Ahold Delhaize’s responsibilities to supervise and advise the from the Board. Mats did a great job in bringing public website at www.aholddelhaize.com and Management Board and oversee the activities Ahold and Delhaize together and he will always is updated regularly. and performance of the Company for the benefit be considered a friend to the Company. We also of all our stakeholders. In accordance with provision 2.1.5 of the Dutch thank Johnnie Thijs and Patrick de Maeseneire, Corporate Governance Code, Ahold Delhaize’s The year 2018 showed that the merger and who retired from the Board during the year, for diversity policy states that the composition of the integration of Ahold and Delhaize had created their active contributions to our Company. Supervisory Board and the combined experience a solid and efficient platform for growth. At the Throughout the second half of the year, we and expertise of its members should reflect the same time, the Company was able to maintain a thoroughly reviewed, discussed and approved profile of the Company as it relates to nationality, strong business performance and build a culture the refresh of Ahold Delhaize’s long-term strategy age, education, gender and professional of success, in the midst of a retail market presented to us by the Management Board, background. In addition, the composition of environment that is changing rapidly. Technology, resulting in the introduction of the Leading the Board, including its members’ combined new business models, eCommerce and social Together strategy. experience, expertise and independence, demography demand new skills and leadership should reflect the best fit for Ahold Delhaize’s at all levels of the Company. The Management Board provided us with profile and strategy. detailed information on the performance of the This also means we are moving into the next business as well as strategic and operational At this moment, two members of Ahold Delhaize’s phase of our governance. We reduced the developments, allowing us to focus on supporting Supervisory Board are female and seven number of members on our Supervisory Board, the Management Board in delivering a solid set members are male. We think that the size of our in line with our ambition as disclosed in 2016. of full year results. We are pleased to report that Board is appropriate, but we recognize there is In the next two years, we will need to replace four 2018 was a successful year, which has enabled room for improvement in its gender diversity and or five members of the Board due to retirements. us to lay down a solid foundation for the years to will continue to pay close attention to this aspect For that reason, we are proposing two new come. We thank the members of the Management in the selection process for new Supervisory members to our Board for approval by Board and the Executive Committee and all Board members. shareholders at this year’s annual General associates across the Company for their Meeting. We are looking for new leadership, new commitment and support. energy, new skills and more diversity to support the Company in the future. You can find more details on our 2018 focus areas and meetings in this Supervisory Board report. In 2018, the Board put particular focus on the leadership change from Dick Boer to Frans Muller On behalf of the Supervisory Board, with a view to the long-term success of the Jan Hommen Company. We are confident that Frans Muller, along with his leadership team, will be able to lead Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 64 Supervisory Board report continued Rules of Procedure Appointments and other changes Ongoing education Evaluation The Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Board After the annual General Meeting of Shareholders Throughout the year, all members of our The Supervisory Board conducted a selfstate that if a member is concurrently a member on April 11, 2018, Mats Jansson stepped down Supervisory Board visit several of our brands, assessment in early 2019. The Board assessed of another company’s supervisory board, the from the Supervisory Board and was succeeded operations and other segments of the Company its own performance as well as the performance main duties arising from and / or the number as Chairman of the Board by Jan Hommen. to gain greater familiarity with senior management of its committees and its individual members. and nature of any other supervisory board and to develop deeper knowledge of local The performance of the Management Board and Bill McEwan succeeded Jan Hommen in his memberships must not conflict or interfere with operations and business opportunities and its individual members was assessed during role as Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board. that individual’s duties as a member of Ahold challenges. In addition, multiple in-depth a private meeting. René Hooft Graafland was reappointed for his Delhaize’s Supervisory Board. workshops are held on various topics to allow second four-year term and Johnny Thijs and Overall, the Supervisory Board was positive the Supervisory Board members to gain greater Patrick de Maeseneire stepped down from the about the performance of the Management insight into Ahold Delhaize’s key priorities. Supervisory Board. Board. The Supervisory Board was satisfied with New members of our Supervisory Board attend a the performance of its committees and its multiple-day induction program at our businesses functioning as a board. The Supervisory Board in the U.S. and the Netherlands as well as at the concluded that it functions well as a team, in a Global Support Office in Zaandam. During the constructive and open spirit, and that its reduced onboarding program, new Supervisory Board size is more suitable for the Company. As part of members are briefed on their responsibilities and the outcome of the assessment, the Supervisory informed by senior management on the financial, Board will keep a focus on its own composition social, sustainability, human resources, in light of the rapid changes happening in the governance, legal and reporting affairs of our industry, to continue to comply with the highest Company and its businesses. standards of excellence and governance. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 65 Supervisory Board report continued Supervisory Board profile Experience Core competencies General business Social/ Name management International Retail Consumer goods Online / digital Finance employment Sustainability Disclosure Marketing IT Jan Hommen * * * * * * Bill McEwan * * * * * * * Jacques de Vaucleroy * * * * René Hooft Graafland * * * * * * Rob van den Bergh * * * * * Mary Ann Citrino * * * Dominique Leroy * * * * * * * * Mark McGrath * * Ben Noteboom * * * * * * Supervisory Board1 possible reappointment schedule Name Date of first appointment1 Reappointment for second and third term End of current appointment Jan Hommen October 1, 2013 2017 2021 Bill McEwan March 14, 20163 2020 Jacques de Vaucleroy March 14, 20163 2020 René Hooft Graafland April 16, 20142 2018 2022 Rob van den Bergh April 20, 2011 2015 2019 Mary Anne Citrino March 14, 2016 2020 Dominique Leroy March 14, 20163 2020 Mark McGrath April 23, 2008 2012 / 2016 2020 Ben Noteboom April 28, 2009 2013 / 2017 2021 1 In its decision to nominate its members for reappointment, the Supervisory Board will take into account their tenure in the Board of Directors of the former Delhaize Group, prior to their appointment to the Supervisory Board. 2 Effective January 1, 2015. 3 Effective July 24, 2016. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 66 Supervisory Board report continued Meetings of the Supervisory Board • January 2018: The Supervisory Board held a • April 2018: As a follow up to earlier deliberations, • June 2018: During a meeting, the Supervisory conference call to discuss and approve Ahold the Supervisory Board held a conference call Board received an update on trends in the U.S. During 2018, the Supervisory Board met on Delhaize’s Q4 / full year 2017 trading statement to discuss and approve the recommendation retail landscape. The Board also discussed 10 occasions, of which six meetings were held in and the upcoming date of expiration of the of the Governance and Nomination Committee an update on eCommerce in both the U.S. person in Europe and the United States and four option agreement with Stichting Continuïteit with respect to the appointment of Frans Muller and Europe and approved the investment to meetings by means of a conference call. The Ahold Delhaize. as President and Chief Executive Officer in expand bol.com’s fulfillment center. The Board Management Board attended these meetings • February 2018: During a two-day meeting, the relation to the retirement of Dick Boer, as well discussed the latest developments with respect and the other members of the Executive Supervisory Board discussed and approved as the changes in the Supervisory Board itself, to the Stop & Shop strategy, including the Committee, as well as other senior management, Ahold Delhaize’s Q4 / full year 2017 results, including the appointment of Jan Hommen as business case for the launch of a new and were regularly invited to be present. as well as the Annual Report 2017. In addition, the new Chairman. During another meeting, improved in-store experience in 21 stores in The Supervisory Board also held several private the Supervisory Board approved the dividend the Supervisory Board received updates on Hartford, Connecticut. The Supervisory Board meetings without other attendees to independently proposal. During the same meeting, the the strategic plans for Delhaize Belgium, Ahold discussed an update on the process leading to review certain issues and to discuss matters agenda and explanatory notes for the April Delhaize USA eCommerce (including an update a refresh of the Ahold Delhaize strategy, to be related to the functioning of the Management 2018 annual General Meeting of Shareholders on the purpose of Peapod Digital Labs) and Stop presented in November. Lastly, the Supervisory Board, Executive Committee and Supervisory were established. On the recommendation of & Shop. The Supervisory Board also received Board received a review on post investments, Board itself. The external independent auditor the Remuneration Committee, the Supervisory an IT update, as well as a separate update including store expansions, relocations attended the meeting of February 27, 2018, at Board resolved to approve the 2017 Executive on product integrity, and approved the 2018 and remodels. which the 2017 Annual Report and financial Committee Incentive Plan Payout, in addition DJSI targets. • August 2018: The Q2 2018 interim results were statements were recommended for adoption by to the approval of the salary review and • May 2018: During a conference call, the presented and subsequently approved by the annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The salary adjustment of the Executive Committee Supervisory Board discussed the extension of the Supervisory Board. The Board discussed external independent auditor also attended the members. In addition, the Supervisory Board the option agreement with Stichting Continuïteit the external and internal audit reports and the quarterly meetings, at which the financial results received an update on the following key Ahold Delhaize and approved its extension overall broadening and strengthening of the were discussed. strategic topics: (i) the repositioning of the Stop as well as two additional commitments to control environment. During its meetings throughout the year, the & Shop brand, (ii) the Ahold Delhaize USA incorporate feedback from shareholders. • September 2018: The Supervisory Board held Supervisory Board reviewed reports from its eCommerce strategy, and (iii) the Delhaize In addition, the Supervisory Board discussed a meeting in which the Board reviewed the various committees and regularly assessed the Belgium strategy. Lastly, the Supervisory Board reports from the external independent auditor opportunities for a refresh of the Company’s organizational strategy, talent management and was updated on Ahold Delhaize’s enterprise and internal auditor as well as the internal strategy. They participated in a structured succession planning. In addition, the Board risk management system, IT performance control report and the governance, risk and dialogue on the key trends recognized in the members have regular contact with associates systems, post-investment reviews and significant control report, including an update on the retail marketplace and which of these trends in various levels of management and, on two legal proceedings with potential impact on GDPR-readiness of the Company. The Board would provide opportunities for the Company occasions, made informal visits to individual the Company. also discussed and approved the Q1 2018 to accelerate growth. The Supervisory Board brands. These informal consultations ensure that Interim Report. In addition, the Supervisory received an update on the operating model of the Supervisory Board remains well-informed Board discussed an update on the new IFRS the Ahold Delhaize USA organization and was about the Company’s day-to-day operations. accounting standard for leases and received informed about plans for the Ahold Delhaize an update on cyber security. Europe organization. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 67 Supervisory Board report continued • November 2018: During a two-day meeting, Attendance Independence the Supervisory Board approved the Q3 2018 Except for a limited number of occasions, and for valid reasons, all Supervisory Board members The Supervisory Board confirms that during 2018 interim results, together with the Company’s attended all Supervisory Board meetings in 2018. In all cases, the Supervisory Board members who as well as on February 26, 2019, all Supervisory long-term business and finance plans, and were not able to attend made sure they were represented. All Supervisory Board members made Board members were independent within the annual budget plan for 2019. In addition, the adequate time available to give sufficient attention to matters concerning Ahold Delhaize. meaning of provision 2.1.10 of the Dutch Supervisory Board discussed reports from the Governance & Sustainability & Corporate Governance Code. external independent auditor and internal auditor Supervisory Audit, Finance & Nomination Remuneration Innovation as well as the internal control report and the Board Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Remuneration governance, risk and control report. Lastly, the No. of No. of No. of No. of No. of No. of No. of No. of No. of No. of meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings The annual remuneration of the members of the presentations for the upcoming Capital Markets Board attendance held attended held attended held attended held attended held attended Day event were discussed. Supervisory Board was determined by the Jan Hommen 10 10 4 4 1 4 4 2 2 extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders • Throughout the year 2018, the Supervisory Bill McEwan 10 10 5 5 2 2 on March 14, 2016. Remuneration is subject to Board visited multiple stores in Europe and Jacques de Vaucleroy 10 10 4 4 3 3 1 1 annual review by the Supervisory Board. the United States. René Hooft Graafland 10 10 4 4 1 1 Chairman Supervisory Board €220,000 Rob van den Bergh 10 10 5 5 2 2 Vice Chairman (and member Mary Anne Citrino 10 7 4 3 1 1 of the presidium) €180,000 Dominique Leroy 10 8 1 1 2 1 Vice Chairman €125,000 Ben Noteboom 10 10 3 3 5 5 1 1 Member Supervisory Board €90,000 Mark McGrath 10 9 4 4 2 2 1 1 Chairman Audit, Finance Mats Jansson 4 1 2 2 and Risk Committee €30,000 Johnny Thijs 4 2 2 2 Member Audit, Finance Patrick de Maeseneire 4 3 1 0 and Risk Committee €15,000 1 Attendance in his capacity as Chairman of the Supervisory Board. Chairman Other Committee €20,000 Member Other Committee €12,500 Travel compensation intercontinental per round trip €7,500 Travel compensation continental per round trip €2,500 In the execution of the remuneration of the Supervisory Board members, the Company has given consideration to the changes made in 2018 in the composition and the responsibilities of the Supervisory Board and its related committees. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 68 Supervisory Board report continued Committees of the Supervisory Board The Audit, Finance and Risk Committee The Audit, Finance and Risk Committee also determines how the external independent auditor discussed items including: The Supervisory Board has four committees to which certain tasks are assigned. The committees should be involved in the content and publication have advisory powers and provide the Supervisory Board with regular updates on their meetings. • Quarterly interim reports of financial reports other than the financial The composition of the committees has changed over 2018 and is detailed in the following table. • Ahold Delhaize’s 2017 Annual Report including statements. The Management Board and the Governance and Sustainability and Audit, Finance and Risk Committee report to the the financial statements Audit, Finance and Nomination Remuneration Innovation Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Supervisory Board annually on their cooperation • Review and approval of the internal audit plan Jan Hommen (Chairman) Chairman Member with the external independent auditor, including • Lease accounting IFRS 16 Bill McEwan (Vice Chairman) Chairman Member the auditor’s independence. The Supervisory • Management report on internal controls over Jacques de Vaucleroy Board takes these reports into account when financial reporting (Vice Chairman) Member Member deciding on the nomination for the appointment of an external independent auditor that is submitted • The findings in the internal audit letters and René Hooft Graafland Chairman Member to the General Meeting of Shareholders. the external independent auditor’s findings Rob van den Bergh Member Chairman in relation to the internal controls over Mary Anne Citrino Member Member In 2018, the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee financial reporting Dominique Leroy Member Member held two meetings in person, and two meetings • 2017 audit findings financial statements Mark McGrath Member Member via conference calls. The attendance rate of the Board members of this Committee was 87%. • The Company’s finance structure Ben Noteboom Member Member Throughout the year, the Audit, Finance and Risk • Treasury Audit, Finance and Risk Committee Committee closely monitored the financial closing • Taxation, including the accounting The Audit, Finance and Risk Committee assists the Supervisory Board in its responsibility to oversee process and reviewed the publication of quarterly for tax reforms Ahold Delhaize’s financing, financial statements, financial reporting process and system of internal results. Updates on internal controls were • Guarantees business controls and risk management. The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief provided during all Committee meetings. The Audit, Finance and Risk Committee was informed • Self-insurance programs Legal Officer, Senior Vice President Internal Audit, Senior Vice President Accounting, Reporting, Risk & Controls and representatives of the external independent auditor are invited to, and attend, regularly on compliance and reviewed and • Recognition of vendor allowances the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee meetings. received regular updates on the Company’s • Impairment testing of goodwill whistleblower programs. • Employee benefits (including pensions and multi-employer pension plans) measurement and disclosure • Appointment of the external independent auditor • Ahold Delhaize Code of Ethics • Compliance, fraud and safety matters • Global Data Protection Regulation Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 69 Supervisory Board report continued The Audit, Finance and Risk Committee and The Committee also discussed the changes See Remuneration for more information on our The Supervisory Board would like to thank Mats the Chairman of the Audit, Finance and Risk in the retail industry and business models remuneration policy, which aims to help us Jansson, Johnny Thijs and Patrick de Maeseneire Committee also held private meetings together requiring new types of leadership and skills in attract, motivate and retain the best-qualified for their many contributions to the Supervisory with the Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice our Boards and management layers. In reviewing workforce, in a cost-effective way. Board and to the Company. President Internal Audit and external the composition of the Supervisory Board, the Sustainability and Innovation Committee The Supervisory Board would also like to thank independent auditor. Committee concluded that additional knowledge During the course of 2018, the Sustainability Ahold Delhaize’s shareholders for their continued of retail, eCommerce and digitalization are The Supervisory Board has determined that René and Innovation Committee held two meetings in support and trust in the Company and its welcome. Two new board members with Hooft Graafland, Mary Ann Citrino and Jacques person, both of which the Chief Executive Officer management team. Finally, the Board would like knowledge and experience in these areas are de Vaucleroy are “Audit Committee Financial was invited to attend. Since June 2018, the to express its gratitude for the continued hard work being proposed by the Supervisory Board for Experts” within the meaning of the Dutch Sustainability and Innovation Committee has and commitment of the Management Board and approval by shareholders at this year’s annual Corporate Governance Code, provision 2.1.4. comprised all members of the Supervisory Board, all associates during 2018. General Meeting. given the importance of embedding sustainability Governance and Nomination Committee Supervisory Board In addition, the Committee carefully deliberated and technology in all activities of the Company. In 2018, the Governance and Nomination Zaandam, the Netherlands on the extension of the option agreement with The attendance rate of the Board members of this February 26, 2019 Committee held three meetings in person and Stichting Continuïteit Ahold Delhaize, taking into Committee was 92%. The Committee’s main one via conference call, all of which the Chief account the interest of all stakeholders. The areas of focus were Ahold Delhaize’s Sustainable Executive Officer was invited to attend. Committee was also involved in key organizational Retailing and eCommerce strategies. In addition, The attendance rate of the Board members and management changes, as well as other technology, robotics, digitalization and of this Committee was 100%. The Committee’s governance matters. personalization data analytics were addressed main area of focus was moving the Company in the meetings. Remuneration Committee into the next phase of its governance, including In 2018, the Remuneration Committee held four Conclusion the transition in leadership of the Company, the meetings in person and one via conference call, The Supervisory Board is of the opinion that transition of the Chairman’s position and the all of which the Chief Executive Officer was during the year 2018, its composition, mix and downsizing of the Supervisory Board. invited to attend. The attendance rate of the depth of available expertise; working processes; Board members of this Committee was 100%. level and frequency of engagement across During the meetings, the Committee discussed all prominent Company activities; and access Frans Muller’s new compensation package and to all necessary and relevant information and Dick Boer’s retirement package. The Committee the Company’s management and staff were prepared a proposal for the Supervisory Board satisfactory and enabled it to carry out its duties for an adjustment of the remuneration policy for towards all the Company’s stakeholders. the Management Board, to be adopted by the General Meeting of Shareholders in 2019. In addition, the Remuneration Committee prepared proposals for the individual remuneration of members of the Management Board. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 70 Remuneration Dear shareholder, As discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, By introducing key annual strategic imperatives Bill McEwan I am pleased to present our 2018 Remuneration following the successful finalization of our to our short-term incentive plan and an earnings Chairman of the report. As one of the world’s leading food retail merger and integration, we took the opportunity per share growth measure to our long-term Remuneration groups, Ahold Delhaize and its brands employ to revisit and refresh our strategy. On November incentive plan, our Remuneration Policy will be Committee of the over 372,000 associates in nine countries. In 13, 2018, we introduced our Leading Together more closely tied to performance on our new Supervisory Board determining the employment conditions of their strategy at an Ahold Delhaize Capital strategy. The Policy will be brought forward associates, our brands set compensation and Markets Day. for shareholder approval at the annual General benefits levels in line with job level and local Meeting of Shareholders on April 10, 2019, On the basis of this, the Remuneration market practices and regularly review and is outlined in more detail in the shareholder Committee reviewed our Remuneration Policy remuneration practices, taking into account circular. to ensure that it was still aligned to support the market dynamics and economic conditions. strategy and long-term growth of the Company, For the majority of associates, remuneration Our remuneration policy was prepared in the needs of all internal and external is based on collective bargaining agreements accordance with the Dutch Corporate stakeholders, and our commitment to making structured primarily as fixed annual salaries or Governance Code and adopted by the General a sustainable contribution to society. The hourly wages. In addition, store managers and Meeting of Shareholders. The remuneration Remuneration Committee also conducted general management associates are eligible policy is based on our commitment to the key interviews with each of the Management Board to receive an annual performance-based principle of fair and equitable treatment of all members on Management Board remuneration bonus. Associates in senior management associates and aligned to support our strategy and its link to our strategy. positions are eligible for performance-based and long-term growth. During the past year, annual bonuses as well as Ahold Delhaize Following this thorough review, the Supervisory the Management Board’s remuneration performance share grants that are linked to the Board proposes that the Company’s was implemented in accordance with our long-term goals of the Company. Remuneration Policy be amended, effective Remuneration Policy. 2019, in connection with the developments in The Supervisory Board’s Remuneration our markets and the introduction of the Leading Committee closely monitors developments in Together strategy. We believe that the proposed the global, regional and local labor markets amended Remuneration Policy reflects even and takes these into account when making stronger alignment with the interests of all our recommendations on the Management Board stakeholders. compensation to the Supervisory Board for consideration and approval. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 71 Remuneration continued The following table shows the pay ratio of the We have calculated the pay ratio between the Therefore, to put Ahold Delhaize’s pay ratios The Supervisory Board will continue to Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, total remuneration of the respective Management into perspective, the graph illustrates Ahold monitor the development of pay ratios both Chief Executive Officer Ahold Delhaize USA Board members and the average remuneration of Delhaize’s position compared to its peers in the within the Company and in comparison with and Chief Executive Officer Ahold Delhaize all associates across the group over 2016, 2017 European and U.S. markets as well as the AEX the peer group. Europe and Indonesia compared to the and 2018 to convey the year-over-year changes. companies in the peer group. The ratios I look forward to presenting our proposed average remuneration of all Ahold Delhaize The average remuneration of all associates is mentioned in the table and the graph are derived remuneration policy as well as this Remuneration associates. calculated as the total labor costs (see Note 8 from the publicly disclosed 2017 annual reports report for discussion with all our shareholders Pay ratio 2018 2017 2016 to the consolidated financial statements) divided of the respective companies. For comparison at our upcoming annual General Meeting of CEO1 124 114 119 by the number of associates on an FTE basis purposes, the ratios have been calculated using Shareholders on April 10, 2019. CFO 71 71 71 (see Five-year overview). The average the same methodology as used for Ahold remuneration of all associates amounted to Delhaize’s pay ratio. Bill McEwan CEO Ahold Delhaize USA 2 90 74 – €40,225 for 2017 and €40,074 for 2018. The CEO Ahold Delhaize Pay ratio Ahold Delhaize CEO compared to total compensation of the CEO, CFO, CEO pay ratios of other CEOs in the peer group Europe and Indonesia3 – – – Ahold Delhaize USA and CEO Ahold Delhaize (2017 figures) 1 For 2018, CEO refers to Frans Muller. In order to reflect a Europe and Indonesia can be found in Note 31 Average full year remuneration, the 2018 remuneration comprises to the consolidated financial statements. Ahold Average European Average Average full the remuneration up to July 1, 2018, received in his Delhaize AEX peers peers U.S. peers peer group capacity as Deputy CEO and from July 1, 2018, received in his capacity as CEO. For 2017 and 2016, CEO refers to As set forth in the Remuneration Policy, 114 127 191 295 204 Dick Boer. the total compensation of our Management 89.8% 59.7% 38.6% 55.9% 2 Since the CEO Ahold Delhaize USA joined the Company Board members is positioned around the on July 24, 2016, full year numbers for 2016 are not available. median level of the peer group we’ve selected The graph illustrates Ahold Delhaize’s position 3 Since the CEO Ahold Delhaize Europe and Indonesia was for benchmarking (see page 72). The following versus the labor market peer group as defined appointed on April 11, 2018, full year numbers for 2016, table illustrates the pay ratio of our CEO in the Remuneration Policy. 2017 and 2018 are not available. compared to the pay ratios of other CEOs in the peer group. It is important to note that pay ratios across AEX European U.S. peers peers industries are impacted by the different mix 0 200 300 400 of functions from one industry to another. Even within the same industry, comparing pay ratios is challenging due to different market conditions (a mix of highand low-paying countries). Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 72 Remuneration continued Ahold Delhaize’s remuneration policy Remuneration policy In line with our overall remuneration philosophy, Market competitive pay was prepared in accordance with the Management Board’s Total Direct The competitiveness of the Management Remuneration philosophy Compensation is structured and more heavily Board remuneration is benchmarked annually the Dutch Corporate Governance Ahold Delhaize’s remuneration policy is aligned weighted on variable annual and long-term against a labor market peer group that reflects Code. It was adopted at the General with the Company’s strategy and supports a incentives tied to the realization of financial the Company’s geographic operating areas strong performance culture. Our remuneration Meeting of Shareholders on April 19, and business performance criteria. These and the markets most relevant in relation to the policy aims at attracting, motivating and retaining 2016. The remuneration policy the best-qualified talent. performance criteria are a cornerstone of the recruitment and retention of top management. became effective on July 24, 2016, Company’s strategy. Since Ahold Delhaize is a Dutch-headquartered Management Board remuneration policy company, the AEX market practice in the the first calendar day after the The Supervisory Board designed the Management The annual cash incentive is focused on the Netherlands is included. The peer group consists merger of Ahold and Delhaize was Board’s remuneration policy to align with the key financial metrics of a retail organization: of 18 companies, including peer companies finalized. An individual exception sales growth, underlying operating margin and Company’s strategy and to support our pay-forin Europe and the United States as well as operating cash flow. Our goal is to expand market to the remuneration policy was performance culture, while aiming to be effective, AEX-listed companies. share, while at the same time focusing on margins adopted at the General Meeting transparent and simple. While developing the to increase profitability and managing capital European peers U.S. peers AEX remuneration policy, we conducted scenario of Shareholders on April 12, 2017. spending and expenses prudently to secure Tesco Kroger Unilever analyses to determine the risks to which variable strong and sustainable cash flow. Carrefour Costco Philips remuneration may expose the Company. The long-term incentive is measured against (i) Metro Cash & Carry Target Heineken The basic elements of the Total Direct our internal measure on Return on Capital (RoC), Casino Guichard Walgreen Randstad Compensation provided to Management Board (ii) our external measure of the Company’s share Perrachon Boots members are (1) a base salary, (2) an annual performance relative to that of its peers: Total Alliance cash incentive and (3) a long-term equity-based Shareholder Return (TSR) and (iii) the Company’s J Sainsbury Best Buy Akzo Nobel program. In addition to the Total Direct contribution to society through sustainability W M Morrison Lowe’s Relx Compensation, members of the Management objectives. Performance for our long-term Companies Board are offered pensions and additional incentives is measured over a revolving threearrangements in accordance with local practices. year period. In anticipation of potential changes to the The structure of our remuneration policy labor market peer group due to delisting, aligns the focus of the Management Board with mergers or other extraordinary circumstances, the interests of the Company’s shareholders, the Supervisory Board has the discretion to our local communities and society at large. substitute comparable companies. In general, Compensation and awards are tied to and geographical composition leads in the dependent on the delivery of our strategy determination of a replacement company: in a responsible and sustainable way. for example, if a U.S.-based company drops out, it is replaced by another U.S.-based company. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 73 Remuneration continued The composition (risk profile) of the Total Direct Annual cash incentive plan: In line with market practice, the target value of the Shares that will vest as % Compensation levels is also taken into account Executive Committee Incentive Plan long-term incentives granted under the program Company ranking of originally granted amount when benchmarking base salary levels. The The Management Board members participate differs by role. For the CEO, the target value is Ranking 1 175% target Total Direct Compensation level is typically in the Executive Committee Incentive Plan (EIP). 235% of base salary; for the Deputy CEO and Ranking 2 150% around the median, with base salary levels The EIP is an annual cash incentive plan CEO Ahold Delhaize USA, the target value is Ranking 3 125% slightly below the median and long-term that employs three equally weighted financial 200% of base salary; for the CFO, the target value Ranking 4 110% incentives at the higher end of the market to measures: sales growth (30%), underlying is 175% of base salary; and for the CEO Ahold Ranking 5 100% support the pay-for-performance culture and operating margin (30%) and operating cash flow Delhaize Europe and Indonesia the target value Ranking 6 80% long-term focus. (30%), as well as personal objectives (10%). is 150% of base salary. Ranking 7 50% The at-target payout as a percentage of base An individual exception to the remuneration policy The total GRO award is comprised of three Ranking 8-14 0% salary is 100%, contingent on full achievement of the Management Board applies for the CEO portions of shares, linked to RoC, TSR and of the objectives, with a cap at 150% of the Ahold Delhaize USA (Kevin Holt). The Supervisory sustainability targets, respectively. TSR performance peer group base salary in the event of above-target Board determines the remuneration for the Tesco Kroger performance. Linked to RoC CEO Ahold Delhaize USA on the basis of a local Of the total GRO award, the first 40% is Carrefour Costco reference market, the U.S. retail labor market Long-term equity-based program: linked to a three-year RoC target. Dependent Metro Cash & Carry Target reference group. Global Reward Opportunity on performance, the number of shares that Casino Guichard Walgreen Boots Alliance The Management Board members participate Base salary eventually vest may range between zero and Perrachon in the Company’s long-term incentive program: The level of the Management Board members’ a maximum of 150% of the number of shares J Sainsbury Best Buy Global Reward Opportunity (GRO). Under the base salary is derived from the benchmarking granted. GRO program, shares are granted through W M Morrison Lowe’s Companies of Total Direct Compensation. Adjustment of a three-year program. The vesting of these Linked to TSR Walmart the base salary is at the discretion of the performance shares is subject to performance Another 40% of the total GRO award is linked Supervisory Board. over a three-year period. The GRO program to TSR (share price growth and dividends paid In anticipation of potential changes to the employs two financial measures: RoC (40%) over the performance period), with performance performance peer group due to delisting, and TSR (40%). In addition, a non-financial at vesting benchmarked against the TSR mergers or other extraordinary circumstances, performance measure (20%) related to performance of a peer group. The number the Supervisory Board has the discretion to Sustainable Retailing targets is included. of shares that vest depends on the Company’s include substitute comparable companies. relative ranking in the peer group. An independent external adviser determines the ranking based on TSR performance. No shares will vest to Management Board members if the Company ranks below the seventh position in the performance peer group. The table below indicates the percentage of performance shares that vests based on the Company’s ranking. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 74 Remuneration continued Linked to Sustainable Retailing Claw-back In addition, Management Board members receive (Service) Agreements For the remaining 20% of the total GRO award, A claw-back provision is applicable to the a gross (age-dependent) pension allowance The term of appointment for all Management the performance at vesting is measured against Management Board members’ annual cash and can choose to participate in a Net Pension Board members is four years. If the Company Sustainable Retailing targets. This measure incentive plan (EIP) as well as the long-term Arrangement by investing the net (after tax) terminates the (service) agreement of any relates to the Company’s Sustainable Retailing equity incentive program (GRO). amount. The Net Pension Arrangement is member of the Management Board, the strategic ambitions. The targets set under this identical to that of all other associates of the severance payment is limited to one year’s base Pensions and other contract terms non-financial performance measure are both Company in the Netherlands whose pensionable salary. The agreement may be terminated by the Pension qualitative and quantitative. Dependent on salary exceeds the cap. Participation in this Company with a notice period of 12 months and All existing pension arrangements in the performance, the number of shares that are able Net Pension Arrangement is voluntarily. by the Management Board member with a notice Netherlands have been brought in line with to vest may range between zero and a maximum period of six months. the applicable fiscal pension regulations. The Members of the Management Board working on of 150% of the number of shares granted. pension plan for Management Board members is a non-Dutch contract are offered pension plans Future outlook Shareholding requirements calculated similarly to that of all other associates in line with local practices. We will propose to the General Meeting of and ownership guidelines of the Company in the Netherlands and is Shareholders that the Company’s remuneration Loans Management Board members must retain the referred to as a defined benefit plan, based policy be amended in connection with the Ahold Delhaize does not provide loans or shares awarded under the GRO program for a on career average salary. The retirement age developments in the market and the introduction advances to members of the Management Board. period of at least five years from the grant date. (in 2018) is 68. The pensionable salary is capped of the Leading Together strategy presented Nor does the Company issue guarantees to the The sale of a portion of the shares is permissible at around €100,000 (2018: €100,546). Each at the Company’s 2018 Capital Markets day. benefit of members of the Management Board. to finance taxes due at the date of vesting. All Management Board member working on a Dutch The proposed remuneration policy is outlined members of the Management Board are required contract pays a pension premium contribution Additional arrangements in the shareholder circular. to hold shares in the Company with a value equal identical to that of all other Company associates In addition to the Management Board to at least 150% of their base salary. The holding in the Netherlands. members’ remuneration, a number of additional may accumulate by retaining all after-tax shares arrangements apply. These include expense from the GRO program and does not require and relocation allowances, medical and personal share purchases. accident insurance, use of company cars and, if applicable, expatriate allowances, which apply to other senior associates and are in line with local market practice. In addition, third-party tax services will be provided to ensure compliance with the relevant legislative requirements. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 75 Remuneration continued 2018 Management Board Base salary 2018 Annual cash incentive plan: EIP Actual EIP Remuneration thousands The EIP uses three equally weighted financial thousands measures: sales growth (30%), underlying The Management Board remuneration for 2018 €1,040 €1,196 operating margin (30%) and operating cash CEO1 €991 is in accordance with the Management Board CEO1 €1,037 €1,013 flow (30%). In addition, personal objectives €1,271 remuneration policy. This policy was adopted (10%) are included. at the General Meeting of Shareholders on €747 €830 Ahold Delhaize does not disclose the actual CFO €699 April 19, 2016, and an individual exception was CFO €732 €773 adopted at the General Meeting of Shareholders €675 targets per performance measure, as this is on April 12, 2017. €856 considered to be commercially sensitive CEO €972 CEO information. AD €820 AD €858 2018 Base salary USA2,3 USA2,6 €252 €329 The base salaries of members of the 2018 EIP Performance measures CEO €508 Management Board were adjusted effective CEO €457 Europe January 2018, and for the newly appointed Europe €329 Sales growth 30% IDN3 IDN4 Operating margin CEO effective July 1, 2018, at the time of his 0 350 700 1,050 1,400 0 400 800 1,200 30% appointment as CEO. Operating cash flow 30% Actual EIP 20184,5 Base salary 2018 Actual EIP 2017 Base salary 2017 Personal 10% Actual EIP 2016 Base salary 2016 1 For 2018, CEO refers to Frans Muller. In order to reflect a full 1 For 2018, CEO refers to Frans Muller. In order to reflect a full year remuneration, the 2018 remuneration comprises the year remuneration, the 2018 remuneration comprises the remuneration up to July 1, 2018, received in his capacity as remuneration up to July 1, 2018, received in his capacity as Deputy CEO and from July 1, 2018, received in his capacity Deputy CEO and from July 1, 2018, received in his capacity as CEO. For 2017 and 2016, CEO refers to Dick Boer. The at-target payout as a percentage of base as CEO. For 2017 and 2016, CEO refers to Dick Boer. salary is 100%, contingent on full achievement 2 For the member appointed to the Management Board in 2016, 2 For the member appointed to the Management Board in the 2016 EIP reflects a partial year. 2016, the 2016 base salary reflects a partial year. of the objectives, with a cap at 150% of the base 3 For the member appointed to the Management Board in 2018, 3 The CEO Ahold Delhaize USA’s salary has been converted salary in the event of above-target performance. the 2018 EIP reflects a partial year. from U.S. dollars into euros, for 2018 using the 2018 year-todate average $ / € exchange rate of 0.8476, for 2017 using 4 The overall 2018 financial performance multiplier was 111%. the 2017 year-to-date average $ / € exchange rate of 0.8868 The individual EIP amounts also include the component linked and for 2016 using the 2016 year-to-date average $ / € to individual performance. exchange rate of 0.9125. 5 2018 EIP represents accrued annual cash incentives to be 4 For the member appointed to the Management Board in paid in 2019 and subject to shareholder approval of the 2018, the 2018 base salary reflects a partial year. financial statements. 6 The EIP of the CEO Ahold Delhaize USA has been converted from U.S. dollars into euros, for 2018 using the 2018 year-todate average $ / € exchange rate of 0.8476, for 2017 using the 2017 year-to-date average $ / € exchange rate of 0.8868 and for 2016 using the 2016 year-to-date average $ / € exchange rate of 0.9125. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 76 Remuneration continued 2018 Long-term equity-based program: GRO 2018 GRO share grant calculation – Example CEO The Management Board members participate in Ahold Delhaize’s long-term equity-based incentive Number of shares At-target share grant At-target share grant Award value granted (award value program, GRO. The 2018 GRO award was made the day after the 2018 annual General Meeting of (% of base salary) (% of base salary) (base salary1 divided by six-month Shareholders. up to July 1, 2018 from July 1, 2018 at-target grant %) average share price) RoC performance As mentioned, the vesting of the GRO performance shares is subject to performance over a period of shares 80% 94% 906,664 51,408 three years and the program employs two financial measures: RoC (40%) and TSR (40%). In addition, a non-financial performance measure (20%) is included that relates to Sustainable Retailing targets. TSR performance shares 80% 94% 906,664 51,408 Sustainable retailing performance is measured for this purpose on the basis of both an external and Sustainability an internal target. The Dow Jones Sustainability Index (the external target) measures how the Company performance shares 40% 47% 453,332 25,704 performs on sustainability against peers in the sector. The percentage of healthy own-brand food sales 200% 235% 2,266,660 128,520 as a proportion of total own-brand food sales (the internal target) is the measure we use to drive performance in pursuit of our company objective to facilitate healthier eating. 1 For 2018, CEO refers to Frans Muller. In order to reflect the full year grant, the 2018 base salary and GRO at-target grant comprises the remuneration up to July 1, 2018, received in his capacity as Deputy CEO, and from July 1, 2018, received in his 2018 GRO grant capacity as CEO. Table assumes a base salary of €1,027,472 and an at-target share grant percentage of 200% for the period up to July 1, 2018, and a base salary of €1,053,159 and an at-target share grant percentage of 235% for the period from July 1, 2018. To calculate the number of shares to be granted, the at-target value of the award is divided by the The six-month average share price applied is €17.64. six-month average share price preceding the annual award date, calculated over the fourth quarter of 2017 and the first quarter of 2018. Scenario analyses are prepared regularly to estimate the possible 2018 GRO share grant calculation – Example CFO Number of shares future payout levels. At-target Award value granted (award value share grant (base salary1 divided by six-month At-target grant and maximum vesting performance shares (% of base salary) at-target grant %) average share price) Performance shares RoC performance shares 70% 522,829 29,644 RoC TSR Sustainability Total at-target Total maximum (40%) (40%) (20%) grant vesting TSR performance shares 70% 522,829 29,644 CEO 94% 94% 47% 235% 376% Sustainability CFO 70% 70% 35% 175% 280% performance shares 35% 261,415 14,822 CEO Ahold 175% 1,307,073 74,110 Delhaize USA 80% 80% 40% 200% 320% 1 Table assumes a base salary of €746,899 and six-month average share price of €17.64. CEO Ahold Delhaize Europe and Indonesia 60% 60% 30% 150% 240% All percentages constitute a percentage of base salary. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 77 How we manage risk In order to successfully execute Governance, Risk Management & Compliance Framework Risk management and our Leading Together strategy, we internal control must be agile and entrepreneurial Enterprise risk management so that we can respond quickly Values, Strategy Ahold Delhaize’s enterprise risk management and effectively to rapid changes (ERM) program is designed to provide executive & Objectives management with an understanding of the in the retail landscape and take Company’s key strategic and business risks and advantage of business opportunities associated risk management practices. Within whenever and wherever they exist. Leadership & each business, management identifies the Monitor & Assurance Identify & Manage Risk Meeting these challenges requires us to take Risk Culture principal risks to the achievement of business risks in a responsible way. Having a proactive objectives and the actions needed to mitigate approach to risk management that is embedded these risks. Senior brand and global executives in our business processes benefits our decisionreview these risks and the related mitigation making and helps us create and preserve value. Policies & Procedures practices twice per year, incorporating them into the development of the Company’s strategy and We strive for a culture of transparency in which the regular Business Planning and Performance risks are identified and addressed proactively. process. Risk management is an integral part of responsible leadership. Their observations are aggregated into an The global GRC committee is comprised of In addition, the GRC committee engages with ERM report that is presented to the Management Ahold Delhaize’s Chief Legal Officer (Chairman), senior management and advises the Management Board and Supervisory Board, as required by Governance, Risk Management the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Board and Executive Committee regarding the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. Ahold and Compliance Officer, along with other members of local and strategic, operational, financial and compliance Delhaize’s ERM program drives the formation At Ahold Delhaize, we operate a Governance, global management responsible for our related matters. A similar GRC structure and of policies, procedures and controls, the scope Risk Management and Compliance (GRC) governance, risk management, accounting and committee exists within each of the brands, which of internal audit activities, and the business Framework that allows us to effectively identify, reporting, compliance and assurance functions. operates in parallel to the global GRC process. planning and performance process. assess and manage our risks. This GRC This committee is responsible for the implementation Framework consists of global policies and During 2018, the GRC Committee met on a and monitoring of the Company’s governance, controls as well as a GRC Committee structure quarterly basis, and completed an update of our risk management and compliance processes. that functions as a forum for addressing relevant global policies. We also implemented an annual risks across the functional areas of our Company. review process for all global policies and related controls to ensure that they remain current and are able to effectively mitigate risks, to support meaningful compliance and the successful execution of our strategy. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 78 How we manage risk continued Risk appetite Financial Scenario Associated principal risks Description Our risk appetite is defined by our Supervisory Ahold Delhaize has a prudent financial strategy Competitive • Competitive A sustained failure to effectively design and Board and Management Board and is integrated focused on maintaining our solid investmentpressure environment execute our strategic promises could lead to an into the businesses through our strategy, global grade credit rating. We are averse to any risks inability to adapt to new market dynamics driven policies, procedures, controls and budgets. that could jeopardize the integrity of our financial by consumer behaviors and competition, and Our appetite for each risk is determined by reporting. Our financial risk management, risk result in a loss of market share to new market considering key opportunities and potential appetite and sensitivities are further detailed in entrants or new shopping channels. threats to achieving our strategic objectives Note 30 of the consolidated financial statements. and can be categorized as follows: These factors may have a material adverse Compliance effect on the Company’s financial position, Strategic At Ahold Delhaize, an essential part of our results of operations and liquidity. We use fact-based analysis that derives insights strategic framework is behaving according to from our different markets and brands to support our values. One of our values is “integrity,” which Information • Business continuity In the event of a successful data breach, the our strategic decision-making process in a way means that the Company and all its associates security, and / • Information security and Company could be subject to material monetary that considers the financial, economic, social and do the right thing to earn customers’ trust. or data breach data privacy penalties, loss of customers and damage to our political developments that may impact our ability We strive for full compliance with laws and and business corporate reputation; it could also lead to to achieve our strategic objectives. Generally, regulations and with our policies and procedures disruption potential litigation. the Company’s strategic risk appetite is between everywhere we do business. Consequently, A serious breach could also impact the average and above average. our risk appetite for non-compliance is very low. operation of significant business processes and Operational Sensitivity analysis result in non-availability of products for Operational risks include unforeseen incidents At Ahold Delhaize, we follow closely the impact customers and the inability to operate our that could result from failures in internal of different internal and external risk factors day-to-day business at the stores, distribution processes or systems, human error or adverse on our operations. The purpose of our sensitivity centers and at brand level. external events and could negatively impact analysis is to assess these risks on the the day-to-day operation of our business. Company’s current strategy to determine their Our risk appetite related to the disruption The two extreme scenarios above are considered In the case of these scenarios arising, mitigation impact on our business and the viability of our of our day-to-day business is generally low, severe but possible. None of these scenarios plans at global and brand level have been business model, as well as our ability to meet as we seek to minimize the downside impact individually threaten the viability of the Company, defined, and if applicable, various options are our financial liabilities and other obligations. of operational failures. however, the compound impact of these available to the Company to maintain liquidity and Our strategy is based on assumptions relating scenarios has been evaluated as the most severe support ongoing operations. These options to: the global economic climate, changes in stress scenario. include: accessing new external funding early, consumer behaviors, competitor actions, market more radical short-term cost-reduction actions dynamics and our current and planned structure, The scenarios above are hypothetical and and adjustments to capital allocation. among other factors. purposefully severe for the purpose of illustrating outcomes that could have the ability to threaten the viability of the Company. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 79 How we manage risk continued Compliance and ethics The principles in the Code apply to all associates Three lines of defense model At Ahold Delhaize, our shared values support of Ahold Delhaize and its businesses. Associates an ethical culture and are the foundation of our of certain defined grade levels are trained in Audit, Finance and commitment to conduct our business by doing compliance with the Code on an annual basis. Management Board — Executive Committee — Senior Management Risk Committee / what’s right, every day. Our Code of Ethics is The full Code is available in the corporate Supervisory Board based on four ethical principles: governance section of Ahold Delhaize’s public website at www.aholddelhaize.com. • We respect each other: People are our most valuable assets. We are committed to provide In addition to our Code of Ethics, we have global 1st Line of Defense: 2nd Line of Defense: 3rd Line of Defense: Group and Opco Risk Management, Control, Internal Audit a safe, secure and inclusive environment where policies that address key risks to our business. Management Compliance and other all associates and customers are respected Some of these policies relate to internal specialized functions and appreciated. processes such as financial reporting, capital Role Role Role • We follow the law: We comply with applicable investments, purchasing and tax. Other policies Own and manage Facilitate, support and challenge Provide laws and regulations everywhere we do relate to legal and regulatory risks, such as the risk business in implementing independent business and do not tolerate violations of competition and antitrust, data privacy, and effective risk management assurance the law. corruption and bribery. • We act ethically in all our relationships and In 2018, our brands’ whistleblower lines received avoid conflicts of interest. 7,280 reports. Approximately 40% of the reports Control framework In order to meet business needs and the • We have the courage to speak up when were made anonymously. On average, reports The Ahold Delhaize control framework requirements of the Dutch Corporate Governance misconduct or ethical violations are observed, were investigated and resolved within 20 days. incorporates risk assessment, control activities Code, we have a Group-wide management or when there are questions regarding the In 2018, there were no substantiated reports and monitoring into our business practices at certification process in place, which requires interpretation or application of our Code or of significant financial reporting, accounting, entity-wide and functional levels. A three lines that the executive management team members other external laws and regulations and internal fraud or ethical violations. of defense model (above) has been adopted at each of our reporting entities send letters policies and standards. Corruption and bribery to provide reasonable assurance that risks of representation to the Financial Disclosure Ahold Delhaize and its brands are committed to achieving important objectives are identified Committee on a quarterly basis. These letters Applying our values and ethical principles to conducting business in an ethically and mitigated. confirm whether the reporting entities are in enables associates to make good choices and responsible manner and complying with the compliance with Ahold Delhaize’s Code of Ethics, protect our relationships with our colleagues, Monitoring and assurance law in all countries and jurisdictions in which policies on fraud prevention and detection, our customers, and our communities. The Code A key element of our GRC framework we operate. This commitment specifically accounting and internal control standards, of Ethics is intended to help each associate is monitoring and assurance. We use includes compliance with laws relating to and disclosure requirements. understand and follow relevant compliance and a comprehensive business planning and ethical principles, and to know when and where anti-corruption and bribery. The Ahold Delhaize performance review process to monitor the All our businesses are required to maintain to ask for advice or report a compliance or ethics Code of Ethics and our Global Anti-Corruption Company’s performance. This process covers a sound internal control environment with robust breach, which includes the use of whistleblower and Bribery Policy prohibit any form of corruption the adoption of strategy, budgeting and the policies, procedures and controls and a strong lines available to associates in each of our or bribery, including facilitation payments. reporting of current and projected results. financial discipline, and to comply with our locations. We assess business performance according current internal controls framework so that we to both financial and non-financial (including can continue to provide a high level of assurance sustainability indicators) targets. to our senior leadership; Audit, Finance and Risk Committee; investors and external regulators. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 80 How we manage risk continued During 2018, and at the direction of the This report includes those material risks and Principal risks and uncertainties Materialization of these risks could prevent us from global GRC Committee, the GSO Ethics and uncertainties that are relevant to the expectation meeting our customers’ changing needs and The principal risks and uncertainties included in Compliance team and the Group Risk and of the Company’s continuity for the period of expectations for healthy and sustainable products the following table represent the most significant Controls team completed a review of the key twelve months after the preparation of the report. that are sourced with care for people and the risks identified which may impede the global policies that address the most relevant environment. The primary risk drivers identified With respect to financial reporting based on achievement of Ahold Delhaize’s objectives with risks to our business, the related standards and relate to our material environmental, social and the current state of affairs, it is justified that the respect to strategy, operations, financial and the required control objectives, which are governance topics and include, for example, financial reporting is prepared on a going compliance matters. Our principal risks remain consistent across and applicable to all our brands climate change, raw material scarcity and human concern basis and management has assessed substantially unchanged from 2017, although and provide a robust level of assurance. rights protections in the supply chain. These risk whether the risk management and control developments within each risk have been drivers and any relevant mitigating actions have Both our Risk & Controls and Internal Audit systems provide reasonable assurance that the identified and incorporated, with some risks been included (as applicable) within the our functions help to ensure that we maintain and 2018 financial statements do not contain any being relabeled as compared to the prior year. principal risks and uncertainties section below. improve the integrity and effectiveness of our material misstatements. This assessment was Management is not aware of any significant system of risk management and internal control. based on the criteria set out in COSO: Internal materialization of these risks during 2018. Insurance risks Ahold Delhaize manages its Internal Audit undertakes regular risk-based, Control – Integrated Framework 2013 and our insurable risks through a combination of selfThe following overview of risks relating to objective and critical audits. These functions also internal control framework. It included tests of the insurance and commercial insurance coverage Ahold Delhaize should be read carefully when monitor the effectiveness of corrective actions design and operating effectiveness of entity-level for workers’ compensation, general liability, evaluating the Company’s business, its prospects undertaken by management. controls, transactional controls at significant property, vehicle accident and certain and the forward-looking statements contained in locations and relevant general computer controls. healthcare-related claims. Our self-insurance this Annual Report. The following risks are not the Declaration liabilities are estimated based on actuarial Any control weaknesses not fully remediated only risks that the Company faces, which may or Annual declaration on internal risk valuations. While we believe that the actuarial at year-end were evaluated. Based on this may not materialize and have a material adverse management and control systems estimates are reasonable, they are subject to assessment, the Management Board determined effect on Ahold Delhaize’s financial position, Ahold Delhaize supports the Dutch Corporate changes caused by claim reporting patterns, that the Company’s financial reporting systems results of operations and liquidity or cause actual Governance Code and makes the following claim settlement patterns, regulatory economic are adequately designed, operated effectively results to differ materially from the results declaration in accordance with provision 1.4.3: conditions and adverse litigation results. in 2018 and provide reasonable assurance that contemplated in the forward-looking statements Our process enables us to monitor claim The Management Board is responsible for the financial statements are free of material contained in this Annual Report. See the and settlement patterns as well as evaluation establishing and maintaining adequate internal risk misstatement. Cautionary notice for additional information. of third-party risk. management and control systems. Such systems Additional risks and uncertainties are designed to manage rather than eliminate Other financial risks In addition to the principal risks identified, the the risk of failure to achieve important business Other financial risks include foreign currency following risks were identified and considered objectives, and can only provide reasonable translation risk, credit risk, interest risk, liquidity risk, in conjunction with our annual ERM assessment: and not absolute assurance against material income tax-related risks, liabilities to third parties misstatement or loss. This report provides sufficient Sustainability risks relating to lease guarantees, contingent liabilities insights into any significant deficiencies in the We apply the results of our annual sustainability and risk related to the legislative and regulatory effectiveness of the internal risk management and materiality analysis (see Our response to environment, including litigation. For information control systems. Management is not aware of any stakeholder needs) within our annual ERM relating to these financial risks, see Notes 24, 30 critical failings of these systems during 2018. process to help us identify and incorporate and 34 to the consolidated financial statements. sustainability risk drivers within our principal risks. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 81 How we manage risk continued Ahold Delhaize’s principal risks and uncertainties1 Risk Key risk drivers Mitigation Business continuity (O) • Diverse IT landscape with dependence on legacy systems • Global business continuity strategy, governance structure and framework Disruption of critical business processes, due to a and various third-party service providers • Insurance program long-term or permanent loss of key personnel, facilities, • Business and IT systems disruption due to events of an exceptional • Regular training (including simulations) provided to senior management utilities, IT infrastructure or key suppliers, may result in nature (e.g., cyber attacks, climate change-induced extreme on crisis management and response to high-impact events non-availability of products for customers and have a weather events) significant adverse impact on commercial operations, • Network protection (firewall, intrusion, detection and prevention systems, • Dependence on logistics service providers and suppliers of and email filtering) revenues, reputation and customer perception. strategic own-brand products and services • Cyber-defense monitoring • Monitoring of vendors and third-party service providers Competitive environment (S) • Aggressiveness of competing business models and entrance of Annual reassessment and implementation our strategy. The Leading Changes to the competitive landscape relating to non-traditional competition leading to drastic price reductions and Together strategy is based on five growth drivers: non-traditional competition, rapid expansion of rapid omnichannel expansion (e.g., discounters and same-day • Omnichannel growth omnichannel product offerings, and innovation in the delivery of fresh, healthy products at affordable prices) market without an appropriate and distinctive response • Technology • Non-traditional acquisitions, partnerships and strategic alliances by Ahold Delhaize could result in a loss of competitive with eCommerce, data analytics and robotics companies • Healthy and sustainable advantage, decrease of sales, erosion of margins and • Portfolio and scale efficiencies • Changing consumer trends relating to: healthy eating, product an inability to deliver on strategic objectives or labeling and transparency of product origin, more online shopping, • Best talent performance targets. and consumption of prepared foods For more details on our Leading Together strategy, see Who we are. • Consolidation of U.S. pharmacy market 1 Risks are listed in alphabetical order and categorized by business objective: strategic (S), operational (O), financial (F) and compliance (C). Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 82 How we manage risk continued Ahold Delhaize’s principal risks and uncertainties1 (continued) Risk Key risk drivers Mitigation Information security and data privacy (O)(C) • Global security threats • Implementation of global Information Security organization, A lack of security around, or non-compliance with, • Growth of our online sales leading to increased availability policy and control framework privacy requirements relating to the capture, usage, of consumer data • Performance of “data breach” simulations across the organization processing and retention of customer and associate (with various levels of management) • Rapidly changing privacy regulations in our different markets data may lead to the exposure, misuse or • Utilization of third parties to process and store customer and • Payment Card Industry (PCI) and privacy compliant control framework misappropriation of data which could have a significant legal, financial, or reputational impact. associate data • Cyber insurance coverage • Training and monitoring established through the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) initiative • Rollout of personal data protection policy and awareness program • Establishment of safeguards across data value streams Labor (O) • Expiration and re-negotiation of collective bargaining agreements • Contract negotiation process with labor unions Our brands may not be able to negotiate acceptable with trade unions • Human resource function’s partnering relationship terms for extensions and replacements of contracts • Key business initiatives within the Ahold Delhaize strategy with unions and associates as a result of unfavorable demands and expectations (e.g., efficiency through innovation, robotics and automation) • Development of resource contingency plans from unions. • Regulatory and competitive increases in minimum wage • Monitoring and alignment of market practices • Labor shortages in distribution center and logistics functions 1 Risks are listed in alphabetical order and categorized by business objective: strategic (S), operational (O), financial (F) and compliance (C). Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 83 How we manage risk continued Ahold Delhaize’s principal risks and uncertainties1 (continued) Risk Key risk drivers Mitigation Legislative environment (C) • Increased focus on compliance and enforcement • Real-time knowledge and awareness of regulatory developments Changes in, or failure to comply with, laws and • Changing political climate attained through our global legal, compliance and tax functions regulations could impact the operations and reduce • Implementation of global policies, operational procedures and internal • Proposed regional and national tax reforms the profitability of Ahold Delhaize or its businesses control framework and, thus, could affect its financial condition, • Lack of clarity on application of new regulations • Risk monitoring and assurance program reputation or results of operations. • Implementation of sugar taxes and other trade restrictions • Education of regulators and public policymakers, (e.g., through industry Ahold Delhaize and its businesses are also subject to • Public opinion and pressure from governments, regulatory entities associations; participation in lobbying industry bodies) a variety of antitrust and similar laws and regulations and NGOs on sustainability actions to promote healthy eating, reduce the use of plastics, and discourage tobacco sales • Transparent communications approach towards tax authorities about in the jurisdictions in which they operate, which may our legal structure impact or limit the Company’s ability to realize certain • Based on the prevailing regulatory environment or economic acquisitions, divestments, partnerships or mergers. conditions in the markets where we operate, litigations, • Continuing review of options from a tax-planning perspective investigations and inquiries may increase in frequency • Estimation of the exposure to legal and regulatory proceedings and and materiality establishment of provisions for the estimated liabilities where it is reasonably possible to estimate and where the potential realization of a loss contingency is more likely than not. For further information, see Note 34 to the consolidated financial statements People (O) (S) • Availability of top talent in key locations • Embedding of employee value propositions within each brand Brands may not be able to attract, develop • Shift in skillset for elements of our evolving business model to attract top talent and retain top talent in support of current (data analytics, omnichannel, modernized DCs, robotics, etc.) • Identification and building of workforce based on strategic capability and long-term needs and capabilities. plans and needs (e.g., digital, eCommerce) • Workforce is more mobile and people are more eager to change jobs • Associate engagement survey distribution and results, and the execution of action plans • Redefined performance and talent management cycle and development conversations • Further embedding of our leadership journey, shared values, capabilities and behaviors 1 Risks are listed in alphabetical order and categorized by business objective: strategic (S), operational (O), financial (F) and compliance (C). Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 84 How we manage risk continued Ahold Delhaize’s principal risks and uncertainties1 (continued) Risk Key risk drivers Mitigation Pension and other post-employment benefits (F) • Pension and healthcare funding is impacted by low interest rates, • Our governance structure, with a pension committee responsible for U.S. and Netherlands pension and healthcare funding stock market performance, changing pension laws, longevity of monitoring pension plan funding as well as Multi-Employer Plans. Ahold Delhaize is exposed to the financial participants and increased costs in specific markets. consequences of a number of defined benefit pension plans covering a large number of associates in the Netherlands and the United States. Multi-employer plans • The Company’s contributions to an MEP in which it participates • Management of each MEP by a board of trustees appointed by the A significant number of union employees in the United may be used to fund benefits of employees of other management of the participating employers (plan sponsors) and the States are covered by Multi-Employer Plans (MEPs) participating employers. participating unions. Ahold Delhaize has been appointed as board of based on obligations arising from collective bargaining • If the Company seeks to withdraw from some of its MEPs, it must trustee member on several MEP boards and, through these positions, agreements. Ahold Delhaize's brands participate in 11 obtain the agreement of the applicable unions and, in connection manages and monitors the MEPs’ funding. MEPs and some of these have a critical (Red Zone) with this, may be required to pay those plans an amount based on • The MEPs’ contribution levels (funding) are set for each participating funding deficiency. its allocable share of the unfunded vested benefits of the plan, employer and are based on the benefit level as agreed in the collective Under normal circumstances, when an MEP reaches referred to as a withdrawal liability. bargaining agreement (CBA) and the agreed-upon funding. The rate of insolvency, it must reduce all accrued benefits to the • If another participating employer stops contributing to an MEP pension contributions is one of the terms of the CBA and considered to maximum level guaranteed by the United States’ in which the Company participates (e.g., due to bankruptcy), the be a part of the overall agreed-upon benefit package. After the expiration Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC). MEPs Company and other remaining participating employers may have to of a CBA, all provisions within it are subject to negotiation and could be pay annual insurance premiums to the PBGC for such increase their contributions to fund the unfunded obligations of the changed going forward, including, among others, pension and health care benefit insurance. plan allocable to the withdrawing employer. benefit levels and funding for the agreed benefit level. For more information on the financial risks related to • An MEP in which the Company participates may become insolvent our MEPs see Multi-employer plans in Note 23 to the and the Company may be required, in certain circumstances, to consolidated financial statements. increase its contributions to fund the payment of benefits by the MEP. • PBGC currently projects that its multi-employer insurance program More details on this risk, its related risk drivers and will become insolvent by the end of the PBGC’s 2025 fiscal year. current mitigating actions can be found in Note 23 If the PBGC’s multi-employer insurance program becomes insolvent, to the financial statements. it may become unable to fund the PBGC-guaranteed benefits owed by insolvent multi-employer plans, which might impact our future contributions. Various legislative initiatives to assist the PBGC and / or the multi-employer pension system in the United States are under consideration by the United States Congress, but it is unclear whether any of these initiatives will be enacted. 1 Risks are listed in alphabetical order and categorized by business objective: strategic (S), operational (O), financial (F) and compliance (C). Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 85 How we manage risk continued Ahold Delhaize’s principal risks and uncertainties1 (continued) Risk Key risk drivers Mitigation Product safety (O)(C) • Internationalization of the supply chain and poor agricultural • Product safety policies, control framework and standard There is a risk that customers may become injured or practices lead to product integrity and sustainability incidents operating procedures ill from the use or consumption of food and non-food occurring across the world (e.g., related to foodborne illness and • Ahold Delhaize’s Standards of Engagement for third parties products sold by Ahold Delhaize brands, whether they manufacturers’ labor conditions) • Monitoring of performance of food safety procedures in the business are contaminated or defective, intentionally tampered • Increased speed of communications and amplification of incidents with, or impacted by food fraud in the supply chain. • Tracing of product origins and conditions of production via NGOs and social media (e.g., product recalls or human rights in the supply chain) • Pilot of blockchain technology for tracing products in the supply chain Additionally, negative impacts on human rights or the environment during the production of our products • Retailers being held accountable and scrutinized for incidents • Insurance program (e.g., human rights violations by suppliers) may occurring at any point in the supply chain negatively impact the reputation or results of Ahold • Overall increase in demand by customers for accuracy and Delhaize and / or its brands. transparency in the food supply chain • Increased number of own-brand products being developed, carried and sold by Ahold Delhaize brands 1 Risks are listed in alphabetical order and categorized by business objective: strategic (S), operational (O), financial (F) and compliance (C). Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 86 Declarations Introduction Declarations This Annual Report, including the 2018 financial statements, which are audited by This 2018 Ahold Delhaize Annual Report The members of the Management Board, as PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V., dated February 26, 2019, (the Annual Report) required by section 5:25c, paragraph 2, under c has been presented to the Supervisory Board. comprises regulated information within the of the Dutch Act on Financial Supervision, confirm meaning of sections 1:1 and 5:25c of the Dutch that to the best of their knowledge: The 2018 financial statements and the Act on Financial Supervision “Wet op het independent auditor’s report relating to the audit • The 2018 financial statements included in financieel toezicht.” of the 2018 financial statements were discussed this Annual Report give a true and fair view with the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee in For the consolidated and the parent company’s of the assets, liabilities, financial position the presence of the Management Board and the 2018 financial statements “jaarrekening” within and profit or loss of the Company and the external independent auditor. The Supervisory the meaning of section 2:361 of the Dutch Civil undertakings included in the consolidation Board recommends that the General Meeting Code, see Performance: Financial. The members taken as a whole. of Shareholders adopts the 2018 financial of the Management Board and the Supervisory • The management report included in this statements included in this Annual Report Board have signed the 2018 financial statements Annual Report gives a true and fair view of the and recommends the proposal to pay a cash pursuant to their obligation under section 2:101, position of the Company and the undertakings dividend for the financial year 2018 of €0.70 paragraph 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. The included in the consolidation taken as a per common share. following sections of this Annual Report together whole as of December 30, 2018, and of the form the management report, or the development and performance of the business Supervisory Board “bestuursverslag” within the meaning of section for the financial year then ended. Jan Hommen (Chairman) 2:391 of the Dutch Civil Code: Message from our Bill McEwan (Vice Chairman) • The management report includes a description CEO, Group Highlights, Who we are, Business Jacques de Vaucleroy (Vice Chairman) of the principal risks and uncertainties that the Review, Our Management Board and Executive René Hooft Graafland Company faces. Committee, Our Supervisory Board, Corporate Rob van den Bergh governance, How we manage risk, Remuneration Management Board Mary Anne Citrino and the subsection Remuneration included in the Frans Muller Dominique Leroy Supervisory Board report. President and Chief Executive Officer Mark McGrath Ben Noteboom For other information, or “overige gegevens” Jeff Carr within the meaning of section 2:392 of the Dutch Chief Financial Officer Civil Code, see subsection Other information Kevin Holt under Performance: Financial, and the section Chief Executive Officer Ahold Delhaize USA Investors. Wouter Kolk Chief Executive Officer Europe and Indonesia Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 87 89 Consolidated financial statements 94 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 190 Parent company financial statements 192 Notes to the parent company financial statements 202 Other information Performance: Financial Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 88 Financial Statements Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 29 Earnings per share 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments Consolidated balance sheet 31 Related party transactions Consolidated statement of changes in equity 32 Share-based compensation Consolidated statement of cash flows 33 Operating leases Notes to the consolidated financial statements 34 Commitments and contingencies 1 The Company and its operations 35 Subsequent events 2 Basis of preparation 36 List of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 3 Significant accounting policies Parent company financial statements 4 Acquisitions Income statement 5 Assets and liabilities held for sale and discontinued operations Balance sheet 6 Segment reporting Notes to the parent company financial statements 7 Net sales 1 Significant accounting policies 8 Expenses by nature 2 Expenses by nature 9 Net financial expenses 3 Employees 10 Income taxes 4 Auditor fees 11 Property, plant and equipment 5 Income taxes 12 Investment property 6 Intangible assets 13 Intangible assets 7 Financial assets 14 Investments in joint ventures and associates 8 Receivables 15 Other non-current financial assets 9 Other current financial assets 16 Inventories 10 Shareholders’ equity 17 Receivables 11 Provisions 18 Other current financial assets 12 Loans 19 Cash and cash equivalents 13 Current liabilities 20 Equity attributable to common shareholders 14 Derivatives 21 Loans and credit facilities 15 Related party transactions 22 Other non-current financial liabilities 16 Commitments and contingencies 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 17 Distribution of profit 24 Provisions 18 Subsequent events 25 Other non-current liabilities Other information 26 Other current financial liabilities Distribution of profit 27 Other current liabilities Independent auditor’s report 28 Cash flow Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 89 Consolidated € million, except per share data Net sales Note 7 2018 62,791 2017 62,890 income statement Cost of sales 8 (45,839) (46,121) Gross profit 16,952 16,769 Selling expenses (12,236) (12,245) General and administrative expenses (2,321) (2,299) Total operating expenses 8 (14,557) (14,544) Operating income 2,395 2,225 Interest income 70 32 Interest expense (310) (294) Net interest expense on defined benefit pension plans 23 (19) (22) Other financial income (expense) 13 (13) Net financial expenses 9 (246) (297) Income before income taxes 2,149 1,928 Income taxes 10 (372) (146) Share in income of joint ventures 14 32 35 Income from continuing operations 1,809 1,817 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 5 (16) — Net income attributable to common shareholders 1,793 1,817 Earnings per share 29 Net income per share attributable to common shareholders Basic 1.52 1.45 Diluted 1.50 1.43 Income from continuing operations per share attributable to common shareholders Basic 1.54 1.45 Diluted 1.52 1.43 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 90 Consolidated € million Net income Note 2018 1,793 2017 1,817 statement of Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans comprehensive Remeasurements before taxes – income (loss) 23 66 44 income Income taxes Other comprehensive income (loss) that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 10 (18) 48 (66) (22) Currency translation differences in foreign interests: Continuing operations 495 (1,308) Income taxes 10 — (1) Cash flow hedges: Fair value result for the year 1 (3) Transfers to net income 1 1 Income taxes — — Non-realized gains (losses) on debt and equity instruments: Fair value result for the period — 4 Income taxes 10 — (1) Other comprehensive income of joint ventures – net of income taxes: Share of other comprehensive income from continuing operations 14 — — Other comprehensive income (loss) reclassifiable to profit or loss 497 (1,308) Total other comprehensive income (loss) 545 (1,330) Total comprehensive income attributable to common shareholders 2,338 487 Attributable to: Continuing operations 2,354 487 Discontinued operations (16) — Total comprehensive income attributable to common shareholders 2,338 487 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 91 Consolidated € million Note December 30, 2018 December 31, 2017 balance sheet Assets Property, plant and equipment 11 11,147 10,689 Investment property 12 629 650 Intangible assets 13 12,013 11,634 Investments in joint ventures and associates 14 236 230 Other non-current financial assets 15 238 192 Deferred tax assets 10 149 436 Other non-current assets 77 70 Total non-current assets 24,489 23,901 Assets held for sale 5 23 14 Inventories 16 3,196 3,077 Receivables 17 1,759 1,606 Other current financial assets 18 461 238 Income taxes receivable 53 154 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 228 300 Cash and cash equivalents 19 3,122 4,581 Total current assets 8,842 9,970 Total assets 33,331 33,871 Equity and liabilities Equity attributable to common shareholders 20 14,816 15,170 Loans 21 3,683 3,289 Other non-current financial liabilities 22 2,055 2,098 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 23 532 567 Deferred tax liabilities 10 864 1,105 Provisions 24 794 808 Other non-current liabilities 25 566 529 Total non-current liabilities 8,494 8,396 Accounts payable 5,816 5,277 Other current financial liabilities 26 1,232 2,210 Income taxes payable 110 136 Provisions 24 326 355 Other current liabilities 27 2,537 2,327 Total current liabilities 10,021 10,305 Total equity and liabilities 33,331 33,871 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 92 Consolidated Share Additional paid-in Currency translation Cash flow hedging Other reserves including retained Equity attributable to common statement of € million Balance as of January 1, 2017 Note capital 13 capital 15,802 reserve 754 reserve (2) earnings1 (291) shareholders 16,276 changes in equity Net income attributable to common shareholders — — — — 1,817 1,817 Other comprehensive loss — — (1,309) (2) (19) (1,330) Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to common shareholders — — (1,309) (2) 1,798 487 Dividends — — — — (720) (720) Issuance of shares — 42 — — — 42 Share buyback — — — — (998) (998) Cancellation of treasury shares (1) (669) — — 670 — Share-based payments — — — — 83 83 Balance as of December 31, 2017 20 12 15,175 (555) (4) 542 15,170 Opening balance adjustment2 — — — — (1) (1) Balance as of January 1, 2018 12 15,175 (555) (4) 541 15,169 Net income attributable to common shareholders — — — — 1,793 1,793 Other comprehensive income — — 495 2 48 545 Total comprehensive income attributable to common shareholders — — 495 2 1,841 2,338 Dividends — — — — (757) (757) Share buyback — — — — (1,997) (1,997) Cancellation of treasury shares — (1,176) — — 1,176 — Share-based payments — — — — 63 63 Balance as of December 30, 2018 20 12 13,999 (60) (2) 867 14,816 1 Other reserves include the remeasurements of defined benefit plans. 2 The opening balance adjustment is related to the implementation of IFRS standards effective for 2018 (see Note 3). The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 93 Consolidated € million Income from continuing operations Note 2018 1,809 2017 1,817 statement of Adjustments for: Net financial expenses 9 246 297 cash flows Income taxes Share in income of joint ventures 10 14 372 (32) 146 (35) Depreciation, amortization and impairments 8 1,816 1,857 (Gains) losses on the sale of assets / disposal groups held for sale 8 (7) (47) Share-based compensation expenses 32 60 79 Other changes to operating income (4) (7) Operating cash flows before changes in operating assets and liabilities 4,260 4,107 Changes in working capital: Changes in inventories (35) (44) Changes in receivables and other current assets (6) (97) Changes in payables and other current liabilities 525 272 Changes in other non-current assets, other non-current liabilities and provisions (136) (58) Cash generated from operations 4,608 4,180 Income taxes paid – net (280) (480) Operating cash flows from continuing operations 4,328 3,700 Operating cash flows from discontinued operations (5) (5) Net cash from operating activities 4,323 3,695 Purchase of non-current assets (1,780) (1,698) Divestments of assets / disposal groups held for sale 27 142 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired 28 (30) (50) Divestment of businesses, net of cash divested 28 (3) (3) Changes in short-term deposits and similar instruments (242) 100 Dividends received from joint ventures 14 17 70 Interest received 74 32 Other 38 (3) Investing cash flows from continuing operations (1,899) (1,410) Net cash from investing activities (1,899) (1,410) Proceeds from long-term debt 28 798 747 Interest paid (324) (320) Repayments of loans 28 (783) (474) Changes in short-term loans 28 (733) 212 Repayments of finance lease liabilities 28 (177) (190) Dividends paid on common shares 20 (757) (720) Share buyback 20 (2,003) (992) Other cash flows from derivatives 28 (29) 262 Other (3) 17 Financing cash flows from continuing operations (4,011) (1,458) Net cash from financing activities (4,011) (1,458) Net cash from operating, investing and financing activities (1,587) 827 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year (excluding restricted cash) 4,542 3,990 Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 155 (275) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (excluding restricted cash) 28 3,110 4,542 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 94 Notes to the 1 The Company and its operations The principal activity of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. (“Ahold Delhaize” or the “Company” or “Group” or “Ahold Delhaize Group”), a public limited liability consolidated company with its registered seat and head office in Zaandam, the Netherlands, is the operation of retail food stores and eCommerce primarily in the United financial statements States and Europe. The Company is registered with the Dutch Trade Register under number 35000363. On February 26, 2019, the Management Board authorized the financial statements. The financial statements, as presented in this Annual Report, are subject to adoption by the Ahold Delhaize General Meeting of Shareholders. Ahold Delhaize’s significant subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are listed in Note 36. 2 Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union (EU) and also comply with the financial reporting requirements included in Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Historical cost is used as the measurement basis unless otherwise indicated. Ahold Delhaize’s financial year is a 52or 53-week period ending on the Sunday nearest to December 31. Financial year 2018 consisted of 52 weeks and ended on December 30, 2018. The comparative financial year 2017 consisted of 52 weeks and ended on December 31, 2017. These consolidated financial statements are presented in euros (€) and rounded to the nearest million euro. The following exchange rates of the euro against the U.S. dollar ($), the Czech crown (CZK), the Romanian leu (RON), and the Serbian dinar (RSD) have been used in the preparation of these financial statements: 2018 2017 U.S. dollar Average exchange rate 0.8476 0.8868 Year-end closing exchange rate 0.8738 0.8330 Czech crown Average exchange rate 0.0390 0.0380 Year-end closing exchange rate 0.0388 0.0391 Romanian leu Average exchange rate 0.2149 0.2189 Year-end closing exchange rate 0.2146 0.2142 Serbian dinar Average exchange rate 0.0085 0.0082 Year-end closing exchange rate 0.0085 0.0085 Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 95 Notes to the 2 Basis of preparation continued The preparation of financial statements requires management to make a number of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets consolidated and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. All assumptions, expectations and forecasts used as a basis financial statements for certain estimates within these financial statements represent good faith assessments of Ahold Delhaize’s current and future performance for which management believes there is a reasonable basis. They involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause the Company’s actual future results, continued performance and achievements to differ materially from those forecasted. The estimates, assumptions and judgments that management considers most critical relate to: Vendor allowances (Notes 3 and 17) When vendor allowances are not specifically able to be identified in the purchase price of products, the Company must estimate the allowances that are earned based on the fulfillment of its related obligations. This estimate may require management to estimate the volume of purchases that will be made during a period of time. The Company must also estimate the amount of related product that has been sold and the amount that remains in ending inventories and allocate the allowance to cost of sales or inventories accordingly. Income taxes (Notes 3, 10 and 34) The ultimate tax effects of transactions may be uncertain for a considerable period of time, requiring management to estimate the related current and deferred tax positions. The Company recognizes liabilities for uncertain tax positions when it is probable that additional tax will be due. Judgment is required in determining whether deferred tax assets are realizable and therefore recognized in the balance sheet. Intangible assets (Notes 3, 4 and 13) Intangible assets acquired in a business acquisition are stated at fair value, as determined at the date of the acquisition. To determine the fair value at the acquisition date, judgments and estimates are required. Leases and sale and leaseback transactions (Notes 3, 22 and 33) The classification of leases as finance leases or operating leases requires judgments about the fair value of the leased asset, the split of the fair value between land and buildings, the economic life of the asset, whether or not to include renewal or termination options in the lease term and the appropriate discount rate to calculate the present value of the minimum lease payments. Revenue recognition with respect to sale and leaseback transactions is dependent on management’s judgment of whether the Company has satisfied all of its performance obligations and control of the asset is transferred to the buyer. Impairments (Notes 3, 6, 8, 11, 12 and 13) Judgments and estimates are required, not only to determine whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired, but also whether indications exist that impairment losses previously recognized may no longer exist or may have decreased (impairment reversal). After indications of impairment have been identified, judgments and estimates are also involved in the determination of the recoverable amount of a non-current asset. These involve estimates of expected future cash flows (based on future growth rates and remaining useful life) and residual value assumptions, as well as discount rates to calculate the present value of the future cash flows. Company and multi-employer pension obligations (Notes 3 and 23) The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of assumptions that are determined on an actuarial basis. The assumptions used in determining the net cost (income) for pensions include the discount rate that should be used to determine the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the pension obligations. Other key assumptions include longevity and future salary and pension increases. Additional information is disclosed in Note 23. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 96 Notes to the 2 Basis of preparation continued Provisions and contingencies (Notes 3, 24 and 34) consolidated The recognition of provisions requires estimates and judgment regarding the timing and the amount of outflow of resources. The main estimates are financial statements as follows: • Self-insurance program: estimates and assumptions include an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported, historical loss experience, projected loss continued development factors, estimated changes in claim reporting patterns, claim settlement patterns, judicial decisions and legislation. It is possible that the final resolution of claims may result in significant expenditures in excess of existing reserves. • Loyalty programs: estimating the cost of benefits to which customers participating in the loyalty program are entitled includes assumptions on redemption rates. These estimates and assumptions apply to all loyalty programs, irrespective of whether they are accounted for as sales deferrals or provisions for future payments made at redemption. • Claims and legal disputes: management, supported by internal and external legal counsel, where appropriate, determines whether it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle an obligation. If this is the case, the best estimate of the outflow of resources is recognized. • Severance and termination benefits: the provisions relate to separation plans and agreements and use the best estimate based on information available to management of the cash flows that will likely occur. The amounts that are ultimately incurred may change as the plans are executed. • Onerous contracts: mainly relate to unfavorable lease contracts and include the excess of the unavoidable costs of meeting the contractual obligations over the benefits expected to be received under such contracts. Fair value measurements For financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are categorized into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which the inputs to the fair value measurements are observable and the significance of the inputs to the fair value measurement in its entirety, which are described as follows: • Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets that the Company can access at the measurement date. • Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e., as prices) or indirectly (i.e., derived from prices). • Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. 3 Significant accounting policies Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial figures of the Company and its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company has control. The Company controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases. All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated upon consolidation. Unrealized losses on intra-group transactions are eliminated, unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the assets transferred. Non-controlling interests are recorded, as appropriate, on the consolidated balance sheet, in the consolidated income statement, and in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the non-controlling shareholders’ share in the net assets and the income or loss of subsidiaries. Non-controlling shareholders’ interest in an acquired subsidiary is initially measured at the non-controlling interest’s proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognized. Ahold Delhaize does not have subsidiaries with non-controlling interests that are material to the Group. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 97 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued Business combinations consolidated The Company accounts for business combinations using the acquisition method when control is transferred to the Group. The consideration transferred in financial statements the acquisition is generally measured at fair value, as are the identifiable net assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. Transaction costs are expensed as incurred. Any contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, then it is not continued remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognized in profit or loss. Foreign currency translation The financial statements of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are prepared in their functional currencies, which are determined based on the primary economic environment in which they operate. Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the transaction dates. At each balance sheet date, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the entity’s functional currency at the then prevailing rates. Exchange differences arising on the settlement and translation of monetary items are included in net income for the period. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are considered as assets and liabilities denominated in the functional currency of the foreign entity. Upon consolidation, the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the euro are translated into euros using the exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the respective periods. Exchange rate differences arising during consolidation and on the translation of investments in subsidiaries are included in other comprehensive income and in equity, in the currency translation reserve. Intercompany loans to and from foreign entities for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future are considered to increase or decrease the net investment in that foreign entity; therefore the exchange rate differences relating to these loans are also included in other comprehensive income and in equity, in the currency translation reserve. On the disposal of a foreign operation resulting in loss of control, loss of joint control or loss of significant influence, the related cumulative exchange rate difference that was included in equity is transferred to the consolidated income statement. Statement of cash flows The Company has chosen to prepare the statement of cash flows using the indirect method, which presents cash flows from operating activities as the income from continuing operations adjusted for non-cash transactions, deferrals or accruals of past or future operating cash receipts or payments, and items of income or expense associated with investing or financing cash flows. Cash flows in foreign currencies have been translated using weighted average periodic exchange rates. Interest paid on loans is presented as a financing activity, while interest received is presented as an investing activity. Acquisitions and divestments of businesses are presented net of cash and cash equivalents acquired or disposed of, respectively. The Company has chosen to present dividends paid to its shareholders as a financing activity cash flow. Segmentation Ahold Delhaize’s operating segments are its retail operating companies that engage in business activities from which they earn revenues and incur expenses and whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segments and to assess their performance. In establishing the reportable segments, certain operating segments with similar economic characteristics have been aggregated. As Ahold Delhaize’s operating segments offer similar products using complementary business models, and there is no discernible difference in customer bases, Ahold Delhaize’s policy on aggregating its operating segments into reportable segments is based on geography, functional currency and management oversight. The segments’ performance is evaluated against several measures, of which operating income is the most important. Intersegment sales are executed under normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available to unrelated third parties. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 98 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued Net sales consolidated Ahold Delhaize generates and recognizes net sales to retail customers as it satisfies its performance obligation at the point of sale in its stores and upon financial statements delivery of goods through its online channel. The Company also generates revenues from the sale of products to retail franchisees and affiliates that are recognized upon delivery. Ahold Delhaize recognizes fees to franchisees and affiliates as revenue as services are performed or the granted rights continued are used. Revenue from the sale of gift cards and gift certificates is recognized when the gift card or gift certificate is redeemed by the retail customer. Future discounts earned by customers in connection with bonus or loyalty cards and other Company-sponsored programs are deferred on the balance sheet at the time of the sale and subsequently recognized in the income statement when redeemed. When the Company expects that gift cards and future discounts under bonus and loyalty programs will not be redeemed, the breakage that is able to be estimated is recognized proportionately as revenue at the time that the Company’s performance obligations are satisfied (e.g., as customers redeem their award credits or purchase goods using gift cards or vouchers). The sales activities of Ahold Delhaize do not result in a material amount of unperformed obligations of the Company and, therefore, no contract assets are recognized separately from receivables. The Company does enter into transactions with customers where contract liabilities result from consideration being received from the customer prior to the Company satisfying its performance obligations. These contract liabilities are presented on the balance sheet and in the notes as deferred income and gift card and deposit liabilities. Generally, net sales and cost of sales are recorded based on the gross amount received from the customer for products sold and the amount paid to the vendor for products purchased, excluding sales taxes and value-added taxes. However, for certain products or services, such as sales through bol.com’s seller platform and the sale of lottery tickets, third-party prepaid phone cards, stamps and public transportation tickets, Ahold Delhaize acts as an agent and, consequently, records the amount of commission income in its net sales. Net sales also reflects the value of products sold to customers for which the Company anticipates returns from customers, when such returns are considered to be material. Currently, customer returns are only considered material with regards to Ahold Delhaize’s online general merchandise sales. Past customer return practices provide the basis for determining the anticipated returns that the Company is exposed to at the balance sheet date. Cost of sales Cost of sales includes the purchase price of the products sold and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to the location and condition ready for sale. These costs include costs of purchasing; storing; rent; depreciation of property, plant and equipment; salaries; and transporting products to the extent that it relates to bringing the inventories to the location and condition ready for sale. Vendor allowances Ahold Delhaize receives various types of vendor allowances. The most common allowances vendors offer are (i) volume allowances, which are off-invoice or amounts billed back to vendors based on the quantity of products sold to customers or purchased from the vendor and (ii) promotional allowances, which relate to cooperative advertising and market development efforts. Volume allowances are recognized as a reduction of the cost of the related products as they are sold. Promotional allowances are recognized as a reduction of the cost of the related products when the Company has performed the activities specified in the contract with the vendor. If the contract does not specify any performance criteria, the allowance is recognized over the term of the contract. Vendor allowances are generally deducted from cost of sales, unless there is clear evidence that they should be classified as revenue resulting from the Company providing a distinct good or service to the vendor. Ahold Delhaize recognizes vendor allowances only where there is evidence of a binding arrangement with the vendor, the amount can be estimated reliably and receipt is probable. The accounting for vendor allowances requires management to apply judgments and assumptions, mainly surrounding the timing of when performance obligations have been met, the volume of purchases that will be made during a period of time, the product remaining in ending inventory, and the probability that funds can be collected from vendors. Using these judgments and assumptions, management’s practice is to allocate earned vendor allowances between cost of sales and inventory based upon the amount of related product that was sold and the amount that remains in ending inventories. This practice is based upon the turnover of the inventories. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 99 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued Selling expenses consolidated Selling expenses relate to our store and online operations and consist of employees’ salaries and wages, store expenses, rent income and rent expense financial statements or depreciation related to stores, advertising costs and other selling expenses. Other revenue derived from operational activities that does not qualify as net sales to retail customers is included as an offset to selling expenses. continued General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses consist of support office employees’ salaries and wages, rent and depreciation of support offices, impairment losses and reversals, gains and losses on the sale of non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale, restructuring costs, and other general and administrative expenses. Revenue from contracts that do not qualify as net sales to retail customers from operational activities is included as an offset to general and administrative expenses. Share-based compensation The grant date fair value of equity-settled share-based compensation plans is expensed, with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straight-line basis over the vesting periods of the grants. The cumulative expense recognized at each balance sheet date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Company’s best estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest. No expense is recognized for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition (e.g., total shareholder return). Those are treated as vested irrespective of whether or not the market condition is ultimately satisfied, provided that all non-market conditions (e.g., continued employment) are satisfied. Income taxes Income tax expense represents the sum of current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognized in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognized directly in equity or other comprehensive income. Current tax expense is based on the best estimate of taxable income for the year, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and adjustments for current taxes payable (receivable) for prior years. Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and the corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable income. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are generally recognized for all temporary differences. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognized if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill. Deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realized. Deferred tax assets, including deferred tax assets for tax loss carryforward positions and tax credit carryforward positions, are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable income will be available against which temporary differences, unused tax losses or unused tax credits can be utilized. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable income will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset on the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to income taxes levied by the same fiscal authority. Current income tax assets and liabilities are offset on the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset and when the Company intends either to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The ultimate tax effects of some transactions can be uncertain for a considerable period of time, requiring management to estimate the related current and deferred tax positions. The Company recognizes liabilities for uncertain tax positions when it is probable that additional taxes will be due. These liabilities are presented as current income taxes payable, except in jurisdictions where prior tax losses are being carried forward to be used to offset future taxes that will be due; in these instances the liabilities are presented as a reduction to deferred tax assets. Interest accrued on uncertain tax positions is considered to be a financial expense of the Company. Any other adjustments to uncertain tax position liabilities are recognized within income tax expense. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 100 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued Earnings per share consolidated Basic net income per share is calculated by dividing net income attributable to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares financial statements outstanding during the year. Basic income from continuing operations per share is calculated by dividing income from continuing operations attributable to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year. continued Diluted income per share is calculated by dividing the diluted net income / diluted income from continuing operations attributable to shareholders by the diluted weighted average number of common shares outstanding. To determine the diluted income, net income and income from continuing operations are adjusted by the expense for preferred dividends on the cumulative preferred financing shares. This preferred dividend is reversed when the cumulative preferred financing shares have a dilutive effect on the earnings per share calculation. To determine the diluted weighted average number of common shares outstanding, the weighted average number of shares outstanding is adjusted for (i) the effect of the cumulative preferred financing shares and (ii) the conditional shares from the share-based compensation programs. The effect of the cumulative preferred financing shares is determined by calculating the number of common shares that would be issued upon conversion. However, the effect is only adjusted for if it has a dilutive effect on the income per share. Ahold Delhaize’s cumulative preferred financing shares are dilutive whenever their interest per common share obtainable on conversion is lower than basic income per share. Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. For this to be the case, the asset (or disposal group) must be available for immediate sale in its present condition and its sale must be highly probable. Non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of the asset’s carrying amount or the fair value less costs of disposal. Depreciation or amortization of an asset ceases when it is classified as held for sale. Equity accounting ceases for an investment in a joint venture or associate when it is classified as held for sale; instead, dividends received are recognized in the consolidated income statement. A discontinued operation is a component of the Company that either has been disposed of or is classified as held for sale, and represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations. Results from discontinued operations that are clearly identifiable as part of the component disposed of and that will not be recognized subsequent to the disposal are presented separately as a single amount in the consolidated income statement. Results and cash flows from discontinued operations are reclassified for prior periods and presented in the financial statements so that the results and cash flows from discontinued operations relate to all operations that have been discontinued as of the balance sheet date for the latest period presented. Property, plant and equipment Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset and borrowing costs incurred during construction. Where applicable, estimated asset retirement costs are added to the cost of an asset. Subsequent expenditures are capitalized only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Company and the costs can be measured reliably. All other subsequent expenditures represent repairs and maintenance and are expensed as incurred. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method based on the estimated useful lives of the items of property, plant and equipment, taking into account the estimated residual value. Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, each such part is depreciated separately. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 101 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued The ranges of estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment are: consolidated Land indefinite financial statements Buildings Certain structural components of buildings 30–40 years 10–20 years continued Finish components of buildings 5–10 years Machinery and equipment 3–15 years Other 5–10 years The useful lives, depreciation method, and residual value are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted, if appropriate. Depreciation of assets subject to finance leases and leasehold improvements is calculated on a straight-line basis over either the lease term (including renewal periods when renewal is reasonably assured) or the estimated useful life of the asset, whichever is shorter. Investment property Investment property consists of land and buildings held by Ahold Delhaize to earn rental income or for capital appreciation, or both. These properties are not used by the Company in the ordinary course of business. The Company often owns (or leases under a finance lease) shopping centers containing both an Ahold Delhaize and third-party retail units. In these cases, the third-party retail units generate rental income, but are primarily of strategic importance for operating purposes to Ahold Delhaize in its retail operations. The Company recognizes the part of an owned (or leased under a finance lease) shopping center that is leased to third-party retailers as investment property, unless it represents an insignificant portion of the property. Land and buildings leased to franchisees are not considered to be investment property as they contribute directly to Ahold Delhaize’s retail operations. Investment property is measured on the same basis as property, plant and equipment. Leases and sale and leaseback transactions Leases Ahold Delhaize is a lessee of land, buildings and equipment under operating and finance lease arrangements. The Company classifies its leases as finance leases when the lease agreement transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership to Ahold Delhaize. For leases determined to be finance leases, the asset and liability are recognized based on their values at the inception of the lease at an amount equal either to the fair value of the leased asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments during the lease term, whichever is lower. Lease payments are apportioned between interest charges and a reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining liability balance. Contingent rentals are expensed as incurred. Leases that do not qualify as finance leases are classified as operating leases and the related lease payments are expensed on a straight-line basis over the lease term, including, as applicable, any rent-free period during which Ahold Delhaize has the right to use the asset. Payments made to Ahold Delhaize representing incentives to sign a new lease or representing reimbursements for leasehold improvements are deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease as reductions to rental expense. For leases with renewal options where the renewal is reasonably assured, the lease term used to (i) determine the appropriate lease classification, (ii) compute periodic rental expense, and (iii) depreciate leasehold improvements (unless their economic lives are shorter) includes the periods of expected renewals. Renewal options that are reasonably certain to be exercised, but not yet committed to, are disclosed as operating lease commitments. Determining whether a lease agreement is a finance or an operating lease requires judgment on various aspects. These include the fair value of the leased asset, the split of the fair value between land and buildings, the economic life of the leased asset, whether or not to include renewal options in the lease term, and the determination of an appropriate discount rate to calculate the present value of the minimum lease payments. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 102 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued Sale and leaseback consolidated The gain or loss on sale and operating leaseback transactions is recognized in the income statement immediately if the transaction has occurred at fair financial statements value. If the sale price is below fair value, any gain or loss will be recognized immediately, unless the loss is compensated for by future lease payments that are below market price, in which case the loss is deferred and amortized in proportion to the lease payments over the period for which the asset continued is expected to be used. If the sale price is above fair value, the excess over fair value is likewise deferred and amortized over the period for which the asset is expected to be used. Any gain on sale and finance leaseback transactions is deferred and amortized over the term of the lease, while losses are recognized immediately. In classifying the leaseback in a sale and leaseback transaction, similar judgments have to be made as described above under Leases. In some sale and leaseback arrangements, Ahold Delhaize sells a property and only leases back a portion of that property. These properties generally involve shopping centers that contain an Ahold Delhaize store as well as other stores leased to third-party retailers. In such situations, the Company recognizes a sale and the resulting profit on the portion of the shopping center that is not leased back to the extent that (i) the property is sold for fair value and (ii) control of the stores that are not leased back to Ahold Delhaize have been fully transferred to the buyer. The leaseback of the Ahold Delhaize store and any gain on the sale of the Ahold Delhaize store is accounted for under the sale and leaseback criteria described above. In some sale and leaseback arrangements, Ahold Delhaize may not have transferred control of the store or location to the buyer or it has an obligation or option to repurchase the property. In such situations, the transaction generally does not qualify for sale and leaseback accounting, but rather is accounted for as a financing transaction (financing). The carrying amount of the asset remains on the balance sheet and the sale proceeds are recorded as a financing obligation. The financing obligation is amortized over the lease or option term. Once Ahold Delhaize’s lease or option has expired, any remaining asset or financing obligation balances are accounted for under the sale and leaseback criteria described above. Intangible assets Goodwill and impairment of goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the Company’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and assumed contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition. It is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures and associates is included in the carrying amount of the investment. For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the cash-generating units (or groups of cash-generating units) that is expected to benefit from the synergies of a business combination. Goodwill is allocated to a cash-generating unit (or group of cash-generating units) representing the lowest level within the Company at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and is never larger than an operating segment before aggregation. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the cash-generating unit may be impaired. Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures and associates is assessed for impairment as part of the investment whenever there is an indication that the investment may be impaired. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the cashgenerating unit’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of a cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs of disposal or its value in use. See Note 13 for explanations of how the Company determines fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. An impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of the goodwill and then to the other assets of the cash-generating unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset. An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods. On the partial or complete disposal of an operation, the goodwill attributable to that operation is included in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 103 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued Other intangible assets consolidated Separately acquired intangible assets and internally developed software are carried at cost less accumulated amortization and impairment losses. financial statements Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognized at fair value at the date of acquisition (which is regarded as their cost). Brand names and customer, franchise and affiliate relationships acquired in business acquisitions are stated at fair value determined using an income continued approach. Direct costs related to the development of software for internal use are capitalized only if the costs can be measured reliably, technological feasibility has been established, future economic benefits are probable, and the Company intends to complete development and to use the software. All other costs, including all overhead, general and administrative, and training costs, are expensed as incurred. Lease-related intangible assets, consisting primarily of favorable operating lease contracts acquired in business acquisitions, are measured at the present value of the amount by which the contract terms are favorable relative to market prices at the date of acquisition. Amortization is computed using the straight-line method based on estimated useful lives, which are as follows: Lease-related intangibles Remaining expected duration of the lease Software 3–10 years Customer relationships 7–25 years Brand names indefinite Franchise and affiliate relationships 14–40 years Other 5–indefinite The useful lives, amortization method and residual value are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted, if appropriate. Brand names, intangible assets under development and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are assessed for impairment annually, or whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired. Investments in joint arrangements and associates Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations each investor has rather than the legal structure of the joint arrangement. Joint operations arise where Ahold Delhaize has both rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement and, therefore, the Company accounts for its share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. Joint ventures arise where Ahold Delhaize has rights to the net assets of the arrangement and, therefore, the Company equity accounts for its interest. Associates are entities over which Ahold Delhaize has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Significant influence is defined as the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity but not control or joint control over those policies. Associates are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, investments in joint ventures and associates are measured initially at cost and subsequently adjusted for post-acquisition changes in Ahold Delhaize’s share of the net assets of the investment (net of any accumulated impairment in the value of individual investments). Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial figures of joint ventures and associates to ensure consistency with the accounting policies of the Company. Unrealized gains on transactions between Ahold Delhaize and its joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of the Company’s stake in these investments. Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the assets transferred. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 104 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued Impairment of non-current assets other than goodwill consolidated Ahold Delhaize assesses on a quarterly basis whether there is any indication that non-current assets may be impaired. If indicators of impairment exist, financial statements the Company estimates the recoverable amount of the asset. If it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which it belongs. Individual stores are considered separate cash-generating units for continued impairment testing purposes. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal or the asset’s value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. An impairment loss is recognized in the income statement for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. In subsequent years, Ahold Delhaize assesses whether indications exist that impairment losses previously recognized for non-current assets other than goodwill may no longer exist or may have decreased. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of that asset is recalculated and, if required, its carrying amount is increased to the revised recoverable amount. The increase is recognized in operating income as an impairment reversal. An impairment reversal is recognized only if it arises from a change in the assumptions that were used to calculate the recoverable amount. The increase in an asset’s carrying amount due to an impairment reversal is limited to the depreciated amount that would have been recognized had the original impairment not occurred. Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost consists of all costs of purchase, cost of conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their location and condition ready for sale, net of vendor allowances attributable to inventories. For certain inventories, cost is approximated using the retail method, in which the sales value of the inventories is reduced by the appropriate percentage of gross margin. The cost of inventories is determined using either the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method or the weighted average cost method, depending on their nature or use. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated marketing, distribution and selling expenses. Included in the value of inventory is an amount representing the estimated value of inventories that have already been sold that the Company expects to be returned for a refund by customers. Financial instruments Financial assets Financial assets are recognized when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of a financial instrument. Financial assets are derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets expire, or if the Company transfers the financial asset to another party and does not retain control or substantially all risks and rewards of the asset. Purchases and sales of financial assets in the normal course of business are accounted for at settlement date (i.e., the date that the asset is delivered to or by the Company). At initial recognition, the Company measures its financial assets at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset. After initial recognition, the Company classifies its financial assets as subsequently measured at either i) amortized cost, ii) fair value through other comprehensive income or iii) fair value through profit or loss on the basis of both: • The Company’s business model for managing the financial assets • The contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 105 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued Subsequent to initial recognition, financial assets are measured as described below. At each balance sheet date, the Company assesses whether there is consolidated objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and recognizes a loss allowance for expected credit losses for financial financial statements assets measured at either amortized costs or at fair value through other comprehensive income. If, at the reporting date, the credit risk on a financial instrument has not increased significantly since initial recognition, the Company measures the loss allowance for that financial instrument at an amount continued equal to 12 months of expected credit losses. If, at the reporting date, the credit risk on a financial instrument has increased significantly since initial recognition, the Company measures the loss allowance for the financial instrument at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses. The Company always measures the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses for trade receivables, contract assets and lease receivables. Financial assets at amortized cost Financial assets are measured at amortized cost if both i) the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows; and ii) the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. A financial asset measured at amortized cost is initially recognized at fair value plus transaction cost directly attributable to the asset. After initial recognition, the carrying amount of the financial asset measured at amortized cost is determined using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. The Company’s financial assets measured at amortized cost comprise loans receivable, trade and other (non-)current receivables, cash and cash equivalents, short-term deposits and similar instruments. Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) A financial asset is measured at fair value through other comprehensive income if both i) the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets; and ii) the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. Investments in debt instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income are recognized initially at fair value plus transaction cost directly attributable to the asset. After initial recognition, the asset is measured at fair value with changes in fair value included in other comprehensive income. Accumulated gains or losses recognized through other comprehensive income are directly transferred to profit or loss when debt instrument is derecognized. The Company’s financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income are certain investments in debt instruments. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL) When any of the above-mentioned conditions for classification of financial assets are not met, a financial asset is classified as “at fair value through profit or loss” and measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in profit or loss. A financial asset measured at fair value through profit or loss is recognized initially at fair value and its transaction cost is recognized in profit or loss when incurred. A gain or loss on a financial asset measured at fair value through profit or loss is recognized in the consolidated statement of income for the reporting period in which it arises. The Company may, at initial recognition, irrevocably designate a financial asset as measured at fair value through profit or loss if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise from measuring assets or liabilities or recognizing the gains and losses on them on different bases. The Company’s financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss comprise reinsurance assets, derivatives and certain investments in debt instruments. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 106 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued Financial liabilities consolidated Financial liabilities are recognized when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of a financial instrument. Financial liabilities are financial statements derecognized when the Company’s obligations specified in the contract expire or are discharged or cancelled. When financial liabilities are initially recognized, they are generally measured at their fair value. An exception to this policy is made for the measurement of continued financial liabilities “not at fair value through profit and loss,” which are measured at their fair value plus direct transaction costs. The Company classifies all financial liabilities as subsequently measured at amortized cost, except for derivatives and reinsurance liabilities. Any difference between the proceeds and redemption value is recognized in the income statement over the period of the loans and short-term borrowings using the effective interest method. Financial liabilities are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. Derivative financial instruments All derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value at the date the derivative contracts are entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period. Gains and losses resulting from the fair value remeasurement are recognized in the income statement as fair value gains (losses) on financial instruments, unless the derivative qualifies and is effective as a hedging instrument in a designated hedging relationship. In order for a derivative financial instrument to qualify as a hedging instrument for accounting purposes, the Company must document (i) at the inception of the transaction, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions and (ii) its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivative that is used in the hedging transaction is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. Derivatives that are designated as hedges are accounted for as either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognized initially in the cash flow hedging reserve, a separate component of equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in the income statement. Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified into the income statement in the same period in which the related exposure impacts the income statement. When a cash flow hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognized when the forecasted transaction is ultimately recognized in the income statement. When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss existing in equity is immediately recognized in the income statement. Fair value changes of derivative instruments that qualify for fair value hedge accounting treatment are recognized in the income statement in the periods in which they arise, together with any changes in fair value of the hedged asset or liability. If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item is amortized in the income statement over the hedged item’s remaining period to maturity. Reinsurance assets and liabilities Under Ahold Delhaize’s self-insurance program, part of the insurance risk is ceded under a reinsurance treaty, which is a pooling arrangement between unrelated companies. In accordance with the pooling arrangement, the Company assumes a share of the reinsurance treaty risks that is measured in relation to the percentage of Ahold Delhaize’s participation in the treaty. Reinsurance assets include estimated receivable balances related to reinsurance contracts purchased by the Company. Reinsurance liabilities represent the expected insurance risks related to reinsurance contracts sold by the Company. Reinsurance assets and liabilities are measured on a discounted basis using accepted actuarial methods. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 107 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued Financial guarantees consolidated Financial guarantees made by Ahold Delhaize to third parties that may require the Company to incur future cash outflows if called upon to satisfy financial statements are recognized at inception as liabilities at fair value. Fair value is measured as the premium received, if any, or calculated using a scenario analysis. Subsequently, the liability is measured at the higher of the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation or the amount initially recognized continued less cumulative amortization corresponding to the expiration or repayment of the underlying amount guaranteed. Equity Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the value of proceeds received. Own equity instruments that are bought back (treasury shares) are deducted from equity. When reissued or cancelled, shares are removed from the treasury shares on a first-in, first-out basis. Incremental costs that are directly attributable to issuing or buying back own equity instruments are recognized directly in equity, net of the related tax. No gain or loss is recognized in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issuance or cancellation of the Company’s own equity instruments. Cumulative preferred financing shares Cumulative preferred financing shares, for which dividend payments are not at the discretion of the Company, are classified as non-current financial liabilities and are stated at amortized cost. The dividends on these cumulative preferred financing shares are recognized as interest expense in the income statement, using the effective interest method. From the date on which Ahold Delhaize receives irrevocable notification from a holder of cumulative preferred financing shares to convert these shares into common shares, the cumulative preferred financing shares are classified as a separate class of equity. Pension and other post-employment benefits The net assets and net liabilities recognized on the consolidated balance sheet for defined benefit plans represent the actual surplus or deficit in Ahold Delhaize’s defined benefit plans measured as the present value of the defined benefit obligations less the fair value of plan assets. Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan. Defined benefit obligations are actuarially calculated on the balance sheet date using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using market yields on high-quality corporate bonds (i.e., bonds rated AA or higher), denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have an average duration similar to the expected duration of the related pension liabilities. Defined benefit costs are split into three categories: • Service cost, past service cost, gains and losses on curtailment and settlements • Net interest expense or income • Remeasurement The first category is presented as labor costs within operating earnings. Past-service costs are recognized in the income statement in the period of plan amendment. Results from curtailments or settlements are recognized immediately. Past service years within the Dutch pension plan are calculated based upon a methodology that uses the maximum past service years based on accrued benefits or a participant’s actual date of hire. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset and is presented within net financial expenses. Remeasurements, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling (if applicable), and the return on plan assets (excluding interest) are recognized immediately in the balance sheet with a charge or credit to other comprehensive income in the period in which it occurs. Remeasurements recorded in other comprehensive income are not recycled to the income statement. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 108 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognized as an expense when employees have rendered service entitling them to the contributions. consolidated Post-employment benefits provided through industry multi-employer plans, managed by third parties, are generally accounted for under defined financial statements contribution criteria. For other long-term employee benefits, such as long-service awards, provisions are recognized on the basis of estimates that are consistent with the continued estimates used for the defined benefit obligations, but discounted using Ahold Delhaize’s cost of debt rate. For these, all actuarial gains and losses are recognized in the income statement immediately. Provisions Provisions are recognized when (i) the Company has a present (legal or constructive) obligation as a result of past events, (ii) it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and (iii) the amount can be reliably estimated. The amount recognized is the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation. Provisions are discounted whenever the effect of the time value of money is significant. The provision for the Company’s self-insurance program is recorded based on claims filed and an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. The provision includes expenses incurred in the claim settlement process that can be directly associated with specific claims. Other expenses incurred in the claim settlement process are expensed when incurred. The Company’s estimate of the required liability of such claims is recorded on a discounted basis, utilizing an actuarial method based upon various assumptions that include, but are not limited to, historical loss experience, projected loss development factors and actual payroll costs. Restructuring-related provisions for severance and termination benefits are recognized when the Company has approved a detailed formal restructuring plan and the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced to those affected by it. Onerous contract provisions are measured at the amount by which the unavoidable costs to fulfill agreements exceeds the expected benefits from such agreements. New accounting policies effective for 2018 IFRS 9, “Financial Instruments” IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities. The adoption of the new standard had the following effects on the financial assets and liabilities on January 1, 2018. The majority of the Company’s debt instruments that were measured at amortized cost satisfy the conditions to be classified at amortized costs under IFRS 9, so there is no change in how we account for these assets. However, certain investments in U.S. Treasury bond funds that were classified as available-forsale financial assets do not meet the criteria to be classified as either at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) or at amortized cost and €157 million has been reclassified to financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL). Related fair value losses of €3 million were transferred from the available-for-sale financial assets reserve to retained earnings on January 1, 2018. There were no other changes to the classification and measurement of other financial assets. There is no effect on the Group’s accounting for financial liabilities. The new requirements only affect the accounting for financial liabilities that are designated at fair value through profit or loss. For the Group, only derivatives and reinsurance liabilities are designated at fair value through profit or loss and there are no changes in the accounting for these liabilities as a result of IFRS 9. The derecognition rules have not changed from IAS 39, “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.” The new hedge accounting rules align the accounting for hedging instruments more closely with the Group’s risk management practices. As a general rule, more hedge relationships could be eligible for hedge accounting, as the standard introduces a more principles-based approach. The Company has assessed that its current hedge relationships continue to qualify as hedges upon the adoption of IFRS 9. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 109 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued The new impairment model requires the recognition of impairment provisions based on expected credit losses rather than only incurred credit losses as consolidated is the case under IAS 39. It applies to financial assets measured at amortized cost, debt instruments measured at FVOCI, contract assets under IFRS financial statements 15, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” lease receivables, loan commitments and certain financial guarantee contracts. Due to the change in the impairment model, the loss allowance for the financial receivables increased by €1 million at January 1, 2018. continued IFRS 9 applies for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. The Company has applied the new rules retrospectively from January 1, 2018, applying the practical expedients permitted under the standard. Comparatives for 2017 have not been restated. IFRS 15, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” IFRS 15 establishes a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue from contracts with customers. IFRS 15 supersedes the previous revenue recognition guidance, including IAS 18, “Revenue,” IAS 11, “Construction Contracts,” and the related interpretations. Under IFRS 15, an entity recognizes revenue when (or as) a performance obligation is satisfied, i.e., when “control” of the goods or services underlying the particular performance obligation is transferred to the customer. The majority of the Company’s revenue is derived from sales of retail products whereby control is transferred to the customer as purchases occur at the register. For goods shipped to customers, control transfers to the customer when the product is delivered and accepted. The Company previously recognized revenue as control passed, and therefore the adoption of IFRS 15 has no effect on when revenue is recognized. The Company’s policy is to allow customers to return product for replacement or refund. Revenue was previously recognized with an allowance for a reasonable estimate of the returns that can be made for a refund and this remained unchanged after adoption of IFRS 15. However, under IFRS 15, the Company is now required to recognize an asset that represents the right to receive returned product. The value of this asset represents the purchase cost of only the goods that will be of value to Ahold Delhaize. A returned product has value to Ahold Delhaize if it can be restocked for future resale or returned to the vendor for a refund. Based on the limited amount of sales that result in refunds to customers, the value of this new asset, presented within inventories, was €1 million at January 1, 2018. IFRS 15 applies for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. The Company has applied the new rules retrospectively from January 1, 2018, with the cumulative effect of initially applying the standard recognized as of that date. Comparatives for 2017 have not been restated. Amendments to IFRS 2, “Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions” The amendments to IFRS 2 were made to provide requirements on the accounting for the effects of vesting and non-vesting conditions on the measurement of cash-settled share-based payments; share-based payment transactions with a net settlement feature for withholding tax obligations; and a modification to the terms and conditions of a share-based payment that changes the classification of the transaction from cash-settled to equity-settled. The amendments to IFRS 2 apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. These amendments to IFRS 2 do not have a significant effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Amendments to IFRS 4, “Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts” The amendments to IFRS 4 were made to give all companies that issue insurance contracts the option to recognize in other comprehensive income, rather than profit or loss, the volatility that could arise when IFRS 9 is applied before the new insurance contracts standard is issued. They also give companies whose activities are predominantly connected with insurance an optional temporary exemption from applying IFRS 9 until 2021. The amendments to IFRS 4 apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. Based on Ahold Delhaize’s current business model, these amendments do not have a significant effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Amendments to IAS 40, “Transfers of Investment Property” The amendments to IAS 40 were made to clarify that transfers to, or from, investment property can only be made if there has been a change in use that is supported by evidence. The amendments to IAS 40 apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. These amendments do not have a significant effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 110 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued IFRIC 22, “Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration” consolidated IFRIC 22 clarifies how to determine the date of transaction for the exchange rate to be used on initial recognition of a related asset, expense or income financial statements when an entity pays or receives consideration in advance for foreign currency-denominated contracts. IFRIC 22 applies prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. This new interpretation does not have a significant effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. continued New accounting policies not yet effective for 2018 The IASB issued several standards, or revisions to standards, that are not yet effective for 2018, but will become effective in coming years. IFRS 16, “Leases” IFRS 16 replaces existing lease guidance, including IAS 17, “Leases”; IFRIC 4, “Determining whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease”; SIC-15, “Operating Leases – Incentives”; and SIC-27, “Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease.” The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. IFRS 16 introduces a single, on-balance sheet lease accounting model for lessees. A lessee recognizes a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments. There are recognition exemptions for short-term leases and leases of low-value items. Lessor accounting remains similar to the current standard, i.e., lessors continue to classify leases as finance or operating leases. However, subleases under IFRS 16 are classified with reference to the right-of-use asset, not with reference to the underlying asset, as per IAS 17. As a result, in the future, subleases are more likely to be classified as finance leases. In addition, the nature of expenses related to leases will change as IFRS 16 replaces the operating lease expense with a depreciation charge for right-of-use assets and interest expense on lease liabilities. Our work on implementing this new standard for leases is in its final stage and the initial impact on the Company’s consolidated results and financial position is under internal review. The Company completed the data collection and enrichment process of its lease contracts and finalized the implementation of a lease accounting tool to determine the impact assessment on a contract-by-contract basis to prepare for the transition on December 31, 2018 (start of the Company’s 2019 financial year). Ahold Delhaize leases a significant number of its stores, as well as distribution centers, offices and other assets, such as company cars and equipment. IFRS 16 will have material implications for the balance sheet, income statement and certain key performance indicators due to the size of the Company’s lease portfolio. If IFRS 16 had been applied to the 2018 financial statements, a right-of-use asset line would have been included on the balance sheet, with a corresponding increase in lease liabilities and opening accumulated deficit. The estimated impact of IFRS 16 on the opening balance sheet as of January 1, 2018 (the start of the 2018 financial year), would lead in: – an increase in total assets for an amount of approximately €6.4 billion; – an increase in total liabilities for an amount of approximately €7 billion; – with an offsetting decrease of approximately €0.6 billion in equity. In addition, in the income statement there would have been changes in the items making up operating income and in the total amount of net financial expense. Preliminary estimates indicate that operating income for the 2018 financial year will increase in the range of €210 million to €250 million and net finance expense in the range of €220 million to €260 million. Within operating income, this gives rise to a movement from operating expenses to depreciation; consequently, EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization) will increase. We do not expect that the implementation of IFRS 16 will have a significant impact on our earnings per share. We will record a deferred tax position only for those jurisdictions for which we expect that the IFRS 16 accounting methodology will not be accepted in the corporate income tax return. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 111 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued The Company determines the discount rates that will be used in the calculation of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities per quarter and per operating consolidated company. This resulted in different discount rates being calculated for different asset classes and durations of contracts. The Company identified three financial statements duration categories (0-8 years lease term, 8-15 years lease term and lease terms longer than 15 years). In addition, separate rates are calculated for real estate and other assets. continued The Company will release an IFRS 16 transition booklet on March 25, 2019. This booklet will provide insight into the impact per quarter and per reportable segment. The Company has notified the relevant lenders of the change to the manner in which the financial statements are prepared following the implementation of IFRS 16. The Company does not expect the changes in accounting policy to impact compliance with the general terms and provisions of its loan agreements, but may enter into discussions with its lenders to update those loan agreements to reflect the technical changes arising from the implementation of IFRS 16. New Lease Accounting policies with effect from December 31, 2018 The Company will adopt IFRS 16 on December 31, 2018, and will apply the full retrospective transition approach. The two capitalization exemptions proposed by the standard – lease contracts with a lease term of less than 12 months and lease contracts for which the underlying asset has a low value (on acquisition) that has been defined by the Company to be below USD 5,000 – will be used. The payments for such leases will be recognized in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. On transition to IFRS 16, the Company must determine whether an arrangement contains a lease. When performing this assessment, the Company can choose whether to apply the IFRS 16 definition of a lease to all its contracts or apply the practical expedient allowed under IFRS 16 and not reassess whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. The Company will apply the practical expedient to grandfather the definition of a lease upon transition. This means that it will apply IFRS 16 to all contracts entered into before December 31, 2018 and identified as leases in accordance with IAS 17 and IFRIC 4. The Company will recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus any initial direct costs incurred, less any incentives received. The right-of-use asset for acquired leases is adjusted for any favorable or unfavorable lease rights recognized as part of the purchase price allocation. The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter of the lease term or the useful life of the underlying asset. In addition, the right-of-use asset is reduced by impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for certain remeasurements of the lease liability. The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the commencement date, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, the Company’s incremental borrowing rate. Generally, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate. The Company has elected to separate lease and non-lease components included in lease payments for all leases. Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise the following: • fixed payments, including in-substance fixed payments; • variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate; initially measured using the index or rate as at the commencement date; • amounts expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee; • the exercise price of a purchase option that the Company is reasonably certain to exercise, lease payments in an optional renewal period if the Company is reasonably certain to exercise an extension option, and penalties for early termination of a lease unless the Company is reasonably certain not to terminate early. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 112 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued The lease liability is measured at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method. It is remeasured when there is a change in future lease payments consolidated arising from a change in an index or rate, if there is a change in the Company’s estimate of the amount expected to be payable under a residual value financial statements guarantee, or if the Company changes its assessment of whether it will exercise a purchase, extension or termination option. When the lease liability is remeasured in this way, a corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset, or is recorded in the continued income statement if the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset has been reduced to zero. Right-of-use assets will be separately disclosed as a line in the balance sheet, but right-of-use assets classified as investment property will be included in “Investment property”, but separately disclosed in the notes. The lease liability will be included in “Other current” and “Non-current financial liabilities.” IFRS 17, “Insurance Contracts” IFRS 17 replaces IFRS 4, “Insurance Contracts.” It requires a current measurement model where estimates are remeasured each reporting period. The standard allows a choice between recognizing changes in discount rates either in the income statement or directly in other comprehensive income. IFRS 17 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2021; however the IASB, in November 2018, tentatively decided to defer the effective date to annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2022. The Company has yet to assess the standard’s full impact. Annual improvements to IFRS Standards 2015–2017 Cycle Improvements to the following Standards were finalized in December 2017: • IFRS 3: clarified that obtaining control of a business that is a joint operation is a business combination achieved in stages. • IFRS 11: clarified that the party obtaining joint control of a business that is a joint operation should not remeasure its previously held interest in the joint operation. • IAS 12: clarified that the income tax consequences of dividends on financial instruments classified as equity should be recognized according to where the past transactions or events that generated distributable profits were recognized. • IAS 23: clarified that if a specific borrowing remains outstanding after the related qualifying asset is ready for its intended use or sale, it becomes part of general borrowings. The improvements apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. The Company does not anticipate that the application of these improvements will have a significant effect on the future consolidated financial statements. Amendments to IFRS 3, “Business Combinations” The amendments to IFRS 3 clarify that when an entity obtains control of a business that is a joint operation, it remeasures previously held interests in that business. The amendments to IFRS 3 apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. The Company does not anticipate that the application of these amendments to IFRS 3 will have a significant effect on the future consolidated financial statements. Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8, “Definition of Material” The amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8 clarify the definition of material and how it should be applied by stating that information is material if omitting, misstating or obscuring it could reasonably be expected to influence the decisions that the primary users of general purpose financial statements make on the basis of those financial statements, which provide financial information about a specific reporting entity. The amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8 apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2020. The Company does not anticipate that the application of these amendments will have a significant effect on the future consolidated financial statements. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 113 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued Amendments to IAS 19, “Plan Amendments, Curtailment or Settlement” consolidated The amendments to IAS 19 clarify the accounting for defined benefit plan amendments, curtailments and settlements. They confirm that entities must (i) financial statements calculate the current service cost and net interest for the remainder of the reporting period after a plan amendment, curtailment or settlement by using the updated assumptions from the date of the change; (ii) recognize any reduction in a surplus immediately in profit or loss either as part of past service cost, continued or as a gain or loss on settlement; and (iii) separately recognize any changes in the asset ceiling through other comprehensive income. The amendments to IAS 19 apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. The Company does not anticipate that the application of these amendments to IAS 19 will have a significant effect on the future consolidated financial statements. Amendments to IAS 28, “Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures” The amendments to IAS 28 were made to clarify that IFRS 9, “Financial Instruments,” applies to long-term interests in an associate or joint venture that form part of the net investment in the associate or joint venture but to which the equity method is not applied. The amendments to IAS 28 apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. The Company does not anticipate that the application of these amendments to IAS 28 will have a significant effect on the future consolidated financial statements. IFRIC 23, “Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments” IFRIC 23 clarifies guidance on considering uncertain tax treatments separately or together, assumptions about examinations by tax authorities, and the appropriate method to reflect uncertainty and accounting for changes in facts and circumstances. IFRIC 23 applies prospectively for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. The Company has performed an assessment of its known uncertain tax positions and the application of IFRIC 23 is not anticipated to have a significant effect on the future consolidated financial statements. There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that have been issued but are not yet effective that are expected to have a material effect on the future consolidated financial statements. 4 Acquisitions Ahold Delhaize completed various store acquisitions for a total purchase consideration of €31 million. The allocation of the fair values of the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and the goodwill arising from the acquisitions during 2018 is as follows: € million The United States Belgium Other Total Goodwill 16 5 1 22 Other intangible assets 5 — — 5 Property, plant and equipment 6 1 2 9 Investment in joint ventures and associates — — (1) (1) Other non-current assets 1 — — 1 Cash and cash equivalents — — 1 1 Other current assets 1 — 1 2 Finance lease liabilities (3) — — (3) Other non-current liabilities (1) — — (1) Fair value of assets and liabilities recognized 25 6 4 35 Gain on bargain purchase (negative goodwill) (4) — — (4) Total purchase consideration 21 6 4 31 Cash acquired — — (1) (1) Acquisition of businesses, net of cash 21 6 3 30 Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 114 Notes to the 4 Aquisitions continued Goodwill is attributable to the profitability of the acquired businesses and the synergies that are expected to result. The goodwill resulting from the consolidated acquisitions in Belgium is not deductible for tax purposes but the remaining goodwill is tax deductible. financial statements The gain on bargain purchases was the result of favorable purchase terms on stores that competitors were selling at discounts as they exited local markets. The gain has been reported as (gains) losses on the sale of assets within general and administrative expenses. continued 5 Assets and liabilities held for sale and discontinued operations Assets and liabilities held for sale December 30, December 31, € million 2018 2017 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 23 14 Total assets held for sale 23 14 Assets held for sale at December 30, 2018, is comprised primarily of non-current assets of retail locations (The Netherlands: €4 million (December 31, 2017: €10 million), Central and Southeastern Europe: €19 million (December 31, 2017: €4 million)). Discontinued operations € million 2018 2017 Tops Markets (17) — Other1 1 — Results on divestments (16) — Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (16) — 1 Includes adjustments to the results on various other discontinued operations and past divestments. Income (loss) from discontinued operations in 2018 included a charge of €17 million related to Tops Markets, a former subsidiary of Ahold Delhaize. In 2018, Tops Markets filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. As part of the bankruptcy proceedings, Tops Markets has rejected leases for four stores of which the lease is contingently guaranteed by Ahold Delhaize. In addition, the Company has reached an agreement with Tops Markets to take over partial rent payments for nine locations for 72 months. These actions have resulted in Ahold Delhaize recognizing €24 million partly as a financial liability and as an onerous contract provision (see Note 22 and Note 24), which are presented as an after-tax loss from discontinued operations of €17 million. For a description of contingencies related to our issued lease guarantees in connection with the divestment of Tops Markets, see Note 34. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 115 Notes to the 6 Segment reporting Reportable segments consolidated Ahold Delhaize’s retail operations are presented in four reportable segments. In addition, Other retail, consisting of Ahold Delhaize’s unconsolidated joint financial statements ventures JMR – Gestão de Empresas de Retalho, SGPS, S.A. (“JMR”) and P.T. Lion Super Indo (“Super Indo”), as well as Ahold Delhaize’s Global Support Office, are presented separately. The accounting policies used for the segments are the same as the accounting policies used for the consolidated financial continued statements as described in Note 3. In 2018, in line with the new management structure effective January 1, 2018, the previous Ahold USA and Delhaize America segments were combined into one reporting segment, “The United States,” and the 2017 comparable figures have been combined accordingly. All reportable segments sell a wide range of perishable and non-perishable food and non-food consumer products. Reportable segment Operating segments included in the Reportable segment The United States Stop & Shop, Food Lion, Giant/Martin’s, Hannaford, Giant Food and Peapod The Netherlands Albert Heijn (including the Netherlands and Belgium), Etos, Gall & Gall and bol.com (including the Netherlands and Belgium) Belgium Delhaize (including Belgium and Luxembourg) Central and Southeastern Europe Albert (Czech Republic), Alfa Beta (Greece), Mega Image (Romania) and Delhaize Serbia (Republic of Serbia ) Other Included in Other Other retail Unconsolidated joint ventures JMR (49%) and Super Indo (51%) Global Support Office Global Support Office staff (the Netherlands, Belgium, Switzerland and the United States) Net sales € million 2018 2017 The United States 37,460 38,440 The Netherlands 14,218 13,706 Belgium 5,095 4,953 Central and Southeastern Europe 6,018 5,791 Ahold Delhaize Group 62,791 62,890 Operating income € million 2018 2017 The United States 1,482 1,371 The Netherlands 698 669 Belgium 126 86 Central and Southeastern Europe 222 236 Global Support Office (133) (137) Ahold Delhaize Group 2,395 2,225 Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 116 Notes to the 6 Segment reporting continued Depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment, investment property, and intangible assets consolidated € million 2018 2017 financial statements The United States The Netherlands 1,098 310 1,165 293 continued Belgium 150 146 Central and Southeastern Europe 168 161 Global Support Office 32 28 Ahold Delhaize Group 1,758 1,793 Net impairments of property, plant and equipment, investment property, and intangible assets € million 2018 2017 The United States 32 61 The Netherlands 12 (2) Central and Southeastern Europe 14 5 Ahold Delhaize Group1 58 64 1 The 2018 net impairment amount includes no impairment reversals relating to assets held for sale (2017: €2 million). Share-based compensation expenses € million 2018 2017 The United States 31 46 The Netherlands 9 13 Belgium 2 3 Central and Southeastern Europe 2 2 Global Support Office 16 15 Ahold Delhaize Group 60 79 Additions to property, plant and equipment, investment property, and intangible assets (including assets acquired through business combinations) € million 2018 2017 The United States 1,216 989 The Netherlands 383 379 Belgium 149 224 Central and Southeastern Europe 262 197 Global Support Office 50 33 Ahold Delhaize Group 2,060 1,822 Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 117 Notes to the 6 Segment reporting continued Non-current assets (property, plant and equipment, investment property, and intangible assets) consolidated December 30, December 31, financial statements € million 2018 2017 The United States 14,527 13,831 continued The Netherlands 3,586 3,528 Belgium 3,078 3,083 Central and Southeastern Europe 2,467 2,417 Global Support Office 131 114 Ahold Delhaize Group 23,789 22,973 Additional segment information Segment results do not include significant non-cash items other than depreciation, amortization, impairment losses and reversals and share-based compensation expenses. Segment information joint ventures – Other retail (JMR and Super Indo) The information with respect to JMR and Super Indo is presented in Note 14. 7 Net sales € million 2018 2017 Sales from owned stores1 53,953 54,650 Sales to and fees from franchisees and affiliates 5,675 5,486 Online sales1 2,817 2,393 Wholesale sales 185 188 Other sales 161 173 Net sales 62,791 62,890 1 Comparable numbers have been adjusted to reflect the updated online sales definition, which now consists of the sales from all online channels. Sales by segment for 2018 are as follows: Central and Southeastern Ahold Delhaize € million The United States The Netherlands Belgium Europe Group Sales from owned stores1 36,459 9,204 2,478 5,812 53,953 Sales to and fees from franchisees and affiliates — 2,983 2,539 153 5,675 Online sales1 751 1,999 51 16 2,817 Wholesale sales 135 — 15 35 185 Other sales 115 32 12 2 161 Net sales 37,460 14,218 5,095 6,018 62,791 1 Comparable numbers have been adjusted to reflect the updated online sales definition, which now consists of the sales from all online channels. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 118 Notes to the 7 Net sales continued Sales by segment for 2017 are as follows: consolidated Central and financial statements Southeastern Ahold Delhaize € million The United States The Netherlands Belgium Europe Group Sales from owned stores 37,471 9,109 2,473 5,597 54,650 continued Sales to and fees from franchisees and affiliates — 2,931 2,410 145 5,486 Online sales 713 1,627 40 13 2,393 Wholesale sales 134 — 19 35 188 Other sales 122 39 11 1 173 Net sales 38,440 13,706 4,953 5,791 62,890 Net sales by product category are as follows: Percentage of net sales 2018 2017 Food: perishable 45% 46% Food: non-perishable 38% 37% Non-food 12% 12% Pharmacy 3% 3% Gasoline 2% 2% Net sales 100% 100% 8 Expenses by nature The aggregate of cost of sales and operating expenses is specified by nature as follows: € million 2018 2017 Cost of product 43,846 44,210 Labor costs 9,014 9,014 Other operational expenses 4,798 4,652 Depreciation and amortization 1,758 1,793 Rent expenses and income – net 929 979 Impairment losses and reversals – net 58 64 (Gains) losses on the sale of assets – net (7) (47) Total expenses by nature 60,396 60,665 Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 119 Notes to the 9 Net financial expenses 2018 consolidated € million 2017 Interest income 70 32 financial statements Interest expense Net interest expense on defined benefit pension plans (310) (19) (294) (22) continued Gains (losses) on foreign exchange 19 (38) Fair value gains (losses) on financial instruments1 (15) 26 Other gains (losses) 9 (1) Other financial income (expense) 13 (13) Net financial expenses (246) (297) 1 In 2018, the fair value gains (losses) on financial instruments include fair value changes on certain investments in U.S. Treasury bond funds, which were classified from available-for-sale financial assets to financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL) in accordance with IFRS 9 (see Note 3). Interest income primarily relates to interest earned on cash and cash equivalents and short-term cash deposits and similar instruments. Interest expense primarily relates to financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (which include notes, finance lease liabilities, financing obligations and cumulative preferred financing shares), interest accretions to provisions, and amortization of the fair value allocation of the debt brought in through acquisitions. Net interest expense on defined benefit pension plans is caused by the Company’s pension plans being in a net liability position over 2018 and 2017. Gains (losses) on foreign exchange on financial assets and liabilities are presented as part of net financial expenses. The gains on foreign exchange in 2018 primarily resulted from the translation of foreign currency denominated loans as a result of the weakening of the euro versus the U.S. dollar. The gains on foreign exchange are offset by fair value losses on financial instruments from derivatives, which do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, and by fair value losses on certain investments in U.S. Treasury bond funds. Other gains (losses) mainly include transaction results from repurchasing and cancelling $350 million of the outstanding $827 million 5.70% senior notes, due 2040, resulting in a one-off cost of $39 million and a non-cash gain of $73 million (see Note 21) and the recognition of a financial liability for lease guarantees related to BI-LO II and its parent, Southeastern Grocers, Inc., filing for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 (see Note 34). Foreign exchange results arising from the purchase of goods for sale or goods and services consumed in Ahold Delhaize’s operations are included in cost of sales or in the appropriate element of operating expenses, respectively. In 2018, the Company recorded a net exchange gain (including the impact of foreign exchange hedging instruments) of €1 million in operating income (2017: gain of €1 million). Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 120 Notes to the 10 Income taxes Income taxes on continuing operations consolidated The following table specifies the current and deferred tax components of income taxes on continuing operations in the income statement: financial statements € million Current income taxes 2018 2017 continued Domestic taxes (the Netherlands) (135) (147) Foreign taxes United States (150) (150) Europe – Other (75) (109) Total current tax expense (360) (406) Deferred income taxes Domestic taxes (the Netherlands) 52 13 Foreign taxes United States (70) 131 Europe – Other 6 116 Total deferred tax expense (12) 260 Total income taxes on continuing operations (372) (146) Effective income tax rate on continuing operations Ahold Delhaize’s effective tax rate in its consolidated income statement differed from the Netherlands’ statutory income tax rate of 25.0%. The following table reconciles the statutory income tax rate with the effective income tax rate in the consolidated income statement: 2018 2017 € million Tax rate € million Tax rate Income before income taxes 2,149 1,928 Income tax expense at statutory tax rate (537) 25.0% (482) 25.0% Adjustments to arrive at effective income tax rate: Rate differential (local rates versus the statutory rate of the Netherlands) 66 (3.1)% (45) 2.3% Deferred tax income (expense) related to recognition of deferred tax assets – net 3 (0.1)% (2) 0.1% Non-taxable income (expense) 16 (0.7)% 14 (0.7)% Other 57 (2.7)% (38) 2.0% Subtotal income taxes1 (395) 18.4% (553) 28.7% Tax rate changes as a result of local tax reforms 23 (1.1)% 407 (21.1)% Total income taxes (372) 17.3% (146) 7.6% 1 Excluding the impact of tax rate changes due to local tax reforms. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 121 Notes to the 10 Income taxes continued Rate differential indicates the effect of Ahold Delhaize’s taxable income being generated and taxed in jurisdictions where tax rates differ from the statutory consolidated tax rate in the Netherlands. The difference compared to 2017 mainly relates to the decrease of statutory corporate income tax rates in the U.S. and Belgium financial statements as of 2018. Other includes discrete items and one-time transactions (for 2018 it includes €41 million deferred tax income related to restructuring). On December 18, 2018, new Dutch tax legislation was substantively enacted. The new law includes a reduction of the statutory corporate income tax rate continued from 25% in 2018 and 2019 to 22.55% in 2020 and 20.5% as of 2021, which affected Ahold Delhaize’s Dutch deferred income tax position at the end of 2018. In addition, on December 3, 2018, new Greek tax legislation was enacted. The new Greek tax law includes a reduction of the statutory corporate income tax rate from 29% to 28% in 2019, 27% in 2020, 26% in 2021 and 25% as of 2022, which affected Ahold Delhaize’s Greek deferred income tax position at the end of 2018. The tax rate changes show the effect of applying the reduced statutory corporate income tax rates to the calculation of Ahold Delhaize’s Dutch and Greek deferred income tax positions, as well as the 2018 effect related to the Belgian statutory corporate income tax rate change of 2017. The total impact for 2018 amounts to €23 million. The effects of tax law changes are included in the reported tax balances based on the information available per reporting date. The Company keeps following any developments and further clarifications of changes in tax laws and will make adjustments to the tax balances accordingly. In 2017, the impact of €407 million was related to the reduction of statutory corporate income tax rates in the U.S. (decrease of statutory corporate income tax rate from 35% in 2017 to 21% as of 2018) and Belgium (decrease of statutory corporate income tax rate from 33% in 2017 to 29% in 2018 and 2019 and 25% as of 2020). Income taxes on discontinued operations Current and deferred income tax related to discontinued operations amounted to a €7 million benefit in 2018 (2017: nil). Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 122 Notes to the 10 Income taxes continued Deferred income tax consolidated The significant components and annual movements of deferred income tax assets and liabilities as of December 30, 2018, and December 31, 2017, are financial statements as follows: January 1, Recognized in December 31, Recognized in December 30, continued € million 2017 income statement Other 2017 income statement Other 2018 Leases and financings 439 (146) (33) 260 (16) 17 261 Pensions and other (post-)employment benefits 448 (81) (121) 246 1 (10) 237 Provisions 219 (71) (24) 124 (7) 11 128 Derivatives — — 3 3 (2) (1) — Interest 154 (2) (74) 78 5 5 88 Other 54 (17) (22) 15 59 (3) 71 Total gross deductible temporary differences 1,314 (317) (271) 726 40 19 785 Unrecognized deductible temporary differences (5) 1 3 (1) (52) (1) (54) Total recognized deductible temporary differences 1,309 (316) (268) 725 (12) 18 731 Tax losses and tax credits 735 (108) (37) 590 (84) (16) 490 Unrecognized tax losses and tax credits (373) (1) 18 (356) 59 3 (294) Total recognized tax losses and tax credits 362 (109) (19) 234 (25) (13) 196 Total net deferred tax asset position 1,671 (425) (287) 959 (37) 5 927 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (2,255) 617 166 (1,472) 38 (26) (1,460) Inventories (257) 78 32 (147) (15) (8) (170) Derivatives (39) (16) 55 — — — — Other (16) 6 1 (9) 2 (5) (12) Total deferred tax liabilities (2,567) 685 254 (1,628) 25 (39) (1,642) Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) (896) 260 (33) (669) (12) (34) (715) The column “Other” in the table above includes amounts recorded in equity, divestments and exchange rate differences, as well as reclassifications between deferred tax components and the application of tax losses and tax credits against current year income tax payables. For 2018, the column “Recognized in income statement” in the table above includes the deferred tax rate changes as a result of the Dutch, Greek and Belgian tax reforms in the amount of €23 million. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 123 Notes to the 10 Income taxes continued Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset on the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current consolidated tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to income taxes levied by the same fiscal authority. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are financial statements presented as non-current assets and liabilities on the balance sheet as follows: December 30, December 31, continued € million 2018 2017 Deferred tax assets 149 436 Deferred tax liabilities (864) (1,105) Net deferred tax liabilities (715) (669) As of December 30, 2018, Ahold Delhaize had operating and capital loss carryforwards of a total nominal amount of €3,210 million, mainly expiring between 2019 and 2033 (December 31, 2017: €3,657 million). The following table specifies the years in which Ahold Delhaize’s operating and capital loss carryforwards and tax credits are scheduled to expire: Does not € million 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024–2028 2029–2033 After 2033 expire Total Operating and capital losses (nominal value) 239 57 77 29 123 530 696 329 1,130 3,210 Operating and capital losses (tax value) 24 10 10 2 7 35 40 20 321 469 Tax credits 4 2 3 2 1 — 1 — 8 21 Tax losses and tax credits 28 12 13 4 8 35 41 20 329 490 Unrecognized tax losses and tax credits (19) (2) (2) (1) (1) (11) (6) (6) (246) (294) Total recognized tax losses and tax credits 9 10 11 3 7 24 35 14 83 196 Operating and capital loss carryforwards related to one jurisdiction may not be used to offset income taxes in other jurisdictions. Of the loss carryforwards, €1,873 million relates to U.S. state taxes, for which a weighted average tax rate of 5.9% applies. The majority of the above-mentioned deferred tax assets relate to tax jurisdictions in which Ahold Delhaize has suffered a tax loss in the current or a preceding period. Significant judgment is required in determining whether deferred tax assets are realizable. Ahold Delhaize determines this on the basis of expected taxable profits arising from the reversal of recognized deferred tax liabilities and on the basis of budgets, cash flow forecasts and impairment models. Where utilization is not considered probable, deferred tax assets are not recognized. No deferred income taxes are recognized on undistributed earnings of Ahold Delhaize’s subsidiaries and joint ventures, as the undistributed earnings will not be distributed in the foreseeable future. The cumulative amount of undistributed earnings on which the Group has not recognized deferred income taxes was approximately €66 million at December 30, 2018 (December 31, 2017: €28 million). Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 124 Notes to the 10 Income taxes continued Income taxes in equity and comprehensive income consolidated Current and deferred income taxes recognized in and transferred from equity and comprehensive income are as follows: financial statements € million Share-based compensation 2018 1 2017 — continued Currency translation differences in foreign interests — (1) Non-realized gains (losses) on debt and equity instruments — (1) Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plans (18) (66) Total (17) (68) 2017 includes an amount of €58 million expense for deferred income tax rate changes recognized in and transferred from equity and comprehensive income as a result of the U.S. and Belgian tax reforms. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 125 Notes to the 11 Property, plant and equipment consolidated Under € million Buildings and land Other construction Total As of January 1, 2017 financial statements At cost 13,640 7,231 399 21,270 continued Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses (5,282) (4,217) (1) (9,500) Carrying amount 8,358 3,014 398 11,770 Year ended December 31, 2017 Additions 219 547 689 1,455 Transfers from under construction 475 266 (741) — Acquisitions through business combinations 4 1 2 7 Depreciation (750) (764) (1) (1,515) Impairment losses (42) (22) — (64) Impairment reversals 5 3 — 8 Assets classified to held for sale or sold (27) (8) (1) (36) Other movements (15) (5) 3 (17) Exchange rate differences (651) (253) (15) (919) Closing carrying amount 7,576 2,779 334 10,689 As of December 31, 2017 At cost 12,933 7,099 334 20,366 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses (5,357) (4,320) — (9,677) Carrying amount 7,576 2,779 334 10,689 Year ended December 30, 2018 Additions 264 601 833 1,698 Transfers from under construction 375 302 (677) — Acquisitions through business combinations 6 3 — 9 Depreciation (713) (766) — (1,479) Impairment losses (29) (15) — (44) Impairment reversals 1 2 — 3 Assets classified to held for sale or sold (23) (6) (2) (31) Other movements (6) (1) — (7) Exchange rate differences 217 86 6 309 Closing carrying amount 7,668 2,985 494 11,147 As of December 30, 2018 At cost 13,890 8,088 494 22,472 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses (6,222) (5,103) — (11,325) Carrying amount 7,668 2,985 494 11,147 Buildings and land includes stores, distribution centers, warehouses and improvements to these assets. “Other” property, plant and equipment mainly consists of furnishings, machinery and equipment, trucks, trailers and other vehicles. Assets under construction mainly consists of stores. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 126 Notes to the 11 Property, plant and equipment continued The higher of the value in use or fair value less cost of disposal represents an asset’s recoverable amount. The value-in-use method involves estimating consolidated future cash flows. The present value of estimated future cash flows has been calculated using pre-tax discount rates ranging between 6.1% and 15.7% financial statements (2017: 6.0%-16.9%). Fair value represents the price that would be received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction between market participants and is generally measured by using an income approach or a market approach. The income approach is generally applied by using discounted cash flow continued projections based on the assets’ highest and best use from a market participants’ perspective. The market approach requires the comparison of the subject assets to transactions involving comparable assets by using inputs such as bid or ask prices or market multiples. In 2018, Ahold Delhaize recognized net impairment losses of €41 million for property, plant and equipment (2017: €56 million). These were mainly related to The United States (2018: €16 million, 2017: €52 million), The Netherlands (2018: €12 million, 2017: €1 million reversal) and Central and Southeastern Europe (2018: €13 million, 2017: €5 million) and were recognized for mainly underperforming and closed stores. In 2018, the fair value less cost of disposal was the recoverable amount in the determination of €7 million of the net impairment losses (2017: €24 million). In 2017, this included a €12 million charge related to closure of bfresh locations and a €7 million net impairment for a number of stores in the Richmond area. The impairments related to the bfresh locations and the divested stores in the Richmond area were mainly based on the bid prices received or exit assumptions other than sale. The additions to property, plant and equipment include capitalized borrowing costs of €1 million (2017: €2 million). Generally, the capitalization rate used to determine the amount of capitalized borrowing costs is a weighted average of the interest rate applicable to the respective operating companies. This rate ranged between 2.1% and 9.4% (2017: 2.0%-10.3%). Other movements mainly includes €6 million (2017: €2 million) of assets derecognized in connection with the termination of the finance leases, transfers between asset classes and transfers to investment property. The carrying amount of land and buildings includes amounts related to assets held under finance leases and financings of €1,070 million and €146 million, respectively (December 31, 2017: €1,093 million and €177 million). In addition, the carrying amount of other property, plant and equipment includes an amount of €24 million (December 31, 2017: €36 million) relating to assets held under finance leases. Ahold Delhaize does not have legal title to these assets. Company-owned property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of €127 million (December 31, 2017: €43 million) has been pledged as security for liabilities, mainly for loans. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 127 Notes to the 12 Investment property 2018 consolidated € million 2017 At the beginning of the year financial statements At cost Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 1,025 (375) 1,119 (392) continued Carrying amount 650 727 Additions 22 29 Depreciation (31) (30) Impairment losses and reversals – net (11) (4) Assets classified to held for sale or sold (23) (25) Transfers (to) / from property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (1) 17 Exchange rate differences 23 (64) Closing carrying amount 629 650 At the end of the year At cost 1,073 1,025 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses (444) (375) Carrying amount 629 650 A significant portion of the Company’s investment property comprises shopping centers containing both an Ahold Delhaize store and third-party retail units. The third-party retail units generate rental income, but are primarily of strategic importance to Ahold Delhaize in its retail operations. Ahold Delhaize recognizes the part of a shopping center leased to a third-party retailer as investment property, unless it represents an insignificant portion of the property. In 2018, Ahold Delhaize recognized net impairment losses of €11 million (2017: €4 million). These were mainly related to The United States (2018: €10 million, 2017: €4 million). The carrying amount of investment property includes an amount related to assets held under finance leases and financings of €24 million and €24 million (December 31, 2017: €25 million and €37 million), respectively. Ahold Delhaize does not have legal title to these assets. Company-owned investment property with a carrying amount of €76 million (December 31, 2017: €80 million) has been pledged as security for liabilities, mainly for loans. The fair value of investment property as of December 30, 2018, amounted to approximately €828 million (December 31, 2017: €808 million). Fair value represents the price that would be received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction between market participants and has generally been measured using an income or market approach. Approximately 70% of Ahold Delhaize’s fair value measurements are categorized within Level 2. The most significant inputs into this valuation approach are observable market retail yields and tenant rents to calculate the fair value. The remaining fair value measurements that are categorized within Level 3 primarily include the fair value measurements based on the Company’s own valuation methods and the fair value for certain mixed-use properties and properties held for strategic purposes. For certain mixed-use properties and properties held for strategic purposes, Ahold Delhaize cannot determine the fair value of the investment property reliably. In such cases, the fair value is assumed to be equal to the carrying amount. Rental income from investment property included in the income statement in 2018 amounted to €75 million (2017: €70 million). Direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance but excluding depreciation expense) arising from rental-income-generating and non-rent-generating investment property in 2018 amounted to €35 million (2017: €34 million). Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 128 Notes to the 13 Intangible assets consolidated Lease-related Customer Under € million Goodwill Brand names Software intangibles relationships Other development Total As of January 1, 2017 financial statements At cost 7,405 3,379 1,317 505 223 942 54 13,825 continued Accumulated amortization and impairment losses (10) (1) (799) (239) (82) (147) — (1,278) Carrying amount 7,395 3,378 518 266 141 795 54 12,547 Year ended December 31, 2017 Additions — — 76 — — 31 143 250 Transfers from under development — — 141 — — 3 (144) — Acquisitions through business combinations 79 — — — — 2 — 81 Amortization — (2) (196) — (13) (37) — (248) Release of favorable leases — — — (29) — — — (29) Impairments (1) — (3) — — (2) — (6) Assets classified to held for sale or sold (10) — — — — — — (10) Other movements — — (4) — — — — (4) Exchange rate differences (603) (272) (22) (27) (9) (11) (3) (947) Closing carrying amount 6,860 3,104 510 210 119 781 50 11,634 As of December 31, 2017 At cost1 6,868 3,108 1,185 400 200 942 50 12,753 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses1 (8) (4) (675) (190) (81) (161) — (1,119) Carrying amount 6,860 3,104 510 210 119 781 50 11,634 Year ended December 30, 2018 Additions — — 98 — — 14 192 304 Transfers from under development — — 129 — — 1 (130) — Acquisitions through business combinations 22 — — 4 1 — — 27 Amortization — (2) (197) — (13) (36) — (248) Release of favorable leases — — — (28) — — — (28) Impairments — — (2) (4) — — — (6) Other movements — — 2 — — — (2) — Exchange rate differences 212 94 8 8 3 4 1 330 Closing carrying amount 7,094 3,196 548 190 110 764 111 12,013 As of December 30, 2018 At cost 7,102 3,202 1,400 417 208 962 111 13,402 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses (8) (6) (852) (227) (98) (198) — (1,389) Carrying amount 7,094 3,196 548 190 110 764 111 12,013 1 Fully amortized software balances of €231 million, which are no longer in use, were derecognized from the cost and accumulated amortization and impairment losses. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 129 Notes to the 13 Intangible assets continued Goodwill acquired in business combinations is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash-generating units (CGUs) or groups of CGUs expected to benefit from consolidated that business combination. Goodwill recognized on acquisitions in 2017 included measurement period adjustments of €36 million to the amount recognized financial statements in 2016 in connection with the merger of Ahold and Delhaize Group. Brand names include retail brands as well as certain own brands referring to ranges of products. Retail brands are strong and well-established brands continued of supermarkets, convenience stores and online stores protected by trademarks that are renewable indefinitely in their relevant markets. There are not believed to be any legal, regulatory or contractual provisions that limit the useful lives. Ahold Delhaize brands play an important role in the Company’s business strategy. Ahold Delhaize believes that there is currently no foreseeable limit to the period over which the retail brands are expected to generate net cash inflows, and therefore they are assessed to have an indefinite useful life. The carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to CGUs within Ahold Delhaize’s reportable segments and brands recognized from business acquisitions are as follows: Goodwill Goodwill Brand names Brand names December 30, December 31, December 30, December 31, € million 2018 2017 20181 20171 Reportable segment Cash-generating unit The United States Stop & Shop 914 871 — — Food Lion 1,002 956 1,268 1,210 Giant/Martin’s 539 499 — — Hannaford 1,766 1,683 756 721 Giant Food 328 312 — — Peapod 23 22 — — The Netherlands Albert Heijn (including the Netherlands and Belgium) 1,422 1,422 — — bol.com (including the Netherlands and Belgium) 201 201 86 86 Etos 8 8 — — Gall & Gall 1 1 — — Belgium Delhaize (including Belgium and Luxembourg) 432 427 786 786 Central and Southeastern Europe Albert (Czech Republic) 180 181 — — Alfa Beta (Greece) 137 137 137 138 Mega Image (Romania) 129 128 88 88 Delhaize Serbia (Republic of Serbia) 12 12 75 75 Ahold Delhaize Group 7,094 6,860 3,196 3,104 1 Included own brands at Food Lion (€9 million, December 31, 2017: €10 million), Hannaford (€9 million, December 31, 2017: €10 million), Greece (€3 million, December 31, 2017: €4 million) and Romania (€2 million, December 31, 2017: €2 million). CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if there are indications that a particular CGU might be impaired. Except for Food Lion, Hannaford, Delhaize Belgium (including Belgium and Luxembourg) and Peapod, the recoverable amounts for the CGUs have been determined based on value in use. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 130 Notes to the 13 Intangible assets continued Value in use consolidated Value in use is determined using discounted cash flow projections that generally cover a period of five years and are based on the financial plans approved financial statements by the Company’s management. Due to the expected continuation of high growth in the relevant online retail market, we projected cash flow for bol.com over 10-year periods to better reflect the growth expectations in sales, profitability and cash generation as this business has not yet reached a steady continued stage. The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations relate to the weighted average cost of capital (hereafter: discount rate), sales growth, operating margin and growth rate (terminal value). The pre-tax discount rates are 8.5% for the U.S. brands (excluding Food Lion, Hannaford and Peapod), 6.9% for the brands in the Netherlands, 11.9% for bol.com, 7.4% for the Czech Republic, 14.2% for Greece, 11.1% for Romania and 10.7% for the Republic of Serbia. The sales growth rates and operating margins used to estimate future performance are based on past performance and our experience of growth rates and operating margins achievable in Ahold Delhaize’s main markets. The average annual compound sales growth rates applied in the projected periods ranged between 1.4% and 10.5% for the CGUs excluding bol.com. The average operating margins applied in the projected periods ranged between 3.1% and 6.3% for the CGUs excluding bol.com. For bol.com, the value in use has been estimated based on modest sales growth and modest positive operating margins in the second part of the projection period. The terminal value to extrapolate cash flows beyond the explicit forecast period included one year of additional growth based on the long-term inflation expectations that ranged between 1.5% and 2.6% for the CGUs; no additional growth was assumed thereafter. Fair value less costs of disposal Fair value represents the price that would be received for selling an asset in an orderly transaction between market participants and is generally measured using an income approach or a market approach. For Peapod, we used a business enterprise value sales multiple determined from a set of observable market multiples for comparable businesses. For Food Lion, Hannaford and Delhaize Belgium, we used discounted cash flow projections based on the assets’ highest and best use from a market participants’ perspective; taking financial plans as approved by management as a base (level 3 valuation). The discounted cash flow projections cover a period of five years. Fair value less costs of disposal is based on a post-tax calculation model and included the deferred tax position in the carrying amount and a corresponding tax-related cash flow in the recoverable amount. The key assumptions for the discounted cash flow projections relate to discount rate, sales growth, operating margin and growth rate (terminal value). The post-tax rates used to discount the projected cash flows reflect specific risks relating to relevant CGUs and are 6.2% for Food Lion and Hannaford and 5.7% for Delhaize Belgium. The average annual compound sales growth rates applied in the projected periods ranged between 2.2% and 4.3% for the CGUs. The average operating margins applied in the projected periods ranged between 3.4% and 6.8% for the CGUs. The terminal value to extrapolate cash flows beyond the explicit forecast period included one year of additional growth based on the long-term inflation expectations that ranged between 1.8% and 2.2% for the CGUs; no additional growth was assumed thereafter. Key assumptions and sensitivity analyses relating to cash-generating units to which a significant amount of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite useful lives is allocated are as follows: Pre-tax Post-tax Growth rate discount rate discount rate (terminal value) Stop & Shop 8.5% n.a 2.2% Food Lion n.a 6.2% 2.2% Hannaford n.a 6.2% 2.2% Albert Heijn 6.9% n.a 1.5% Delhaize Belgium n.a 5.7% 1.8% Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 131 Notes to the 13 Intangible assets continued Due to the recent acquisition in 2016, the headroom for Food Lion, Hannaford and Delhaize Belgium is relatively limited but increased significantly consolidated compared to the prior year. A sensitivity analysis indicates that the recoverable amount of Food Lion, Hannaford and Delhaize Belgium would be equal to financial statements their carrying amount if the operating margins of the CGUs in the projection period were reduced by 1.1%, 2.3% and 1.5%, respectively. The recoverable amount of these CGUs would be in excess of the carrying values: continued • If the WACC rates used to discount cash flow projections of these CGUs were higher by 2.0%. • If the sales growth rates were reduced by 2.0% in the explicit projection period. • If the growth rate (terminal value) for them was assumed to be 0%. Lease-related intangible assets consist primarily of favorable operating lease contracts acquired in business acquisitions. Customer relationships consist primarily of pharmacy scripts and customer lists recognized through the acquisition of bol.com in 2012. “Other” mainly includes intangible assets related to relationships with franchisees and affiliates recognized in connection with the Ahold Delhaize merger, location development rights, deed restrictions and similar assets. Included in “Other” is an intangible asset allocated to Stop & Shop with an indefinite useful life and a carrying value of €30 million (December 31, 2017: €29 million). The useful life of this asset is assessed to be indefinite since it relates to the land portion of an owned location. Intangible assets under development relate mainly to software development. 14 Investments in joint ventures and associates In 1992, Ahold Delhaize partnered with Jerónimo Martins, SGPS, S.A. in the joint venture JMR – Gestão de Empresas de Retalho, SGPS, S.A. (“JMR”). Ahold Delhaize holds 49% of the shares in JMR and shares equal voting power on JMR’s board of directors with Jerónimo Martins, SGPS, S.A. JMR operates food retail stores in Portugal under the brand name Pingo Doce. Ahold Delhaize holds 51% of the shares in P.T. Lion Super Indo (“Super Indo”). Super Indo operates supermarkets in Indonesia. Although Ahold Delhaize has a 51% investment in Super Indo, the Company cannot exercise its majority voting rights mainly due to (i) a quorum requirement for the Board of Directors to decide on critical operating and financing activities and (ii) a requirement of unanimous affirmative decisions in the Board of Directors on significant and strategic investing and financing matters, such as budgets and business plans and any resolution on the allocation of profits and distribution of dividends. Therefore, JMR and Super Indo are joint ventures and are accounted for using the equity method. There are no quoted market prices available. Ahold Delhaize is also a partner in various smaller joint arrangements and associates that are individually not material to the Group. Changes in the carrying amount of Ahold Delhaize’s interest in joint ventures and associates are as follows: JMR Super Indo Other Total JMR Super Indo Other Total € million 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 2017 Beginning of the year 150 41 39 230 181 56 37 274 Share in income (loss) of joint ventures 29 5 (2) 32 24 7 4 35 Dividend (16) — (1) (17) (55) (15) — (70) Other changes — — (9) (9) — — 2 2 Exchange rate differences — (1) 1 — — (7) (4) (11) End of the year 163 45 28 236 150 41 39 230 Share in income (loss) from continuing operations for Ahold Delhaize’s interests in all individually immaterial joint ventures was a loss of €2 million (2017: an income of €4 million) and nil for individually immaterial associates (2017: nil). Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 132 Notes to the 14 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued Set out below is the summarized financial information for JMR and Super Indo (on a 100% basis). consolidated JMR JMR Super Indo Super Indo financial statements € million Summarized statement of comprehensive income 2018 2017 2018 2017 continued Net sales 4,253 4,045 410 420 Depreciation and amortization (101) (103) (9) (9) Interest income — — 1 2 Interest expense (2) (2) — — Income tax expense (17) (18) (1) (1) Income from continuing operations 59 51 10 13 Net income 59 51 10 13 Other comprehensive income — — — — Total comprehensive income 59 51 10 13 JMR JMR Super Indo Super Indo December 30, December 31, December 30, December 31, € million 2018 2017 2018 2017 Summarized balance sheet Non-current assets 1,180 1,193 59 60 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 40 72 47 37 Other current assets 383 372 47 45 Total current assets 423 444 94 82 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities 50 — — — Other liabilities 37 34 5 5 Total non-current liabilities 87 34 5 5 Current liabilities Financial liabilities (excluding trade payables) 88 271 — — Other current liabilities 1,095 1,025 78 76 Total current liabilities 1,183 1,296 78 76 Net assets 333 307 70 61 Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 133 Notes to the 14 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued The information presented below represents a reconciliation of the summarized financial information presented above to the carrying amount of JMR and consolidated Super Indo. financial statements € million JMR 2018 JMR 2017 Super Indo 2018 Super Indo 2017 continued Opening net assets 307 368 61 89 Net income 59 51 10 13 Dividend (33) (112) — (30) Exchange differences — — (1) (11) Closing net assets 333 307 70 61 Interest in joint venture 49% 49% 51% 51% Closing net assets included in the carrying value 163 150 36 31 Goodwill — — 9 10 Carrying value 163 150 45 41 Commitments and contingent liabilities in respect of joint ventures and associates Our JMR joint venture is involved in several tax proceedings initiated by the Portuguese tax authorities. These tax claims are contested by our JMR joint venture. For these tax claims, JMR issued several bank guarantees for a total amount of €63 million (Ahold Delhaize’s share: €31 million, based on ownership interest). There are no other significant contingent liabilities or restrictions relating to the Company’s interest in the joint ventures and associates. The commitments are presented in Note 34. 15 Other non-current financial assets December 30, December 31, € million 2018 2017 Reinsurance assets 144 124 Loans receivable 52 55 Defined benefit asset 24 — Derivative financial instruments 1 — Other 17 13 Total other non-current financial assets 238 192 Part of the self-insured risk is ceded under a reinsurance treaty, which is a pooling arrangement between unrelated companies. At the same time, Ahold Delhaize assumes a share of the reinsurance treaty risks that is measured by Ahold Delhaize’s participation percentage in the treaty. The participation percentage is the ratio of premium paid by Ahold Delhaize to the total premium paid by all treaty members. In connection with this pooling arrangement, the Company recognizes reinsurance assets and reinsurance liabilities (see also Notes 18, 22 and 26) on the balance sheet. There were no significant gains or losses related to this pooling arrangement during 2018 or 2017. Of the non-current loans receivable, €31 million matures between one and five years and €21 million after five years (December 31, 2017: €32 million between one and five years and €23 million after five years). The current portion of loans receivable of €16 million is included in Other receivables (December 31, 2017: €3 million) (see Note 17). The defined benefit asset at December 30, 2018, represents defined benefit pension plans for which the fair value of plan assets exceeds the present value of the defined benefit obligations. For more information on defined benefit plans, see Note 23. For more information on derivative financial instruments and fair values, see Note 30. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 134 Notes to the 16 Inventories December 30, consolidated December 31, € million 2018 2017 Finished products and merchandise inventories 3,139 3,023 financial statements Raw materials, packaging materials, technical supplies and other 57 54 continued Total inventories 3,196 3,077 In 2018, €1,366 million has been recognized as a write-off of inventories in the income statement (2017: €1,352 million). Write-offs include, among others, spoilage, damaged product and product donated to food banks. 17 Receivables December 30, December 31, € million 2018 2017 Trade receivables 1,027 997 Vendor allowance receivables 503 454 Other receivables 316 235 1,846 1,686 Provision for impairment (87) (80) Total receivables 1,759 1,606 The receivable balances are presented net of accounts payable and subject to an enforceable netting arrangement between the Company and the counterparty. The total effect of netting as of December 30, 2018, is €231 million (December 31, 2017: €254 million). At December 30, 2018, the aging analysis of receivables was as follows: Past due Not past 0–3 3–6 6–12 > 12 € million Total due months months months months Trade receivables 1,027 767 186 11 17 46 Vendor allowance receivables 503 391 87 17 1 7 Other receivables 316 186 67 28 6 29 1,846 1,344 340 56 24 82 Provision for impairment (87) (11) (10) (4) (14) (48) Total receivables 1,759 1,333 330 52 10 34 Expected credit loss 4.7% 0.8% 3.1% 6.4% 59.6% 58.0% Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 135 Notes to the 17 Receivables continued At December 31, 2017, the aging analysis of receivables was as follows: consolidated Past due financial statements € million Total Not past due 0–3 months 3–6 months 6–12 months > 12 months continued Trade receivables 997 773 149 16 11 48 Vendor allowance receivables 454 334 101 11 5 3 Other receivables 235 137 56 23 5 14 1,686 1,244 306 50 21 65 Provision for impairment (80) (13) (13) (6) (5) (43) Total receivables 1,606 1,231 293 44 16 22 Expected credit loss 4.8% 1.0% 4.2% 13.0% 27.6% 65.7% The concentration of credit risk with respect to receivables is limited, as the Company’s customer base and vendor base are large and unrelated. The Company does not hold any significant collateral on its receivables. Management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal individual and collective impairment assessment, based on the aging analysis performed as of December 30, 2018. For more information about credit risk, see Note 30. The changes in the provision for impairment were as follows: € million 2018 2017 Beginning of the year (80) (76) Charged to income (29) (20) Used 22 15 Exchange rate differences — 1 End of the year (87) (80) 18 Other current financial assets December 30, December 31, € million 2018 2017 Available-for-sale financial assets (FVOCI) – current portion1 — 157 Investments in debt instruments (FVPL) – current portion1 119 — Short-term deposits and similar instruments 266 9 Reinsurance assets – current portion (see Note 15) 74 71 Other 2 1 Total other current financial assets 461 238 1 Following the adoption of IFRS 9, certain investments in U.S. Treasury bond funds that were classified as available-for-sale financial assets do not meet the criteria to be classified as either at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) or at amortized cost, and €157 million has been reclassified to financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL); see Note 3. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 136 Notes to the 18 Other current financial assets continued The Investments in debt instruments relate primarily to investments in U.S. Treasury bond funds, which are held by one of the Company’s captive consolidated insurance companies. financial statements As of December 30, 2018, short-term deposits and similar instruments included short-term investments with a maturity at acquisition of between three and 12 months. Of the short-term deposits and similar instruments as of December 30, 2018, €11 million was restricted (December 31, 2017: €9 million). continued The restricted investments are held for insurance purposes for U.S. workers’ compensation and general liability programs. At each reporting date, the Company assesses whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired and recognizes a loss allowance for expected credit losses for financial assets measured at either amortized costs or at fair value through other comprehensive income. In both 2018 and 2017, none of the financial assets were either past due or impaired. 19 Cash and cash equivalents December 30, December 31, € million 2018 2017 Cash in banks and cash equivalents 2,813 4,240 Cash on hand 309 341 Total cash and cash equivalents 3,122 4,581 Cash and cash equivalents include all cash-on-hand balances, checks, debit and credit card receivables, short-term highly liquid cash investments, and time deposits with original maturities of three months or less. Time deposits and similar instruments with original maturities of more than three months but less than 12 months are classified as other current financial assets. Bank overdrafts are included in short-term borrowings. Of the cash and cash equivalents as of December 30, 2018, €12 million was restricted (December 31, 2017: €39 million) and consisted of collateral in connection with third-party money transfer services provided at our stores of nil (December 31, 2017: €26 million) as well as cash held in escrow accounts mainly related to pending litigation, obligations related to business disposals and construction activities. The Company’s updated arrangement with the third-party money transfer services in 2018 does not require posting of collateral. Cash and cash equivalents include €695 million (December 31, 2017: €1,367 million) held under a notional cash pooling arrangement. This cash amount was fully offset by an identical amount included under Other current financial liabilities. From an operational perspective, the balances in the cash pool are netted. However, in accordance with the guidance of IAS 32 regarding the offsetting of debit and credit balances for financial reporting purposes, these balances have to be presented on a gross basis on the balance sheet (see Notes 26 and 30). Ahold Delhaize’s banking arrangements allow the Company to fund outstanding checks when presented to the bank for payment. This cash management practice may result in a net cash book overdraft position, which occurs when the total issued checks exceed available cash balances within the Company’s cash concentration structure. Such book overdrafts are classified in accounts payable and amounted to €292 million and €172 million as of December 30, 2018, and December 31, 2017, respectively. No right to offset with other bank balances exists for these book overdraft positions. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 137 Notes to the 20 Equity attributable to common shareholders Shares and share capital consolidated Authorized share capital comprises the following classes of shares: financial statements € million December 30, 2018 December 31, 2017 continued Common shares (2018: 1,923,515,827 of €0.01 par value each, and 2017: 1,923,515,827 of €0.01 par value each) 19 19 Cumulative preferred shares (2018: 2,250,000,000 of €0.01 par value each, and 2017: 2,250,000,000 of €0.01 par value each) 23 23 Total authorized share capital 42 42 The issued common shares comprise 83.5% of the issued share capital. In addition, Ahold Delhaize has cumulative preferred financing shares outstanding, comprising 16.5% of the issued share capital. These cumulative preferred financing shares are considered debt under IFRS until the date that Ahold Delhaize receives irrevocable notification from a holder of the shares to convert them into common shares. Upon this notification, the cumulative preferred financing shares are classified as a separate class of equity since they no longer meet the definition of a liability. For disclosures regarding Ahold Delhaize’s cumulative preferred financing shares, see Note 22. Common shares and additional paid-in capital Changes in the number of common shares and the number of treasury shares were as follows: Number of Number of common Number of common shares issued treasury shares and fully paid shares outstanding (x 1,000) (x 1,000) (x 1,000) Balance as of January 1, 2017 1,281,293 9,017 1,272,276 Share buyback — 54,838 (54,838) Cancellation of treasury shares (37,000) (37,000) — Conversion of cumulative preferred financing shares 2,516 — 2,516 Share-based payments — (7,642) 7,642 Other — 6 (6) Balance as of December 31, 2017 1,246,809 19,219 1,227,590 Share buyback — 101,053 (101,053) Cancellation of treasury shares (63,084) (63,084) — Share-based payments — (3,662) 3,662 Other – (1) 1 Balance as of December 30, 2018 1,183,725 53,525 1,130,200 Dividends on common shares On April 11, 2018, the General Meeting of Shareholders approved the dividend over 2017 of €0.63 per common share (€757 million in the aggregate). This dividend was paid on April 26, 2018. The Management Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, proposes that a dividend of €0.70 per common share be paid in 2019 with respect to 2018. This dividend is subject to approval by the General Meeting of Shareholders and has not been included as a liability on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 30, 2018. The payment of this dividend will not have income tax consequences for the Company. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 138 Notes to the 20 Equity attributable to common shareholders continued Share buyback consolidated The trades executed on December 28 and December 29, 2017, totaling 328,631 shares, related to the share buyback program completed on December financial statements 29, 2017, were settled on January 2 and January 3, 2018, respectively. The share buyback program of €2 billion that started on January 2, 2018, was successfully completed on December 20, 2018. In total, 100,723,877 of the Company’s own shares were repurchased at an average price of €19.86 per continued share. On January 2, 2019, the Company commenced the €1 billion share buyback program that was announced on November 13, 2018. The program is expected to be completed before the end of 2019. Conversion of cumulative preferred financing shares On August 9, 2017, Ahold Delhaize converted 45,000,000 cumulative preferred financing shares into 2,515,827 common shares. The 45,000,000 cumulative preferred financing shares had a par value of €42,541,895. Share-based payments Share-based payments recognized in equity in the amount of €63 million (2017: €83 million) relate to the 2018 Global Reward Opportunity (GRO) sharebased compensation expenses (see Note 32) and the associated current and deferred income taxes. Cumulative preferred shares The Company’s Articles of Association provide for the possible issuance of cumulative preferred shares. The Company believes that its ability to issue this class of shares could prevent, or at least delay, an attempt by a potential bidder to make a hostile takeover bid. According to Dutch law, a response device is limited in time and therefore cannot permanently block a take-over of the Company concerned. Instead, it aims to facilitate an orderly process in which the interests of the continuity of the Company, its shareholders and other stakeholders are safeguarded in the best way possible. Moreover, outside the scope of a public offer, but also under other circumstances, the ability to issue this class of shares may safeguard the interests of the Company and all stakeholders in the Company and resist influences that might conflict with those interests by affecting the Company’s continuity, independence or identity. No cumulative preferred shares were outstanding as of December 30, 2018, or during 2018 and 2017. In March 1989, the Company entered into an agreement with the Dutch foundation Stichting Continuïteit Ahold Delhaize (SCAD, previously named Stichting Ahold Continuïteit), as amended and restated in April 1994, March 1997, December 2001 and December 2003 (the Option Agreement). Pursuant to the Option Agreement, SCAD has been granted an option for no consideration to acquire cumulative preferred shares from the Company from time to time. After actively engaging with its shareholders and other stakeholders, the Company agreed with SCAD in May 2018 to extend the Option Agreement for a period of 15 years, effective December 15, 2018. Building on shareholder feedback, the Company has agreed with SCAD on two additional commitments: • Within six months after the option is exercised, the Company will call a shareholder meeting to discuss the situation with shareholders. • Within one year after the option is exercised, the Company will call a shareholder meeting to vote on cancellation of the shares issued to SCAD; SCAD will not vote on its shares in relation to that matter. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 139 Notes to the 20 Equity attributable to common shareholders continued The Option Agreement entitles SCAD, under certain circumstances, to acquire cumulative preferred shares from the Company up to a total par value that consolidated is equal to the total par value of all issued and outstanding shares of Ahold Delhaize’s share capital, excluding cumulative preferred shares, at the time financial statements of exercising the option. If the authorized share capital of the Company is amended during the term of the option, the Option Agreement provides for a corresponding change of the total par value of cumulative preferred shares under option. The holders of the cumulative preferred shares are entitled to one continued vote per share and a cumulative dividend expressed as a percentage of the amount called-up and paid-in to purchase the cumulative preferred shares. The percentage to be applied is the sum of (1) the average basic refinancing transaction interest rate as set by the European Central Bank – measured by the number of days during which that rate was in force in the fiscal year over which the dividend is paid – plus 2.1%, and (2) the average interest surcharge rate – measured by the number of days during which that rate was in force in the fiscal year over which the dividend is paid – that would be charged by the largest credit institution in the Netherlands (based on the balance sheet total as of the close of the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year over which the dividend is paid). The minimum percentage to be applied is 5.75%. Subject to limited exceptions, any potential transfer of cumulative preferred shares requires the approval of the Management Board. Cumulative preferred shares can only be issued in a registered form. The Company may stipulate that only 25% of the par value will be paid upon subscription to cumulative preferred shares until payment in full is later required by the Company. SCAD would then only be entitled to a market-based interest return on its investment. SCAD is a foundation organized under the laws of the Netherlands. Its purpose under its articles is to safeguard the interests of the Company and all stakeholders in the Company and to resist, to the best of its ability, influences that might conflict with those interests by affecting the Company’s continuity, independence or identity. SCAD seeks to realize its objectives by acquiring and holding cumulative preferred shares and by exercising the rights attached to these shares, including the voting rights. The SCAD board has four members, who are appointed by the board of SCAD itself. If the board of SCAD considers acquiring cumulative preferred shares or exercising voting rights on cumulative preferred shares, it will make an independent assessment and, pursuant to Dutch law, it must ensure that its actions are proportional and reasonable. If SCAD acquires cumulative preferred shares, it will only hold them for a limited period of time. These principles are in line with Dutch law, which only allows response measures that are proportionate, reasonable and limited in time. In the case of liquidation, the SCAD board will decide on the use of any remaining residual assets. Legal reserves In accordance with the Dutch Civil Code and statutory requirements in other countries, legal reserves have to be established in certain circumstances. Legal reserves are not available for distribution to the Company’s shareholders. The currency translation reserve, cash flow hedging reserve and other reserves include non-distributable amounts. Of the total equity as per December 30, 2018, of €14,816 million, an amount of €419 million is non-distributable (December 31, 2017: €346 million out of total equity of €15,170 million). See Note 10 to the parent company financial statements for more details on the legal reserves. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 140 Notes to the 21 Loans and credit facilities The notes in the table below were issued by Ahold Delhaize or one of its subsidiaries, the latter of which are guaranteed by Ahold Delhaize unless otherwise consolidated noted. The amortization of the fair-value allocation to the debt acquired through business combinations is allocated to the respective maturity brackets. financial statements Outstanding notional redemption Current Non-current portion Current Non-current portion continued amount portion Total portion Total December 30, within Between After December 30, within Between After December 31, € million, unless otherwise stated 2018 1 year 1 and 5 years 5 years 2018 1 year 1 and 5 years 5 years 2017 EUR 400 notes 4.25%, due 2018 EUR — — — — — 413 — — 413 USD 300 notes 4.125%, due 2019 USD 130 114 — — 114 3 109 — 112 USD 94 indebtedness 7.82%, due 2020 USD 8 7 — — 7 8 7 — 15 EUR 400 notes 3.125%, due 2020 EUR 400 12 402 — 414 12 414 — 426 EUR 300 notes EURIBOR + 18 bps, due 2021 EUR 300 — 300 — 300 — — — — EUR 750 notes 0.875% due 2024 EUR 750 — — 750 750 — — 750 750 USD 71 indebtedness 8.62%, due 2025 USD 71 — 46 16 62 — 30 29 59 EUR 500 notes 1.125%, due 2026 EUR 500 — — 500 500 — — — — USD 71 notes 8.05%, due 2027 USD 71 2 9 70 81 2 8 69 79 USD 500 notes 6.875%, due 2029 USD 500 — — 437 437 — — 416 416 USD 271 notes 9.00%, due 2031 USD 271 5 24 293 322 5 21 286 312 USD 827 notes 5.70%, due 2040 USD 477 3 11 490 504 4 18 815 837 Deferred financing costs (2) (9) (4) (15) (2) (6) (4) (12) Total notes 141 783 2,552 3,476 445 601 2,361 3,407 Financing obligations1 20 84 173 277 22 122 181 325 Mortgages payable2 1 88 — 89 1 13 8 22 Other loans — — 3 3 — — 3 3 Total loans 162 955 2,728 3,845 468 736 2,553 3,757 1 The weighted average interest rate for the financing obligations amounted to 7.3% at the end of 2018 (2017: 7.5%). 2 Mortgages payable are collateralized by buildings and land. The weighted average interest rate for these mortgages payable amounted to 10.3% at the end of 2018 (2017: 5.6%). On December 6, 2018, Ahold Delhaize repurchased and cancelled $350 million of its outstanding $827 million 5.70% senior notes, due 2040, for a total consideration of $389 million. This transaction resulted in a one-off cost of $39 million as premium paid and a non-cash gain of $73 million related to the acceleration of the amortization of the fair value adjustment allocated to the USD 827 million notes due 2040. The one-off cost and non-cash gain are included in Other gains (losses); see Note 9. On October 19, 2018, Ahold Delhaize repaid its 4.25% EUR 400 million notes on maturity. On March 19, 2018, Ahold Delhaize issued EUR 500 million fixed rate notes due in 2026 and EUR 300 million floating rate notes due in 2021. The eight-year fixed rate notes bear a coupon of 1.125% per annum and were issued at a price of 99.107% of the nominal value. The three-year floating rate notes bear a coupon of 18 basis points over three-month EURIBOR per annum and were issued at a price of 100.449% of the nominal value. The bonds are listed on Euronext Amsterdam. On July 4, 2017, Ahold Delhaize successfully established a multi-currency euro-commercial paper program, in order to diversify its sources of financing. Under this program, Ahold Delhaize may issue, from time to time, euro-commercial paper notes at blended rates. The outstanding principal amount of the notes will not exceed €1 billion (or its equivalent in other currencies) at any time. No borrowings were outstanding as of December 30, 2018. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 141 Notes to the 21 Loans and credit facilities continued The fair values of financial instruments, corresponding derivatives, and the foreign exchange and interest rate risk management policies applied by Ahold consolidated Delhaize are disclosed in Note 30. financial statements Credit facilities Ahold Delhaize has access to a €1.0 billion committed, unsecured, multi-currency and syndicated credit facility that was amended and extended in continued February 2015, whereby the Company reduced the size of the credit facility from €1.2 billion to €1.0 billion (providing for the issuance of $275 million in letters of credit). At the same time, the facility was extended to 2020 with two potential extensions after 12 and 24 months that would take the facility to 2021 and 2022, respectively. The Company successfully agreed on both extensions with the lenders. The credit facility contains customary covenants and is subject to a financial covenant that requires Ahold Delhaize, in the event that its corporate rating from Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s is lower than BBB / Baa2, respectively, not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio of 4.0:1. During 2018 and 2017, the Company was in compliance with these covenants. However, it was not required to test the financial covenant as a result of its credit rating. As of December 30, 2018, there were no outstanding borrowings under the facility other than letters of credit to an aggregate amount of $165 million (€144 million). Ahold Delhaize also has access to a total of €340 million in uncommitted credit facilities to cover working capital requirements, issuance of guarantees and letters of credit, of which €68 million was utilized as of December 30, 2018. 22 Other non-current financial liabilities December 30, December 31, € million 2018 2017 Finance lease liabilities 1,379 1,430 Cumulative preferred financing shares 455 455 Derivative financial instruments — 18 Reinsurance liabilities 149 136 Other 72 59 Total other non-current financial liabilities 2,055 2,098 For more information on derivative financial instruments and fair values see Note 30. The Company recognizes reinsurance liabilities on its balance sheet in connection with a pooling arrangement between unrelated companies (see Note 15). Other mainly consists of a pre-tax liability for the discounted amount of the remaining settlement liability of $40 million (€35 million), relating to a 2013 agreement with the New England Teamsters and Trucking Industry Pension Fund (NETTI) to settle Stop & Shop’s pension liabilities in the fund, and a $16 million (€14 million) financial liability for rent payments for nine Tops stores that the Company agreed to make for a period of 72 months (see Note 34). Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 142 Notes to the 22 Other non-current financial liabilities continued Finance lease liabilities consolidated Finance lease liabilities relating to continuing operations are payable as follows: financial statements December 30, 2018 Present December 31, 2017 Present continued Future value of Future value of minimum minimum minimum minimum lease Interest lease lease Interest lease € million payments portion payments payments portion payments Within one year 271 91 180 271 94 177 Between one and five years 868 247 621 894 272 622 After five years 1,017 259 758 1,067 259 808 Total 2,156 597 1,559 2,232 625 1,607 Current portion finance lease liabilities (see Note 26) 180 177 Non-current portion finance lease liabilities 1,379 1,430 Finance lease liabilities are principally for buildings. Terms range primarily from 10 to 25 years and include renewal options if it is reasonably certain, at the inception of the leases, that they will be exercised. At the time of entering into a finance lease agreement, the commitment is recorded at its present value using the interest rate implicit in the lease, if this is practicable to determine; if not, the local, brand-specific interest rate applicable for long-term borrowings is used. As of December 30, 2018, the finance lease liabilities are recorded at their present value at a weighted average interest rate of 6.2% (December 31, 2017: 6.3%). Certain store leases provide for contingent additional rentals based on a percentage of sales and consumer price indices. Substantially all of the store leases have renewal options for additional terms. None of Ahold Delhaize’s leases impose restrictions on the Company’s ability to pay dividends, incur additional debt or enter into additional leasing arrangements. During 2018, interest expense on finance lease liabilities was €97 million (2017: €111 million). Total future minimum sublease income expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases as of December 30, 2018, is €97 million (December 31, 2017: €106 million). The total contingent rent expense recognized during the year on finance leases was €1 million (2017: €1 million). Cumulative preferred financing shares Number of shares (x 1,000) € million Issued cumulative preferred financing shares (€0.01 par value each) 223,415 2 Authorized cumulative preferred financing shares (€0.01 par value each) 326,484 3 December 30, December 31, € million 2018 2017 Paid-in capital issued cumulative preferred financing shares 3 3 Additional paid-in capital cumulative preferred financing shares 452 452 Balance as of year-end 455 455 Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 143 Notes to the 22 Other non-current financial liabilities continued The cumulative preferred financing shares were issued in four tranches. Dividends are paid on each preferred financing share at a percentage consolidated (financing dividend percentage) that differs per tranche. When a period of 10 years has lapsed after the issue date of a tranche, and every 10 years financial statements thereafter (each a reset date), the financing dividend percentage is reset. The current financing dividend percentage is 1.527% per year for the shares issued in June 1996, 1.84% per year for the shares issued in August 1998, 3.85% per year for the shares issued in October 2000, and 3.35% per year for continued the shares issued in December 2003. On August 9, 2017, at the request of the holder of these shares, Ahold Delhaize converted 45,000,000 cumulative preferred financing shares into 2,515,827 common shares. The remaining 42,484,173 cumulative preferred financing shares were delivered to Ahold Delhaize by SAPFAA. The 45,000,000 cumulative preferred financing shares had a par value of €42,541,895. The nominal value plus additional paid-in capital per tranche is €29 million (June 1996 tranche), €46 million (August 1998 tranche), €320 million (October 2000 tranche) and €60 million (December 2003 tranche); in the aggregate, €455 million. This amount is presented under “Other non-current financial liabilities” in the consolidated balance sheet, as these cumulative preferred financing shares are considered debt under IFRS. Subject to certain exceptions, any potential transfer of cumulative preferred financing shares requires the approval of the Management Board. The total number of votes that can be exercised by the cumulative preferred financing shares is approximately 68 million. This represents approximately 6% of the total number of votes that can be cast (this total being calculated as the sum of the outstanding cumulative preferred financing shares and the outstanding common shares). The cumulative preferred financing shares are convertible into common shares. The conversion conditions have been set to avoid any transfer of value from the common shares to the cumulative preferred financing shares. The maximum number of common shares to be received upon conversion of all outstanding cumulative preferred financing shares is approximately 82 million. The conversion features are similar for all tranches. Conversion is allowed for all shares in one tranche held by one investor but not for fractions of tranches held by one investor. Upon conversion, the holders of (depositary receipts of) cumulative preferred financing shares will receive a number of common shares that is calculated by dividing the value of the cumulative preferred financing shares on the day before the conversion date by the average share price of Ahold Delhaize common shares on the five trading days preceding the notification date, on the notification date, and on the four trading days following the notification date. The value of the cumulative preferred financing shares will be considered, for this purpose, to be equal to the lower of the nominal value plus the additional paid-in capital of the cumulative preferred financing shares (par value) or to the present value of the remaining preferred dividends until the first reset date, plus the present value of the par value at the first reset date. Subject to the approval of the General Meeting of Shareholders, the Company can redeem the cumulative preferred financing shares of a certain tranche, but not fractions of a tranche. Redemption of a tranche is subject to the approval of the holders of depositary receipts of that tranche, unless all (remaining) cumulative preferred financing shares are redeemed. Redemption takes place at the higher of the par value or the present value of the remaining preferred dividends, plus the present value of the par value at the reset date. 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits Defined benefit plans Ahold Delhaize has a number of defined benefit pension plans covering a substantial number of employees, former employees and retirees in the Netherlands, the United States, Belgium, Greece and Serbia. Net assets relating to one plan are not offset against liabilities of another plan, resulting in the following presentation of the pension and other postemployment benefits on the consolidated balance sheet: December 30, December 31, € million 2018 2017 Defined benefit liabilities 532 567 Defined benefit assets (24) — Total net defined benefit plan funded status 508 567 The defined benefit assets are part of the other non-current financial assets; for more information, see Note 15. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 144 Notes to the 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued In the Netherlands, the Company has a career average plan covering all employees over the age of 21. The plan provides benefits to participants or consolidated beneficiaries upon retirement, death or disability. The plan’s assets, which are made up of contributions from Ahold Delhaize and employees, are managed financial statements by Stichting Ahold Delhaize Pensioen (“Ahold Delhaize Pensioen”), an independent foundation. The contributions are established in a funding agreement between Ahold Delhaize, employee representatives and Ahold Delhaize Pensioen every five years based on the funding levels of the plan. The contributions continued are determined as a percentage of an employee’s pension base. In the United States, the Company maintains a funded plan covering a limited population of employees. This plan is closed to new participants. The plan provides a life annuity benefit based upon final pay to participants or beneficiaries upon retirement, death or disability. The assets of the plan, which are made up of contributions from Ahold Delhaize, are maintained with various trustees. Contributions to the plan are required under the current funding policy if the prior year-end funding ratio falls below 100% as measured using regulatory interest rates without funding relief in order to avoid variable Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) premiums. In addition, the Company provides additional pension benefits for certain Company executives and life insurance and medical care benefits for certain retired employees meeting age and service requirements at its U.S. subsidiaries, all of which the Company funds as claims are incurred. In Belgium, the Company sponsors plans for substantially all of its employees. The plans are funded by fixed monthly contributions from both the Company and employees, which are adjusted annually according to the Belgian consumer price index. Certain employees who were employed before 2005 could choose not to participate in the employee contribution part of the plans. The plans assure employees receive a lump-sum payment at retirement based on the contributions made, and provide employees with death-in-service benefits. Belgian law prescribes a variable minimum guaranteed rate of return with Belgian 10-year government bonds as the underlying benchmark, and a collar of 1.75% and 3.75%. The Company substantially insures these returns with external insurance companies that receive and manage the contributions to the plans. According to the relevant legislation, a short-fall only needs to be compensated by the employer at the point in time when the employee either retires or leaves the Company. As these plans have defined benefit features (when the return provided by the insurance company can be below the legally required minimum return, in which case the employer has to cover the gap with additional contributions), the Company treats these plans as defined benefit plans. In order to avoid the gap, or reduce it to a minimum, the Company has opened a new cash balance plan, under branch 23 rules in Belgium, as of July 1, 2017. All new employees who begin service after this date will be included in this new plan. The level of contributions remains unchanged, but the new plan is expected to experience higher returns in the long term than those generated under the branch 21 rules followed by the older plans. Additionally in Belgium, the Company maintains a plan covering Company executives that provides lump-sum benefits to participants upon death or retirement based on a formula applied to the last annual salary of the participant before his or her retirement or death. The plan is subject to the legal requirement to guarantee a minimum return on contributions. The plan’s assets, which are made up of contributions, are managed through a fund that is administered by an independent insurance company, providing a minimum guaranteed return. The plan participant’s contributions are defined in the terms of the plan, while the annual contributions to be paid by the Company are determined based on the funding level of the plan and are calculated based on current salaries, taking into account the legal minimum funding requirement, which is based on the vested reserves to which employees are entitled upon retirement or death. The plan mainly invests in debt securities in order to achieve the required minimum return. The Company bears any risk above the minimum guarantee given by the insurance company. There are no asset ceiling restrictions. In order to avoid returns being less than the minimum guaranteed return, or reduce the risk to a minimum, the level of contributions at July 1, 2017, have been capped and applied under the classic branch 21 rules. Any increases in contributions after July 1, 2017, will be managed in accordance with branch 23 rules, which are expected to experience higher returns in the long term. In Greece, the Company operates an unfunded defined benefit post-employment plan. This plan relates to retirement benefits prescribed by Greek law, consisting of lump-sum compensation payable in case of normal retirement or termination of employment. The amount of the indemnity is based on an employee’s monthly earnings and a multiple depending on the length of service and the status of the employee. There is no legal requirement to fund these plans with contributions or other plan assets. Employees participate in the plan once they have completed a minimum service period, which is generally one year. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 145 Notes to the 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued In Serbia, the Company has an unfunded defined benefit plan that provides a lump-sum benefit upon the employee’s retirement, as prescribed by Serbian consolidated law. The benefit is based on a fixed multiple of the higher of the (i) average gross salary of the employee, (ii) average gross salary in the Company or (iii) financial statements average gross salary in the country, each determined at the time the employee retires. There is no legal requirement to fund these plans with contributions or other plan assets. continued The pension plans expose the Company to actuarial risks such as: longevity risk, interest rate risk, currency risk, salary risk and investment risk. Longevity risk relates to the mortality assumptions used to value the defined benefit obligation, where an increase in participants’ life expectancies will increase a plan’s liability. Interest rate risk relates to the discount rate used to value the defined benefit obligation, where a decrease in the discount rate will increase a plan’s liability; however this will be partially offset by an increase in the return on a plan’s investments in debt instruments. The pension plans may mitigate interest rate risk by entering into interest rate swap contracts. Currency risk relates to the fact that a plan holds investments that may not be denominated in the same currency as the plan’s obligations. The pension plans may mitigate currency risk by purchasing forward currency instruments. Salary risk relates to salary increase assumptions used to value the defined benefit obligation, where an increase will result in a higher plan liability. See below for more details on the Company’s asset-liability matching strategy employed to manage its investment risk. Net defined benefit cost is comprised of several components. The net interest (income) expense is presented within net financial expenses in the income statement and plan remeasurements are presented as other comprehensive income. All other components of net defined benefit cost are presented in the income statement as cost of sales, selling expenses, and general and administrative expenses, depending on the functional areas of the employees earning the benefits. € million 2018 2017 Service cost Current service cost 162 167 Past service cost gain — (13) Gain on settlement — 1 Net interest expense 19 22 Administrative cost 12 12 Termination benefits 2 2 Components of defined benefit cost recorded in the income statement 195 191 Remeasurements recognized: Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in net interest (income) expense 237 (161) (Gain) loss from changes in demographic assumptions (79) 13 (Gain) loss from changes in financial assumptions (190) 127 Experience (gains) losses (34) (23) Components of defined benefit cost recognized in other comprehensive income (66) (44) Total net defined benefit cost 129 147 Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 146 Notes to the 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued The changes in the defined benefit obligations and plan assets in 2018 and 2017 were as follows: consolidated The Netherlands The United States Rest of world Total financial statements € million Defined benefit obligations 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 continued Beginning of the year 4,822 4,636 1,359 1,592 278 269 6,459 6,497 Current service cost 125 130 22 22 15 15 162 167 Past service cost — 12 — (25) — — — (13) Gain on settlements — — — (123) — — — (123) Interest expense 98 91 51 63 5 5 154 159 Termination benefits — — — — 2 2 2 2 Contributions by plan participants 21 22 — — 1 1 22 23 Benefits paid (90) (87) (63) (76) (16) (12) (169) (175) (Gain) loss from changes in demographic assumptions (73) 4 (5) 9 (1) — (79) 13 (Gain) loss from changes in financial assumptions (80) 34 (104) 96 (6) (3) (190) 127 Experience (gains) losses (46) (20) 9 (4) 3 1 (34) (23) Exchange rate differences — — 64 (195) — — 64 (195) End of the year 4,777 4,822 1,333 1,359 281 278 6,391 6,459 Plan assets Fair value of assets, beginning of the year 4,619 4,431 1,071 1,208 202 199 5,892 5,838 Acquisitions through business combinations — — — — — (11) — (11) Interest income 92 85 39 48 4 4 135 137 Company contribution 101 137 82 51 18 17 201 205 Contributions by plan participants 21 22 — — 1 1 22 23 Benefits paid (90) (87) (63) (76) (16) (12) (169) (175) Settlement payments — — — (124) — — — (124) Administrative cost (9) (8) (3) (4) — — (12) (12) Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in net interest (income) expense (146) 39 (76) 118 (15) 4 (237) 161 Exchange rate differences — — 51 (150) — — 51 (150) Fair value of assets, end of the year 4,588 4,619 1,101 1,071 194 202 5,883 5,892 Funded status (189) (203) (232) (288) (87) (76) (508) (567) The total defined benefit obligation of €6,391 million as of December 30, 2018, includes €187 million related to plans that are wholly unfunded. These plans include pension plans in Greece and Serbia and other benefits (such as life insurance and medical care) and supplemental executive retirement plans in the United States. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 147 Notes to the 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued During 2017, Ahold Delhaize decided to transition a select population of employees participating in its defined benefit pension plan in the United States to consolidated a defined contribution plan, effective January 1, 2020. Accrued benefits under the defined benefit plan for these employees will be frozen as of December financial statements 31, 2019. The resulting curtailment gain recognized in 2017 of €28 million has been partially offset by accrued transition contributions of €3 million that the Company will make in 2020 to compensate affected employees for the benefit freeze. continued During 2017, Ahold Delhaize purchased annuity contracts to settle benefits in the defined benefit pension plan in the United States for participants currently receiving monthly payments of less than $500. This has resulted in a settlement of €123 million of the defined benefit obligation. The settlement of this obligation was funded with €124 million of plan assets and resulted in a €1 million gain on settlement being recognized within pension expense in the income statement. During 2017, Ahold Delhaize amended its defined benefit plan in the Netherlands. The amendments involved raising the retirement age from 67 to 68, in accordance with Dutch fiscal regulations, and converting the remaining conditional service requirement for early retirement benefits to become unconditional. The effect of these amendments was a net past service cost in the income statement of €12 million. Cash contributions From 2018 to 2019, Company contributions are expected to increase from €101 million to €103 million in the Netherlands, decrease from $97 million (€82 million) to $21 million (€18 million) for all defined benefit plans in the United States, and decrease from €18 million to €16 million for all plans in the rest of the world. As of year-end 2018, the funding ratio, calculated in accordance with regulatory requirements, of the Dutch plan was 110%. Under the financing agreement with Ahold Delhaize Pensioen, contributions are made as a percentage of employees’ pension bases and shared between Ahold Delhaize and the employees. The agreement also allows for a reduction in premiums if certain funding conditions are met. In addition, Ahold Delhaize can be required to contribute a maximum amount of €150 million over a five-year period if the funding ratio is below 105%. At year-end 2016, the funding ratio was 104% and the Company and Ahold Delhaize Pensioen agreed to an additional funding of €28 million under the financing agreement, which was included in the 2017 cash contributions. The Ahold USA pension plan’s funding ratio at year-end 2018 was 113%, measured using regulatory interest rates allowed by the U.S. government as part of funding relief, which are higher than otherwise would be allowed. Based upon this funding ratio, under the current funding policy, we do not expect to make a funding contribution to the Ahold USA pension plan in 2019. Actuarial assumptions The calculations of the defined benefit obligation and net defined benefit cost are sensitive to the assumptions set out below. These assumptions require a large degree of judgment. Actual experience may differ from the assumptions made. The assumptions required to calculate the actuarial present value of benefit obligations and the net defined benefit costs are determined per plan and are as follows (expressed as weighted averages): The Netherlands The United States Rest of world % 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Discount rate 1.9 2.0 4.5 3.8 1.7 1.7 Future salary increases 3.3 3.5 4.5 4.5 3.2 3.1 Future pension increases 0.7 0.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 148 Notes to the 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued Assumptions regarding longevity are based on published statistics and mortality tables. These assumptions translate into an average life expectancy in consolidated years for a pensioner retiring at age 65: financial statements Years 2018 The Netherlands 2017 2018 The United States 2017 2018 Rest of world 2017 continued Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners Male 21.3 21.3 19.5 19.6 N/A N/A Female 23.5 23.9 22.2 22.2 N/A N/A Longevity at age 65 for current members aged 50 Male 23.0 23.1 20.8 20.8 N/A N/A Female 25.2 25.7 23.4 23.4 N/A N/A The following table summarizes how the effect on the defined benefit obligations at the end of the reporting period would have increased (decreased) as a result of a 0.5% change in the respective assumptions and a one-year increase in life expectancy. € million The Netherlands The United States Rest of world Total Discount rate 0.5% increase (529) (75) (20) (624) 0.5% decrease 626 83 22 731 Future salary increases 0.5% increase 73 1 10 84 0.5% decrease (69) (1) (9) (79) Future pension increases 0.5% increase 575 N/A N/A 575 0.5% decrease (496) N/A N/A (496) Life expectancy 1 year increase at age 65 175 41 N/A 216 The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in each respective assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In reality, one might expect interrelationships between the assumptions, especially between discount rate and future salary increases as both depend to a certain extent on expected inflation rates. The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analyses did not change compared to the previous period. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 149 Notes to the 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued Plan assets consolidated The pension plan asset allocation differs per plan. The allocation of plan assets was as follows: financial statements € million 2018 The Netherlands 2017 2018 The United States 2017 2018 Rest of world 2017 continued Equity instruments: Consumer goods 238 236 15 23 — — Financial services 279 262 17 62 — — Telecommunications and information 97 110 10 38 — — Energy and utilities 90 71 18 32 — — Industry 262 127 4 15 — — Other 22 6 63 76 — — Debt instruments: Government 1,108 1,082 75 140 — — Corporate bonds (investment grade) 1,297 1,289 564 252 — — Corporate bonds (non-investment grade) 8 12 — 34 — — Other — — 70 61 6 — Real estate: Retail 1 18 — — — — Offices 6 8 — — — — Residential 3 7 — — — — Other — — 53 48 — — Investment funds 1,032 1,048 135 216 6 — Insurance contracts — 1 — — 182 202 Derivatives: Interest rate swaps (46) (105) — — — — Forward foreign exchange contracts (24) 26 — — — — Cash and cash equivalents 223 429 24 18 — — Other (8) (8) 53 56 — — Total 4,588 4,619 1,101 1,071 194 202 Virtually all equity and debt instruments have quoted prices in active markets. Derivatives can be classified as level 2 instruments, and real estate and some investment funds as level 3 instruments based on the definitions in IFRS 13, “Fair Value Measurement.” It is the policy of Ahold Delhaize Pensioen to use interest rate swaps to partially hedge its exposure to interest rate risk on the pension liability. Foreign currency exposures are hedged by the use of forward foreign exchange contracts. In the Netherlands, the plan assets are managed by outside investment managers following investment strategies based on the composition of the plan liabilities. With the aid of asset liability management modeling, analyses are made of possible future economic scenarios and investment portfolios. Based on these analyses, investment strategies are determined to produce optimal investment returns at acceptable funding ratio risk levels. Less favorable years can be part of these scenarios. During 2018, the strategic targets for asset allocation of the Dutch pension plan were: 40% variable yield and 60% fixed income. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 150 Notes to the 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued In the United States, the plan assets are managed by outside investment managers and rebalanced periodically. The committee for the various U.S. consolidated plans establishes investment policies and strategies and regularly monitors the performance of the assets, including the selection of investment managers, financial statements setting long-term strategic targets and monitoring asset allocations. Target allocation ranges are guidelines, not limitations, subject to variation from time to time or as circumstances warrant. Occasionally, the committees may approve allocations above or below a target range. Pension plan assets are continued invested in a trust intended to comply with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), as amended, and applicable fiduciary standards. The long-term investment objective for the plan’s assets is to maintain an acceptable funding ratio of the plan’s assets and liabilities without undue exposure to risk. During 2018, the strategic targets were: 16% equity securities and 84% debt securities. In 2018, the Dutch plan had €1.8 million of plan assets invested in Ahold Delhaize’s financial instruments (2017: €1.3 million). In 2018 or 2017, the U.S. plans did not have any plan assets invested in Ahold Delhaize financial instruments. The actual return on plan assets in 2018 was negative 0.8% for the Dutch plan (2017: positive 3.0%) and negative 4.1% for the Ahold USA pension plan (2017: positive 15.5%). Benefit maturities The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligations of the plans in the Netherlands, the U.S., and the rest of world are 25.0, 13.6, and 14.1 years, respectively. The expected schedule of benefit payments for the plans are as follows: € million The Netherlands The United States Rest of world Total Amount due within one year 88 71 3 162 Amount due between two and five years 356 313 41 710 Amount due between six and ten years 543 421 59 1,023 Defined contribution plans The Company operates defined contribution plans in the Netherlands, the United States, Belgium, Greece and the Czech Republic. As mentioned above, the defined contribution plans in Belgium are accounted for as defined benefit plans due to the guaranteed return elements of the plans. The largest defined contribution plans exist in the United States, where the Company sponsors profit-sharing retirement plans that include a 401(k) feature that permits participating employees to make elective deferrals of their compensation and requires the Company to make matching contributions. During 2018 and 2017, the Company contributed €100 million and €85 million, respectively, to its defined contribution plans. These contributions were recognized as an expense in the income statement and related entirely to continuing operations in 2018 and 2017. Multi-employer plans A significant number of union employees in the United States are covered by multi-employer plans based on obligations arising from collective bargaining agreements. These plans provide retirement and other benefits to participants generally based on their service to contributing employers. The benefits are paid from assets held in trust for that purpose. Trustees are appointed in equal number by employers and unions and they are typically responsible for oversight of the investment of the assets and administration of the plan. Contribution rates and, in some instances, benefit levels are generally determined through the collective bargaining process between the participating employers and unions. With the exception of the Mid-Atlantic UFCW & Participating employers Pension Fund as explained below, none of the Company’s collective bargaining agreements require an increase in the Company’s total pension contributions to meet minimum funding requirements. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 151 Notes to the 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued Most of these plans are defined contribution plans. All plans that are defined benefit plans, on the basis of the terms of the benefits provided, are accounted consolidated for as defined contribution plans because, among other things, there is insufficient information available to account for these plans as defined benefit plans. financial statements These plans are generally flat dollar benefit plans. Ahold Delhaize is only one of several employers participating in most of these plans and, in the event that Ahold Delhaize withdraws from a plan, its allocable share of the plan’s obligations (with certain exceptions) would be based upon unfunded vested continued benefits in the plan at the time of such withdrawal. Ahold Delhaize’s obligation to pay for its allocable share of a plan’s unfunded vested benefits is called a withdrawal liability. The withdrawal liability payable by Ahold Delhaize at such time as it experiences a withdrawal from a plan, is based upon the applicable statutory formula, plan computation methods and actuarial assumptions, and the amount of the plan’s unfunded benefits as of the date of the withdrawal. Ahold Delhaize does not have sufficient information to accurately determine its ratable share of plan obligations and assets following defined benefit accounting principles and the financial statements of the multi-employer plans are drawn up on the basis of other accounting policies than those applied by Ahold Delhaize. Consequently, these multi-employer plans are not included in the Company’s balance sheet. The risks of participating in multi-employer plans are different from the risks of single employer plans. Ahold Delhaize’s contributions are pooled with the contributions of other contributing employers, and are therefore used to provide benefits to employees of such other participating employers. If other participating employers cease to participate in the plan without paying their allocable portion of the plan’s unfunded obligations, this could result in increases in the amount of the plan’s unfunded benefits and, thus, Ahold Delhaize’s future contributions. Similarly, if a number of employers cease to have employees participating in the plan, Ahold Delhaize could be responsible for an increased share of the plan’s deficit. If Ahold Delhaize seeks to withdraw from a multi-employer plan, it generally must obtain the agreement of the applicable unions and will likely be required to pay a withdrawal liability in connection with this. If a multi-employer plan in which Ahold Delhaize participates becomes insolvent, Ahold Delhaize may be required to increase its contributions, in certain circumstances, to fund the payment of benefits by the multi-employer plan. Defined benefit plans Ahold Delhaize participates in 11 multi-employer pension plans that are defined benefit plans on the basis of the terms of the benefits provided. The Company’s participation in these multi-employer plans is outlined in the following tables. Ahold Delhaize’s participation percentage is an indication based on the relevant amount of its contributions during the year in relation to the total amount of contributions made to the plan. The estimate of the Company’s net proportionate share of the plans’ deficits is based on the latest available information received from these plans, such as the plans’ measurement of plan assets and the use of discount rates between 6.5% and 8.5%. The estimate does not represent Ahold Delhaize’s direct obligation. While it is our best estimate, based upon information available to us, it is imprecise and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation cannot be made. The EIN / Pension Plan Number column provides the Employer Identification Number (EIN) and the three-digit pension plan number. As with all pension plans, multi-employer pension plans in the U.S. are regulated by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), as amended; the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA); and the Multi-employer Pension Reform Act of 2014 (MPRA), among other legislation. Under the PPA, plans are categorized as “endangered” (Yellow Zone), “seriously endangered” (Orange Zone), “critical” (Red Zone), or neither endangered nor critical (Green Zone). This categorization is primarily based on three measures: the plan’s funded percentage, the number of years before the plan is projected to have a minimum funding deficiency under ERISA and the number of years before the plan is projected to become insolvent. A plan is in the “Yellow Zone” if the funded percentage is less than 80% or a minimum funding deficiency is projected within seven years. If both of these triggers are reached, the plan is in the “Orange Zone.” Generally, a plan is in the “Red Zone” if a funding deficiency is projected at any time in the next four years (or five years if the funded percentage is less than 65%). Plans with a funding ratio above 80% are designated as being in the “Green Zone.” A plan in the “Red Zone” may be further categorized as “critical and declining” if the plan is projected to become insolvent within the current year or within either the next 14 years or the next 19 years, depending on the plan’s ratio of inactive participants to active participants and the plan’s specific funding percentage. Multi-employer plans in endangered or critical status are required by U.S. law to develop either a funding improvement plan (FIP) or a rehabilitation plan (RP) to enhance funding through reductions in benefits, increases in contributions, or both. The FIP / RP Status Pending / Implemented column in the table below indicates plans for which an FIP or an RP is pending or has been implemented. Additional information regarding the multi-employer plans listed in the following tables can be found on the website of the U.S. Department of Labor (www.efast.dol.gov). Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 152 Notes to the 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued December 30, 2018 consolidated FIP / RP status Year of Expiration date of collectivePlan Ahold Ahold Delhaize’s proportionate financial statements € million, except Ahold Delhaize’s participation percentages EIN / Pension plan number ERISA zone status pending / implemented Form 55001 bargaining Annual agreement contributions deficit / Delhaize’s (surplus)2 participation share of deficit (surplus)3 continued FELRA & UFCW Food Pension Fund 52-6128473/001 Red (Critical Implemented 2017 October 26, 2019 23 1,286 55.7% 716 and declining) Mid-Atlantic UFCW & Participating 46-1000515/001 Green No 2017 October 26, 2019 9 (2) 58.8% (1) Employers Pension Fund New England Teamsters & Trucking 04-6372430/001 Red (Critical Implemented 2017 March 30, 2019 5 – 2.7% – and declining) Industry Pension UFCW Local 1262 & Employers 22-6074414/001 Red Implemented 2017 October 23, 2023 5 180 28.9% 52 – February 10, Pension Fund 2024 United Food & Commercial Workers 51-6055922/001 Green No 2017 February 23, 2019 19 466 23.5% 110 – October 31, 2020 International Union – Industry Pension Fund UFCW Local 1500 Pension Plan 23-7176372/001 Yellow Implemented 2017 December 26, 2020 10 208 38.4% 80 Warehouse Employees’ Union Local 52-6124754/001 Red (Critical Implemented 2017 March 14, 2022 3 119 83.1% 97 and declining) 730 Pension Trust Fund Other plans 6 7,712 0.9% 19 Total 80 9,969 1,073 December 31, 2017 Expiration date of Ahold Delhaize’s FIP / RP status Year of collectivePlan Ahold proportionate € million, except Ahold Delhaize’s EIN / Pension ERISA zone pending / Form bargaining Annual deficit / Delhaize’s share of deficit participation percentages plan number status implemented 55001 agreement contributions (surplus)2 participation (surplus)3 FELRA & UFCW Food Pension Fund 52-6128473/001 Red (Critical Implemented 2016 October 26, 2019 22 1,156 55.3% 640 and declining) Mid-Atlantic UFCW & Participating 46-1000515/001 Green No 2016 October 26, 2019 9 (7) 60.1% (4) Employers Pension Fund New England Teamsters & Trucking 04-6372430/001 Red (Critical Implemented 2015 March 30, 2019 6 – 2.9% – and declining) Industry Pension UFCW Local 1262 & Employers 22-6074414/001 Red Implemented 2016 October 23, 2023 7 71 26.9% 19 – February 10, Pension Fund 2024 United Food & Commercial Workers 51-6055922/001 Green No 2015 February 23, 2019 20 (115) 20.0% (23) – October 31, 2020 International Union – Industry Pension Fund UFCW Local 1500 Pension Plan 23-7176372/001 Yellow Implemented 2016 February 3, 2018 10 140 38.9% 54 Warehouse Employees’ Union Local 52-6124754/001 Red (Critical Implemented 2016 March 14, 2022 3 96 82.9% 79 and declining) 730 Pension Trust Fund Other plans 6 5,602 0.9% (5) Total 83 6,943 760 Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 153 Notes to the 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued 1 Form 5500 is part of ERISA’s overall reporting and disclosure framework and includes the Financial Statements of a multi-employer plan. consolidated 2 The deficit / (surplus) of the plans is heavily influenced by the discount rate applied by the plans, which ranges between 6.5% and 8.5%. Multi-employer plans discount the liabilities at the plan’s expected rate of return on assets. As a plan nearing insolvency reduces liquidity risk and expected volatility, its expected rate of return on assets declines and, as such, the discount rate will decline, financial statements resulting in an increase of the deficit within the plan. 3 Ahold Delhaize’s proportionate share of deficit (surplus) is calculated by multiplying the deficit / (surplus) of each plan that the Company participates in by Ahold Delhaize’s participation percentage in that plan. This proportional share of deficit / (surplus) is an indication of our share of deficit / (surplus) based on the best available information. The deficit is calculated in accordance with the continued accounting policies and funding assumptions applied by the relevant plan and does not represent any obligation or liability Ahold Delhaize may have in respect of the plan, which would be accounted for and measured in accordance with Ahold Delhaize’s accounting policies. If the underfunded liabilities of the multi-employer pension plans are not reduced, either by improved market conditions, reduction in benefits, and / or collective bargaining changes, increased future payments by the Company and the other participating employers may result. However, all future increases will be subject to the collective bargaining process. In 2019, the Company expects its contributions to increase to €90 million, which includes rehabilitation plan contribution increases when applicable. Ahold Delhaize has a risk of increased contributions and withdrawal liability (upon a withdrawal) if any of the participating employers in an underfunded multi-employer plan withdraw from the plan or become insolvent and are no longer able to meet their contribution requirements or if the multi-employer plan itself no longer has sufficient assets available to fund its short-term obligations to the participants in the plan. If and when a withdrawal liability is assessed, it may be substantially higher than the proportionate share disclosed above. Any adjustment for a withdrawal liability will be recorded when it is probable that a liability exists and the amount can be reliably estimated. Ahold Delhaize does not have a contractual agreement with any multi-employer plan that determines how a deficit will be funded. No withdrawal payments were incurred or included in the 2018 and 2017 contributions disclosed above. In 2012, a restructuring took place regarding the FELRA & UFCW Food Pension Fund (“FELRA”). Under the restructuring, the Mid-Atlantic UFCW & Participating Employers Pension Fund (“MAP”) was created for future service accruals of Giant Foods’ (a controlled subsidiary of Ahold Delhaize) employees and one other participating employer. Giant Foods is currently the largest contributing employer in the FELRA plan, followed by one other large contributing employer and a small contributing employer affiliated with the other employer. MAP is funded by Giant Foods and one other large participating employer. The current collective bargaining agreement includes a plan provision (“benefit backstop provision”) that will become effective, for all participating employers in MAP, if and when FELRA becomes insolvent and benefits are reduced in accordance with the rules established by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC). Under normal circumstances, when a multi-employer plan reaches insolvency it must reduce all accrued benefits to the maximum level guaranteed by the PBGC. The PBGC will continue to fund these minimum guaranteed benefits for the participants. FELRA and all other similar funds paid annual insurance premiums to the PBGC for such benefit insurance. Upon the insolvency of FELRA, the collective bargaining agreements to which Giant Foods is a party may require Giant Foods to pay certain supplemental contributions to FELRA and / or MAP that are attributable to certain of the benefits reduced by FELRA as a result of its insolvency. The specific amount of any such contributions remains subject to a number of variables, including the actions of third parties, and cannot be precisely estimated at this time. In addition, as noted below, this supplemental contribution obligation may be modified through the collective bargaining process. FELRA reported in its 2017 Form 5500 that it projects it will become insolvent in approximately the fourth quarter of 2020 and reported in its Form 5500 a year-end funding ratio of 26.9%. Its Board of Trustees adopted an ERISA “all reasonable measures” rehabilitation plan to forestall insolvency. Under this specific ERISA plan, all minimum funding standards are being met. The current collective bargaining agreement expires on October 26, 2019, and all pension provisions, including funding and the benefit backstop provision, may be subject to collective bargaining. This bargaining process might resolve or forestall the insolvency predicted for the fourth quarter of 2020. If either the bargaining parties do not reach an agreement on a new collective bargaining agreement at the expiration date or FELRA becomes insolvent, Ahold Delhaize may be required to increase its contributions or, in certain circumstances, to fund the payments of these benefits. A wide variety of potential scenarios could unfold, all of which are conditional and dependent on uncertain future events, and the outcome of which cannot be reasonably predicted but which could have a material impact on Ahold Delhaize’s financial position and results. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 154 Notes to the 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued Defined contribution plans consolidated Ahold Delhaize also participates in 40 multi-employer plans that are defined contribution plans on the basis of the terms of the benefits provided. financial statements The majority of these plans provide health and welfare benefits. The Company contributed €280 million and €264 million to multi-employer defined contribution plans during 2018 and 2017, respectively. These contributions are recognized as an expense in the consolidated income statement and related continued entirely to continuing operations in 2018 and 2017. These plans vary significantly in size, with contributions to the three largest plans representing 53% of total contributions. 24 Provisions The table below specifies the changes in total provisions (current and non-current): SelfClaims Severance and insurance Loyalty and legal termination Onerous € million program programs disputes benefits contracts Other Total As of December 31, 2017 Current portion 208 13 16 72 26 20 355 Non-current portion 561 16 63 28 91 49 808 Carrying amount 769 29 79 100 117 69 1,163 Year ended December 30, 2018 Additions charged to income 173 26 16 35 36 3 289 Used during the year (169) (32) (13) (77) (42) (16) (349) Released to income (15) (8) (2) (3) (9) (4) (41) Interest accretion 25 — (1) — 3 — 27 Effect of changes in discount rates (17) (1) — — (1) (1) (20) Other movements 7 — — (2) — — 5 Exchange rate differences 37 — 1 1 5 2 46 Closing carrying amount 810 14 80 54 109 53 1,120 As of December 30, 2018 Current portion 221 7 36 36 21 5 326 Non-current portion 589 7 44 18 88 48 794 Maturities of total provisions as of December 30, 2018, are as follows: SelfClaims Severance and insurance Loyalty and legal termination Onerous € million program programs disputes benefits contracts Other Total Amount due within one year 221 7 36 36 21 5 326 Amount due between one and five years 356 7 16 18 51 12 460 Amount due after five years 233 — 28 — 37 36 334 Total 810 14 80 54 109 53 1,120 Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 155 Notes to the 24 Provisions continued Self-insurance program consolidated Ahold Delhaize is self-insured for certain potential losses, mainly relating to general liability, vehicle liability, workers’ compensation and property losses financial statements incurred by its subsidiaries. The maximum self-insurance retention per occurrence, including defense costs, is $2 million (€2 million) for general liability, $10 million (€9 million) for commercial vehicle liability, $5 million (€4 million) for workers’ compensation and $5 million (€4 million) for property losses in continued Europe. Part of the self-insured risk is ceded under a reinsurance treaty, which is a pooling arrangement between unrelated companies; see Note 15. The measurement of the self-insurance provisions involves estimates and judgments to be made regarding future claim patterns, which include estimates on the number of future claims, timing and amount of payment of damages and costs associated with the settlement of future claims. Loyalty programs This provision relates to a third-party customer loyalty program in the Netherlands and reflects the estimated cost of benefits to which customers participating in the loyalty program are entitled. When measuring the provision for loyalty programs, management estimates the expected timing of the redemptions by customers and the expected breakage (benefits granted but never redeemed). Claims and legal disputes The Company is a party to a number of legal proceedings arising out of its business operations. Such legal proceedings are subject to inherent uncertainties. Management, supported by internal and external legal counsel, where appropriate, determines whether it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle an obligation. If this is the case, the best estimate of the outflow of resources is recognized. Severance and termination benefits This provision relates to payments to employees whose employment with the Company has ended, either as part of a restructuring or a voluntary separation plan. The measurement of the provision involves estimates and judgments about the population and number of employees that will ultimately be affected by the plans, estimates of salary ranges used to measure future cash flows, and assumptions of periods of service, if relevant. Onerous contracts Onerous contract provisions relate to unfavorable contracts where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contracts exceed the benefits expected to be received. The judgments and estimates made in the measurement of onerous contracts relate to unavoidable future costs anticipated to be incurred and any potential remedies available, for instance, renegotiation with landlords, assignment of leases and subleasing possibilities. Other Other provisions include long-term incentives, jubilee payments, asset retirement obligations, provisions for environmental risks and supplemental medical benefits. The judgments and estimates made in the measurement of these provisions relate to the estimated costs to be incurred at an unknown future date. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 156 Notes to the 25 Other non-current liabilities December 30, consolidated December 31, € million 2018 2017 Step rent accruals 287 268 financial statements Unfavorable lease obligations 171 191 continued Deferred income 77 49 Other 31 21 Total other non-current liabilities 566 529 Step rent accruals relate to the equalization of rent payments from lease contracts with scheduled fixed rent increases throughout the life of the contract. Unfavorable lease obligations are recognized as part of a business combination and represent the present value of the excess of contracted rent payments over the market rents as measured on the date of the acquisition. The obligation is released to rent expense on a straight-line basis over the remaining term of the lease. Deferred income predominantly represents the non-current portions of deferred income on vendor allowances and deferred gains on sale and leaseback transactions. 26 Other current financial liabilities December 30, December 31, € million 2018 2017 Finance lease liabilities – current portion (see Note 22) 180 177 Interest payable 38 40 Short-term borrowings 58 64 Bank overdrafts 695 1,368 Dividend cumulative preferred financing shares 17 18 Reinsurance liabilities – current portion (see Note 15) 74 69 Loans – current portion (see Note 21) 162 468 Other 8 6 Total other current financial liabilities 1,232 2,210 Bank overdrafts includes an amount of €695 million (December 31, 2017: €1,367 million) which relates to the overdraft position of a notional cash pooling arrangement. This bank overdraft is fully offset by an identical amount included under Cash and cash equivalents (see Notes 19 and 30). Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 157 Notes to the 27 Other current liabilities December 30, consolidated December 31, € million 2018 2017 Accrued expenses 1,266 1,149 financial statements Compensated absences 477 462 continued Payroll taxes, social security and VAT 508 454 Deferred income 79 67 Gift card and deposit liabilities 158 147 Other 49 48 Total other current liabilities 2,537 2,327 Other mainly includes the current portion of unfavorable lease obligations and step rent accruals. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 158 Notes to the 28 Cash flow The following table presents the reconciliation between the cash and cash equivalents as presented in the statement of cash flows and on the consolidated balance sheet: financial statements € million December 30, 2018 December 31, 2017 continued Cash and cash equivalents as presented in the statement of cash flows 3,110 4,542 Restricted cash 12 39 Cash and cash equivalents as presented on the balance sheet 3,122 4,581 The following tables present additional cash flow information: € million 2018 2017 Non-cash investing activities Accounts payable at year-end related to purchased non-current assets 309 204 Assets acquired under mortgages payable net of financing obligations terminated 53 — Assets acquired under finance leases from continuing operations 73 68 Acquisition of businesses (see Note 4) Total purchase consideration (31) (54) Cash acquired 1 4 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired (30) (50) Divestments of businesses Net cash flows related to BI-LO / Bruno’s (3) (3) Divestment of businesses (3) (3) Cash divested — — Divestment of businesses, net of cash divested (3) (3) Reconciliation between results on divestments of discontinued operations and cash (paid) received Result on divestments of discontinued operations before income taxes (23) — Changes in provisions and other financial liabilities – net 20 (3) Divestment of businesses (3) (3) Cash divested — — Divestment of businesses, net of cash divested (3) (3) Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 159 Notes to the 28 Cash flow continued Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities for the years ended December 30, 2018, and December 31, 2017: consolidated Cumulative Short-term financial statements Finance preferred borrowings lease financing and bank Derivative Derivative € million Loans liabilities shares overdrafts assets liabilities Total continued As of December 31, 2017 3,757 1,607 455 1,432 — 18 7,269 Proceeds from long-term debt1 793 — — — — — 793 Acquisitions through business combinations — 3 — — — — 3 Repayments of loans and finance lease liabilities2 (749) (177) — — — — (926) Changes in short-term borrowings and overdrafts — — — (733) — — (733) Other cash flows from derivatives — — — — — (29) (29) Fair value changes — — — — (1) 11 10 Additions to mortgages payable net of financing obligations terminated 53 — — — — — 53 Additions to finance lease liabilities — 73 — — — — 73 Termination of finance leases — (14) — — — — (14) Other non-cash movements3 (115) 4 — — — — (111) Exchange rate differences 106 63 — 54 — — 223 As of December 30, 2018 3,845 1,559 455 753 (1) — 6,611 1 The amount is net of deferred financing costs of €7 million, of which €5 million was included in ‘’Other’’ within financing cash flows from continuing operations in the statement of cash flows. 2 Repayment of loans as presented in the statement of cash flows included a €34 million premium paid for the settlement of a part of the USD 827 million notes (see Note 21). 3 The amount related to loans included €64 million accelerated amortization of the fair value adjustment allocated to the USD 827 million notes due to settlement of a part of the notes (see Note 21). Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 160 Notes to the 28 Cash flow continued consolidated Cumulative Short-term Finance preferred borrowings lease financing and bank Derivative Derivative financial statements € million Loans liabilities shares2 overdrafts assets3 liabilities Total As of January 1, 2017 3,850 1,960 497 1,253 (299) 63 7,324 continued Proceeds from long-term debt1 743 — — — — — 743 Acquisitions through business combinations — 3 — — — — 3 Repayments of loans and finance lease liabilities (474) (190) — — — — (664) Changes in short-term borrowings and overdrafts — — — 212 — — 212 Other cash flows from derivatives3 — — — — 274 (12) 262 Fair value changes 1 — — — 25 (33) (7) Additions to finance lease liabilities — 68 — — — — 68 Termination of finance leases — (13) — — — — (13) Other non-cash movements (42) (18) (42) — — — (102) Exchange rate differences (321) (203) — (33) — — (557) As of December 31, 2017 3,757 1,607 455 1,432 — 18 7,269 1 The amount is net of deferred financing costs of €8 million, of which €4 million was included in ‘’Other’’ within financing cash flows from continuing operations in the statement of cash flows. 2 During 2017, at the request of the holder of these shares, Ahold Delhaize converted 45,000,000 cumulative preferred financing shares with a par value of €42,541,895 into 2,515,827 common shares. 3 Other cash flows from derivatives of €274 million represents the amount for the settlement of the GBP 250 million cross-currency swap net of the last semiannual installment of $14 million. 29 Earnings per share The calculation of basic and diluted net income per share attributable to common shareholders is based on the following data: 2018 2017 Earnings (€ million) Net income attributable to common shareholders for the purposes of basic earnings per share 1,793 1,817 Effect of dilutive potential common shares – reversal of preferred dividend 17 19 Net income attributable to common shareholders for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 1,810 1,836 Number of shares (in millions) Weighted average number of common shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 1,176 1,251 Effect of dilutive potential common shares: Conditional shares from share-based compensation programs 6 5 Cumulative preferred financing shares 21 25 Weighted average number of common shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 1,203 1,281 Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 161 Notes to the 29 Earnings per share continued The calculation of the basic and diluted income from continuing operations per share attributable to common shareholders is based on the same number of consolidated shares as detailed above and the following earnings data: financial statements € million Income from continuing operations, attributable to common shareholders for the purposes of basic earnings per share 2018 1,809 2017 1,817 continued Effect of dilutive potential common shares – reversal of preferred dividend 17 19 Income from continuing operations, attributable to common shareholders for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 1,826 1,836 Both basic and diluted income per share from discontinued operations attributable to common shareholders amounted to €(0.02) (2017: nil). They are based on the loss from discontinued operations attributable to common shareholders of €16 million (2017: nil) and the denominators detailed above. 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments Financial risk management Ahold Delhaize is exposed to a variety of financial risks including currency, interest rate, funding, liquidity and counterparty risks. The Company’s financial risk management is centralized through its Treasury function, which operates within a regularly reviewed framework of policies and procedures. Ahold Delhaize’s Management Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Treasury risk management framework. Ahold Delhaize’s management reviews material changes to Treasury policies and receives information related to Treasury activities. The Treasury function does not operate as a profit center and manages the financial risks that arise in relation to underlying business needs. In accordance with its Treasury policies, Ahold Delhaize uses derivative instruments solely for the purpose of hedging exposures. These exposures are mainly the result of interest rate and currency risks arising from the Company’s operations and its sources of financing. Ahold Delhaize does not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. The transaction of derivative instruments is restricted to Treasury personnel only and Ahold Delhaize’s Internal Control department reviews the Treasury internal control environment regularly. Relationships with credit rating agencies and monitoring of key credit ratios are also managed by the Treasury department. Currency risk Ahold Delhaize operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from currency exposures, primarily with respect to the U.S. dollar. Since Ahold Delhaize’s subsidiaries primarily purchase and sell in local currencies, the Company’s exposure to exchange rate movements in its commercial operations is naturally limited. The Company is subject to foreign currency exchange risks due to exchange rate movements in connection with the translation of its foreign subsidiaries’ income, assets and liabilities into euros for inclusion in its consolidated financial statements. Translation risk related to Ahold Delhaize’s foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates is not actively hedged; however, the Company aims to minimize this exposure by funding its foreign operations in their functional currency wherever feasible. To protect the value of future foreign currency cash flows, including loan and interest payments, lease payments, dividends and firm purchase commitments, and the value of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency, Ahold Delhaize seeks to mitigate its foreign currency exchange exposure by borrowing in local currency and entering into various financial instruments, including forward contracts and currency swaps. It is Ahold Delhaize’s policy to cover foreign exchange transaction exposure in relation to existing assets, liabilities and firm purchase commitments. Foreign currency sensitivity analysis As of December 30, 2018, Ahold Delhaize carried out a sensitivity analysis with regard to changes in foreign exchange rates to revalue all monetary assets and liabilities (including derivative financial instruments) in a currency other than the functional currency of the subsidiary in its balance sheet at year-end. Assuming the euro had strengthened (weakened) by 10% against the U.S. dollar compared to the actual 2018 rate, with all other variables held constant, the hypothetical result on income before income taxes would have been nil (2017: a decrease (increase) of €1 million), as a result of foreign exchange revaluation of U.S. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities held by non-U.S. dollar functional currency subsidiaries. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 162 Notes to the 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued Interest rate risk consolidated Ahold Delhaize’s outstanding debt position is exposed to changes in interest rates. To manage interest rate risk, Ahold Delhaize has an interest rate financial statements management policy aimed at reducing volatility in its interest expense and maintaining a target percentage of its debt in fixed-rate instruments. As of December 30, 2018, after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps, 95% of Ahold Delhaize’s long-term debt was at continued fixed rates of interest (2017: 100%). Interest rate sensitivity analysis The total interest expense recognized in the 2018 income statement related to the variable rates of long-term debt, net of swaps, amounted to nil (2017: nil). An increase (decrease) in market interest rates by 25 basis points, with all other variables (including foreign exchange rates) held constant, would have resulted in a loss (gain) of nil (2017: nil). In addition, a similar increase (decrease) in market interest rates would have resulted in a fair value gain (loss) of nil (2017: a gain (or loss) of €6 million, respectively) on derivative hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting as the cross currency swaps that were outstanding as of December 31, 2017 were unwound during 2018. The total interest income recognized in the 2018 income statement amounted to €70 million (2017: €32 million), mainly related to variable rate money market fund investments and deposits. The Company estimates that with a possible increase (decrease) of euro and U.S. dollar market interest rates of 25 basis points with all other variables (including foreign exchange rates) held constant, this would have resulted in a gain of €7 million or a loss of €7 million, respectively (2017: gain of €5 million or a loss of €5 million). The above sensitivity analyses are for illustrative purposes only as, in practice, market rates rarely change in isolation from other factors that also affect Ahold Delhaize’s financial position and results. Credit risk Ahold Delhaize has no significant concentrations of credit risk. The concentration of credit risk with respect to receivables is limited, as the Company’s customer base and vendor base are large and unrelated. The Company applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses, which uses a lifetime expected loss allowance for all trade receivables. To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables have been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due. The expected loss rate is calculated based on delinquency status and actual historical credit loss experience. As a result, management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal individual and collective impairment, based on an aging analysis performed as of December 30, 2018. In the prior year, the impairment of receivables was assessed based on the incurred loss model. The application of the expected credit loss model in accordance with IFRS 9 resulted in an additional provision upon transition of €1 million. For further discussion on Ahold Delhaize’s receivables, see Notes 15 and 17. Financial transactions are predominantly entered into with investment grade financial institutions. The Company requires a minimum short-term rating of A1/P1 and a minimum long-term rating of A3/Afor its deposit and investment products. The Company may deviate from this requirement from time to time for operational reasons. With respect to credit risk, derivative contracts with counterparties are entered into primarily under the standard terms and conditions of the International Swap and Derivatives Association (ISDA). With certain counterparties, Ahold Delhaize has credit support annexes in place that materially reduce the counterparty risk exposure as a result of contractual exchange of cash collateral. Ahold Delhaize has policies that limit the amount of counterparty credit exposure to any single financial institution or investment vehicle and actively monitors these exposures. Counterparty risk is measured by adding the nominal value of cash, short-term deposits and marketable securities, and the mark-to-market of derivative instruments, netted with the collateral posted, if any. As a result, the highest exposure to a single financial counterparty, excluding AAA-rated money market funds, on December 30, 2018, amounted to €418 million (December 31, 2017: €307 million). Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 163 Notes to the 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued Offsetting of financial instruments consolidated Ahold Delhaize has several financial assets and financial liabilities that are subject to offsetting or enforceable master netting arrangements and financial statements similar agreements. Cash pool continued The Company has implemented a cash pool system, allowing a more efficient management of the daily working capital needs of the participating operating entities. The settlement mechanism of the cash pool is provided by an external financial counterparty. The cash pool system provides that the Company is exposed to a single net amount with that financial counterparty rather than the gross amount of several current accounts and bank overdraft balances with multiple financial counterparties. From an operational perspective, the balances in the cash pool are netted. However, in accordance with the guidance of IAS 32 regarding the offsetting of debit and credit balances for financial reporting purposes, these balances have to be presented on a gross basis on the balance sheet (see Notes 19 and 26). ISDA master agreements for derivatives The Company has entered into several ISDA master agreements in connection with its derivative transactions. In general, under such agreements, the amounts owed by each counterparty to another on the same day in respect of the same transaction payable in the same currency are aggregated into a single net amount that is payable by one party to the other. Under certain circumstances, if all transactions under the ISDA master agreement are terminated, e.g., when a credit event such as payment default occurs, the termination value is assessed and only a single net amount is payable in the settlement of all transactions governed by the ISDA master agreement. The ISDA agreements do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the balance sheet. This is because the Company does not currently have a legally enforceable right to offset recognized amounts, because the right to offset is enforceable only on the occurrence of a future event such as a default. ISDAs are considered to be master netting arrangements for IFRS 7 disclosure purposes. The following table shows the maximum exposure of the Company’s financial assets and financial liabilities that are subject to offset or enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements. Amounts not offset in the balance sheet but subject Financial instruments to master netting arrangements (or similar) Gross amounts in the that are offset in the Net amounts presented Financial Cash collateral € million balance sheet balance sheet in the balance sheet assets / liabilities received / pledged Net exposure Assets Derivative financial assets 1 — 1 — — 1 Cash and cash equivalents 1,081 — 1,081 — 695 386 Total 1,082 — 1,082 — 695 387 Liabilities Derivative financial liabilities — — — — — — Bank overdrafts 695 — 695 — 695 — Total 695 — 695 — 695 — Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 164 Notes to the 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued Liquidity risk consolidated Ahold Delhaize views available cash balances and funds from operating activities as its primary sources of liquidity, complemented with access to financial statements external sources of funds when deemed to be required. Ahold Delhaize manages short-term liquidity based on projected cash flows. As of December 30, 2018, the Company’s liquidity position primarily consisted of €2,812 million of cash (including short-term deposits and similar instruments and the continued current portion of investments in debt instruments, adjusted for cash held under a notional cash pooling arrangement), and the undrawn €1 billion revolving credit facility. Based on the current operating performance and liquidity position, the Company believes that cash provided by operating activities and available cash balances will be sufficient for working capital, capital expenditures, interest payments, dividends, the announced €1 billion share buyback program, and scheduled debt repayments for the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. In addition, the Company has access to the amount available on its revolving credit facility and to the debt capital markets based on its current credit ratings. The following tables summarize the expected maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities (including derivatives) as of December 30, 2018, and December 31, 2017, respectively, based on contractual undiscounted payments. All financial liabilities held at the reporting date, for which payments are already contractually agreed, have been included. Amounts in foreign currency have been translated using the reporting date closing rate. Cash flows arising from financial instruments carrying variable interest payments have been calculated using the forward curve interest rates as of December 30, 2018, and December 31, 2017, respectively. See Note 34 for the liquidity risk related to guarantees. Year ended December 30, 2018 Contractual cash flows Between Net carrying Within 1 and 5 After € million amount 1 year years 5 years Total Non-derivative financial liabilities Notes (3,476) (234) (1,143) (3,189) (4,566) Other loans (3) — — (3) (3) Financing obligations (277) (39) (144) (93) (276) Mortgages payable (89) (11) (114) — (125) Finance lease liabilities (1,559) (271) (868) (1,017) (2,156) Cumulative preferred financing shares1 (455) (17) (35) (8) (60) Accounts payable (5,816) (5,816) — — (5,816) Short-term borrowings (753) (753) — — (753) Reinsurance liabilities (223) (78) (134) (24) (236) Other (93) (18) (20) (52) (90) Derivative financial liabilities Cross-currency swaps and foreign currency derivatives — — — — — 1 Cumulative preferred financing shares have no maturity. For the purposes of the table above, the future dividend cash flows were calculated until the coupon reset date of each of the four shareseries (2020, 2023, 2026 and 2028). No liability redemption was assumed. Actual cash flows may differ; see Note 22. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 165 Notes to the 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued Year ended December 31, 2017 consolidated Contractual cash flows financial statements € million Net carrying amount Within 1 year Between 1 and 5 years After 5 years Total continued Non-derivative financial liabilities Notes (3,407) (547) (988) (3,272) (4,807) Other loans (3) — (1) (2) (3) Financing obligations (325) (44) (165) (120) (329) Mortgages payable (22) (2) (15) (10) (27) Finance lease liabilities (1,607) (271) (894) (1,067) (2,232) Cumulative preferred financing shares1 (455) (18) (46) (6) (70) Accounts payable (5,277) (5,277) — — (5,277) Short-term borrowings (1,432) (1,432) — — (1,432) Reinsurance liabilities (205) (72) (120) (22) (214) Other (75) (13) (6) (39) (58) Derivative financial liabilities Cross-currency swaps and foreign currency derivatives (18) (4) (14) (29) (47) 1 Cumulative preferred financing shares have no maturity. For the purposes of the table above, the future dividend cash flows were calculated until the coupon reset date of each of the four shareseries (2018, 2020, 2023 and 2026). No liability redemption was assumed. Credit ratings Maintaining investment grade credit ratings is a cornerstone of Ahold Delhaize’s strategy because such ratings serve to lower the cost of funds and facilitate access to a variety of lenders and markets. Ahold Delhaize’s current credit ratings from the solicited rating agencies are as follows: • Standard & Poor’s: corporate credit rating BBB, with a stable outlook as of June 2009 (previous rating BBBassigned in 2007). • Moody’s: issuer credit rating Baa1, with a stable outlook as of February 2018 (previous rating Baa2 assigned in August 2015). Capital risk management The Company’s primary objective in terms of managing capital is the optimization of its debt and equity balances in order to sustain the future development of the business, maintain its investment grade credit rating and maximize shareholder value. Ahold Delhaize may balance its overall capital structure in a number of ways, including through the payment of dividends, capital repayment, new share issues and share buybacks as well as the issuance of new debt or the redemption of existing debt. Financial instruments Accounting classification and fair values of financial instruments The following table presents the fair values of financial instruments, based on Ahold Delhaize’s categories of financial instruments, including current portions, compared to the carrying amounts at which these instruments are included on the balance sheet: Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 166 Notes to the 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued December 30, 2018 consolidated December 31, 2017 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair € million amount value amount value financial statements Financial assets at amortized cost Loans receivable 69 72 59 65 continued Trade and other (non-)current receivables 1,750 1,750 1,605 1,605 Cash and cash equivalents 3,122 3,122 4,581 4,581 Short-term deposits and similar instruments 266 266 9 9 5,207 5,210 6,254 6,260 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) Available-for-sale financial assets1 — — 167 167 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL)1 Reinsurance assets 218 218 195 195 Investments in debt instruments 128 128 — — 346 346 195 195 Derivative financial instruments Derivatives 1 1 — — Total financial assets 5,554 5,557 6,616 6,622 Financial liabilities at amortized cost Notes (3,476) (3,500) (3,407) (3,518) Other loans (3) (3) (3) (3) Financing obligations (277) (235) (325) (291) Mortgages payable (89) (103) (22) (23) Finance lease liabilities (1,559) (1,840) (1,607) (1,932) Cumulative preferred financing shares (455) (481) (455) (491) Dividend cumulative preferred financing shares (17) (17) (18) (18) Accounts payable (5,816) (5,816) (5,277) (5,277) Short-term borrowings (753) (753) (1,432) (1,432) Interest payable (38) (38) (40) (40) Other (93) (95) (75) (81) (12,576) (12,881) (12,661) (13,106) Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Reinsurance liabilities (223) (223) (205) (205) Derivative financial instruments Derivatives — — (18) (18) Total financial liabilities (12,799) (13,104) (12,884) (13,329) 1 Following the adoption of IFRS 9, certain investments in U.S. Treasury bond funds that were classified as available-for-sale financial assets do not meet the criteria to be classified as either at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) or at amortized cost and €157 million has been reclassified to financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL); see Note 3. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 167 Notes to the 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued Of Ahold Delhaize’s categories of financial instruments, only derivatives, investments in debt instruments and reinsurance assets (liabilities) are measured consolidated and recognized on the balance sheet at fair value. These fair value measurements are categorized within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. The Company financial statements uses inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e., as prices) or indirectly (i.e., derived from prices). The fair value of derivative instruments is measured by using either a market or income approach (mainly present value techniques). Foreign currency forward continued contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates that match the maturity of the contracts. Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of expected future cash flows. Expected future cash flows are discounted by using the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates. To the extent that no cash collateral is contractually required, the valuation of Ahold Delhaize’s derivative instruments is adjusted for the credit risk of the counterparty, called Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA), and adjusted for Ahold Delhaize’s own credit risk, called Debit Valuation Adjustment (DVA). The valuation technique for the CVA / DVA calculation is based on relevant observable market inputs. No CVA / DVA adjustments are made to the valuation of certain derivative instruments, for which both Ahold Delhaize and its counterparties are required to post or redeem cash collaterals if the value of a derivative exceeds a threshold defined in the contractual provisions. Such cash collaterals materially reduce the impact of both the counterparty and Ahold Delhaize’s own non-performance risk on the value of the instrument. The portion of outstanding derivatives that was collateralized is specified as follows: December 30, December 31, € million 2018 2017 Cross-currency interest rate swaps — 18 Total net derivative liabilities subject to collateralization — 18 Collateralized amount — — The carrying amount of trade and other (non-)current receivables, cash and cash equivalents, accounts payable, short-term deposits and similar instruments, and other current financial assets and liabilities approximate their fair values because of the short-term nature of these instruments and, for receivables, because any expected recoverability loss is reflected in an impairment loss. The fair values of quoted borrowings for which an active market exists are based on year-end quoted prices. The fair value of other non-derivative financial assets and liabilities that are not traded in an active market are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses based on market rates prevailing at year-end. The fair value of the cumulative preferred financing shares is measured as the present value of expected future cash flows. Such cash flows include the dividend payments and the payments of the nominal value, plus paid-in capital. Expected future cash flows are discounted by using the yield curves derived from quoted interest rates and Credit Default Swap rates that match the maturity of the contracts. The conditions for redemption and conversion of the cumulative preferred financing shares are disclosed in Note 22. The accrued interest is included in other current financial liabilities (see Note 26) and not in the carrying amounts of non-derivative financial assets and liabilities. Short-term deposits and similar instruments (€266 million) contain short-term liquid investments that are considered part of Ahold Delhaize’s cash management financial assets. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 168 Notes to the 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued Derivatives consolidated Fair values, notional amounts, maturities and the qualification of derivative financial instruments for accounting purposes are presented in the table below: financial statements Fair value December 30, 2018 Notional Fair value December 31, 2017 Notional continued € million Maturity Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities amount Forward foreign currency contracts Within 1 year — — 12 — — 18 Total cash flow hedges — — 12 — — 18 Forward foreign currency contracts Within 1 year — — 4 — — — Total fair value hedges — — 4 — — — Forward foreign currency contracts Within 1 year — — 139 — — — Forward foreign currency contracts Between 1 and 5 years 1 — 27 — — — Cross-currency swaps After 5 years — — — — (18) 188 Total derivatives – no hedge accounting treatment 1 — 166 — (18) 188 Total derivative financial instruments 1 — 182 — (18) 206 31 Related party transactions Compensation of key management personnel Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Company as a whole. The Company considers all members of the Executive Committee (ExCo) and the Supervisory Board to be key management personnel as defined in IAS 24 “Related parties.” At the end of 2018, the ExCo consisted of the Management Board and three other members. The total compensation of key management personnel in 2018 amounted to €35,209 thousand (2017: €31,372 thousand). This includes an estimate of additional wage tax relating to key management personnel leaving the Company due in accordance with Dutch tax laws of nil (2017: €1.9 million). (Service) Agreements with individual Management Board members Frans Muller On April 5, 2018, it was announced that Frans Muller was appointed CEO effective July 1, 2018. In 2018, the Company provided Frans with an annual base salary, participation in the annual cash incentive plan and participation in the Company’s equity-based long-term incentive plan (GRO – see Note 32). The annual base salary of €1,027 thousand was increased to €1,053 thousand, effective July 1, 2018. The at-target payout under the annual cash incentive plan is 100% of base salary and is capped at 150% in the event of extraordinary performance. Furthermore, Frans receives school fees and received a temporary housing allowance of €3,750 net per month until August 1, 2018. The Company intends to reappoint Frans as a member of the Management Board for a term ending on the day of the annual General Meeting of Shareholders to be held in 2023. This reappointment will be brought forward for shareholder approval at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders on April 10, 2019. If the Company terminates his service agreement for reasons other than cause, Frans is entitled to a severance payment equal to one year’s base salary or retirement treatment on his unvested shares in case of termination in 2019 through 2023. His service agreement may be terminated by the Company with a notice period of 12 months and by Frans with a notice period of six months. Frans participated in the Company’s Belgian pension plan until July 24, 2018, on which day he changed over to the Company’s Dutch pension plan. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 169 Notes to the 31 Related party transactions continued Jeff Carr consolidated In 2018, the Company provided Jeff Carr with an annual base salary, participation in the annual cash incentive plan and participation in the Company’s financial statements equity-based long-term incentive plan (GRO – see Note 32). The annual base salary of €732 thousand was increased by 2% to €747 thousand, effective January 1, 2018. The at-target payout under the annual cash incentive plan is 100% of base salary and is capped at 150% in the event of extraordinary continued performance. Furthermore, Jeff receives a housing allowance. Effective July 23, 2018, the housing allowance of €5,250 net per month was reduced to €3,500. Unless Jeff’s employment agreement is otherwise terminated, he will be eligible for reappointment at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in April 2020. If the Company terminates his employment agreement for reasons other than cause, Jeff is entitled to a severance payment equal to one year’s base salary. Jeff will receive retirement treatment on his unvested shares in case of termination in 2020 or beyond. His employment agreement may be terminated by the Company with a notice period of 12 months and by Jeff with a notice period of six months. Jeff participates in the Company’s Dutch pension plan. Kevin Holt In 2018, the Company provided Kevin Holt with an annual base salary, participation in the annual cash incentive plan and participation in the Company’s equity-based long-term incentive plan (GRO – see Note 32). The annual base salary of $990 thousand was increased by 2% to $1,010 thousand, effective January 1, 2018. The at-target payout under the annual cash incentive plan is 100% of base salary and is capped at 150% in the event of extraordinary performance. Furthermore, Kevin receives a housing allowance of up to $7,500 net per month. Unless Kevin’s employment agreement is otherwise terminated, he will be eligible for reappointment at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in April 2020. If the Company terminates his employment agreement for reasons other than cause, Kevin is entitled to a severance payment equal to one year’s base salary. His employment agreement may be terminated by the Company with a notice period of 12 months and by Kevin with a notice period of six months. Kevin participates in the Company’s U.S. pension plan. Wouter Kolk Wouter Kolk was appointed as member of the Management Board at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders on April 11, 2018. In 2018, the Company provided Wouter with an annual base salary of €630 thousand, participation in the annual cash incentive plan and participation in the Company’s equitybased long-term incentive plan (GRO – see Note 32). The at-target payout under the annual cash incentive plan is 100% of base salary and is capped at 150% in the event of extraordinary performance. Unless Wouter’s service agreement is otherwise terminated, he will be eligible for reappointment at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in April 2022. If the Company terminates his service agreement for reasons other than cause Wouter is entitled to a severance payment equal to one year’s base salary. His service agreement may be terminated by the Company with a notice period of 12 months and by Wouter with a notice period of six months. Wouter participates in the Company’s Dutch pension plan. Dick Boer Dick Boer, CEO Ahold Delhaize and member of the Management Board and Executive Committee, stepped down from the Management Board and Executive Committee as of July 1, 2018, and his employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize will terminate as of July 1, 2019, at which time he will retire. Until mid-2019, he will remain available to provide specific services as an advisor to the Company. In 2018, the Company provided Dick with an annual base salary of €1,037 thousand, participation in the annual cash incentive plan and participation in the Company’s equity-based long-term incentive plan (GRO – see Note 32). Dick participates in the Company’s Dutch pension plan. His employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize will terminate as of July 1, 2019, without any severance payment due. Pierre Bouchut In 2018, the Company provided Pierre Bouchut with an annual base salary of €654 thousand, participation in the annual cash incentive plan and participation in the Company’s equity-based long-term incentive plan (GRO – see Note 32). The at-target payout under the annual cash incentive plan is 100% of base salary and is capped at 150% in the event of extraordinary performance. Pierre participates in the Company’s Belgian pension plan. On September 8, 2017, it was announced that Pierre would retire in 2018. Pierre stepped down from the Management Board and Executive Committee as of January 1, 2018, and remained available as an advisor and for specific initiatives until July 1, 2018. His employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize terminated as of August 31, 2018, without any severance payment due. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 170 Notes to the 31 Related party transactions continued Remuneration of the Management Board by member consolidated Direct remuneration Deferred remuneration financial statements € thousand Base salary EIP1 Other2 Total direct remuneration Share-based compensation6 Pensions7 Total remuneration continued Frans Muller 2018 1,040 1,196 220 2,456 2,324 209 4,989 2017 1,027 981 730 2,738 2,326 363 5,427 Jeff Carr 2018 747 830 268 1,845 976 36 2,857 2017 732 699 305 1,736 1,039 66 2,841 Kevin Holt 2018 856 972 363 2,191 1,211 196 3,598 2017 858 820 361 2,039 742 213 2,994 Wouter Kolk8 2018 457 508 119 1,084 215 24 1,323 2017 — — — — — — — Total 2018 3,100 3,506 970 7,576 4,726 465 12,767 Total 2017 2,617 2,500 1,396 6,513 4,107 642 11,262 Remuneration of the former members of the Management Board Direct remuneration Deferred remuneration Total direct Share-based Total € thousand Base salary EIP1 Other2 remuneration compensation6 Pensions7 remuneration Dick Boer3 2018 519 576 2,559 3,654 4,910 13 8,577 2017 1,037 991 329 2,357 2,088 132 4,577 Pierre Bouchut4 2018 356 363 698 1,417 1,739 130 3,286 2017 654 608 1,016 2,278 1,548 162 3,988 James McCann5 2018 — — (287) (287) — — (287) 2017 — — 264 264 — — 264 Total 2018 875 939 2,970 4,784 6,649 143 11,576 Total 2017 1,691 1,599 1,609 4,899 3,636 294 8,829 Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 171 Notes to the 31 Related party transactions continued Remuneration of the Executive Committee including Management Board consolidated The table below specifies the remuneration of the ExCo, comprising the Management Board members, the former members of the Management Board as financial statements listed above, and the additional ExCo members who were not part of the Management Board. € thousand 2018 2017 continued Base salary 5,872 6,397 EIP1 6,508 6,061 Other2, 3, 4, 5 7,181 4,408 Share-based compensation6 13,227 9,302 Pensions7 856 1,258 Total remuneration8 33,644 27,426 1 The ExCo Incentive Plan (EIP) represents accrued annual cash incentives to be paid in the following year based on an overall weighted EIP performance. For an explanation of the Company’s remuneration policy, see Remuneration under the Governance section of this report. The overall 2018 financial performance multiplier was 111%. The individual EIP amounts also include the component linked to individual performance. 2 “Other” mainly includes gross allowances for net pension, tax compensation (tax equalization charges or refunds for expatriates), allowances for housing expenses, relocation costs, international school fees, employer’s contributions to social security plans, benefits in kind such as company cars, tax advice, medical expenses and the associated tax gross up. 3 Dick Boer, President and CEO Ahold Delhaize and member of the Management Board and Executive Committee, stepped down from the Management Board and Executive Committee as of July 1, 2018, and will remain available as an advisor to the Company until mid-2019. His employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize will terminate as of July 1, 2019, after which he will retire. Shares awarded under the GRO plan will vest either at the regular vesting dates or will be settled accelerated at his discretion. An estimate of the remuneration costs relating to the period after July 1, 2018, was recognized in 2018 (Other €2,384 thousand and Share-based compensation €3,863 thousand). 4 Pierre Bouchut, Chief Operating Officer Europe and Indonesia and member of the Management Board and Executive Committee, stepped down from the Management Board and Executive Committee as of January 1, 2018, and remained available as an advisor and for specific initiatives until July 1, 2018. His employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize terminated as of August 31, 2018, after which he retired. Shares awarded under the GRO plan will vest in accordance with the applicable plan rules. An estimate of the remuneration costs relating to the period from July 1, 2018, until August 31, 2018, was recognized in 2017 in “Other” (€285 thousand). In 2018, adjustments to the estimate of the remuneration costs as a result of the actual payments are included in “Other.” 5 James McCann, Chief Operating Officer of Ahold USA and member of the Management Board and Executive Committee, stepped down on October 5, 2016. His employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize terminated as of April 30, 2017, without any severance payment due. Outstanding shares under the GRO plan vested over the term of employment in accordance with the applicable plan rules. Unvested shares outstanding at the termination date were forfeited. In 2018, adjustments to the estimate of the remuneration costs as a result of the actual payments and refunds were included in “Other.” 6 The fair value of each year’s grant is determined on the grant date and expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. The expense for 2018 reflects this year’s portion of the share grants over the previous four years (plans 2015 to 2018). For more information on the share-based compensation expenses see Note 32. 7 Pension costs are the total net periodic pension costs of the applicable pension plans. 8 Wouter Kolk was appointed as member of the Executive Committee effective September 1, 2017, and as member of the Management Board effective April 11, 2018. His 2018 remuneration reported as member of the Management Board reflects a partial year. The table “Remuneration of the Executive Committee including Management Board” reflects a 2017 partial year and a 2018 full year. Marc Croonen, Chief Sustainability, Transformation and Communications Officer and member of the Executive Committee, stepped down from the Executive Committee as of November 1, 2018, and remains available as an advisor until November 1, 2019. His employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize terminates as of October 31, 2019. Shares awarded under the GRO plan will vest in accordance with the applicable plan rules. An estimate of the remuneration costs relating to the period from November 1, 2018, until October 31, 2019, is recognized in 2018 in “Other.” Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 172 Notes to the 31 Related party transactions continued Remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board consolidated The table below specifies the remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board. The annual remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board financial statements was determined by the extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on March 14, 2016. Remuneration is subject to annual review by the Supervisory Board. In the execution of the remuneration of the Supervisory Board members in 2018, the Company has given consideration to the changes made in 2018 continued in the composition and the responsibilities of the Supervisory Board and its related committees. € thousand 2018 2017 Jan Hommen (reappointed in 2017)1 249 223 Jacques de Vaucleroy (appointed in 2016)2 144 170 René Hooft Graafland (reappointed in 2018) 145 136 Ben Noteboom (reappointed in 2017) 135 145 Bill McEwan (appointed in 2016)3 209 150 Rob van den Bergh (reappointed in 2015) 148 148 Mark McGrath (reappointed in 2016) 136 143 Mary Anne Citrino (appointed in 2016) 130 133 Dominique Leroy (appointed in 2016) 123 125 Mats Jansson (retired in 2018) 68 255 Johnny Thijs (resigned in 2018) 31 128 Patrick De Maeseneire (resigned in 2018) 32 123 Jack Stahl (resigned in August 2017) — 111 Stephanie Shern (resigned in April 2017) — 37 Total4,5 1,550 2,027 1 Jan Hommen was appointed Chairman of the Supervisory Board effective April 11, 2018. He also became Chairman of the Governance and Nomination Committee as of July 1, 2018 and refrained from any remuneration for this role. 2 As of July 1, 2018, Jacques de Vaucleroy refrained from any additional remuneration for his role as Vice Chairman. 3 Bill McEwan succeeded Jan Hommen as Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board effective April 11, 2018 and received the Vice Chairman remuneration (formerly referred to as Vice Chairman and member of the presidium) from that date. He refrained from any remuneration for his role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee as per July 1, 2018. 4 All members of the Supervisory Board are member of the Sustainability and Innovation Committee as of July 1, 2018 and refrained from any remuneration for this membership, except for Rob van den Bergh who is entitled to the compensation for the Chairman position of the Sustainability and Innovation Committee. 5 For the members who resigned in 2017 or 2018, the remuneration for the respective year reflects a partial year. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 173 Notes to the 31 Related party transactions continued Shares and other interests in Ahold Delhaize consolidated As of December 30, 2018, Management Board members (excluding the former Management Board members) held the following shares and other interests financial statements in Ahold Delhaize: Common shares continued subject to additional Other Total holding common common Number of shares requirement1 shares shares Frans Muller2 — 165,359 165,359 Jeff Carr 119,807 21,939 141,746 Kevin Holt — — — Wouter Kolk 6,015 6,009 12,024 Total 125,822 193,307 319,129 1 In line with best practice 3.1.2 VI of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code 2016 and the Management Board remuneration policy, shares granted and vested under the GRO program to Management Board members should be retained for a period of at least five years after grant, except to finance tax payable at the vesting date, or at least until the date of resignation from the Management Board, if this period is shorter. Shares granted to Wouter Kolk under the one-time retention incentive award are subject to an additional holding period of 12 months from the date of vesting. 2 Additionally, 9,579 shares are held by Frans Muller in the form of American Depository Receipts. As of December 30, 2018, Jacques de Vaucleroy held 429,023 Ahold Delhaize common shares, Ben Noteboom held 15,637 Ahold Delhaize common shares, Bill McEwan held 7,125 Ahold Delhaize American Depository Receipts, Rob van den Bergh held 13,031 Ahold Delhaize common shares, Johnny Thijs held 11,768 Ahold Delhaize common shares and Jan Hommen held 15,000 Ahold Delhaize common shares. None of the other Supervisory Board members held Ahold Delhaize shares. Ahold Delhaize does not provide loans or advances to members of the Management Board or the Supervisory Board. There are no loans or advances outstanding. Ahold Delhaize does not issue guarantees to the benefit of members of the Management Board or the Supervisory Board. No such guarantees are outstanding. Trading transactions Ahold Delhaize has entered into arrangements with a number of its subsidiaries and affiliated companies in the course of its business. These arrangements relate to service transactions and financing agreements. Transactions were conducted at market prices. During 2018 and 2017, the Company entered into the following transactions with unconsolidated related parties: For the year ended December 30, 2018 Amounts Amounts Sales to Purchases from receivable from payable to Commitments to € million related parties related parties related parties related parties related parties Stationsdrogisterijen 5 — — — — JMR 2 — 2 — — Cathedral Commons — 1 — — 21 Other 1 2 4 — 13 Total 8 3 6 — 34 Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 174 Notes to the 31 Related party transactions continued For the year ended December 31, 2017 consolidated Amounts Amounts financial statements Sales to Purchases from receivable from payable to Commitments to € million related parties related parties related parties related parties related parties Stationsdrogisterijen 19 — — 8 — continued JMR 5 — 1 — — Cathedral Commons — 1 — — 21 Other — 3 10 3 14 Total 24 4 11 11 35 These unconsolidated related parties consist of: • In 2017, Stationsdrogisterijen C.V. was a joint venture of Ahold Delhaize in the health and beauty care retail business. Stationsdrogisterijen C.V. was dissolved on April 2, 2018. • JMR, a joint venture of Ahold Delhaize in the retail business (see Note 14). • Cathedral Commons Partners, LLC, a real estate joint venture of Ahold Delhaize. • Super Indo, a joint venture of Ahold Delhaize in the retail business (see Note 14), included in “Other.” • “Other,” which includes mainly real estate joint ventures in which Ahold Delhaize has an interest and holding properties operated by Ahold Delhaize and Loyalty Management Nederland B.V., an associate of Ahold Delhaize that renders services relating to the management of customer loyalty programs to certain Ahold Delhaize subsidiaries in the Netherlands. • Ahold Delhaize participates in Coopernic and AMS, which are cooperative European purchase alliances towards third-party vendors. Receivable and payable positions occur with these buying alliances. These transactions are considered to reflect the results of the negotiated purchasing terms with the third-party vendors. As such, these transactions are not shown in the table above of related party transactions. Furthermore, the Company’s post-employment benefit plans in the Netherlands and the United States are considered related parties. For more information on these plans, see Note 23. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 175 Notes to the 32 Share-based compensation In 2018, Ahold Delhaize’s share-based compensation program consisted of a share grant program called Global Reward Opportunity (GRO). Total 2018 consolidated GRO share-based compensation expenses were €60 million (2017: €79 million). Ahold Delhaize’s share-based compensation programs are equity-settled. financial statements The fair value of the shares granted under the GRO program in 2018 at grant date was €54 million, of which €9.5 million related to current and former Management Board members. The fair value is expensed over the vesting period of the grants, adjusted for expected annual forfeitures of 6% (2017: 5%) continued excluding Management Board members. For the share-based compensation expenses allocable to the individual Management Board members, see Note 31. GRO program Main characteristics A revised GRO program was introduced in 2016. The performance shares granted under this program vest on the day after the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in the third year after the grant, subject to certain performance conditions being met. The revised GRO program employs two financial measures: Return on Capital (RoC) and Total Shareholder Return (TSR), as well as non-financial performance measures related to Sustainable Retailing targets. The total GRO award is comprised of three portions of shares. The first 40% is linked to a three-year RoC target. Depending on performance, the number of shares that eventually vest may range between zero and a maximum of 150% of the number of shares granted. Another 40% is linked to TSR (share price growth and dividends paid over the performance period), with performance at vesting benchmarked against the TSR performance of a peer group comprised of 14 companies (see the Remuneration section for the composition of the peer group). The number of shares that vest depends on the Company’s relative ranking in the peer group and may range between zero and a maximum of 175% of the number of shares granted (see table below for the vesting percentages based on Ahold Delhaize’s ranking within the peer group). For the remaining 20% of the total GRO share award, the performance at vesting is measured using Sustainable Retailing targets. This measure relates to the Company’s Sustainable Retailing strategic ambitions. The targets set under this non-financial performance measure are both qualitative and quantitative. Depending on performance, the number of shares that eventually vest can range between zero and a maximum of 150% of the number of shares granted. The table below indicates the percentage of shares that could vest based on Ahold Delhaize’s TSR ranking within the peer group: GRO program rank 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 All participants 175% 150% 125% 110% 100% 80% 50% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Treatment of outstanding performance shares Shares awarded before 2016 under the Ahold GRO program (to former Ahold Management Board members and employees) and the Delhaize European long-term incentive plan (to former Delhaize Management Board members) have been rolled over in the (new) Ahold Delhaize’s long-term equity-based program (2016 GRO). Outstanding (non-vested) performance share awards remaining from the Ahold GRO plan have been split into two parts. One part, which is related to the full performance years prior to the year of the merger (2012, 2014 and 2015, where applicable), has been assessed against the performance of Ahold as a standalone company, on the basis of the existing performance measures. Based on the performance realized in those years, this part of the award has been assessed on the basis of the applicable share programs and converted into restricted Ahold Delhaize shares. These restricted shares are not subject to additional performance criteria, but will be subject to the remaining vesting period and continued employment. The other part, which is related to the performance during the year of the merger (2016) and beyond, will be assessed against the financial measures of Ahold Delhaize’s long-term equity-based plan. The outstanding conditional shares will continue to be subject to the remaining vesting period and continued employment. Outstanding (non-vested) performance shares awarded under the Delhaize European long-term incentive plan have similarly been converted into Ahold Delhaize restricted shares and shares that are subject to meeting the performance measures of the Ahold Delhaize GRO plan. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 176 Notes to the 32 Share-based compensation continued Shares granted in 2014 and 2015 converted in 2016 consolidated Under the 2013–2015 GRO program, shares were granted over a three-year period. The program consisted of three components: one with a performance financial statements hurdle at grant (conditional share grant) and two components with a performance hurdle at vesting (performance share grants). The size of the conditional share grant was subject to the Executive Incentive Plan Multiplier of the preceding year. Half of the performance share grant was linked to a three-year RoC continued target. Dependent on RoC performance, the number of shares that eventually vested could range between 0% and a maximum of 150% of the number of shares granted. For the other half of the performance share grant, the performance at vesting was measured using the TSR ranking. The table below indicates the percentage of shares with a TSR performance measure under the 2013–2015 GRO program that could vest based on Ahold’s ranking within the peer group: 2013–2015 GRO program rank 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Vice President and up 175% 150% 125% 100% 75% 50% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Other participants 150% 135% 120% 105% 90% 75% 60% 45% 30% 15% 7.5% 0% As of the end of 2015, for the performance years 2014–2015, Ahold held the third position with respect to the 2014 share grant and the second position with respect to the 2015 share grant. Based on these rankings the TSR performance shares were converted into restricted shares. The 2014 grant used a percentage of 125% for Vice President and up and 120% for other participants, and the 2015 grant used a percentage of 150% for Vice President and up and 135% for other participants. The remaining portion (one year for the 2014 grant and two years for the 2015 grant) has been assessed against the TSR performance of the 2016 GRO plan. Ahold’s RoC performance as of the end of 2015 was 93% of target with respect to the 2014 year share grant and 100% of target with respect to the 2015 share grant. The RoC performance shares were converted into restricted shares using these vesting percentages. The remaining portion (one year for the 2014 grant and two years for the 2015 grant) has been assessed against Ahold Delhaize’s RoC performance. Other awards A number of shares were granted to a select group of senior management (excluding the Management Board and ExCo members) in 2016 under a one-time retention incentive award. The vesting of these individual share awards was contingent upon the realization of the merger implementation. These performance shares vested in two installments of 50% each of the granted shares. The first installment vested 12 months after the date of grant, on November 23, 2017, and the second installment vested 24 months after the date of grant, on November 23, 2018. To underline the retention function of this award, an additional holding period of 12 months applies from the date of vesting. Shares vesting in 2019 In 2019, the GRO shares granted in 2016 will vest. The GRO shares vesting will comprise performance shares based on the Company’s TSR, RoC and Sustainable Retailing performance. As of the end of 2018, Ahold Delhaize ranked seventh in the TSR peer group with respect to the 2016 grant. Based on this TSR ranking, the vesting percentage for the portion of the 2016 shares dependent on Ahold Delhaize’s TSR performance was 50%. At the end of each reporting period, Ahold Delhaize revises its estimates of the number of shares that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions (RoC and Sustainable Retailing performance). Ahold Delhaize recognizes the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. The final vesting percentage for the portion of the 2016 shares dependent on Ahold Delhaize’s RoC and Sustainable Retailing performance is 91% and 121% respectively. On April 11, 2019, a maximum of 0.4 million shares granted in 2016 to current and former members of the Management Board under the (new) Ahold Delhaize GRO plan are expected to vest. On March 15, 2019, a maximum of 0.1 million shares granted in 2016 to a member of the Management Board under the Delhaize European long-term incentive plan are expected to vest. Except to finance taxes and social security charges due on the vesting date, members of the Management Board cannot sell shares for a period of at least five years following the grant date, or until the date of resignation from the Management Board, if this period is shorter. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 177 Notes to the 32 Share-based compensation continued On April 11, 2019, a maximum of 3.0 million shares granted in 2016 to Ahold Delhaize employees under the (new) Ahold Delhaize GRO plan are expected consolidated to vest. As of the vesting date, participants are allowed to sell all or part of the shares vested, subject to insider trading restrictions as applicable from time financial statements to time. The Company will use treasury shares for the delivery of the vested shares. continued The following table summarizes the status of the GRO program during 2018 for the individual Management Board members and for all other employees in the aggregate. Outstanding at Outstanding Maximum Fair value per the beginning Performance at the end number of share at the Incremental of 2018 Granted 1 adjustment2 Vested3 Forfeited of 2018 shares4 grant date (€) fair value5 Frans Muller 2015 Performance (TSR) 18,026 — 1,802 19,828 — — — 20.67 2.21 2015 Performance (RoC) 18,026 — 901 18,927 — — — 20.67 0.00 2015 Restricted 27,040 — — 27,040 — — — 20.67 0.00 2016 Performance (TSR) 30,162 — — — — 30,162 52,783 20.44 0.00 2016 Performance (RoC) 30,162 — — — — 30,162 45,243 20.21 0.00 2016 Performance (Sustainability) 15,082 — — — — 15,082 22,623 20.21 0.00 2016 TSR grant 41,035 — — — — 41,035 71,811 20.46 0.00 2016 RoC grant 41,035 — — — — 41,035 61,552 20.15 0.00 2016 Sustainable Retailing grant 20,518 — — — — 20,518 30,777 20.15 0.00 2017 TSR grant 41,152 — — — — 41,152 72,016 9.57 0.00 2017 RoC grant 41,152 — — — — 41,152 61,728 17.07 0.00 2017 Sustainable Retailing grant 20,576 — — — — 20,576 30,864 17.07 0.00 2018 TSR grant — 51,408 — — — 51,408 89,963 16.58 0.00 2018 RoC grant — 51,408 — — — 51,408 77,112 17.89 0.00 2018 Sustainable Retailing grant — 25,704 — — — 25,704 38,555 17.89 0.00 Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 178 Notes to the 32 Share-based compensation continued Outstanding consolidated Outstanding at Maximum Fair value per the beginning Performance at the end number of share at the Incremental of 2018 Granted1 adjustment2 Vested3 Forfeited of 2018 shares4 grant date (€) fair value5 financial statements Jeff Carr 2015 Restricted (TSR) 10,655 — — 10,655 — — — 14.66 0.00 continued 2015 Performance (TSR) 14,206 — 1,420 15,626 — — — 14.66 0.00 2015 Restricted (RoC) 7,103 — — 7,103 — — — 18.14 0.00 2015 Performance (RoC) 14,206 — 710 14,916 — — — 18.14 0.00 2015 Conditional grant 9,589 — — 9,589 — — — 18.14 0.00 2016 TSR grant 24,168 — — — — 24,168 42,294 20.46 0.00 2016 RoC grant 24,168 — — — — 24,168 36,252 20.15 0.00 2016 Sustainable Retailing grant 12,084 — — — — 12,084 18,126 20.15 0.00 2017 TSR grant 25,662 — — — — 25,662 44,908 9.57 0.00 2017 RoC grant 25,662 — — — — 25,662 38,493 17.07 0.00 2017 Sustainable Retailing grant 12,831 — — — — 12,831 19,246 17.07 0.00 2018 TSR grant — 29,644 — — — 29,644 51,877 16.58 0.00 2018 RoC grant — 29,644 — — — 29,644 44,466 17.89 0.00 2018 Sustainable Retailing grant — 14,822 — — — 14,822 22,233 17.89 0.00 Kevin Holt 2016 TSR grant 27,416 — — — — 27,416 47,978 20.46 0.00 2016 RoC grant 27,416 — — — — 27,416 41,124 20.15 0.00 2016 Sustainable Retailing grant 13,708 — — — — 13,708 20,562 20.15 0.00 2017 TSR grant 34,563 — — — — 34,563 60,485 9.57 0.00 2017 RoC grant 34,563 — — — — 34,563 51,844 17.07 0.00 2017 Sustainable Retailing grant 17,282 — — — — 17,282 25,923 17.07 0.00 2018 TSR grant — 38,066 — — — 38,066 66,615 16.58 0.00 2018 RoC grant — 38,066 — — — 38,066 57,099 17.89 0.00 2018 Sustainable Retailing grant — 19,033 — — — 19,033 28,549 17.89 0.00 Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 179 Notes to the 32 Share-based compensation continued Outstanding consolidated Outstanding at Maximum Fair value per the beginning Performance at the end number of share at the Incremental of 2018 Granted1 adjustment2 Vested3 Forfeited of 2018 shares4 grant date (€) fair value5 financial statements Wouter Kolk6 2015 Restricted (TSR) 7,675 — — 7,675 — — — 14.65 0.00 continued 2015 Performance (TSR) 10,233 — 1,023 11,256 — — — 14.65 0.00 2015 Restricted (RoC) 5,117 — — 5,117 — — — 18.21 0.00 2015 Performance (RoC) 10,233 — 511 10,744 — — — 18.21 0.00 2015 Conditional grant 6,908 — — 6,908 — — — 18.21 0.00 2016 TSR grant 17,059 — — — — 17,059 29,853 20.46 0.00 2016 RoC grant 17,059 — — — — 17,059 25,588 20.15 0.00 2016 Sustainable Retailing grant 8,530 — — — — 8,530 12,795 20.15 0.00 2016 Retention award 12,197 — — 12,197 — — — 19.86 0.00 2017 TSR grant 15,020 — — — — 15,020 26,285 9.57 0.00 2017 RoC grant 15,020 — — — — 15,020 22,530 17.07 0.00 2017 Sustainable Retailing grant 7,510 — — — — 7,510 11,265 17.07 0.00 2018 TSR grant — 21,433 — — — 21,433 37,507 16.58 0.00 2018 RoC grant — 21,433 — — — 21,433 32,149 17.89 0.00 2018 Sustainable Retailing grant — 10,717 — — — 10,717 16,075 17.89 0.00 Dick Boer7 2015 Restricted (TSR) 27,168 — — 27,168 — — — 14.66 0.00 2015 Performance (TSR) 36,224 — 3,622 39,846 — — — 14.66 0.00 2015 Restricted (RoC) 18,112 — — 18,112 — — — 18.14 0.00 2015 Performance (RoC) 36,224 — 1,811 38,035 — — — 18.14 0.00 2015 Conditional grant 14,383 — — 14,383 — — — 18.14 0.00 2016 TSR grant 48,680 — — — — 48,680 85,190 20.46 0.00 2016 RoC grant 48,680 — — — — 48,680 73,020 20.15 0.00 2016 Sustainable Retailing grant 24,340 — — — — 24,340 36,510 20.15 0.00 2017 TSR grant 48,819 — — — — 48,819 85,433 9.57 0.00 2017 RoC grant 48,819 — — — — 48,819 73,228 17.07 0.00 2017 Sustainable Retailing grant 24,410 — — — — 24,410 36,615 17.07 0.00 2018 TSR grant — 55,289 — — — 55,289 96,755 16.58 0.00 2018 RoC grant — 55,289 — — — 55,289 82,933 17.89 0.00 2018 Sustainable Retailing grant — 27,645 — — — 27,645 41,467 17.89 0.00 Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 180 Notes to the 32 Share-based compensation continued Outstanding consolidated Outstanding at Maximum Fair value per the beginning Performance at the end number of share at the Incremental of 2018 Granted 1 adjustment2 Vested 3 Forfeited of 2018 shares4 grant date (€) fair value5 financial statements Pierre Bouchut8 2015 Performance (TSR) 15,534 — 1,553 17,087 — — — 20.67 2.21 continued 2015 Performance (RoC) 15,534 — 776 16,310 — — — 20.67 0.00 2015 Restricted 23,301 — — 23,301 — — — 20.67 0.00 2016 TSR grant 19,585 — — — — 19,585 34,273 20.46 0.00 2016 RoC grant 19,585 — — — — 19,585 29,377 20.15 0.00 2016 Sustainable Retailing grant 9,793 — — — — 9,793 14,689 20.15 0.00 2017 TSR grant 19,641 — — — — 19,641 34,371 9.57 0.00 2017 RoC grant 19,641 — — — — 19,641 29,461 17.07 0.00 2017 Sustainable Retailing grant 9,821 — — — — 9,821 14,731 17.07 0.00 2018 TSR grant — 22,244 — — — 22,244 38,927 16.58 0.00 2018 RoC grant — 22,244 — — — 22,244 33,366 17.89 0.00 2018 Sustainable Retailing grant — 11,122 — — — 11,122 16,683 17.89 0.00 Subtotal Management Board members 1,340,103 545,211 14,129 371,823 — 1,527,620 2,444,177 1 Represents the number of shares originally granted for the 2018 grant. 2 Represents the adjustment to the number of shares granted resulting from the TSR and RoC performance. 3 The vesting date of the 2015 grant was April 12, 2018, for the former Ahold board members. The share price was €19.75 on April 12, 2018. The vesting date of the 2015 grant was May 29, 2018, for the former Delhaize board members. The share price was €19.46 on May 29, 2018. The vesting date of the second installment of the 2016 retention incentive award was November 23, 2018. The share price was €22.39 on November 23, 2018. 4 For the TSR performance grants, the maximum number of shares that could potentially vest equals 175% of outstanding shares if Ahold Delhaize’s ranking is one. For the RoC performance grants and for the Sustainable Retailing performance grants the maximum number of shares that could potentially vest equals 150% of outstanding shares, (as explained in the section Main characteristics above). The minimum number of shares that could potentially vest would be nil (as explained in the section Main characteristics above). 5 Represents the incremental fair value for the shares converted in 2016. 6 Wouter Kolk, Chief Executive Officer Ahold Delhaize Europe and Indonesia has been a member of the Management Board since April 11, 2018. 7 Dick Boer, CEO Ahold Delhaize and member of the Management Board and Executive Committee, stepped down from the Management Board and Executive Committee as of July 1, 2018. His employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize will terminate as of July 1, 2019, after which he will retire. Shares awarded under the GRO plan will vest in accordance with the applicable plan rules. 8 Pierre Bouchut, Chief Operating Officer of Europe and Indonesia and member of the Management Board and Executive Committee, stepped down from the Management Board and Executive Committee as of January 1, 2018. His employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize was terminated as of August 31, 2018, after which he retired. Shares awarded under the GRO plan will vest in accordance with the applicable plan rules. Outstanding at the Performance Outstanding at beginning of 2018 Granted1 adjustment2 Vested3 Forfeited the end of 2018 Other employees 2015 grant 2,606,671 — 95,713 2,675,203 27,181 — 2016 grant 4,021,495 — — — 309,025 3,712,470 2016 retention award 662,287 — — 615,316 46,971 — 2017 grant 3,923,971 — — — 405,831 3,518,140 2018 grant — 2,545,633 — — 211,427 2,334,206 Subtotal Management Board members 1,340,103 545,211 14,129 371,823 — 1,527,620 Total number of shares 12,554,527 3,090,844 109,842 3,662,342 1,000,435 11,092,436 1 Represents the number of shares originally granted for the 2018 grant. 2 Represents the adjustment to the number of shares granted resulting from the TSR and RoC performance. 3 The vesting date of the 2015 grant was March 1, 2018. The share price was €18.41 on March 1, 2018. The vesting date of the second installment of the 2016 retention incentive award was November 23, 2018. The share price was €22.39 on November 23, 2018. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 181 Notes to the 32 Share-based compensation continued Valuation model and input variables consolidated The weighted average fair value of the shares granted in 2018, for all eligible participants including Management Board members, amounted to €16.59, financial statements €17.90 and €17.90 per share for TSR performance shares, RoC performance shares and Sustainable Retailing performance shares, respectively (2017: €9.55, €17.04 and €17.04). The fair values of the RoC and Sustainable Retailing performance shares are based on the Black-Scholes model. The fair continued values of the TSR performance shares are determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model, which considers the likelihood of Ahold Delhaize’s TSR ending at various ranks as well as the expected share price at each rank. The most important assumptions used in the valuations of the fair values were as follows: 2018 2017 Closing share price at grant date1 (€) 19.72 18.82 Risk-free interest rate (0.3)% (0.7)% Volatility 22.9% 21.3% Assumed dividend yield 3.3% 3.3% 1 Closing share price at grant date in 2017 is adjusted for dividends. Expected volatility has been determined based on historical volatilities for a period of three years. 33 Operating leases Ahold Delhaize as lessee Ahold Delhaize leases a significant number of its stores, as well as distribution centers, offices and other assets under operating lease arrangements. The aggregate amounts of Ahold Delhaize’s future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating lease contracts for which Ahold Delhaize has contracted to lease the asset, together with any further terms for which it has the option to continue to lease the asset, with or without further payment, when at the inception of the lease it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise the option, are as follows: December 30, December 31, € million 2018 2017 Within one year 1,210 1,153 Between one and five years 3,936 3,693 After five years 4,962 4,785 Total 10,108 9,631 The comparative figures have been updated to include the renewal options that are reasonably certain to be exercised, but not yet committed to, as previously disclosed in Note 3 to the 2017 consolidated financial statements. Certain store leases provide for contingent additional rentals based on a percentage of sales and consumer price indices. Substantially all of the store leases have renewal options for additional terms. None of Ahold Delhaize’s leases impose restrictions on Ahold Delhaize’s ability to pay dividends, incur additional debt or enter into additional leasing arrangements. The annual costs of Ahold Delhaize’s operating leases from continuing operations, net of sublease income, are as follows: € million 2018 2017 Minimum rentals 1,185 1,230 Contingent rentals 10 18 Sublease income (114) (114) Total 1,081 1,134 Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 182 Notes to the 33 Operating leases continued In addition to the operating lease commitments disclosed above, Ahold Delhaize has signed lease agreements for properties under development of which consolidated it has not yet taken possession. The total future minimum lease payments for these agreements amount to approximately €290 million (2017: €129 million). financial statements The increase is mainly driven by signed leases related to stores under development and a meat facility in the United States. These lease contracts are subject to conditions precedent to the rent commencement date. continued Ahold Delhaize as lessor Ahold Delhaize rents out its investment properties (mainly retail units in shopping centers containing an Ahold Delhaize store) and also (partially) subleases various other properties that are leased by Ahold Delhaize under operating leases. The aggregate amounts of the related future minimum lease and sublease payments receivable under non-cancellable lease contracts are as follows: December 30, December 31, € million 2018 2017 Within one year 241 233 Between one and five years 578 588 After five years 227 256 Total 1,046 1,077 The total contingent rental income recognized during the year on all leases where Ahold Delhaize is the lessor was €3 million (2017: €2 million). 34 Commitments and contingencies Capital investment commitments As of December 30, 2018, Ahold Delhaize had outstanding capital investment commitments for property, plant and equipment and investment property, and for intangible assets of approximately €447 million and €7 million, respectively (December 31, 2017: €214 million and €10 million, respectively). Ahold Delhaize’s share in the capital investment commitments of its unconsolidated joint ventures JMR and Super Indo amounted to €1 million as of December 30, 2018 (December 31, 2017: €3 million). Purchase commitments Ahold Delhaize enters into purchase commitments with vendors in the ordinary course of business. The Company has purchase contracts with some vendors for varying terms that require Ahold Delhaize to buy services and predetermined volumes of goods and goods not-for-resale at fixed prices. As of December 30, 2018, the Company’s purchase commitments were approximately €1,000 million (December 31, 2017: €1,086 million). Not included in the purchase commitments are those purchase contracts for which Ahold Delhaize has received advance vendor allowances, such as upfront signing payments in consideration of its purchase commitments. These contracts generally may be terminated without satisfying the purchase commitments upon the repayment of the unearned portions of the advance vendor allowances. The unearned portion of these advance vendor allowances is recorded as a liability on the balance sheet. Contingent liabilities Guarantees Guarantees to third parties issued by Ahold Delhaize can be summarized as follows: December 30, December 31, € million 2018 2017 Lease guarantees 911 705 Lease guarantees backed by letters of credit 40 45 Corporate and buyback guarantees 32 33 Total 983 783 Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 183 Notes to the 34 Commitments and contingencies continued The amounts included in the table above are the maximum undiscounted amounts the Group could be forced to settle under the arrangement for the full consolidated guaranteed amount, if that amount is claimed by the counterparty to the guarantee. For lease guarantees, this is based on the committed lease terms as financial statements communicated to Ahold Delhaize. Specifics to the guarantees are discussed below. Lease guarantees continued Ahold Delhaize is contingently liable for leases that have been assigned and / or transferred to third parties in connection with facility closings and disposals. Ahold Delhaize could be required to assume the financial obligations under these leases if any of the third parties are unable to fulfill their lease obligations. The lease guarantees are based on the nominal value of future minimum lease payments of the relevant leases, which extend through 2040 and are based on the committed lease terms as communicated to Ahold Delhaize. The amounts of the lease guarantees exclude the cost of common area maintenance and real estate taxes; such amounts may vary in time, per region and per property. Certain amounts related to these leases are recognized as a provision or a financial liability; for more information see Note 22 or Note 24. Lease guarantees related to divestments As of December 30, 2018, the €911 million in the undiscounted lease guarantees as presented in the table above completely relates to divestments. Of this amount, €371 million relates to the various Tops divestments, €135 million to the BI-LO / Bruno’s divestment, €121 million to the Sweetbay, Harveys, and Reid’s divestment, €111 million to the Bottom Dollar Food divestment and €173 million to other, including the divestment of remedy stores in the U.S. and the divestment of Bradlees. On a discounted basis, these lease guarantees amount to €742 million and €617 million as of December 30, 2018, and December 31, 2017, respectively. If Ahold Delhaize is called upon to satisfy its obligations under the outstanding lease guarantees, it has several options to reduce the Company’s gross exposure. Further details on the guarantees related to divestments are discussed below. Lease guarantees related to the Tops Markets divestments In connection with the divestment of Tops Markets in 2007, Ahold Delhaize retained a contingent liability for 45 leases that carry Ahold Delhaize guarantees. Additionally, Ahold Delhaize retained liabilities related to stores previously divested, including guarantees on five Tops stores in eastern New York state, as well as liabilities related to the Tops convenience stores and the stores in northeast Ohio as outlined under Tops convenience stores. On February 21, 2018, Tops Markets filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. As part of the bankruptcy proceedings, Tops Markets informed us that they exercised various options to extend the lease terms of a number of real estate leases for which Ahold Delhaize provided guarantees to the landlords. These extensions increased Ahold Delhaize’s gross exposure on issued lease guarantees by €259 million to €371 million. Ahold Delhaize will legally challenge whether its guarantees include these extensions if it is called upon to satisfy its obligations under these outstanding lease guarantees. In addition, Ahold Delhaize has several remediation options, if necessary, to reduce its gross exposure. Tops Markets has furthermore rejected leases for four stores of which the lease is contingently guaranteed by Ahold Delhaize. Finally, Ahold Delhaize has agreed with Tops Markets to subsidize partial rent obligations for nine locations for 72 months. These actions have resulted in Ahold Delhaize recognizing €24 million partly as a financial liability and as an onerous contract provision (see Note 22 and Note 24), which are presented as an after-tax loss from discontinued operations of €17 million. Lease guarantees related to the divestment of Tops convenience stores: Wilson Farms and Sugarcreek Tops may be contingently liable to landlords under 186 leases assigned in connection with the divestment of the Tops’ Wilson Farms and Sugarcreek convenience stores in 2005, in the event of a future default by the tenant under such leases. In addition, Ahold Delhaize may be contingently liable to landlords under the guarantees of 77 of these leases in the same event. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 184 Notes to the 34 Commitments and contingencies continued Lease guarantees related to the divestment of Tops northeast Ohio stores consolidated Prior to Ahold Delhaize’s divestment of Tops in 2007, Tops closed all of its locations in northeast Ohio before year-end 2006. As of December 30, 2018, financial statements 33 of the total 55 closed locations in northeast Ohio have been divested or are now subleased or partially subleased. An additional 19 leases have been terminated. Three stores continue to be marketed. Ahold Delhaize may be contingently liable to landlords under guarantees of 13 of these leases in the continued event of a future default by the tenant under the leases. If Ahold Delhaize is able to assign the leases for the remaining northeast Ohio stores, then, pursuant to applicable law, Ahold Delhaize may also be contingently liable to landlords under guarantees of certain of the remaining leases in the event of a future default by the tenant under the leases. Lease guarantees related to BI-LO / Bruno’s divestment In 2005, Ahold Delhaize divested its U.S. retail subsidiaries BI-LO and Bruno’s. On February 5, 2009 and March 23, 2009, Bruno’s Supermarkets, LLC and BI-LO, LLC, respectively, filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (the “2009 BI-LO Bankruptcy Filing”). As a result of the 2009 BI-LO Bankruptcy Filing, Ahold Delhaize made an assessment of its potential obligations under existing lease guarantees. Consequently, in 2009, Ahold Delhaize recognized provisions of €109 million (see Note 24) and related tax benefit offsets of €47 million within results on divestments. During the 2009 BI-LO bankruptcy, BI-LO rejected a total of 16 leases that were guaranteed by Ahold Delhaize and Ahold Delhaize took assignment of 12 other BI-LO leases with Ahold Delhaize guarantees. On May 12, 2010, the then reorganized BI-LO (“BI-LO II”) exited bankruptcy protection and BI-LO II assumed 149 operating locations that were guaranteed by Ahold Delhaize. Based on the foregoing developments, Ahold Delhaize recognized a reduction of €23 million in its provision, after tax, within results on divestments in the first half of 2010. Since the end of the second quarter of 2010, Ahold Delhaize has entered into settlements with a number of landlords relating to leases of former BI-LO or Bruno’s stores that were guaranteed by Ahold Delhaize. On March 27, 2018, BI-LO II and its parent, Southeastern Grocers, Inc., filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (the “2018 BI-LO Bankruptcy Filing”). As a result of the 2018 BI-LO Bankruptcy Filing, Ahold Delhaize has reassessed its potential obligations under the lease guarantees based upon: (i) the remaining initial term of each lease, (ii) an assessment of the possibility that Ahold Delhaize would have to pay under a guarantee and (iii) any potential remedies that Ahold Delhaize may have to limit future lease payments. At the end of 2018, the undiscounted lease guarantees relating to BI-LO and Bruno’s were €135 million. As of December 30, 2018, the remaining provision was €8 million (December 31, 2017: €11 million) with a related tax benefit offset of €2 million (2017: €3 million); see Note 24. This amount represents Ahold Delhaize’s best estimate of the discounted aggregate amount of the remaining lease obligations and associated charges, net of known mitigation offsets, which could result in cash outflows for Ahold Delhaize under the various lease guarantees. Ahold Delhaize continues to monitor any developments and pursues its mitigation efforts with respect to these potential lease guarantee liabilities. Lease guarantees related to Sweetbay, Harveys and Reid’s and Bottom Dollar Food divestments Ahold Delhaize divested its U.S. retail subsidiaries Sweetbay, Harveys and Reid’s to BI-LO II in 2014 and its U.S. retail subsidiary Bottom Dollar Food to Aldi in 2015. Ahold Delhaize had provided guarantees for a number of existing operating and finance lease contracts, which extend through 2037. Ahold Delhaize has made an assessment of its potential obligations under lease guarantees, considering: (i) the remaining term of each lease, (ii) the re-let potential of the property if the acquirer were to default on the lease and (iii) the credit position of the counterparty. At the end of 2018, the undiscounted lease guarantees were €121 million for Sweetbay, Harveys, and Reid’s and €111 million for Bottom Dollar Food. As of December 30, 2018, the on-balance sheet financial liability representing the fair value of the lease guarantees was €12 million (2017: €20 million); see Note 22. In connection with the 2018 BI-LO Bankruptcy filing described above, BI-LO II has rejected a number of leases for which Ahold Delhaize recognized a provision for lease guarantees in the amount of €22 million. As of December 30, 2018, the remaining provision for these lease guarantees was €15 million; see Note 24. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 185 Notes to the 34 Commitments and contingencies continued Lease guarantees related to the divestment of U.S. remedy stores consolidated In July 2016, as a condition of receiving regulatory clearance for their merger from the United States Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), Ahold and Delhaize financial statements entered into a consent agreement (“Consent Agreement”) with the FTC that required Ahold and Delhaize to divest certain stores in seven states in order to prevent the merger from being anti-competitive. In connection with the Consent Agreement, Ahold and Delhaize subsidiaries entered into agreements with continued seven buyers to sell a total of 86 stores (81 of which were required divestitures under the Consent Agreement), including 73 leased stores and 13 owned stores. As of July 19, 2017, Ahold Delhaize completed all of the required divestitures. With respect to the 73 leased stores, the store sales involved the applicable Ahold Delhaize subsidiary assigning each store lease to the buyer. Pursuant to applicable law, the Ahold Delhaize subsidiary that assigned each of the 73 leases may be contingently liable to the landlord under each lease in the event of a future default by the tenant under the lease. Any other Ahold Delhaize subsidiary that previously held the tenant’s interest in such lease may also be liable in such event. In addition, Ahold Delhaize or Ahold Delhaize subsidiaries may also be contingently liable to landlords under separate guarantees of 13 of the 73 leases in the same event. Lease guarantees related to the divestment of Bradlees In 1992, Stop & Shop spun-off Bradlees Stores, Inc. (“Bradlees”) as a public company (the “Bradlees Spin-off”). In connection with the Bradlees Spin-off, Stop & Shop assigned to Bradlees certain commercial real property leases. Pursuant to a 1995 reorganization of Bradlees and a subsequent wind-down and liquidation of Bradlees following a bankruptcy protection filing in 2000 (collectively, the “Bradlees Bankruptcies”), a number of such real property leases were assumed and assigned to third parties. Pursuant to applicable law, Stop & Shop may be contingently liable, subject to applicable defenses, to landlords under certain of the leases assigned in connection with the Bradlees Spin-off and subsequently assumed and assigned to third parties in connection with the Bradlees Bankruptcies. Lease guarantees backed up by letters of credit As part of the divestment of U.S. Foodservice in 2007, Ahold Delhaize received an irrevocable standby letter of credit for $216 million (€163 million), which was reduced to $46 million (€40 million) as of December 30, 2018 (2017: $54 million (€45 million)). Corporate and buyback guarantees Ahold Delhaize has provided corporate guarantees to certain suppliers of its franchisees or non-consolidated entities. Ahold Delhaize would be required to perform under the guarantee if the franchisee or non-consolidated entity failed to meet its financial obligations, as described in the guarantee. Buyback guarantees relate to Ahold Delhaize’s commitment to repurchase stores or inventory from certain franchisees at predetermined prices. The buyback guarantees reflect the maximum committed repurchase value under the guarantees. The last of the corporate and buyback guarantees expire in 2022. Indemnifications as part of divestments of Ahold Delhaize’s operations In the relevant sales agreements, Ahold Delhaize has provided customary indemnifications, including for potential breach of representations and warranties, that often include, but are not limited to, completeness of books and records, title to assets, schedule of material contracts and arrangements, litigation, permits, labor matters, and employee benefits and taxes. These representations and warranties will generally terminate, depending on their specific features, a number of years after the date of the relevant transaction completion date. The most significant divestments of operations are, to the extent not already covered in the guarantee section above, described below. In addition, specific, limited indemnifications exist for a number of Ahold Delhaize’s smaller divestments. The aggregate impact of claims, if any, under such indemnification provisions is not expected to be material. Disco divestment As part of the divestment of Disco S.A. (“Disco”) in 2004, Ahold Delhaize is required to indemnify Disco and its buyers for the outcome of the Uruguayan litigation described in the Legal proceedings section of this Note. Ahold Delhaize’s indemnification obligation relating to this litigation is not capped at a certain amount nor restricted to a certain time period. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 186 Notes to the 34 Commitments and contingencies continued Tom & Co divestment consolidated In 2016, Ahold Delhaize divested the pet specialist shop chain Tom & Co. As part of the transaction, Ahold Delhaize granted indemnities to the purchaser of financial statements all divested stores, which Ahold Delhaize believes are customary for transactions of this nature. Divestment of remedy stores in Belgium continued In March 2016, Ahold Delhaize received approval from the Belgian Competition Authority (“BCA”) for the merger between Ahold and Delhaize. The approval was conditional upon the divestment of a limited number of stores and projects in Belgium to address competition concerns raised by BCA. In 2017, Ahold Delhaize completed these divestments, which Ahold Delhaize believes took place subject to terms and conditions customary for transactions of this nature. Income tax Because Ahold Delhaize operates in a number of countries, its income is subject to taxation in differing jurisdictions and at differing tax rates. Significant judgment is required in determining the consolidated income tax position. We seek to organize our affairs in a sustainable manner, taking into account the applicable regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate. As a result of Ahold Delhaize’s multi-jurisdictional operations, it is exposed to a number of different tax risks including, but not limited to, changes in tax laws or interpretations of such tax laws. The authorities in the jurisdictions where Ahold Delhaize operates may review the Company’s tax returns and may disagree with the positions taken in those returns. While the ultimate outcome of such reviews is not certain, Ahold Delhaize has considered the merits of its filing positions in its overall evaluation of potential tax liabilities and believes it has adequate liabilities recorded in its consolidated financial statements for exposures on these matters. Based on its evaluation of the potential tax liabilities and the merits of Ahold Delhaize’s filing positions, it is unlikely that potential tax exposures over and above the amounts currently recorded as liabilities in its consolidated financial statements will be material to its financial condition or future results of operations. Legal proceedings Ahold Delhaize and certain of its former or current subsidiaries are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include litigation as a result of divestments, tax, employment, and other litigation and inquiries. The legal proceedings discussed below, whether pending, threatened or unasserted, if decided adversely or settled, may result in liability material to Ahold Delhaize’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Ahold Delhaize may enter into discussions regarding the settlement of these and other proceedings, and may enter into settlement agreements, if it believes settlement is in the best interest of Ahold Delhaize’s shareholders. In accordance with IAS 37 “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities, and Contingent Assets,” Ahold Delhaize has recognized provisions with respect to these proceedings, where appropriate, which are reflected on its balance sheet. Albert Heijn Franchising In 2014, the Vereniging Albert Heijn Franchisenemers (an association of Albert Heijn franchisees or “VAHFR”) has asserted claims against Albert Heijn Franchising BV (an Ahold Delhaize subsidiary or “AHF”), for the years 2008 through 2012, the alleged value of which exceeds €200 million in aggregate. AHF and the VAHFR have had ongoing discussions for a number of years about the resolution of certain cost items under individual franchise agreements. On December 24, 2014, AHF and other legal entities within the Ahold Delhaize group of companies received a writ in which VAHFR and 242 individual claimants would initiate proceedings as of April 15, 2015, before the District Court of Haarlem with respect to these discussions. On November 16, 2016, the court issued a judgment rejecting all claims of the VAHFR and the claimants. On February 13, 2017, VAHFR and 240 individual claimants filed a formal appeal against the judgment. In September 2017, the claimants filed their grounds for appeal in which they assert unquantified claims for the years 2008 until 2016. AHF believes that the District Court was correct in rejecting all claims and that the position of the VAHFR and individual claimants as expressed in the appeal is without merit. In April 2019, the Court of Appeal will hear the case on the merits. AHF and its affiliates will continue to vigorously defend their interest in the legal proceedings. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 187 Notes to the 34 Commitments and contingencies continued Uruguayan litigation consolidated Ahold Delhaize, together with Disco and Disco Ahold International Holdings N.V. (“DAIH”), is a party to one lawsuit in Uruguay related to Ahold Delhaize’s financial statements 2002 acquisition of Velox Retail Holdings’ shares in the capital of DAIH. The two other related lawsuits in Uruguay were decided in favor of Ahold Delhaize without any further right to appeal of the plaintiffs in 2013. The damages alleged by the plaintiffs, alleged creditors of certain Uruguayan and other continued banks, amount to approximately $62 million (€54 million) plus interest and costs. As part of the divestment of Disco to Cencosud in 2004, Ahold Delhaize indemnified Cencosud and Disco against the outcome of these legal proceedings. The one remaining lawsuit is ongoing. Ahold Delhaize continues to believe that the plaintiffs’ claims are without merit and will continue to vigorously oppose such claims. Greek litigation In a shareholders’ matter related to Alfa Beta Vassilopoulos S.A. (“AB”), Ahold Delhaize’s wholly-owned subsidiary in Greece, Ahold Delhaize was notified in 2011 that some former shareholders of AB, who together held 7% of AB’s shares, filed a claim with the Court of First Instance of Athens challenging the price paid by Ahold Delhaize during the squeeze-out process that was approved by the Hellenic Capital Markets Commission. Claimants had issued a separate claim for compound interest as well, which they withdrew in 2018. On January 11, 2019, the Court of First Instance delivered a decision on the merits pursuant to which Ahold Delhaize is held to pay an additional consideration of approximately €11.9 million plus interest and costs. A provision has been taken for this matter, although Ahold Delhaize continues to believe that the squeeze-out transaction has been executed and completed in compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements and against a fair price. Ahold Delhaize has the right to appeal the decision. Other legal proceedings In addition to the legal proceedings described previously in this Note, Ahold Delhaize and its former or current subsidiaries are parties to a number of other legal proceedings arising out of their business operations. Ahold Delhaize believes that the ultimate resolution of these other proceedings will not, in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on Ahold Delhaize’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Such other legal proceedings, however, are subject to inherent uncertainties and the outcome of individual matters is unpredictable. It is possible that Ahold Delhaize could be required to make expenditures, in excess of established provisions, in amounts that cannot reasonably be estimated. 35 Subsequent events Stop & Shop agreement to acquire King Kullen Grocery Co. On January 4, 2019, Ahold Delhaize announced that Stop & Shop has agreed to acquire King Kullen Grocery Co., based in Long Island, New York. The agreement includes King Kullen’s 32 supermarkets, five Wild by Nature stores and the use of its corporate offices located in Bethpage, New York. The acquisition is currently expected to close during the first half of 2019, subject to customary closing conditions. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 188 Notes to the 36 List of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates The following are Ahold Delhaize’s significant subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates as of December 30, 2018: consolidated Consolidated significant subsidiaries financial statements The following subsidiaries are, directly or indirectly, wholly owned by Ahold Delhaize. Subsidiaries not important to providing an insight into the Ahold Delhaize Group as required under Dutch law are omitted from this list. continued Retail trade Europe Albert Heijn B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands* Albert Heijn Franchising B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands* Gall & Gall B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands* Etos B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands* bol.com B.V., Utrecht, the Netherlands* Alfa-Beta Vassilopoulos S.A., Athens, Greece Delhaize Le Lion / De Leeuw Comm. VA, Brussels, Belgium Delhaize Serbia d.o.o. Beograd, Belgrade, Serbia Mega Image S.R.L., Bucharest, Romania AHOLD Czech Republic a.s., Prague, Czech Republic (as of January 1, 2019, known as Albert Česká republika, s.r.o.) Albert Heijn België NV / SA, Antwerp, Belgium Delhaize Luxembourg S.A., Dudelange, Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg Retail trade United States The Stop & Shop Supermarket Company LLC, Quincy, Massachusetts, United States Food Lion LLC, Salisbury, North Carolina, United States Giant Food Stores LLC, Carlisle, Pennsylvania, United States Giant of Maryland LLC, Landover, Maryland, United States Hannaford Bros. Co., LLC, Scarborough, Maine, United States Peapod LLC, Skokie, Illinois, United States Other Ahold Delhaize Coffee Company B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands* Ahold Europe Real Estate & Construction B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands* Ahold Delhaize Finance Company N.V., Zug, Switzerland Ahold Finance U.S.A., LLC, Zaandam, the Netherlands* Ahold Insurance N.V., Willemstad, Curaçao Ahold Delhaize International Sàrl, Zug, Switzerland Ahold Information Services Inc., Greenville, South Carolina, United States Ahold Lease U.S.A. Inc., Quincy, Massachusetts, United States Ahold Delhaize Licensing Sàrl, Geneva, Switzerland Ahold Nederland B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands* Ahold U.S.A. Inc., Quincy, Massachusetts, United States American Sales Company LLC, Lancaster, New York, United States CUW B.V., Willemstad, Curaçao Delhaize America LLC, Salisbury, North Carolina, United States Delhaize “The Lion” Nederland B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 189 Notes to the 36 List of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued Delhaize US Holding Inc., Salisbury, North Carolina, United States consolidated DZA Brands LLC, Salisbury, North Carolina, United States financial statements Lion Lux Finance Sàrl, Dudelange, Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg Lion Retail Holding Sàrl, Dudelange, Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg continued MAC Risk Management Inc., Quincy, Massachusetts, United States The MollyAnna Company, Montpelier, Vermont, United States Retail Business Services LLC, Delaware, United States With respect to the separate financial statements of the Dutch legal entities included in the consolidation, a number of subsidiaries availed themselves of the exemption laid down in section 403, subsection 1 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Pursuant to section 403, Ahold Delhaize has assumed joint and several liability for the debts arising out of the legal acts of these subsidiaries. The determination of which Dutch subsidiaries of Ahold Delhaize, whether significant in the context of this Note or not, make use of the 403 exemption follows from the Dutch trade register. Each of these subsidiaries has filed Ahold Delhaize’s 403 declaration with the Dutch trade register. The above significant subsidiaries that make use of the 403 exemption are marked by *. Significant joint ventures and associates (unconsolidated) JMR – Gestão de Empresas de Retalho, SGPS, S.A., Lisbon, Portugal (49% owned by Ahold Delhaize’s subsidiary Ahold Delhaize International Sàrl) P.T. Lion Super Indo, Jakarta, Indonesia (51% owned by Ahold Delhaize’s subsidiary Delhaize “The Lion” Nederland B.V.) Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 190 Parent company € million Intercompany head office and other recharges Note 2018 77 2017 96 financial statements General and administrative expenses (77) (73) Income statement Total operating expenses 2 (77) (73) Operating income (loss) — 23 Interest expense (34) (22) Other financial income (expense) (24) (64) Net financial expenses (58) (86) Loss before income taxes (58) (63) Income taxes 5 44 18 Income from subsidiaries and investments in joint ventures after income taxes 7 1,807 1,862 Net result after tax 1,793 1,817 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these parent company financial statements. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 191 Parent company Before appropriation of current year result. December 30, December 31, financial statements € million Assets Note 2018 2017 Balance sheet Property, plant and equipment Intangible assets 6 37 1 1 21 Deferred tax assets 5 14 2 Financial assets 7 26,465 21,015 Total non-current assets 26,517 21,039 Receivables 8 57 28 Other current financial assets 9 1 1 Cash and cash equivalents 110 318 Total current assets 168 347 Total assets 26,685 21,386 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity Issued and paid-in share capital 12 12 Additional paid-in capital 13,999 15,175 Currency translation reserve (60) (555) Cash flow hedging reserve (2) (4) Reserve participations 407 334 Accumulated deficit (1,333) (1,609) Net income 1,793 1,817 Shareholders’ equity 10 14,816 15,170 Provisions 11 3 7 Loans 12 3,744 2,188 Cumulative preferred financing shares 455 455 Other non-current liabilities 2 — Total non-current liabilities 4,201 2,643 Current liabilities 13 7,665 3,566 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 26,685 21,386 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these parent company financial statements. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 192 Notes to the 1 Significant accounting policies Basis of preparation parent company Ahold Delhaize’s parent company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. In accordance financial statements with subsection 8 of section 362, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, the recognition and measurement principles applied in these parent company financial statements are the same as those applied in the consolidated financial statements (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are measured at net asset value (equity method of accounting). Net asset value is based on the measurement of assets (including goodwill), provisions and liabilities, and determination of profit as described in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for investments in joint arrangements and associates. Goodwill is subsumed in the carrying amount of the net asset value if an investment in a subsidiary is acquired through the Company’s intermediate subsidiary. 2 Expenses by nature The operating expenses are specified by nature as follows: € million 2018 2017 Labor costs (31) (25) Other operational expenses (42) (44) Depreciation and amortization (4) (4) Total expenses by nature (77) (73) The labor costs consists of employee expenses of €23 million (2017: €18 million), other related employee costs of €1 million (2017: €1 million) and other contracted personnel expenses of €7 million (2017: €6 million). 3 Employees The average number of employees of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. in full-time equivalents during 2018 was seven (2017: seven), of whom none were employed outside of the Netherlands. One management board member serves as board member outside of the Netherlands via an assignment agreement, but is not employed by Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. The current number of employees of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. consists primarily of members of the Executive Committee, including the Management Board. Salaries, social security charges and pension expenses amounted to €23 million, €0.1 million and €0.4 million, respectively, for 2018 (2017: expenses of €17 million, €0.8 million and €0.3 million, respectively). For information on the parent company’s defined benefit pension plan, the remuneration of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board and the parent company’s share-based compensation plans, see Notes 23, 31 and 32, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements. The net pension liability and the net pension expense are calculated on the basis of the parent company’s active employees only. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 193 Notes to the 4 Auditor fees Expenses for services provided by the parent company’s independent auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. (PwC) and its member firms and parent company affiliates to Ahold Delhaize and its subsidiaries in 2018 and in 2017, are specified as follows: financial statements € thousand PwC Member firms / affiliates Total 2018 PwC Member firms / affiliates Total 2017 continued Audit fees 2,722 4,310 7,032 2,259 4,695 6,954 Audit-related fees 431 167 598 419 119 538 Tax advisory fees — — — — 87 87 Total 3,153 4,477 7,630 2,678 4,901 7,579 The audit fees listed above relate to the procedures applied to the Company and its consolidated group entities by accounting firms and external independent auditors as referred to in Section 1, subsection 1 of the Audit Firms Supervision Act (“Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties – Wta”) as well as by Dutch and foreign-based accounting firms, including their tax services and advisory groups. These audit fees relate to the audit of the financial statements, regardless of whether the work was performed during the financial year. Audit fees primarily relate to the audit of the consolidated financial statements as included in Performance: Financial as set out in this Annual Report, certain procedures on our quarterly results and services related to the statutory and regulatory filings of our subsidiaries. Other audit-related fees mainly relate to assurance services on non-financial information and other assurance services. 5 Income taxes The following table specifies the current and deferred tax components of income taxes in the income statement: € million 2018 2017 Current income taxes – the Netherlands 32 29 Deferred income taxes – the Netherlands 12 (11) Total income taxes 44 18 Effective income tax rate The following table reconciles the statutory income tax rate with the effective income tax rate in the income statement: 2018 2017 € million Tax rate € million Tax rate Loss before income taxes (58) (63) Income tax (expense) benefit at statutory tax rate 15 25.0% 16 25.0% Adjustments to arrive at effective income tax rate: Reserves, (non-)deductibles and discrete items 29 50.9% 2 3.6% Total income taxes (expense) benefit 44 75.9% 18 28.6% The line “Reserves, (non-)deductibles and discrete items” includes one-time deferred tax movements related to the decrease of the Dutch corporate income tax rate and related to restructuring. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 194 Notes to the 5 Income taxes continued Deferred income tax parent company The significant components and annual movements of deferred income tax assets and liabilities as of December 30, 2018, and December 31, 2017, are financial statements as follows: January 1, Recognized in December 31, Recognized in December 30, continued € million 2017 income statement Other 2017 income statement Other 2018 Derivatives and loans 1 — — 1 11 — 12 Blended rate deferred tax fiscal unity 5 (4) — 1 1 — 2 Other — (7) 7 — — — — Total gross deductible temporary differences 6 (11) 7 2 12 — 14 Tax losses and tax credits — — — — — — — Total net deferred tax asset position 6 (11) 7 2 12 — 14 Total deferred tax liabilities — — — — — — — Net deferred tax assets 6 (11) 7 2 12 — 14 The column “Other” in the table above includes amounts recorded in equity. Income taxes in equity and comprehensive income Current and deferred income taxes recognized in and transferred from equity and comprehensive income are as follows: € million 2018 2017 Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plans1 — 7 Total — 7 1 Due to additional cash contribution made to the Dutch pension plan in 2017. 6 Intangible assets € million Software As of December 31, 2017 At cost 31 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses (10) Carrying amount 21 Year ended December 30, 2018 Additions 19 Amortization (3) Closing carrying amount 37 As of December 30, 2018 At cost 51 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses (14) Carrying amount 37 Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 195 Notes to the 7 Financial assets December 30, parent company December 31, € million 2018 2017 Investments in subsidiaries 25,214 20,653 financial statements Loans receivable from subsidiaries 1,249 360 continued Other derivatives external 1 — Deferred financing cost 1 2 Total financial assets 26,465 21,015 € million 2018 2017 Beginning of year 20,653 20,728 Share in income 1,807 1,862 Dividends (6,525) (550) Intercompany transfers 8,733 64 Share of other comprehensive income (loss) and other changes in equity 80 (62) Transfers (to) / from loans receivable (23) (83) Transfers (to) / from provisions (5) 1 Exchange rate differences 494 (1,307) End of year 25,214 20,653 Intercompany transfers include capital contributions and capital repayments. In 2018, the dividends and intercompany transfers were mainly related to an internal restructuring. For a list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, see Note 36 to the consolidated financial statements. Loans receivable € million 2018 2017 Beginning of year 360 210 Intercompany transfers 866 67 Transfers from / (to) investments 23 83 End of year 1,249 360 Current portion — — Non-current portion of loans 1,249 360 The loans receivable are related to loans with subsidiaries. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 196 Notes to the 8 Receivables December 30, parent company December 31, € million 2018 2017 Receivables from subsidiaries 28 19 financial statements Receivables from joint ventures 2 1 continued Prepaid expenses 12 6 Income tax receivable 13 — Other receivables 2 2 Total receivables 57 28 9 Other current financial assets December 30, December 31, € million 2018 2017 Other derivatives external — 1 Other 1 — Total other current financial assets 1 1 For more information on derivatives, see Note 14 to these parent company financial statements. 10 Shareholders’ equity The shareholders’ equity in the parent company financial statements equals the equity attributable to common shareholders presented in the consolidated financial statements, except that legal reserve participations and accumulated earnings (deficit) are presented separately. The currency translation reserve, cash flow hedging reserve and reserve participations are legal reserves that are required by Dutch law. The reserve participations include the increases in net asset value of joint ventures and associates since their first inclusion, less any amounts that can be distributed without legal restrictions. If the currency translation reserve or the cash flow hedging reserve has a negative balance, distributions to the Company’s shareholders are restricted to the extent of the negative balance. Of the total equity as of December 30, 2018, €14,816 million, an amount of €419 million is non-distributable (December 31, 2017: €346 million out of total equity of €15,170 million). For more information on the dividends on common shares, see Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 197 Notes to the 10 Shareholders’ equity continued The movements in equity can be specified as follows: parent company Legal reserves Other reserves Equity financial statements € million Share capital Additional paid-in capital Currency translation reserve Cash flow hedging reserve Reserve participations including retained earnings1 attributable to common shareholders continued Balance as of January 1, 2017 13 15,802 754 (2) 363 (654) 16,276 Net income attributable to common shareholders — — — — — 1,817 1,817 Other comprehensive loss — — (1,309) (2) — (19) (1,330) Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to common shareholders — — (1,309) (2) — 1,798 487 Dividends — — — — — (720) (720) Issuance of shares — 42 — — — — 42 Share buyback — — — — — (998) (998) Cancellation of treasury shares (1) (669) — — — 670 — Share-based payments — — — — — 83 83 Other changes in reserves — — — — (29) 29 — Balance as of December 31, 2017 12 15,175 (555) (4) 334 208 15,170 Opening balance adjustment2 — — — — — (1) (1) Balance as of January 1, 2018 12 15,175 (555) (4) 334 207 15,169 Net income attributable to common shareholders — — — — — 1,793 1,793 Other comprehensive income — — 495 2 — 48 545 Total comprehensive income attributable to common shareholders — — 495 2 — 1,841 2,338 Dividends — — — — — (757) (757) Share buyback — — — — — (1,997) (1,997) Cancellation of treasury shares — (1,176) — — — 1,176 — Share-based payments — — — — — 63 63 Other changes in reserves — — — — 73 (73) — Balance as of December 30, 2018 12 13,999 (60) (2) 407 460 14,816 1 Other reserves includes the remeasurements of defined benefit plans. 2 The opening balance adjustment is related to the implementation of IFRS standards effective for 2018 (see Note 3) to the consolidated financial statements. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 198 Notes to the 11 Provisions December 30, parent company December 31, € million 2018 2017 Provision for negative equity subsidiaries — 5 financial statements Other provisions 3 2 continued Total provisions 3 7 As of December 30, 2018, €1.8 million is expected to be utilized within one year (December 31, 2017: €0.3 million). 12 Loans December 30, 2018 December 31, 2017 Non-current Current Non-current Current € million portion portion portion portion USD 300 notes 4.125%, due 20191 — 114 — — EUR 300 notes EURIBOR + 18 bps, due 2021 300 — — — EUR 750 notes 0.875% due 2024 750 — 750 — EUR 500 notes 1.125%, due 2026 500 — — — USD 827 notes 5.70%, due 20401 501 3 — — Long-term loans from subsidiaries 1,704 1,641 1,444 1,500 Deferred financing costs (11) (2) (6) (1) Total loans 3,744 1,756 2,188 1,499 1 In 2018, the USD 827 notes and USD 300 notes were transferred internally to the parent company. The long-term loans from subsidiaries mature in 2021 (€650 million), 2022 (€596 million) and 2029 (€458 million). For more information on the external loans, see Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. 13 Current liabilities December 30, December 31, € million 2018 2017 Short-term borrowings from subsidiaries 5,431 1,972 Loans – current portion 1,756 1,499 Bank debt and lines of credit 398 — Dividend cumulative preferred financing shares 17 18 Income tax payable — 25 Payables to subsidiaries 10 16 Payables to joint ventures — 2 Interest payable 14 2 Other current liabilities 39 32 Total current liabilities 7,665 3,566 The current liabilities are liabilities that mature within one year. For more information on the cumulative preferred financing shares, see Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements and on derivatives, see Note 14 to these parent company financial statements. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 199 Notes to the 14 Derivatives The parent company regularly enters into derivative contracts with banks to hedge foreign currency and interest exposures of the parent company parent company or its subsidiaries. Derivative contracts that are entered into to hedge exposures of subsidiaries are generally mirrored with intercompany derivative financial statements contracts with the subsidiaries that are exposed to the hedged risks on substantially identical terms as the external derivative contracts. In these parent company financial statements, the external derivative contracts and the intercompany derivative contracts are presented separately on the balance sheet. continued In situations where the external derivative contract qualifies for hedge accounting treatment in the consolidated financial statements, the external derivative contract and the intercompany derivative contract are presented as “Hedging derivatives external” and “Hedging derivatives intercompany,” respectively. In situations where the external derivative contract does not qualify for hedge accounting treatment in the consolidated financial statements, the external derivative contract and the intercompany derivative contract are presented as “Other derivatives external” and “Other derivatives intercompany,” respectively. Fair value movements of external derivative contracts that were entered into to hedge the exposures of subsidiaries are recorded directly in income, where they effectively offset the fair value movements of the mirroring intercompany derivatives that are also recorded directly in income. Details of these derivative contracts, other financial instruments and the parent company’s risk management strategies are included in Note 30 to the consolidated financial statements and in the tables presented below. Non-current derivatives – assets € million 2018 2017 Beginning of year — — Fair value changes 1 — End of year 1 — Current derivatives – assets € million 2018 2017 Beginning of year 1 299 Unwinding of cross-currency swap (1) (287) Fair value changes — (11) End of year — 1 At the beginning of 2017, the Derivative financial instruments – current portion included the interest and the cross-currency swaps related to GBP 250 notes. The remaining notional redemption amount of GBP 250 million was due in March 2017 and the related swaps were settled on the same date. Non-current derivatives – liabilities € million 2018 2017 Beginning of year — — Fair value changes 2 — End of year 2 — Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 200 Notes to the 14 Derivatives continued Current derivatives – liabilities parent company € million 2018 2017 financial statements Beginning of year Unwinding of cross-currency swap — — 300 (287) continued Fair value changes — (13) End of year — — At the beginning of 2017, the Current derivatives – liabilities included the cross-currency swaps related to GBP 250 notes. The remaining notional redemption amount of GBP 250 million was due in March 2017 and the related swaps were settled on the same date. 15 Related party transactions Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. has entered into arrangements with a number of its subsidiaries and affiliated companies in the course of its business. These arrangements relate to service transactions and financing agreements and were conducted at market prices. 16 Commitments and contingencies Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V., as the parent company, is party to a cross-guarantee agreement dated May 21, 2007, as amended from time to time, with Delhaize Le Lion/De Leeuw Comm. VA, Retail Business Services LLC, Delhaize US Holding, Inc. and substantially all the subsidiaries of Delhaize US Holding, Inc., under which each party guarantees fully and unconditionally, jointly and severally, the financial indebtedness of the other parties to the agreement. Notes and loans issued by certain subsidiaries are guaranteed by the parent company, as disclosed in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. The parent company also guarantees certain lease obligations and other obligations of subsidiaries. Guarantees issued by the parent company regarding the financial obligations of third parties and non-consolidated entities, other than under the cross guarantee mentioned above, amount to €644 million as of December 30, 2018 (December 31, 2017: €399 million). In addition, the Company has provided a guarantee as of July 30, 2010, for Ahold Finance U.S.A., LLC’s outstanding current obligations to third parties. As part of the divestment of U.S. Foodservice in 2007, Ahold Delhaize received an irrevocable standby letter of credit for $216 million (€163 million), which was reduced to $46 million (€40 million) as of December 30, 2018 (2017: $54 million (€45 million)). The parent company has provided customary indemnifications, including for potential breach of representations and warranties made in agreements of asset disposals. Guarantees and legal proceedings are further disclosed in Note 34 to the consolidated financial statements. Under its financing agreement with Stichting Ahold Delhaize Pensioen, Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. is liable for the pension contributions. The parent company forms a fiscal unity with Ahold Delhaize’s major Dutch subsidiaries for Dutch corporate income tax and Dutch VAT purposes and, for that reason, it is jointly and severally liable for the Dutch corporate income tax liabilities and Dutch VAT liabilities of the whole fiscal unity. Assumptions of liability pursuant to section 403, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code are disclosed in Note 36 to the consolidated financial statements. 17 Distribution of profit The Management Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, proposes that a final dividend of €0.70 per common share be paid in 2019 with respect to 2018 (2017: €0.63). Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 201 Notes to the 18 Subsequent events For information regarding subsequent events, see Note 35 to the consolidated financial statements. parent company Zaandam, the Netherlands financial statements February 26, 2019 continued Management Board Frans Muller Jeff Carr Kevin Holt Wouter Kolk Supervisory Board Jan Hommen (Chairman) Bill McEwan (Vice Chairman) Jacques de Vaucleroy (Vice Chairman) René Hooft Graafland Rob van den Bergh Mary Anne Citrino Dominique Leroy Mark McGrath Ben Noteboom Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 202 Other information Distribution of profit Articles of Association provisions governing the distribution of profit The holders of common shares are entitled to one vote per share and to participate in the distribution of dividends and liquidation proceeds. Pursuant to section 39 of the Articles of Association, a dividend will first be declared out of net income on cumulative preferred shares and cumulative preferred financing shares. Any net income remaining after reservations deemed necessary by the Supervisory Board, in consultation with the Management Board, will then be at the disposal of the General Meeting of Shareholders, who may resolve to distribute it among the common shareholders. The Management Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, may propose that the General Meeting of Shareholders make distributions wholly or partly in the form of common shares. Amounts of net income not paid in the form of dividends will be added to the accumulated deficit. In the financial statements, the dividend on cumulative preferred financing shares is included in the income statement. Consequently, net income according to the parent company income statement is fully attributable to common shareholders. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 203 Other information Independent auditor’s report To: the General Meeting and Supervisory Board of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. continued Report on the financial statements for the period January 1, 2018 to December 30, 2018 Our opinion In our opinion: • Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V.’s consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group as at December 30, 2018 and of its result and cash flows for the period from January 1, 2018 to December 30, 2018 in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; • Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V.’s parent company financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company as at December 30, 2018 and of its result for the period from January 1, 2018 to December 30, 2018 in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. What we have audited We have audited the accompanying financial statements for the period January 1, 2018 to December 30, 2018 of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V., Zaandam (“the Company”). The financial statements include the consolidated financial statements of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. together with its subsidiaries (“the Group”) and the parent company financial statements. The consolidated financial statements comprise: • the consolidated balance sheet as at December 30, 2018; • the following statements for the period from January 1, 2018 to December 30, 2018: the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statements of comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows; and • the notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. The parent company financial statements comprise: • the parent company balance sheet as at December 30, 2018; • the parent company income statement for the period from January 1, 2018 to December 30, 2018; • the notes, comprising a summary of accounting policies applied and other explanatory information. The financial reporting framework applied in the preparation of the financial statements is EU-IFRS and the relevant provisions of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code for the consolidated financial statements and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code for the parent company financial statements. The basis for our opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. We have further described our responsibilities under those standards in the section “Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements” of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 204 Other information Independence We are independent of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. in accordance with the European Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of continued public interest entities, the “Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties” (Wta, Audit firms supervision act), the “Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assuranceopdrachten” (ViO – Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and other relevant independence requirements in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the “Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants” (VGBA – Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to rules of professional conduct). Our audit approach Overview and context Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. is an international food retail group operating supermarkets and e-commerce platforms in Belgium, the Czech Republic, Greece, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Romania, Serbia and the United States and through participating in joint ventures in Indonesia and Portugal. The group is comprised of several components and therefore we considered our group audit scope and approach as set out in the section “The scope of our group audit”. As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we considered where the Management Board made important judgments, for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. In Note 2 of the financial statements, the company describes the areas of judgment in applying accounting policies and the key sources of estimation uncertainty. As in 2017, we considered the impairment testing of goodwill and brand names, and the recognition of vendor allowance income as key audit matters, in view of the significant estimation uncertainty and the related higher inherent risks of material misstatement. Furthermore, we continue to consider the employee benefit plan measurement and disclosures as a key audit matter because of the complexity and judgment required in auditing the defined benefit obligation estimates as well as the extensive disclosures required, specifically in the area of the group’s participation in US multi-employer plans. A new key audit matter this year is the company’s disclosure of the estimated impact of IFRS 16 Leases at adoption on December 31, 2018. We considered this a key audit matter in view of the magnitude of the amounts involved, the implementation process required to identify and process all relevant data associated with these leases and management’s judgment applied in estimating matters such as discount rates and lease terms. Each of these key audit matters have been set out in the section “Key audit matters” of this report. Another area of focus, that was not considered a key audit matter, was the risk of fraud in revenue recognition. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Management Board that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. We ensured that the audit teams both at group and at component levels included the appropriate skills and competences which are needed for the audit of a retail company. The Group’s operations utilize a wide range of different IT systems. The adequacy and effective operation of controls over these systems is an important element of the integrity of financial reporting within the Group. We utilized IT specialists in our audit to evaluate the adequacy and effective operation of these controls considered relevant to our audit. Furthermore, we included specialists in areas requiring financial instruments, tax and actuarial (including pension accounting) expertise and experts in the area of valuation. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 205 Other information The outline of our audit approach was as follows: Materiality continued Overall materiality: €107 million Audit scope We conducted audit work at 8 components. Site visits were conducted to five components operating in the U.S., the Netherlands, Belgium, Greece. Audit coverage: 87% of consolidated net sales, 87% of total consolidated assets and 93% of consolidated income before income taxes. Key audit matters Impairment testing of goodwill and brand names Recognition of vendor allowance income Employee benefit plan measurement and disclosures Disclosure of the estimated impact of IFRS 16 Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by the application of materiality, which is further explained in the section “Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements”. Based on our professional judgment, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall materiality for the financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and to evaluate the effect of identified misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the financial statements as a whole and on our opinion. Overall group materiality €107 million (2017: €96 million). We used our professional judgment to determine the overall materiality. As a basis for our judgment, we used 5% of income before income taxes. We used income before income taxes as the primary benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice, based on our analysis of the common information needs of users of the financial statements. On this basis, we believe that income before income taxes is an important metric for the financial performance of the Company. Component materiality To each component in our audit scope, we, based on our judgment, allocate materiality that is less than our overall group materiality. The range of materiality allocated across components was between €7.5 and €100 million. We also take misstatements and/or possible misstatements into account that, in our judgment, are material for qualitative reasons. We agreed with the Supervisory Board that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above €5.3 million (2017: €4.8 million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. The scope of our group audit Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. is the parent company of a group of entities. The financial information of this group is included in the consolidated financial statements of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 206 Other information We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed sufficient work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the management structure of the Group, the nature of operations of its components, the accounting processes and controls, and the markets continued in which the components of the Group operate. In establishing the overall group audit strategy and plan, we determined the type of work required to be performed at the component level by the group engagement team and by each component auditor. Following the set-up of the U.S. brand-centric organization, as of the first quarter of 2018, the former Ahold USA segment (which included two components in our audit, the Ahold USA retail operations and the Global Support Office activities in the United States) and Delhaize America segment are combined into one reportable segment “The United States”. This did not impact our overall audit scope or coverage but reduced the number of components from 10 to 8 as described below. Five components were subjected to audits of their complete financial information, of which three were individually financially significant to the group. These components include the retail operations in the Unites States and the Netherlands as well as the Global Support Office activities in the Netherlands (which includes financing activities in Switzerland). The other two components, the Belgian and Greek retail operations, were selected to achieve appropriate audit coverage over the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, three components were selected for audit procedures to achieve appropriate coverage on specific financial line items in the consolidated financial statements. These components comprised of the insurance captives located in the U.S., Ireland and Curacao. In total, in performing these procedures, we achieved the following coverage on the financial line items: Revenue 87% Total assets 87% Profit before tax 93% None of the remaining components represented more than 3% of total Group net sales or total Group assets. For those remaining components, we attended internal quarterly closing meetings with local and Group management and performed, among other things, analytical procedures to corroborate our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatements within those components being relevant to the consolidated financial statements. The group engagement team performed the audit work on the Global Support Office activities in the Netherlands, which includes financing activities in Switzerland, the Group consolidation, the financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items. This included procedures performed over financial instruments such as loans and derivatives, goodwill impairment testing, Management Board remuneration including share-based payments and compliance of accounting positions taken by the Group in accordance with EU-IFRS. For all other components we used component auditors who are familiar with the local laws and regulations to perform the audit work. Where component auditors performed the work, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in their audit work to be able to conclude whether we had obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence as a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole. We issued instructions to the component audit teams in our audit scope. These instructions included amongst others our risk analysis, materiality and scope of the work. We explained to the component audit teams the structure of the group, the main developments that are relevant for the component auditors, the risks identified, the materiality levels to be applied and our global audit approach. We had individual calls with each of the in-scope component audit teams during the year and upon the conclusion of their work. During these calls, we discussed the significant accounting and audit issues identified by the component auditors, the reports of the component auditors, the findings of their procedures and other matters, which could be of relevance for the consolidated financial statements. In the current year, the group audit team visited the Dutch, Greek, Belgian and the United States component audit teams and local management. For each of these components we reviewed relevant parts of the component auditor’s audit files. By performing the procedures above at components, combined with additional procedures at group level, we have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence on the Group’s financial information, as a whole, to provide a basis for our opinion on the financial statements. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 207 Other information Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements. We have continued communicated the key audit matters to the Supervisory Board. The key audit matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters identified by our audit and that we discussed. In this section, we described the key audit matters and included a summary of the audit procedures we performed on those matters. We addressed the key audit matters in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon. We do not provide separate opinions on these matters or on specific elements of the financial statements. Any comments or observations we made on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 208 Other information Key audit matter Our audit work and observations continued Impairment testing of goodwill and brand names Note 13 As at December 30, 2018, the Group’s goodwill and brand names are We evaluated management’s process and design effectiveness of valued at €10.3 billion. The majority of this balance (€7 billion) relates to the controls over the impairment assessment including the appropriateness of former Delhaize business acquired in 2016. management’s identification of the Group’s CGUs, indicators of impairment, discount rates and forecasts. As disclosed in Note 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group tests its CGUs containing goodwill and brand names for impairment We have challenged management, primarily on their assumptions applied to annually and if there is a triggering event at an earlier or later reporting date. which the outcome of the impairment test is the most sensitive, in particular, This is done by comparing the recoverable amounts of the individual CGUs, the projected revenue growth, operating margin developments, discount being the higher of value-in-use and fair value less costs of disposal, to the rates and (terminal) growth rates. carrying amounts. The Management Board performed its annual goodwill We benchmarked key market related assumptions (as disclosed in Note 13) and brand names impairment test in accordance with IAS36 – Impairment against external data and challenged management by comparing the of Assets and concluded that no impairment of goodwill or brand names assumptions to historic performance of the company and local economic was necessary. developments, taking into account the sensitivity test of the goodwill We considered this to be a key audit matter because the assessment balances for any changes in the respective assumptions. process is complex, involves significant management judgments and We involved our valuation experts to assist us in evaluating the is based on key assumptions on expected future market and economic appropriateness of the impairment model, the discount rates applied conditions, revenue growth, margin developments, the discount rates and to assess the overall reasonableness of the assumptions. and (terminal) growth rates. We compared the sum of the future cash flow forecasts of all CGUs to the market capitalization. We also verified the mathematical accuracy of management’s valuation models and agreed relevant data, including assumptions on timing of future capital and operating expenditures to the five-year plan as approved by the Management Board. Based on our procedures we did not identify material exceptions and we found management’s assumptions supported by available evidence. We further considered the related disclosures in Note 13 to the financial statements to be adequate. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 209 Other information Key audit matter Our audit work and observations continued Recognition of vendor allowance income Note 2 and 3 The Group receives various types of vendor allowances from its Our procedures included evaluating the design and testing the operating suppliers, as further disclosed in Note 2 and 3 to the financial statements. effectiveness of management’s controls around the completeness These allowances are a significant component of cost of sales. and accuracy of the contractual agreements recognized in the accounting system. The vendor allowance receivable at December 30, 2018, amounts to €503 million (Note 17). Furthermore, we challenged management’s assumptions used in determining the vendor allowances through discussions with management The vendor allowance agreements with suppliers contain volume-related and performing specific substantive audit procedures. For example, on a allowances, promotional and marketing allowances and various other sample basis we agreed the recorded amounts to the vendor contracts and fees and discounts received in connection with the purchase of goods for confirmed the related positions and terms with the vendors. resale from those suppliers. The Group recognizes vendor allowances as a reduction in cost of sales when the performance obligations associated To determine the quality of the estimates made by management we with the allowances have been met, for example when the product has been performed a retrospective review of management judgments by testing sold, placed or when the marketing campaign has been held. subsequent collections on prior period vendor allowance receivables. These procedures showed us that the vendor allowances collected versus We considered this to be a key audit matter because of the magnitude management’s estimates were reasonable. We also tested material writeof amounts involved and the judgment required from management to offs and evaluated the nature to identify possible management bias. determine the nature and level of fulfilment of the Company’s obligations under the vendor agreements and to recognize the amounts in the Finally we tested whether the allowances were recorded in the correct correct period. This requires a detailed understanding of the contractual period through assessing the obligation fulfilment of vendor allowances arrangements in addition to complete and accurate data to estimate recorded during a period before and after year-end. purchase and sales volumes and fulfilment of promotional programs. Based on our procedures we did not identify material exceptions and we found management’s recognition of vendor allowances to be supported by available evidence. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 210 Other information Key audit matter Our audit work and observations continued Employee benefit plan measurement and disclosures Note 23 The Group has defined benefit plans, primarily in the Netherlands and in the Our procedures included understanding and evaluating the design and U.S., giving rise to defined benefit obligations of €4.8 billion and €1.3 billion, testing the operating effectiveness of controls related to key inputs (such as respectively. payroll data) and key outputs of the Group’s pension process. The Group also has a significant number of union employees in the U.S. We tested the actuarial and demographic assumptions and valuation whose pension benefits are covered by multi-employer plans (we also refer methodologies used by management to determine the Group’s various to the risk factor on pension plan funding on page 84 of the Annual Report). pension obligations. We evaluated whether the key actuarial assumptions A number of these plans are accounted for as defined contribution plans are reasonable (for example by comparing to the published actuarial tables) as there is insufficient information to account for these plans as defined and consistently applied. We tested payroll data, through a combination of benefit plans. In Note 23 management has disclosed certain facts and controls testing and test of details, and reconciled the membership census a calculation, which is based on assumptions, and leads to an estimate data used in the actuarial models to the payroll data. of the Group’s participation in these plans, including, for certain plans, With the support from our valuation experts, we also tested the valuation of the possible proportionate share of the total net deficit. As disclosed, this the pension assets. Depending on the type of asset, we either reconciled estimate does not necessarily reflect the Company’s liability in case of the value to publicly available information or challenged the assumptions withdrawal or insolvency of such plans. used in determining the value by benchmarking assumptions to We considered this to be a key audit matter because of the magnitude of the own expectations. amounts involved, management’s significant judgment applied in estimating Finally, we assessed the adequacy of disclosures related to the employee the actuarial and demographic assumptions (the most relevant being defined benefit plans. around salary increases, inflation, discount rates and mortality rates) and the technical expertise required to measure the resulting defined benefit Our procedures did not identify material exceptions and we considered pension obligation for the Group. management’s key assumptions to be within a reasonable range of our own expectations. In addition, the US multi-employer plan rules are complex and certain plans are in endangered or critical status for which relevant material facts require In addition, we evaluated management’s disclosures and calculations in adequate disclosure in the financial statements. relation to the US multi-employer plans. For this purpose we reconciled the disclosed facts and the related inputs used by management for the calculation to supporting documentation such as the latest available plan information and actuarial calculations. We did not identify material exceptions in management’s disclosures or accounting conclusions. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 211 Other information Key audit matter Our audit work and observations continued Disclosure of the estimated impact of IFRS 16 Note 3 IFRS 16, Leases, becomes effective for annual reporting periods Our procedures included evaluating the design and testing the operating beginning on or after January 1, 2019. The application of this new standard effectiveness of management’s controls around the completeness and as disclosed in Note 3 is estimated to give rise to an increase in total accuracy of the contractual lease agreements recognized in the lease consolidated assets of approximately €6.4 billion, an increase in total accounting system. consolidated liabilities of approximately €7 billion and a corresponding We have reviewed accounting position papers prepared by the Group offset in total consolidated equity of approximately €0.6 billion. to determine whether this has been set up in accordance with the We considered this to be a key audit matter because of the magnitude of requirements of IFRS 16. We challenged management on their accounting the amounts involved and the implementation process required to identify policy choices and judgments and obtained evidence supporting and process all relevant data associated with these leases (including IT their judgments. software and internal controls over the implementation process). In addition, We involved our valuation experts to assist us in evaluating the discount management’s judgment is required in estimating matters such as rates applied. On a sample basis we have agreed key inputs to supporting discount rates and lease terms as well as applying policy elections and the documentation such as lease agreements. We have also recalculated separation of lease and non-lease components. the right-of-use asset and lease liability calculated by the system for each material type lease contract. Based on our procedures performed, we consider management’s disclosure on the IFRS 16 implementation in Note 3 to the financial statements, including the estimated impact on the financial statements at implementation date, to be adequate. Report on the other information included in the annual report In addition to the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon, the annual report contains other information that consists of: • The Management Report as defined on page 86 of the Annual Report; • The other information included in Message from our CEO, Group highlights, Who we are, Business review, Governance, Performance: Sustainability and Investors sections and; • The other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Based on the procedures performed as set out below, we conclude that the other information: • Is consistent with the financial statements and does not contain material misstatements; • Contains the information that is required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained in our audit of the financial statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the other information contains material misstatements. By performing our procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720. The scope of such procedures was substantially less than the scope of those performed in our audit of the financial statements. The Management Board is responsible for the preparation of the other information, including the directors’ report and the other information in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 212 Other information Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Our appointment continued We were appointed as auditors of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. by the Supervisory Board following the passing of a resolution by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on April 16, 2013. Our appointment has been renewed annually by shareholders representing a total period of uninterrupted engagement appointment of six years. No prohibited non-audit services To the best of our knowledge and belief, we have not provided prohibited non-audit services as referred to in Article 5(1) of the European Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of public interest entities. Services rendered The services, in addition to the audit, that we have provided to the company and its controlled entities, for the period to which our statutory audit relates, are disclosed in Note 4 of the notes to the parent company financial statements. Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board for the financial statements The Management Board is responsible for: • The preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; and for • Such internal control as the Management Board determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the Management Board is responsible for assessing the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting frameworks mentioned, the Management Board should prepare the financial statements using the going-concern basis of accounting unless the Management Board either intends to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Management Board should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the financial statements. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the company’s financial reporting process. Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our responsibility is to plan and perform an audit engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis for our opinion. Our audit opinion aims to provide reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high but not absolute level of assurance, which makes it possible that we may not detect all misstatements. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered to be material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. Materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion. A more detailed description of our responsibilities is set out in the appendix to our report. Amsterdam, February 26, 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. D. van Ameijden RA Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 213 Other information Appendix to our auditor’s report on the financial statements for the period January 1, 2018 to December 30, 2018 of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. continued In addition to what is included in our auditor’s report, we have further set out in this appendix our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements and explained what an audit involves. The auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained professional scepticism throughout the audit in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Our audit consisted, among other things of the following: • Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designing and performing audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the intentional override of internal control. • Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. • Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Management Board. • Concluding on the appropriateness of the Management Board ’s use of the going concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit evidence obtained, concluding whether a material uncertainty exists related to events and/or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report and are made in the context of our opinion on the financial statements as a whole. However, future events or conditions may cause the company to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. Considering our ultimate responsibility for the opinion on the consolidated financial statements, we are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. In this context, we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures for components of the group to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole. Determining factors are the geographic structure of the group, the significance and/or risk profile of group entities or activities, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates. On this basis, we selected group entities for which an audit or review of financial information or specific balances was considered necessary. We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. In this respect, we also issue an additional report to the audit committee in accordance with Article 11 of the EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities. The information included in this additional report is consistent with our audit opinion in this auditor’s report. We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the Supervisory Board, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the matter is in the public interest. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 214 215 Introduction 218 Progress towards 2020 220 Sustainable Retailing data 226 Definitions 230 Assurance report of the independent auditor Performance: Sustainability Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 215 Introduction Our businesses flourish when our communities are healthy and resilient. When we reduce food waste, we operate more efficiently and minimize our impact on the planet. When we make it easy and fun for associates and customers to eat healthier, we grow sales, while at the same time potentially helping to bring down disease rates and enable future generations to thrive. To drive innovation and changes across our business and increase the value we create for customers, associates, communities, shareholders and the environment, we developed a Sustainable Retailing strategy that supports the achievement of our Leading Together strategy. Our 2020 Sustainable Retailing strategy was developed at the time of our merger in 2016, based on our most material topics and leveraging our global scale, market expertise and great local brands. The following sections show how we are progressing on that strategy, as well as our performance on sustainability in general. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 216 Introduction Our 2020 ambition We are committed to making Our Sustainable Retailing 2020 strategy was We will contribute to the global goals In addition, we will continue our journey shaped by our most material topics, the UN to reduce food waste by: to improve performance in the following it easier for our customers to • Decreasing food waste in our own operations five areas: Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and eat more nutritious food, which market knowledge from our great local brands. by 20% (2016-2020) 1. Associate development: We take care helps to reduce the prevalence We also considered trends in our markets • Maximizing the recovery of unsold food of people by encouraging associate of diseases and increase and around the world, integrated stakeholder to reduce hunger in our communities development. overall vitality. feedback, and referenced other global • Innovating with our suppliers to reduce 2. Climate impact: We take our responsibility frameworks (such as the OECD Guidelines for using the planet’s resources sustainably food waste We will reduce food waste, for Multinational Enterprises). by reducing carbon emissions and waste. as part of our aim to responsibly • Helping customers reduce food waste We will enable our brands’ customers and at home 3. Product safety and sustainability: manage the earth’s resources, associates to eat healthier food every day by: The products we sell are safe and meet and work with food banks to • Innovating to make healthier eating more We will provide a healthy and inclusive sustainable sourcing standards, while affordable and more fun workplace for associates by: maintaining quality and affordability. feed the undernourished in • Enabling associates to become healthy food our communities. • Inspiring customers and associates with ambassadors by supporting them in eating 4. Safety at work: We integrate safe working programs and services that make healthier practices for all associates into workplace nutritious foods We are committed to celebrating eating easy, every day designs, equipment purchases and a diverse and inclusive workforce • Creating a work environment in which operational procedures. • Rewarding customers and associates for everyone is valued and can reach their and seeing associates reach nutritious choices full potential 5. Local community connection: We partner their potential so they can thrive • Improving our assortment to increase our at the local level to create healthier, in life and business. sales of nutritious own-brand products to more sustainable communities for future 50% of total own-brand food sales by 2020 generations. We are currently developing a new Sustainable Retailing strategy for 2025 integrated with and supportive of Leading Together. We aim to lead our industry in accelerating toward food systems that are healthier for people and the planet. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 217 Introduction Our 2020 ambition continued Global governance The leaders of the local brands are responsible Local action We manage our sustainability strategy at for sustainable retailing within their brands. While we have identified the areas we want to multiple levels in the organization. Ultimately, the Each brand sets specific annual targets on impact as a company, we empower the brands Executive Committee, supervised and advised all the Ahold Delhaize Sustainable Retailing to create programs that also address these by the Supervisory Board (and its Sustainability performance indicators. On a quarterly basis, areas in market-specific ways. and Innovation Committee) has accountability each brand leader performs an assessment We build on the past achievements of all the for setting strategy and driving performance. on the brand’s year-to-date data and brands while collaborating and sharing best discusses progress and potential data The Sustainable Retailing function reports practices to achieve our Sustainable Retailing quality improvements with the Ahold Delhaize directly to the President and CEO at the global goals. Each great local brand has set targets President and CEO and the VP Sustainable level. The Vice President Sustainable Retailing to ensure we grow our businesses and create Retailing. and the Group Support Office Sustainable value consistently. Our local management’s Retailing team are responsible for advising on Functional leaders across the brands, in areas remuneration is directly tied to these targets. Ahold Delhaize’s Sustainable Retailing strategy, such as Merchandising, Human Resources, reporting global performance internally and Facility Management, Retail Operations, externally, engaging external stakeholders, Occupational Health and Safety, and Product supporting the brands in implementation, Integrity, are responsible for integrating monitoring trends and tracking related issues sustainable retailing into their work and and risks. managing the relevant action plans. A global Sustainable Retailing Steering Committee, made up of Executive Sponsors from the local brands and relevant global functional leaders, reviews and recommends the strategic direction and public targets, and tracks overall performance. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 218 Progress towards 2020 Following is a summary of the targets we set for 2020, and our progress towards them in 2017 and 2018. SDG Strategic area Performance indicator description 2018 2017 2020 target Promote healthier eating % of healthy own-brand food sales as a proportion of total own-brand food sales 47% 46% 50% % of own-brand products with front-of-pack nutritional labeling1 88% 87% 100% Reduce food waste Tonnes of food waste per food sales (t/€ million) 5.2 5.3 4.25 (-20%) % of total food waste recycled 77% 68% 90% Create healthy and Index of healthy workplace questions 74% 73% 75% inclusive workplaces Index of inclusive workplace questions 78% 77% 79% Associate development Index of associate development questions 72% 71% 73% Climate impact % change in CO2 equivalent emissions per m2 of sales area (from 2008 baseline)2 (28)% (26)% (30)% Total CO₂ equivalent emissions per m2 sales area – location-based approach (kg CO2 -eq/m2)2 456 471 445 % ozone-friendly refrigerants2 77% 74% 85% Average GWP of total refrigerants2 2,320 2,370 2,230 % waste recycled 76% 73% 80% 1 2017 figure excludes Mega Image and Delhaize Belgium. 2 We have restated 2017 figures to include more accurate: GWP for our refrigerants, sales area and actual fuel usage. The 2017 figure excludes Gall & Gall and Etos. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 219 Progress towards 2020 continued SDG Strategic area Performance indicator description 2018 2017 2020 target Product safety % of production units of own-brand food products that are Global Food Safety & sustainability Initiative (GFSI)-certified or comply with an acceptable level of assurance standard 93% 91% 100% % of production units for own-brand food products that are certified according to a GFSI-recognized standard 89% 88% 93% % of production units for own-brand food products that comply with an acceptable level of assurance standard (other than GFSI) 4% 4% 7% % of production units of own-brand products in high-risk countries audited against an acceptable standard for social compliance, with a valid audit report or certificate and no non-compliances on deal-breakers1 66% 59% 80% % of own-brand products containing tea certified against an acceptable standard 84% 72% 100% % of own-brand coffee products certified against an acceptable standard 87% 82% 100% % of own-brand products containing cocoa certified against an acceptable standard 49% 53% 100% % of own-brand products containing over 25% cocoa certified against an acceptable standard 69% 100% % of own-brand products containing under 25% cocoa certified against an acceptable standard 34% 75% % of palm oil volume in own-brand products certified to an acceptable standard or to RSPO Book & Claim 100% 100% 100% % of palm oil volume in own-brand products certified against an acceptable standard (Mass Balance or Segregated supply chain option) 86% 80% 75% % of palm oil volume in own-brand products offset by purchase of RSPO Book & Claim 14% 20% 25% % of own-brand wood fiber products certified sustainable against an acceptable standard, low risk, or recycled 52% 48% 100% % of high priority (South American) direct and embedded soy volumes in the supply chain of own-brand products certified against an acceptable standard2 91% 80% 100% % of own-brand seafood product sales certified against an acceptable standard, from sustainable sources assessed by a credible third party, or from credible FIPs/AIPs 94% 92% 100% % of own-brand seafood product sales with an identified farm/fishery of origin 100% 99% 100% 1 2017 Hannaford and Food Lion figures refer to private label products. 2017 data for all other brands refers to own-brand products. 2 2017 Delhaize Belgium figure is reported as Q4 2016 – Q3 2017. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 220 Sustainable Retailing data Scope This year’s annual report on fiscal From an operational scope perspective, In this Annual Report, as well as Annual Report Global Reporting Initiative the data includes the following parts of the 2017, some of the brands were not yet able Our sustainability reporting has been prepared year 2018 contains sustainable business, unless specifically noted otherwise: to report on all indicators, as they were in the in accordance with the GRI Standards: retailing data from all Ahold process of adjusting their internal measurement Core option. The indicators we have chosen Delhaize brands except bol.com, • All stores (company-owned and franchise / systems to Ahold Delhaize definitions or to report on are derived from an analysis of their affiliated stores) Etos, Gall & Gall and Peapod, unless were creating new data collection processes. relevance and materiality to the key impacts otherwise noted. • Offices When full alignment in reporting for an indicator of our businesses, and are the ones we believe • Company-owned distribution centers, was not achieved for 2017, we have explained best measure progress against our strategic including all transportation from distribution it in the footnotes. focus areas. This document has been reviewed centers to stores, regardless of whether the by the Company’s external independent auditor, transportation companies are owned by PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. Ahold Delhaize A summary of our application of the GRI Standards is included in the GRI Index which can be found at www.aholddelhaize.com. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 221 Sustainable Retailing data People Associate diversity Safety at work Performance indicator description 2018 2017 Performance indicator description 2018 2017 Number of associates (thousands)2 372 369 Rate of lost days due to accidents1 2.4 2.5 % of female associates2 53% 53% Occupational illness frequency rate2 0.11 0.14 % of female Executive Committee members 14% 11% 1 Safety at work data excludes offices. 2018 data includes bol.com, Etos and Gall & Gall. 2018 and 2017 data for Delhaize % of female Supervisory Board members 22% 17% Belgium is reported for Q4 2017-Q3 2018. 2017 Albert Heijn data may include an overestimation of the number of incidents, due to reporting limitations. % of male associates2 47% 47% 2 Safety at work data excludes offices. 2018 data excludes Delhaize Belgium, Alfa Beta, Delhaize Serbia, Mega Image, Albert % of full-time associates2 33% 32% and Peapod. 2018 data includes Etos and Gall & Gall. 2017 data includes Ahold Delhaize USA only. % of female, full-time associates1 47% % of male, full-time associates1 53% Local community connection Performance indicator description 2018 2017 % of part-time associates2 67% 68% % of female, part-time associates1 56% Total monetary value of our company’s corporate citizenship / % of male, part-time associates1 44% philanthropic contributions (€ millions) 140.1 176.9 Cash contributions (€ millions) 14.1 15.4 % Greatest Generation (1900-1945) 2 1% 1% In kind and volunteer hours cash-equivalent contributions % Baby Boomers (1946-1964)2 16% 17% (€ millions) 126.0 161.5 % Generation X (1965-1979)2 22% 22% % total Ahold Delhaize contributions as charitable donations 88% % Generation Y (1980-1995)2 27% 29% % total Ahold Delhaize contributions as community investments 3% % Generation Z (1996+)2 34% 32% % total Ahold Delhaize contributions as commercial initiatives 8% % associates covered by collective bargaining2 56% 58% Total monetary value of donations by customers, suppliers 1 In 2017, we did not report % of female / male full-time associates, or % of female / male part-time associates. and associates to charities, facilitated by Ahold Delhaize brands 2 2018 and 2017 data includes Peapod, Gall & Gall, Etos and bol.com (€ millions) 8 7 % of cash and cash-equivalent donations to charities by the Associate engagement1 company on pre-tax profit 7% 9% Performance indicator description 2018 2017 Tonnes of food donated 57,599 52,731 Associate engagement score 79% 78% Healthy workplace score 74% 73% Inclusive workplace score 78% 77% Associate development score 72% 71% 1 2018 and 2017 figures include Peapod, Gall & Gall and Etos. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 222 Sustainable Retailing data Planet Food waste Climate impact1 Performance indicator description 2018 2017 Performance indicator description 2018 2017 Tonnes of food waste per food sales (t/€ million) 5.2 5.3 % change in CO2 equivalent emissions per m2 of sales area Tonnes of food waste sent to disposal per food sales (t/€ million) 1.2 1.7 (from 2008 baseline)2 (28)% (26)% % of total food waste recycled 77% 68% Total CO2 -equivalent emissions per m2 sales area – % food waste recycled for animal feed1 24% 24% location-based approach (kg CO2 -eq/m2)2 456 471 % food waste recycled for biogas generation 33% 33% Total CO2 -equivalent emissions (thousand tonnes) – % food waste recycled for compost 9% 10% location-based approach2 4,215 4,274 Scope 1 (thousand tonnes)2 1,816 1,632 % food waste recycled by rendering1 34% 33% Scope 2 (thousand tonnes) 1,950 2,195 % of unsold food donated to feed people2 19% 18% Scope 3 (thousand tonnes)2 449 447 1 2017 data is restated to correct recycling classifications at Albert Heijn. Total CO2 -equivalent emissions per m2 sales area – 2 2017 data is restated to include the Giant Food, Giant/Martin’s, and Stop & Shop brands. market-based approach (kg CO2 -eq/m2)2 430 432 Waste Total CO2 -equivalent emissions (thousand tonnes) – market-based approach2 3,973 3,920 Performance indicator description 2018 2017 Scope 2 (thousand tonnes) 1,707 1,840 Total waste generated (thousand tonnes) 1,024 1,029 1 2018 figures include Gall & Gall and Etos. % of waste sent to landfill 15% 18% 2 We have restated 2017 figures to include more accurate: GWP for our refrigerants, sales area and actual fuel usage. % of waste incinerated and transformed into energy 9% 9% % of waste recycled 76% 73% Refrigerants1 Number of non-reusable carrier bags distributed (million bags)1 3,915 4,366 Performance indicator description 2018 2017 1 2018 figure includes Peapod. Refrigerants equivalent emissions (thousand tonnes)2 1,343 1,196 Refrigerants equivalent emissions per m2 of sales area (kg CO2 -eq/m2)2 145 132 % ozone-friendly refrigerants 77% 74% Average refrigerant Global Warming Potential (GWP)2 2,320 2,370 Refrigerant leakage rate 14% 12% 1 2018 figures include Gall & Gall and Etos. 2 We have restated 2017 figures to include more accurate: GWP for our refrigerants and sales area. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 223 Sustainable Retailing data Planet continued Energy consumption1 Transport1 Performance indicator description 2018 2017 Performance indicator description 2018 2017 Facilities energy consumption CO2 -equivalent emissions Transport equivalent emissions (thousand tonnes)2 445 411 (Scopes 1 & 2) (thousand tonnes) 2,427 2,668 Transport equivalent emissions per m2 of sales area Facilities energy consumption equivalent emissions (kg CO2 -eq/m2)2 48 45 per m2 sales area (kg CO2 -eq/m2) 263 294 Fuel consumption by trucks (million liters)2 155 143 Facilities energy consumption (million kWh) 6,833 6,667 1 2018 figures include Gall & Gall and Etos. Facilities energy consumption per m2 sales area (kWh/m2) 826 812 2 Transport emissions and fuel includes distribution networks owned and operated by Ahold Delhaize, as well as third-party contractors that serve our stores. We have readjusted our 2017 figures to better reflect actual fuel usage. This has a 6% impact Total renewable electricity produced on site (million kWh) 20 20 on our figures. % renewable electricity on total electricity consumed 12.7% 15.5% Avoided grid electricity CO2 emissions (thousand tonnes) 248 362 Water1 1 2018 figures include Gall & Gall and Etos. Performance indicator description 2018 2017 Total water consumption (thousand m3) 8,016 7,546 Total water consumption (m3) per m2 of sales area 1.03 0.96 1 2018 and 2017 data excludes Albert Heijn. 2017 data includes estimates for Delhaize Belgium affiliated stores. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 224 Sustainable Retailing data Product Promote healthier eating Commodities Performance indicator description 2018 2017 Performance indicator description 2018 2017 % of healthy own-brand food sales of total own-brand food % of own-brand products containing tea certified against sales 47% 46% an acceptable standard 84% 72% % of own-brand products with front-of-pack nutritional % of own-brand coffee products certified against an labeling1 88% 87% acceptable standard 87% 82% 1 2017 data excludes Mega Image and Delhaize Belgium. % of own-brand products containing cocoa certified against an acceptable standard 49% 53% Product safety % of own-brand products containing over 25% cocoa Performance indicator description 2018 2017 certified against an acceptable standard 69% % of production units of own-brand food products that are % of own-brand products containing under 25% cocoa Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI)-certified or comply with certified against an acceptable standard 34% an acceptable level of assurance standard 93.2% 91.2% % of palm oil volume in own-brand products certified % of production units for own-brand food products that to an acceptable standard or to RSPO Book & Claim 100% 100% are certified according to a GFSI-recognized standard 88.9% 87.6% % of palm oil volume in own-brand products certified % of production units for own-brand food products that against an acceptable standard (Mass Balance or comply with an acceptable level of assurance standard Segregated supply chain option) 86% 80% (other than GFSI) 4.3% 3.6% % of palm oil volume in own-brand products offset % of production units of high-risk non-food own-brand by purchase of RSPO Book & Claim 14% 20% products audited by an independent third-party against % of own-brand wood fiber products certified sustainable acceptable standards for the relevant product category1 64% 53% against an acceptable standard, low-risk, or recycled 52% 48% 1 2017 data excludes Albert Heijn, Albert, Hannaford and Food Lion. % of own-brand paper and wood packaging (as defined, and per SKU) certified sustainable against an acceptable Social compliance standard, low risk, or recycled1 37% Performance indicator description 2018 2017 % of high priority (South American) direct and embedded soy % of production units of own-brand products in high-risk volumes in the supply chain of own-brand products certified countries audited against an acceptable standard with a against an acceptable standard2 91% 80% valid audit report or certificate and no non-compliances % of own-brand seafood product sales certified against an on deal-breakers1 66% 59% acceptable standard, from sustainable sources assessed by a credible third party, or from credible FIPs / AIPs 94% 92% 1 2017 Hannaford and Food Lion figures refer to private label products. 2017 data for all other brands refers to own-brand products. % of own-brand seafood product sales with an identified farm / fishery of origin 100% 99% % total seafood sales from products certified to MSC or ASC3 38% 14% % total seafood sales from products certified to MSC 25% 9% % total seafood sales from products certified to ASC 12% 5% 1 2018 data excludes Albert Heijn. 2 Soy credits are purchased through the Roundtable on Responsible Soy. 2017 Delhaize Belgium figure is reported as Q4 2016-Q3 2017. 3 2018 data excludes Albert Heijn, Albert and Ahold Delhaize USA brands. 2017 data excludes Albert Heijn and Albert. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 225 Sustainable Retailing data Product continued Organics Performance indicator description 2018 2017 % total food sales from certified organic products 3% 4% Total sales from free-from or organic own-brand lines (€ millions) 1,554 1,451 Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 226 Definitions Acceptable standards and certifications for commodities RSPO Mass Balance certifies that palm oil comes from a mix of RSPO-certified and -uncertified • Rainforest Alliance (RA) / Sustainable Agriculture Network (SAN) The specific definitions outlined Ahold Delhaize defines acceptable standards palm plantations. RSPO Book & Claim enables • Sustainable Agriculture in South Africa (SIZA) below add context to our as multi-stakeholder initiatives, or standards companies to buy credits from RSPO-certified • Sustainably Grown; Social Accountability (SA) supported by multiple stakeholders. They include growers, crushers and independent smallholders. Sustainable Retailing data, third-party verification and focus on mitigating the To comply with RSPO Certification requirements, 8000 as well as detail to some main environmental and social issues associated any supplier that uses palm-based ingredients • UTZ Certified†† of the specific calculations. with a commodity’s production. Acceptable must be RSPO Chain of Custody-Certified, • Wine and Agricultural Ethical Trade Association standards are science-based, globally consistent and purchase RSPO-Certified (Mass Balance (WIETA) and focus on continuously improving production or Segregated) palm oil. † Only audit reports conducted by external, independent auditors are considered equivalent. and supply chain practices. Acceptable Animal welfare ††Only applicable if the production unit is a farm. standards for tea, coffee, and cocoa include UTZ The treatment of animals along our product Certification, Rainforest Alliance, Fairtrade USA / Associate engagement survey supply chain. Fairtrade International or equivalent standards. Associate engagement is measured through Acceptable standards for palm oil include Automation and socio-economic impact an annual associate engagement survey of all Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) The impact of automation and new technologies associates employed by Ahold Delhaize brands. Principles & Criteria, Rainforest Alliance SAN on our workforce. A number of items in the survey are used to Standard or equivalent standards. Acceptable derive and calculate an associate engagement amfori BSCI standards for wood fiber are the Forest score. amfori BSCI (Business Social Compliance Stewardship Council (FSC) Chain of Custody, Initiative): a non-profit organization that supports • Healthy workplace: Through the associate Program for Endorsement of Forest Certification more than 1,000 international companies in the engagement survey, associates are asked (PEFC) Grade A standards, Sustainable process of monitoring and improving working about the support they receive to have Forestry Initiative (SFI) or equivalent standards. conditions in the global supply chain through its healthier lives. Acceptable standards for soy are Roundtable own auditing program. We consider the following • Inclusive workplace: Through the associate on Responsible Soy (RTRS) standard for standards to be “BSCI Equivalent”: engagement survey, associates are asked Responsible Soy Production, ProTerra, or equivalent. We purchase area-based RTRS • Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) / SMETA about the support they receive to have a more credits from the Cerrado Region. Acceptable inclusive workplace. • Fair for Life / For Life standards for seafood products include • Associate development: Through the associate • Fair Labor Association (FLA)† certification against a program that is recognized engagement survey, associates are asked by the Global Sustainable Seafood Initiative • Fair Trade USA†† about the support they receive to develop their (GSSI) or Aquaculture Stewardship Council • Fairtrade Hired Labor careers with Ahold Delhaize. (ASC) farm standards. • Fairtrade Textile Associate engagement benchmarks Palm oil RSPO-certified • Florverde†† Global retail benchmark: This is a reflection The Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) of companies in the retail sector that have a • Initiative Clause Sociale (ICS) initiated a certification program to promote bricks and mortar and online presence globally. the use of sustainable palm oil, with different • Intertek Workplace Conditions Assessment Ahold Delhaize defines this more broadly than supply chain options: RSPO Segregated, (WCA) just grocery retailers and the countries we have RSPO Mass Balance and RSPO Book & Claim. • Kenya Flower Council (KFC) certification a presence in because we compete for talent with RSPO Segregated certifies that palm oil only • MPS – Socially Qualified (SQ) all retailers globally and we want to understand comes from RSPO-certified palm plantations. our strengths and opportunities against the global talent competition. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 227 Definitions Regional retail benchmark: This is a combination of direct competitors for business and talent The Group’s total CO2 -equivalent emissions and energy figures include all energy and related Market-based approach The GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance defines continued defined by the Ahold Delhaize brands and with emissions data as defined by the scopes above, the market-based approach as “a method that locations in the countries and regions where we including data from facilities that closed or reflects emissions from electricity that companies have a presence. It allows Ahold Delhaize to have opened during 2018. have purposefully chosen (or their lack of choice). a clearer understanding of our strengths and It derives emission factors from contractual We use the latest available emission factors in opportunities against our direct competitors for instruments, which include any type of contract our reporting. We source electricity emission retail and distribution talent in the countries where between two parties for the sale and purchase of factors from the International Energy Agency we have a presence. energy bundled with attributes about the energy (IEA, 2018 edition; 2016 data) for European generation, or for unbundled attribute claims. Biodiversity countries and from GHG Protocol 2014 (based Markets differ as to what contractual instruments The variety of species present on earth, or in on eGrid 2016 values, issued in February 2018 by are commonly available or used by companies a specific habitat or ecosystem. the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency – EPA) to purchase energy or claim specific attributes for the United States. We source fuel emission Carbon footprint methodology and data scope about it, but they can include energy attribute factors from GHG Protocol 2014 wherever The carbon footprint methodology follows the certificates (RECs, GOs, etc.), direct contracts available and otherwise from other appropriate guidelines of the World Business Council for (for both low-carbon, renewable, or fossil fuel sources. For refrigerant leakages, we apply the Sustainable Development (WBCSD) / World generation), supplier-specific emission rates, and Global Warming Potentials (GWP) for refrigerant Resources Institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas other default emission factors representing the blends used in Ahold Delhaize facilities based on (GHG) Protocol regarding corporate greenhouse untracked or unclaimed energy and emissions Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change gas accounting and reporting. Our Ahold (termed the ‘residual mix’) if a company does not Assessment Report data IPCC, AR5 (2014). Delhaize carbon footprint reporting takes have other contractual information that meets the into account Scope 1, Scope 2 and limited We do not extend our reporting to include all Scope 2 Quality Criteria.” Scope 3 emissions. Scope 3 emissions, but we work with our peer Deforestation companies and suppliers to better understand Scope 1 (direct GHG emissions): emissions from The removal of a forest or stand of trees from the climate change impact we have throughout sources that are owned or controlled by Ahold land which is then converted to a non-forest use. our entire value chain. Scope 3 defined by the Delhaize. Scope 1 emissions include emissions Deforestation can involve conversion of forest GHG Protocol accounts for all the remaining from refrigerant leakages, owned trucking land to farms, ranches, or urban use. The most emissions that result from our activities, ranging and on-site fuel usage (natural gas, propane, concentrated deforestation occurs in tropical from products transportation to affiliated stores light fuel). rainforests. to emissions from our supply chain, including Scope 2 (indirect GHG emissions): emissions emissions from growing and packaging the Food waste from the generation of purchased electricity, food we sell. As defined by the Food and Agriculture heat or steam consumed by the company. Organization of the United Nations (FAO), food CO2 emissions / CO2 equivalent (CO2e) They are not “direct” emissions in that they arise waste is any removal of food from the food supply The CO2 (carbon dioxide) emissions data we from third-party installations but are attributed chain which is or was at some point fit for human report consists of a calculated CO2 equivalent: to the company’s operations as the end user consumption, but has been disposed of, or has actual CO2 emitted plus equivalent emissions of the electricity, heat or steam. spoiled or expired, mainly as a result of economic from other greenhouse gases (such as CH4, behavior, poor stock management or neglect. Limited Scope 3 (other indirect emissions): N2O and F-gases). In our calculations, in contrast to shrink, food emissions from franchise stores (including Location-based approach waste excludes donations from hunger relief estimates) and affiliated stores; trucking The GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance defines organizations, theft, and cash shortages. emissions from subcontracted trucks that the location-based approach as “a method that deliver Ahold Delhaize products from operated reflects the average emissions intensity of grids distribution centers to stores. on which energy consumption occurs (using mostly grid-average emission factor data).” Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 228 Definitions Food Loss and Waste Protocol A multi-stakeholder effort to develop the global Global Sustainable Seafood Initiative (GSSI) A global platform and partnership of seafood Last-stage of production unit The entity that performs the last stage of continued accounting and reporting standard (known companies, NGOs, experts and governmental production or processing in the supply chain as the FLW Standard) for quantifying food and and intergovernmental organizations working where food and non-food safety and / or working associated inedible parts removed from the food towards more sustainable seafood. GSSI’s conditions are impacted. The last stage of supply chain (referred to for simplicity’s sake as Global Benchmark Tool includes GSSI Essential production (LSOP) is: “food loss and waste”). For more information, Components that are based on the Code of • For food safety: the location where the see www.flwprotocol.org. Conduct for Responsible Fisheries (CCRF) and final consumer product (including packing) the FAO Guidelines and that seafood certification Free from products is handled. schemes must meet to be recognized by GSSI. Free from products exclude certain ingredients, • For non-food safety: the location where the such as allergens, synthetic colors or artificial Global Warming Potential (GWP) final consumer product (excluding packing) flavors. The excluded ingredients are normally Defined by the GHG Protocol as “a factor is assembled. referenced on the packaging or product describing the radiative forcing impact • For social compliance: the location where marketing materials. (degree of harm to the atmosphere) of one labor is involved in producing or processing the unit of a given GHG relative to one unit of CO2.” Front-of-pack nutritional labeling final product – (re-)packing in a non-high-risk By using GWP, GHG emissions can be Nutritional labeling (showing the amount of country is excluded. standardized to a carbon dioxide equivalent certain nutrients) that is on the front of a product Materiality matrix (CO2e) that allows expressing the emissions package. At a minimum, it comprises the calories In a materiality matrix, social, environmental of different greenhouse gases using carbon per serving. and economic issues are plotted along two dioxide as a reference. For example, for a GFSI 100-year time horizon, the impact of one unit dimensions: their influence on stakeholder Global Food Safety Initiative: a Consumer of methane is 25 times greater than one unit assessments and decisions and the significance Goods Forum activity that enables continuous of CO2 (according to IPCC’s 4th assessment of Ahold Delhaize’s social, environmental and improvement of food safety management report). Hence, methane’s global warming economic impact on these topics. across the supply chain, through benchmarking, potential (GWP) is 25. National brands collaboration and harmonization of food safety Products that are distributed nationally under a Average GWP certification programs. brand name owned by the producer or distributor. The GWP of all refrigerants we use in our Greenhouse gases systems (including stores and distribution Occupational illness frequency rate Gases such as carbon dioxide or methane centers) weighted in relation to their total charge. Work-related illnesses or diseases occurring that contribute to climate change. in the course or scope of employment. Healthy products Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Products that meet nutritional criteria Occupational illnesses or diseases are only An independent international not-for-profit as determined by Guiding Stars (in the U.S.) measured if a patient requires a medical organization that developed the GRI and Choices nutrition criteria (in Europe). professional to administer direct care or evaluate Sustainability Reporting Standards and See guidingstars.com or the illness or disease. In the U.S., information works to support their implementation. www.choicesprogramme.org. from our local claims management or insurance providers is used to monitor performance in Healthy and sustainable diets this area. Since local claims management or Products that meet nutritional criteria and insurance providers need to comply with local services and the information that we provide legislation, the acceptance of illnesses or on facilitating healthier and more sustainable diseases as work-related can deviate across diets for our customers and associates. brands. Occupational illnesses are calculated per one million hours worked. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 229 Definitions Own brands Own-brand products, at Ahold Delhaize Private label products Private label products are a sub-set of Product transparency The degree to which we are transparent to continued company-operated and affiliated stores, include: Ahold Delhaize own brands, consisting of customers about products, their supply chains private labels, fancy brands (proprietary private products with a visible proprietary label from and their health and sustainability impacts. labels that are a fantasy name owned by Ahold an Ahold Delhaize brand. United Nations Global Compact Delhaize), exclusive brands (brands that are Rate of lost days due to accidents An initiative for businesses committed to aligning not international, national or regional brands), Number of days lost that are directly related their operations and strategies with 10 universally store-prepared products (in-store food to work-related accidents per 200,000 hours accepted principles in the areas of human rights, preparation, even if derived from branded stock), worked. The number of days lost are days labor, environmental and anti-corruption. non-branded products (such as bulk fruit and scheduled to be worked according to each vegetables or no name non-food products) Waste associate’s schedule. An accident is a non-fatal and promotional items relating to the former. “Total Waste Generated” includes all waste, or fatal injury arising in the course of work. In short, every product that is not an international, regardless of the waste management (recycling, national or regional brand is considered to be Responsible tax incineration or landfill). It is broken down by an own-brand product. Paying a sufficient, responsible level of tax percentage sent to landfill, recycled, and sent in proportion to our profit. to incinerators that produce energy. Waste data Ozone-friendly refrigerant covers all types of facilities (stores, distribution A refrigerant that has no ozone depletion potential Sales area centers, and offices). Information about all (ODP=0), meaning there is no degradation The sum of the store areas (in square meters) waste disposal methods has been determined to the ozone layer. The data are based on the where products are sold and services provided, through information provided by the waste 2015 Report from United Nations Environment taken at the end of the year. disposal contractors. Programme (UNEP), “TOC Refrigeration, A/C Sustainable agriculture and Heat Pumps Assessment Report 2015.” Waste recycling Sustainable farming practices that safeguard All methods that do not include sending waste Personal data / privacy natural resources (soil, water, ecosystems) and to landfill or incineration. For food waste, this The protection of personal data from consumers reduce impact on climate change. includes four methods: recycling through animal and associates. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) feed, recycling through biogas generation for Plastics The United Nations SDGs are a universal energy, composting and rendering. For other The life-cycle impact of our use of plastics call to action to end poverty, protect the waste streams, such as cardboard, paper, plastic in products and packaging (including planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and other waste, recycling refers to applied shopping bags). and prosperity. The 17 goals replace the methods for each specific waste type. Millennium Development Goals and are set on a 2016-2030 timeframe. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 230 Assurance report To: the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. Assurance report on the sustainability information 2018 of the independent Our conclusion auditor Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability information included in the Annual Report 2018 of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. does not present, in all material respects, a reliable and adequate view of: • the policy and business operations with regard to sustainability; and • the thereto related events and achievements for the year ended December 30, 2018 in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the internally applied reporting criteria as included in the section “reporting criteria”. What we have reviewed We have reviewed the sustainability information included in the annual report for the year ended December 30, 2018, as included in the following sections in the annual report (hereafter: “the sustainability information”): • Message from our CEO (page 3 to 5); • Group highlights (page 6); • Who we are (page 7 to 29); • Group sustainability performance review (page 47 to 49); • Performance: Sustainability, sections Introduction, Progress towards 2020 and Sustainable Retailing data (page 214 to 229). This review is aimed at obtaining a limited level of assurance. The links to external sources or websites in the sustainability information are not part of the sustainability information reviewed by us. We do not provide assurance over information outside of the annual report. The sustainability information comprises a representation of the policy and business operations of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands (hereafter: “Ahold Delhaize”) with regard to sustainability and the thereto related business operations, events and achievements for the year ended December 30, 2018. The basis for our conclusion We have performed our review in accordance with Dutch law, which includes the Dutch Standard 3810N “Assuranceopdrachten inzake maatschappelijke verslagen” (“Assurance engagements on corporate social responsibility reports”), which is a specified Dutch Standard that is based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. Our responsibilities under this standard are further described in the section “Our responsibilities for the review of the sustainability information” of this assurance report. We believe that the assurance information we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. Independence and quality control We are independent of Ahold Delhaize in accordance with the “Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assuranceopdrachten” (ViO – Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and other for the engagement relevant independence requirements in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the “Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants” (VGBA – “Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to rules of professional conduct”). We apply the “Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen” (NVKS – “Regulations for quality systems”) and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and other applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 231 Assurance report Reporting criteria The sustainability information needs to be read and understood in conjunction with the reporting criteria. The Management Board of Ahold Delhaize of the independent is solely responsible for selecting and applying these reporting criteria, taking into account applicable law and regulations related to reporting. auditor The reporting criteria used for the preparation of the sustainability information are the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the internally applied reporting criteria, as disclosed in sections Scope (page 220) and Definitions (page 226 to 229) of the Annual continued Report. The absence of a significant body of established practice on which to draw, to evaluate and measure non-financial information allows for different, but acceptable, measurement techniques and can affect comparability between entities and over time. Limitations to the scope of our review The sustainability information includes prospective information such as expectations on ambitions, strategy, plans and estimates and risk assessments. Inherently, the actual results are likely to differ from these expectations. These differences may be material. We do not provide any assurance on the assumptions and the achievability of prospective information in the sustainability information. Responsibilities for the sustainability information and the review Responsibilities of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board The Management Board of Ahold Delhaize is responsible for the preparation of the sustainability information in accordance with the reporting criteria as included in section “reporting criteria”, including the identification of stakeholders and the definition of material matters. The choices made by the Management Board regarding the scope of the sustainability information and the reporting policy are summarized in sections Scope (page 220) and Definitions (page 226 to 229) of the Annual Report. The Management Board is responsible for determining that the applicable reporting criteria are acceptable in the circumstances. The Management Board is also responsible for such internal control as the Management Board determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the sustainability information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or errors. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the company’s reporting process on the sustainability information. Our responsibilities for the review of the sustainability information Our responsibility is to plan and perform the review engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate assurance information to provide a basis for our conclusion. Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed to determine the plausibility of information and vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent, than for a reasonable assurance engagement. The level of assurance obtained in review engagements is therefore substantially less than the assurance obtained in audit engagements. Misstatements can arise from fraud or errors and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the sustainability information. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our review procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our conclusion. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 232 Assurance report Procedures performed We communicate with the Supervisory Board on our planned scope, procedures performed, timing of the engagement and on the significant findings that of the independent result from our procedures. auditor These procedures included amongst others: • Performing an analysis of the external environment and obtaining insight into relevant social themes and issues and the characteristics of the company. continued • Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria used, their consistent application and related disclosures in the sustainability information. This includes the evaluation of the results of the stakeholders’ dialogue and the reasonableness of estimates made by the Management Board. • Obtaining an understanding of the reporting processes for the sustainability information, including obtaining a general understanding of internal control relevant to our review. • Identifying areas of the sustainability information with a higher risk of misleading or unbalanced information or material misstatement, whether due to fraud or errors. Designing and performing further assurance procedures aimed at determining the plausibility of the sustainability information responsive to this risk analysis. These procedures consisted amongst others of: • Interviewing management (and / or relevant staff) at corporate and local level responsible for the sustainability strategy, policy and results; • Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the information for, carrying out internal control procedures on, and consolidating the data in the sustainability information; • Determining the nature and extent of the review procedures for the group components and locations. For this, the nature, extent and / or risk profile of these components are decisive. Based thereon we selected the components and locations to visit. The visits to entities in Belgium and the United States of America are aimed at, on a local level, validating source data and evaluating the design and implementation of internal controls and validation procedures; • Obtaining assurance information that the sustainability information reconciles with underlying records of the company; • Reviewing, on a limited test basis, relevant internal and external documentation; • Performing an analytical review of the data and trends in the information submitted for consolidation at corporate level. • Reconciling the financial information as included in the sections we reviewed, with the financial statements. • Evaluating the consistency of the sustainability information with the information in the Annual Report, which is not included in the scope of our review. • Evaluating the presentation, structure and content of the sustainability information. • To consider whether the sustainability information as a whole, including the disclosures, reflects the purpose of the reporting criteria used and has been prepared “in accordance” with the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative. We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained professional scepticism throughout the review, in accordance with the Dutch Standard 3810N, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Amsterdam, February 26, 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. Original has been signed by D. van Ameijden RA Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 233 234 Share performance 235 Shareholder returns 236 Key dates 237 Shareholder structure 238 Five-year overview 240 Contact information 241 Cautionary notice Investors Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 234 Share performance Share performance in 2018 During 2018, the highest closing price for Ahold Delhaize’s shares on Euronext Amsterdam was Performance of Ahold Delhaize’s common shares on Euronext Amsterdam On December 28, 2018, the closing price of €23.13 on November 13, 2018, and the lowest 2018 2017 an Ahold Delhaize ordinary share on Euronext was €17.26 on February 6, 2018. Closing common share Amsterdam was €22.07, a 20.3% increase price at calendar compared to €18.34 on December 29, 2017. On December 28, 2018, the closing price of year-end (in €) 22.07 18.34 During the same period, the Euro STOXX 50 Ahold Delhaize’s ADR was $25.23, 14.6% index decreased by (14.8)% and the AEX index higher than the closing price on December 29, Average closing common decreased by (11.1)%. 2017 ($22.01). In the same period, the Dow share price (in €) 20.04 18.10 Jones index decreased by 7.10% and the S&P Highest closing common In 2018, Ahold Delhaize shares traded on share price (in €) 23.13 20.76 500 decreased by 7.79%. In 2018, the average Euronext Amsterdam at an average closing price daily trading volume of Ahold Delhaize Lowest closing common of €20.04 and an average daily trading volume American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) was share price (in €) 17.26 14.80 of 5.7 million shares. Ahold Delhaize’s market 146,533. Average daily trading capitalization was €24.9 billion at year-end 2018. volume 5,663,575 5,388,669 Market capitalization Ahold Delhaize share price (€ million) 24,938 22,508 € Source: FactSet 25 20 15 10 5 2016 2017 2018 Highest closing Lowest closing Year-end price Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 235 Shareholder returns For the 2017 financial year, a cash dividend of €0.63 per common share was approved by the annual General Meeting of Shareholders on April 11, 2018 and paid on April 26, 2018. On November 13, 2018, the Company announced it would introduce semi-annual dividend payments as of 2019. The interim dividend per share will be announced on the date of the release of the second quarter results and will be equal to 40% of the year-to-date underlying income per share from continuing operations. The announced cash dividend of €0.70 per common share for the financial year 2018 is up 11.1% from last year and will be proposed to shareholders at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on April 10, 2019. The payout ratio of 42% is within our dividend policy range of 40–50% of underlying income from continuing operations and the 5 percentage points decrease compared to last year. Shareholders key performance indicators 2014–2018 2018 2017 2016 20152 20142 Dividend per common share 1 0.70 0.63 0.57 0.52 0.48 Dividend yield 3.2% 3.4% 2.8% 2.7% 3.3% Payout ratio3 42% 47% 48% 49% 51% 1 2018 dividend subject to the approval of the annual General Meeting of Shareholders. 2 2014 and 2015 numbers refer to Ahold only. 3 Dividend payout ratio for 2014 and 2015 is based on adjusted income from continuing operations. For 2017 and 2016, the payout ratio is based on underlying income from continuing operations (on a pro forma basis). Dividends on cumulative preferred financing shares Ahold Delhaize paid an annual dividend on cumulative preferred financing shares in 2018 and, as required by the terms of the shares, plans to pay dividends on these shares in 2019. Share buyback On November 8, 2017, Ahold Delhaize announced it will return €2 billion to shareholders by means of a share buyback program, which was completed on December 20, 2018. An additional €1 billion share buyback program was announced on November 13, 2018, which is expected to be completed before the end of 2019. Maintaining a balanced approach between funding growth in key channels and returning excess liquidity to shareholders is part of Ahold Delhaize’s financial framework to support our Leading Together strategy. The purpose of the program is to reduce Ahold Delhaize’s capital, by cancelling all or part of the common shares acquired through the program. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 236 Key dates Key dates 2019 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders April 10 Ex-dividend date April 12 Dividend record date April 15 Payment date April 25 Publication Q1 2019 results May 8 Publication Q2 2019 results August 7 Publication Q3 2019 results November 6 AGM 2019 This year’s annual General Meeting of Shareholders will be held at the Muziekgebouw aan ‘t IJ in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, on April 10, 2019. The meeting will start at 2.00 pm (CET). The agenda and explanatory notes to the agenda can be found on our website at www.aholddelhaize.com. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 237 Shareholder Share capital During 2018, Ahold Delhaize’s issued and Shareholders by region1: % February 2019 February, 2018 Security codes Common shares: structure outstanding share capital decreased by U.K. / Ireland 16.1 20.8 Ticker: AD approximately 97 million common shares to North America 26.9 19.8 Rest of Europe 9.2 12.0 Bloomberg code: AD NA 1,130 million common shares. This decrease resulted mainly from the share buyback of France 8.6 9.2 ISIN code: NL0011794037 €2 billion as announced on November 8, 2017, The Netherlands2 4.4 4.9 CUSIP: N0074E105 marginally offset by the issuance of shares for Rest of the world 4.5 4.3 the Company’s share-based compensation Germany 3.5 3.7 American Depositary Receipts (ADR): program. Undisclosed2 26.8 25.3 Ticker: ADRNY The common shares issued decreased by 1 Source: CMi2i. Bloomberg code: ADRNY US 63 million to 1,184 million at the end of 2018. 2 The Netherlands excludes the percentage of shareholdings ISIN code: US5004675014 The difference between the common shares of all retail holdings and treasury shares, which are included in Undisclosed. outstanding and common shares issued are CUSIP: 500467501 the treasury shares. For additional information about Ahold Delhaize’s Structure: Sponsored Level I ADR share capital, see Notes 20 and 22 to the As of December 30, 2018, there were 54 million consolidated financial statements. Ahold Delhaize Exchange: OTC shares held in treasury, the majority held by is a public limited liability company registered in Ahold Delhaize to cover the equity-based Ratio (DR:ORD): 1:1 the Netherlands with a listing of shares (symbol: long-term incentive plan. AD) on Euronext’s Amsterdam Stock Exchange Other codes: Ahold Delhaize’s authorized share capital (AEX) and Euronext Brussels. Reuters code: AD.AS as of December 30, 2018, was comprised of the following: American Depositary Receipts • 1,923,515,827 common shares at €0.01 (ADRs) par value each Ahold Delhaize’s shares trade in the United • 326,484,173 cumulative preferred financing States on the over-the-counter (OTC) market shares at €0.01 par value each (www.otcmarkets.com) in the form of American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) (ticker: ADRNY). • 2,250,000,000 cumulative preferred shares The ratio between Ahold Delhaize ADRs and at €0.01 par value each the ordinary Netherlands (euro denominated) shares is 1:1, i.e., one ADR represents one Ahold Delhaize ordinary share. Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas (the Depositary) acts as the depositary bank for Ahold Delhaize’s ADR program. Please also see Contact information for details on how to contact Deutsche Bank regarding the ADR program. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 238 Five-year overview Results, cash flow and other information € million, except per share data, exchange rates and percentages 2018 2017 20161 2015 2014 Net sales 62,791 62,890 49,695 38,203 32,774 Net sales growth at constant exchange rates2 2.5% 28.9% 32.3% 2.3% 0.8% Operating income 2,395 2,225 1,584 1,318 1,250 Underlying operating margin 4.1% 3.9% 3.8% 3.8% 3.9% Net interest expense (259) (284) (276) (244) (222) Income from continuing operations 1,809 1,817 830 849 791 Income (loss) from discontinued operations (16) — – 2 (197) Net income 1,793 1,817 830 851 594 Net income per common share (basic) 1.52 1.45 0.81 1.04 0.68 Net income per common share (diluted) 1.50 1.43 0.81 1.02 0.67 Income from continuing operations per common share (basic) 1.54 1.45 0.81 1.04 0.90 Income from continuing operations per common share (diluted) 1.52 1.43 0.81 1.02 0.88 Dividend per common share 0.70 0.63 0.57 0.52 0.48 Free cash flow 2,342 1,926 1,441 1,184 1,055 Net cash from operating, investing and financing activities (1,587) 827 2,114 73 (1,005) Capital expenditures (including acquisitions)3 2,060 1,822 16,775 1,172 1,006 Capital expenditures as % of net sales 3.3% 2.9% 33.8% 3.1% 3.1% Regular capital expenditures4 2,025 1,723 1,377 811 740 Regular capital expenditures as % of net sales 3.2% 2.7% 2.8% 2.1% 2.3% Average exchange rate (€ per $) 0.8476 0.8868 0.9038 0.9001 0.7529 1 Included former Delhaize business as of July 24, 2016. 2 Net sales growth in 2016 and 2015 is adjusted for the impact of week 53 in 2015. 3 The amounts represent additions to property, plant and equipment; investment property; and intangible assets. The amounts include assets acquired through business combinations as well as new finance leases and exclude discontinued operations. 4 The amounts exclude assets acquired through business combinations and conversion expenditure of acquired stores and acquired finance leases. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 239 Five-year overview Balance sheet and other information December 30, December 31, January 1, January 3, December 28, continued € million, except for number of stores and otherwise indicated 2018 2017 2017 2016 2014 Group equity1 14,816 15,170 16,276 5,621 4,844 Gross debt 6,612 7,250 7,561 3,502 3,197 Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term deposits and similar instruments and investments in debt instruments – current portion 3,507 4,747 4,317 2,354 1,886 Net debt 3,105 2,503 3,244 1,148 1,311 Total assets 33,331 33,871 36,275 15,880 14,138 Number of stores 6,769 6,637 6,556 3,253 3,206 Number of employees (in thousand FTEs) 225 224 225 129 126 Number of employees (in thousands headcount) 372 369 370 236 227 Common shares outstanding (in millions)1 1,130 1,228 1,272 818 823 Share price at Euronext (€) 22.07 18.34 20.03 19.48 14.66 Market capitalization1 24,938 22,508 25,484 15,944 12,059 Year-end exchange rate (€ per $) 0.8738 0.8330 0.9506 0.9208 0.8213 1 In 2018, €1,997 million was returned to shareholders through a share buyback (2017: €998 million, 2016: nil, 2015: €161 million and 2014: €1,232 million). In 2016 and 2014, €1,001 million and €1,007 million, respectively, were returned to shareholders through a capital repayment. Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 240 Contact Shareholder engagement How to get in touch General information information Ahold Delhaize proactively maintains an Investor Relations Ahold Delhaize Group Communications open, constructive and ongoing dialogue with investor.relations@aholddelhaize.com Provincialeweg 11 shareholders. We are committed to keeping +31 88 659 52 13 1506 MA Zaandam shareholders updated by informing them The Netherlands equally, simultaneously, transparently and Telephone: +31 88 659 5100 accurately about Ahold Delhaize’s strategy, Email: communications@aholddelhaize.com performance and other Company matters www.aholddelhaize.com and developments that could be relevant Trade Register No. 35000363 to investors’ decisions. Henk Jan ten Brinke Alvin Concepcion Shareholder information Analysts’ coverage SVP Investor Relations Director Investor Ahold Delhaize Investor Relations Relations Ahold Delhaize is covered by approximately Provincialeweg 11 30 analysts who frequently issue reports on 1506 MA Zaandam the Company. For an up-to-date list, visit our The Netherlands website at: www.aholddelhaize.com Telephone: +31 88 659 5213 Email: investor.relations@aholddelhaize.com Corporate website On the Company’s website you can find recent Visiting address Emily Vette and archived press releases, financial reports, Ahold Delhaize Global Support Office Manager Investor Relations annual reports, presentations, the financial Provincialeweg 11 calendar and other relevant shareholder 1506 MA Zaandam information. To receive press releases and Media Relations The Netherlands other Ahold Delhaize news, please subscribe communications@aholddelhaize.com to our email service through our website at: +31 88 659 51 34 ADR information www.aholddelhaize.com Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas c/o American Stock Transfer & Trust Company Peck Slip Station P.O. Box 2050 New York, NY 10272-2050 Email: DB@amstock.com Ellen van Ginkel Maarten van Tartwijk Director External Manager External Shareholder Service (toll-free) Communications Communications Tel. (866) 706-0509 Shareholder Service (international) Tel. (718) 921-8124 www.astfinancial.com Who we are Business review Governance Performance: Financial Performance: Sustainability Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2018 241 Cautionary notice This Annual Report includes forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements liability claims and adverse publicity; environmental liabilities associated with the Outside the Netherlands Ahold Delhaize presents itself under the name “Royal Ahold of historical facts may be forward-looking properties that the Company owns or leases; Delhaize” or “Ahold Delhaize.” For the reader’s statements. Words such as focus, future, drive, competitive labor markets, changes in labor convenience, “Ahold Delhaize,” the “Company,” commit, ambition, well-positioned to, strategy, conditions and labor disruptions; increases in the “company,” “Ahold Delhaize Group,” will, believe, can, outlook, (2020) target, expect, costs associated with the Company’s defined “Ahold Delhaize group” or the “Group” is also to be, trends, potential, likely to, opportunities, benefit pension plans; the failure or breach of used throughout this Annual Report. The could, purpose, plans, promise, strive, aim, security of IT systems; the Company’s inability Company’s registered name is “Koninklijke sustainable, taking the lead, support, goal, to successfully complete divestitures and the Ahold Delhaize N.V.” policy, perceive, ensure, objective, may, effect of contingent liabilities arising from Nielsen’s information as included in this might, think, estimates, foreseeable, opinion, completed divestitures; antitrust and similar Annual Report does not constitute a reliable intend, prospects, forward-looking, forecast, legislation; unexpected outcomes in the independent basis for investment advice or judgments, assume, possible, anticipate, Company’s legal proceedings; additional Nielsen’s opinion as to the value of any security probable, liabilities and contingencies or other expenses or capital expenditures associated or the advisability of investing in, purchasing similar words or expressions are typically used with compliance with federal, regional, state or selling any security. to identify forward-looking statements. and local laws and regulations; unexpected outcomes with respect to tax audits; the impact Forward-looking statements are subject to risks, of the Company’s outstanding financial debt; uncertainties and other factors that are difficult the Company’s ability to generate positive cash to predict and that may cause actual results of flows; fluctuation in interest rates; the change Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. (the “Company”) in reference interest rate; the impact of to differ materially from future results expressed downgrades of the Company’s credit ratings or implied by such forward-looking statements. and the associated increase in the Company’s Such factors include, but are not limited to, cost of borrowing; exchange rate fluctuations; risks relating to the Company’s inability to inherent limitations in the Company’s control successfully implement its strategy, manage the systems; changes in accounting standards; growth of its business or realize the anticipated adverse results arising from the Company’s benefits of acquisitions; risks relating to claims against its self-insurance program; the competition and pressure on profit margins in Company’s inability to locate appropriate real the food retail industry; the impact of economic estate or enter into real estate leases on conditions on consumer spending; turbulence commercially acceptable terms and other in the global capital markets; natural disasters factors discussed in the Company’s public and geopolitical events; climate change, filings and other disclosures. raw material scarcity and human rights developments in the supply chain; disruption of Forward-looking statements reflect the current operations and other factors negatively affecting views of the Company’s management and the Company’s suppliers; the unsuccessful assumptions based on information currently operation of the Company’s franchised and available to the Company’s management. affiliated stores; changes in supplier terms and Forward-looking statements speak only as inability to pass on costs to prices; risks related of the date they are made, and the Company to corporate responsibility and sustainable does not assume any obligation to update retailing; food safety issues resulting in product such statements, except as required by law.
