UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Statement of continuing support September 2019 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Statement of Continuing Support We are pleased to introduce Neighbourly’s Communication on Progress for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Neighbourly reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the UNGC in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We live in a time of political uncertainty, growing economic division and social unrest around critical issues like climate change and inequality. Over the last year, Neighbourly has worked hard to help businesses to understand the role they need to play in tackling such challenges, through financial contributions, employee engagement initiatives and product surplus redistribution. All of the 11k+ charities and community projects listed on Neighbourly are linked to the SDGs, giving an overview of the total contribution of businesses using Neighbourly within the framework of the SDGs. 2019 has been a year where businesses around the world have (been) woken up to the impact and realities of purely focusing on maximising shareholder value. This was perhaps most publically recognised by the US based Business Roundtable 1 redefining the purpose of a corporation, their move away from shareholder primacy and a commitment to all stakeholders. Closer to home, this was followed by the Financial Times 2 calling for a reset to capitalism and their belief that “the long-term health of free enterprise capitalism will depend on delivering profit with purpose”. The need for this realignment in the UK is no better evidenced than in the report by the UN Special Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights 3, which states 20% of the UK now lives in poverty, with 4m people greater than 50% below the poverty line. Our Code of Ethics underpins everything we do as a business. As a founding member of the UK B-Corp movement we will continue to promote the values of business as a force for good, demonstrate our responsibility to people and planet, and create shared value with all our stakeholders. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Steve Butterworth Chief Executive Officer 1 Business Roundtable 2 Financial Times 3 UN Special Rapporteur Principle Definition Overview Outcomes Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses The team at We continue to take steps to ensure that our business activities should support Neighbourly have set deliver a positive impact on our employees and ensure that we and respect out our commitment to only work with clients and suppliers that support and respect the the protection human rights through a protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. of range of internal and internationally publicly available Our Employee Handbook is underpinned by the Human Rights Act proclaimed documents. 1998 and clearly sets out to employees that it is essential all human rights; members of Neighbourly behave with dignity, courtesy and and; Our Employee respect, acting in a non-discriminatory manner at all times and Handbook is with all stakeholders. The Employee Handbook is in the process of Principle 2 make sure that consistently updated being updated and enhanced as the business grows and faces new they are not and issued to all new challenges, without compromising the values on which the complicit in starters and is available business was established. human rights to all staff on an abuses ongoing basis. Our Responsible Sourcing Policy and Assessment Framework continues to inform the purchasing decisions of the Neighbourly We follow a team when selecting a supplier, setting out the principles and Responsible Sourcing processes by which we will assess the credentials of prospective Policy and Assessment suppliers. It specifically sets out that we will not tolerate child Framework when labour or any form of modern day slavery in our suppliers. We collaborating with reserve the right to terminate arrangements with any organisation partners and suppliers. not complying with these principles. Our Ethics Policy is Due to the nature of our work, we interact on a daily basis with available to the public socially vulnerable and disadvantaged community groups. We through our website. have consistently subscribed to rigorous vetting procedures to These all include ensure these stakeholders are not complicit in human rights references to our abuses and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed observance of and human rights. In the last year, we have introduced and trained the commitment to the UN community team on a new complaints procedure to safeguard all Human Rights Charter our stakeholders. and principles of the UN Global Compact. At the beginning of 2019 we moved office, significantly improving the working environment for all employees, which has introduced numerous staff wellbeing benefits including increased breakout areas and co-working space. We have also introduced regular company meetings that ensures all staff are up to speed on company performance and have the opportunity to question the senior management team in an open forum on business progress and the financial health of the business. Labour Principle 3 Businesses Neighbourly believes its We consider robust labour practices as fundamental for attracting, should uphold employees are its developing and retaining the talented people that make us leaders the freedom of greatest asset and in our field. association recognises its and the responsibility to ensure Neighbourly has seen a 25% increase in staff over the last year, effective they are afforded with the company made up of 55% women and 45% men across recognition of appropriate the workforce. The Senior Management team is split 50% : 50%, the right to development while the executive team is 75% men and 25% women, in collective throughout their comparison to 83% : 17% a year ago. bargaining; employment. We value the and encourage diversity 14% of the team would identify with being from an ethnic minority Principle 4 elimination of and difference and background with equal opportunities guaranteed for all all forms of believe that we are a employees, in what is a collaborative and supportive team forced and stronger company as a environment. Flexible and part time working is offered where compulsory result. possible and temporary contracts are converted into full time labour; permanent roles at every opportunity. Principle Definition Overview Outcomes Labour Principle 5 the effective Our aim is to support Our Ethics Policy publicly sets out our responsibility to each other: abolition of and develop employees child labour; in their role so that We will at all times treat our colleagues with dignity and respect. and; they feel confident to We will work as a team, encourage collaboration, recognise the undertake the strengths of our differences, and support each other to achieve Principle 6 the responsibilities placed our shared goals. elimination of upon them and We will not tolerate discrimination, harassment or victimisation. discrimination ultimately are able to We will embrace the value of diversity in recruitment and in respect of contribute to the dealings with employees. employment success of our mission. We will value openness and honesty and encourage our and employees to raise ethical concerns. occupation We will at all times conduct ourselves in a manner which brings credit to Neighbourly and our partners. Environment Principle 7 Businesses In line with our B-Corp We operate ‘Neighbourly Food’, which is now the UK’s leading should support status, we seek to back of store food surplus redistribution programme. In addition a reduce the to being a signatory of the Courtauld 2025 commitment, we have precautionary environmental impact supported the ‘Step up to The Plate’ initiative launched by the approach to of our own business Government in May 2019 to help halve food waste by 2030 and environmental and provide services to regularly attend steering committee and advisory group meetings. challenges; help corporate We have continued to work closely with WRAP to help our undertake organisations reduce partners to implement the TMA reporting structure to track Principle 8 initiatives to theirs too. Our work progress against their goals and increase adoption across the food promote involves helping and drink industry. greater businesses use their environmental scale to tackle current Our food surplus redistribution programme has now redistributed responsibility; and future social and over 17 million meals (up from 5.6m meals last year) that would and; environmental have otherwise gone to waste and this has led to savings of over challenges facing 25k tonnes of CO2 since 2016. Principle 9 encourage the society in all the development communities where Our new office has recently increased the bicycle storage facilities and diffusion they operate. We have and added more showering facilities to help encourage as many of continued to work to employees as possible to bike to work to reduce the environmental increase awareness of environmental footprint caused by commuting. ly friendly and change behaviour technologies around environmental Our new offices also proactively promote waste recycling and we issues. actively encourage staff to use these. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses Our ethical policy sets Our Employee Handbook outlines the relevant policy and should work out that we will not grievance procedures so that employees are familiar with how to against accept favours or bribes raise concerns about any form of corruption arising in the context corruption in or allow personal of their work. There has been no reported incidents over the last all its forms, affiliations to influence year, with the company maintaining a zero tolerance position on including the award of contracts. corruption in all its forms. extortion and bribery
