Introduction Contents About This Report 1 Introduction Communication Tools 2 Company Profile 3 Group CEO Message 4 Anritsu Way 5 Sustainability Vision Sustainability Management 7 Solving Social Issues Through Business 9 Environmental Management 15 Climate Change/Energy 22 Water Resources 26 Preserving Biodiversity 27 Environment Preventing Environmental Pollution 29 Resources Recycling 31 Environmental Impact Mass Balance 34 Environmental Accounting 35 Respect for Human Rights and Diversity 37 Human Resources Development 42 Occupational Health and Safety 45 Social Supply Chain Management 49 Quality and Product Safety 53 Data Sheet 55 Corporate Governance 58 Internal Control 61 Governance Establishment of Compliance 62 Promotion of Risk Management 67 Providing Information and Communicating with Stakeholders 74 Stakeholders Recommendations from Stakeholders 76 Others GRI Balance Sheet 78 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 2 Introduction About This Report Editorial Policy We have published the 2019 Anritsu Sustainability Report in a PDF to report our corporate activities for fiscal 2018. By presenting a concrete report of our activities from the standpoint of sustainability, we aim to effectively communicate our corporate activities to our stakeholders. Boundary Definitions This coverage of the report varies to either standalone Anritsu Corporation or inclusive of the Anritsu Group Companies depending on the subject. Definitions are described as follows: ■“  Anritsu” or “Anritsu Group” refers to both Anritsu Corporation and the entire Anritsu Group. ■“  Anritsu Corporation” refers to Anritsu Corporation in Japan only. ■“  Domestic Anritsu Group” refers to both Anritsu Corporation and Group companies located within Japan. ■“  Overseas Anritsu Group” refers to Group companies outside Japan. Reporting Period This report covers the period from April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019, and also includes some activities before and after that period. Guidelines Used as Reference ■G  RI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) Core options ■ T he Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact ■ ISO 26000:2010 Supporter of the UN Global Compact In March 2006, Anritsu declared its support for and participation in of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC), which are grouped into four categories: Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. The Anritsu Group as a whole promotes these principles alongside its sustainability-related activities. For additional information on Anritsu’s efforts in the four key categories, please see the “Supporter of the UN Global Compact” page on our website. Details (WEB) “Supporter of the UN Global Compact” Date of Issue Contact September 30, 2019 Anritsu Corporation Sustainability Promotion Center (Date of publication in the previous fiscal year: Sept 25, 2018) Contact Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 1 Introduction Communication Tools Integrated Report Sustainability Report This annual publication contains Environmental, economic, and social performance highlights, a message from efforts included in the CSR report since the Group CEO, business summaries, 2005 is being incorporated into the strategies and future trajectories, past Sustainability Report from 2018. performance trends, as well as financial and non-financial data and other information. Securities Report/ Quarterly Business Report Financial Report The Business Report provides a basic These reports provide information on summary of business activities, highlights, financial performance for the fiscal year at and other information for the fiscal year Anritsu on a quarterly and annual basis. on an interim and full-year basis. Financial Information Information for the General Meeting of Shareholders Financial information includes financial results, presentation This information includes notices of the general meeting of materials, and presentation of Q&A summaries. shareholders, reports of resolutions adopted, and presentation materials for shareholders. Communication tools are provided on ESG related policy/ Details (WEB) Anritsu’s website at Home > About Anritsu guidelines Investor Relations > Investor Relations > IR Library. Details (WEB) Sustainability and URL: https://www.anritsu.com/ir ESG Policy Index Inclusion ■ F rom among the ESG indices chosen by the Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF), Anritsu has been selected for inclusion in the MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index, a comprehensive ESG index developed by MSCI Inc. in the U.S., the MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN), a theme-based social index, and the S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient Index, a global environmental equity index developed by S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC in the U.S. ■ Anritsu has been included in the SNAM Sustainability Index, an ESG index managed by Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Holdings Asset Management Co., Ltd. in Japan. ■ For evaluations from other external organizations, please reference the following link on our website: https://www.anritsu.com/en-US/about-anritsu/sustainability/evaluation Details (WEB) Status on inclusion in ESG Indexes, external evaluations Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 2 Introduction Company Profile (As of March 31, 2019) Head Office: ANRITSU CORPORATION Breakdown of shareholders 5-1-1 Onna, Atsugi-shi, Individuals Financial Kanagawa 243-8555, Japan and Others Institutions Tel: +81-46-223-1111 21.3% 38.7% URL: https://www.anritsu.com Securities Foreign Companies Company Founded: 1895 Investors 4.2% Established: March 17, 1931 33.9% Other Corporations 1.9% Paid-in Capita: ¥19.113 billion Sales (Anritsu Group on a consolidated basis) Number of 3,778 (consolidated) Employees: 836 (non-consolidated) 120,000 • (Million yen) 98,839 99,659 95,532 Stock Listing: TSE 1st Section 100,000 • 87,638 85,967 (Ticker Symbol No.: 6754) 80,000 • 60,000 • 40,000 • 20,000 • 0• 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 Major Subsidiaries Japan Principal Businesses EMEA Principal Businesses R&D, manufacture, sales, repair, and Sales and maintenance of measuring and Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd. Anritsu EMEA Ltd. (U.K.) maintenance of PQA equipment other instruments Manufacture of T&M instruments and R&D and manufacture of measuring and Anritsu Ltd. (U.K.) Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. information and communications other instruments equipment Sales and maintenance of measuring and Anritsu GmbH (Germany) Calibration, repair, and maintenance of other instruments Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd. T&M instruments Sales and maintenance of measuring and Anritsu S.A. (France) Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. Software R&D other instruments R&D, sales, and maintenance of information Sales and maintenance of measuring and Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. Anritsu S.r.l. (Italy) and communications equipment other instruments R&D, manufacture, and sales of optical Sales and maintenance of measuring and Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. Anritsu AB (Sweden) devices other instruments Management of facilities, welfare services, R&D, manufacture, sales, and maintenance of Anritsu A/S (Denmark) Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. and production of catalogs and other T&M instruments materials Anritsu Solutions S.r.l. (Italy) R&D of measuring and other instruments Anritsu Real Estate Co., Ltd. Real estate leasing Anritsu Solutions S.R.L. (Romania) R&D of measuring and other instruments Anritsu Pro Associe Co., Ltd. Operation of shared services center Anritsu Solutions SK, s.r.o. (Slovakia) R&D of measuring and other instruments Manufacture and sales of processed Anritsu Infivis Ltd. (U.K.) Sales and maintenance of PQA equipment AT Techmac Co., Ltd. products Asia & Others Principal Businesses Americas Principal Businesses Sales and maintenance of measuring Anritsu U.S. Holding, Inc. (U.S.A.) Holding company for American subsidiaries Anritsu Company Ltd. (Hong Kong) and other instruments Anritsu Americas Sales Company Sales and maintenance of measuring and Anritsu Electronics (Shanghai) Co., Maintenance of measuring and other (U.S.A.) other instruments Ltd. (China) instruments R&D, manufacture, sales, and maintenance Sales and maintenance of measuring Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) Anritsu (China) Co., Ltd. (China) of measuring and other instruments and other instruments R&D, manufacture, and maintenance of Sales and maintenance of measuring Azimuth Systems, Inc. (U.S.A.) Anritsu Company, Inc. (Taiwan) measuring and other instruments and other instruments Sales and maintenance of measuring and Sales and maintenance of measuring Anritsu Electronics, Ltd. (Canada) Anritsu Corporation, Ltd. (Korea) other instruments and other instruments Sales and maintenance of measuring and Sales and maintenance of measuring Anritsu Eletrônica Ltda. (Brazil) Anritsu Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) other instruments and other instruments Anritsu Company S.A. de C.V. Sales and maintenance of measuring and Sales and maintenance of measuring (Mexico) other instruments Anritsu India Private Ltd. (India) and other instruments Anritsu Infivis Inc. (U.S.A.) Sales and maintenance of PQA equipment Sales and maintenance of measuring Anritsu Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and other instruments Anritsu Philippines, Inc. (Philippines) R&D of measuring and other instruments Anritsu Industrial Solutions Sales and maintenance of PQA equipment (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (China) Anritsu Industrial Systems (Shanghai) Manufacture of PQA equipment Co., Ltd. (China) Anritsu Infivis (THAILAND) Co., Ltd. Manufacture and maintenance of PQA (Thailand) equipment Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 3 Sustainability Vision Group CEO Message Continuing to create value through the “Anritsu Way” toward a sustainable society Hirokazu Hamada Representative Director, President, Group CEO Measurement Business Group President With the establishment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), it is clear that the international community is accelerating its efforts aimed at creating a truly sustainable society. Anritsu established its Sustainability policy based on its philosophies of “Sincerity, Harmony, and Enthusiasm” and “Original & High Level,” and we are promoting sustainability management focused on boosting corporate value by contributing to the resolution of global social issues through the ethical conduct of company activities in line with the Anritsu Way. We are committed to resolving through our business activities issues related to ESG, including those tied to the environment, governance, resource procurement, and human rights. SDGs can be seen as a guideline for action, and the Anritsu Group as whole shares in common SDG #9, which aims to “Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation.” One of the key aims of the measurement business is to contribute to SDG #11, which sets the goal of “Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.” To do this, the business offers measurement solutions that support the realization of a 5G/IoT society and the creation of a robust network infrastructure. Our PQA business, which provides quality assurance solutions, including through the detection of foreign substances in food and pharmaceutical products, focuses on SDG #12, “Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns.” The most important challenge in creating a sustainable society is reducing the CO2 emissions that can significantly contribute to climate change. We launched our initial commitment to achieving SBT certification in March 2019 and are now focusing on plans to expand solar power generation facilities and reduce CO2 emissions across the entire value chain. In regard to human rights, we have made visits to our suppliers and requested that they ensure that there is no forced labor, human trafficking, or child labor occurring, and have publicized these activities in our statements. In respect to our employees, we are working to ensure diversity and human rights are respected, including by hiring on a gender neutral basis, and implementing measures that create an organization where each individual can grow, as well as workstyle reforms that contribute to an enhanced life-work balance. Anritsu recently launched its Beyond 2020 program with the goal of achieving sustainable growth from 2020. Realizing this goal requires supporting those taking on new challenges and creating a workplace in which each individual can take on new challenges. I believe the first step in achieving this is creating a corporate culture that nurtures new ideas, and a company that can instill the spirit of enterprise in its employees. Anritsu will continue to share the dream of social change with its stakeholders, and through cooperative creation will strive to create not only a sustainable society, but also new value that is unique to Anritsu. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 4 Sustainability Vision Anritsu Way The identity that typifies Anritsu Corporation, and which the Company has dedicatedly fostered since its foundation, is compressed in two phrases in its corporate philosophy: “Sincerity, harmony, and enthusiasm” and “Original & High Level.” “Sincerity, harmony, and enthusiasm” “Original & High Level” can be defined as the management philosophy that exist in the spirit of enterprise that extends from the shows our mind-set and values, including the attitude, upstream to the downstream of Anritsu’s corporate thoughts, and preparedness the Company has in conactivities. ducting business. (1) The superior social and customer value provided Sincerity:  eliability to meet the expectations of R by our products and services customers and all stakeholders (2) T he corporate culture, management system, and Harmony:  Adaptability to respond promptly to work procedural methods that give rise to those changes in the business environment kinds of deliverables. and society’s demands by using all knowledge of all parties from inside and outside the Company Enthusiasm: Innovativeness to provide new value by polishing up cutting-edge technologies such as 5G and IoT Contribute to the development of a safe, secure, and prosperous global society Corporate Philosophy Company Contribute to the development of a safe, secure, and prosperous global society by offering Original & High Level products and s­ ervices Philosophy with sincerity, harmony, and enthusiasm Achieve continuous growth with sustainable superior profits through Company innovation, using all knowledge of all parties and c­ ontribute to the Vision sustainability of society 1. Make energetic organization synthesizing the knowledge of all employees 2. Capture growth drivers through innovation Company 3. Be a leader in the global market Policy 4. Contribute to the creation of a society that is friendly to people and the Earth as a good corporate citizen Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior Anritsu Group Code of Conduct Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 5 Sustainability Vision Brand Statement envision : ensure To provide a more specific image to the ideas of “Sincerity, Harmony, and Enthusiasm” and “Original & High Level” that are key to what makes Anritsu unique, we have created the clear, concise, and globally universal phrase “envision: ensure” as our brand statement. We believe this brand statement effectively encapsulates Anritsu’s message “to share our dream with our customers and create a vision that, through innovation, leads to tangible results that exceed customer expectations.” Society is currently confronted with a wide variety of sustainability-related issues, including those related to the development of social infrastructure, including next-generation information and communications networks, as symbolized by 5G and IoT, as well as issues related to ensuring food safety and security, and realizing greater efficiency in the distribution of food. Anritsu has contributed to technological innovation and society by providing products that meet the needs of customers, including TV broadcasting equipment, Japan’s first radio broadcast receiver and the world’s first practical wireless telephone. Inheriting this pioneer spirit, we will continue to contribute to the realization of a safe, secure, and prosperous global society by promoting sustainability management and contributing to the resolution of social issues, including those outlined in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The targets for sustainability management Su s t a ina e nt b ilit y M a na g e m The Anritsu Group believes our business should increase our Sustainability Policy long-term value through contributions to the sustainability of global society with sincerity, harmony, and enthusiasm. 1. W  e will contribute to building a safe, secure, and comfortable society through our business activities, based on our long-term vision 2. We will maintain harmony with the global socio-economy and society through ethical company activities. 3. We will contribute to the preservation of the global environment by promoting environmental management for the coexistence of people and nature. 4. W e will build strong partnerships by promoting communication with all stakeholders. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 6 Sustainability Vision Sustainability Management Anritsu has aggressively pursued sustainability activities based on its Company Philosophy, Company Vision, Company Policies and Sustainability Policy that was created in April 2018. The Company at the same time has established the Sustainability Promotion Center, with a Sustainability Promotion Committee comprising representatives of business divisions, operating companies, and members in the ESG domains. The center is in charge of the promotion of sustainability-related issues for the Anritsu Group. Sustainability promotion activity will follow the corporate value improvement policies as determined by the Board of Directors and at a Management Strategy Conference and fall under PDCA activity as part of the new GLP2020 Mid-Term Business Plan targets. In respect to key ESG issues and social issues the Company aims to alleviate through its business activities, we have sought to maintain objectivity and inclusiveness in addressing the concerns of each of our stakeholders and have accordingly identified and prioritized key issues for action after consulting and cooperating with all related departments. System for Promoting Sustainability Stakeholders Anritsu Group Shareholders and Board of Directors investors Management Strategy Customers Conference Sustainability Promotion Suppliers Management Areas Center Action Plan Employees Members ■ Representatives of business KPI (sustainability) Goal divisions and operating Management companies ■ Representatives of areas that Regional societies Check Do advance issues in response to social demands • Respect for human rights and National and Sustainability Promotion diversity local governments Committee • Human resource development • O ccupational health and safety • Supply chain management • Q uality and product safety • Environment NGOs and NPOs • Corporate governance • Compliance • Internal control systems • Risk management Global environments • Information security • Information disclosure, IR, SR • S ocial contribution activities Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 7 Sustainability Vision Sustainability Management A safe, Automobiles Healthcare Construction Agriculture Entertainment Food secure, and comfortable society Reduced food loss Autonomous driving Telemedicine Remote control Farming support VR/AR Product quality assurance Customers Mobile communications Network infrastructure Food processing Pharmaceuticals Electronics market market market market market Solving Social Issues Through Business Anritsu Group Test and Information and Measuring Business PQA Business Communications Business Devices Business Put into place a safe and Put in place a robust Reducing food loss, Put in place a robust Put in place a robust secure infrastructure network infrastructure ensuring product quality network infrastructure network infrastructure which leads to the Preventing and mitigating Ensuring healthy lives building of a sustainable natural disasters society and encourges innovation Challenges to meet the needs of society (ESG) Maintaining Harmony with the • Respect for human rights and diversity Global Socio-Economy • Human resource development Together with our diverse human resources, we seek to • Occupational health and safety contribute to the creation of workplaces where each individual • Supply chain management that gives due Anritsu can achieve personal growth and experience job satisfaction. regard to human rights Group Promoting Global Environmental • Reduction in CO2 emissions volume (energy usage volume) Protection and water usage volume Contributing to the creation of a sustainable society • Developing and manufacturing high-quality and with sustainable consumption and corporate environmentally friendly products production practices • Supply chain management that lowers environmental burden Expanding and Strengthening • Corporate governance Governance • Establishing compliance as a part of our mind-set Ensuring ethical corporate activities through • Promoting risk management risk management and transparent, fair, quick, and resolute decision making The Creation of Shared Value through • Providing information to and communicating the Promotion of Communication with stakeholders Contributing to the creation of shared value with collaboration among all stakeholders Anritsu Integrated Report 2019 9 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 8 Sustainability Vision Solving Social Issues Through Business Test and Measurement Business ■ Description of Social Issues Information communications, and tools that connect people over the Internet, such as social networking, photo sharing and video sharing services, have become indispensable in society today. These communications networks that allow people to connect with one another have been advancing on a daily basis, and fifth-generation mobile communications systems (5G) are on the verge of being launched with ultrahigh-speed, large capacity, ultra-low latency, and multiple simultaneous connections. In addition to the increasing sophistication of smartphones and tablets, 5G will find uses in fields such as medicine, agriculture, automobiles, and disaster prevention. This 5G technology is also expected to become communication infrastructure that helps us realize a sustainable society and solve a range of social issues including as a means to eliminate information disparities, prevent traffic accidents, and alleviate labor shortages. ■ Anritsu Initiatives Anritsu provides its customers with a variety of measurement solutions that help ensure communications quality and conformance with standards-based specifications at the development, production, construction and maintenance stages for smart devices, mobile networks, fixed networks and cloud computing data centers that are the basis of 5G communications networks. Customers use our testing and measurement instruments so their products can safely and securely connect to robust 5G communications networks. These 5G communications networks will not only contribute to greater convenience for people, but will also be used in the industrial field. The realization of these new applications will both boost economic growth and provide solutions for social issues, such as SDGs and lead to a more sustainable society. With a mission of being the first to deliver optimal testing and measurement solutions with its advanced measurement technologies, Anritsu contributes to the creation of industry and advances in innovation that assist with the development of a sustainable society by helping customers maintain safe and secure communication infrastructure. Automobiles Healthcare Construction Factories Agriculture Entertainment Solving social issues Autonomous driving Telemedicine Remote control Remote monitoring Farming support VR/AR 5G New RAT 100G/400G 40G/100G SDH/WDM Data Center C-RAN LTE-A CPRI Customers NB-IoT LTE OTN Internet PCI-E SDN/NFV Small Cell Ethernet AOC Smart devices Mobile networks Fixed networks Cloud Solutions for developing Compatible with a wide Support for 100G/400G Support with bit error rate and manufacturing IoT range of products from RF high-speed communication tests that always lead the devices and modules to optical industry Anritsu  Communication and measurement technologies and products developed with over 120 years of experience covering optical, wired, wireless, and protocols  Seamlessly supporting customers’ businesses, from cutting-edge development to manufacturing and maintenance Strengths  Global development and sales system that provides timely support to customer requests in each region  Rapid deployment of cutting-edge technology through partnerships with key customers and suppliers Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 9 Sustainability Vision Solving Social Issues Through Business Product Anritsu measuring solutions are essential to the development of IoT devices that introductions are expected to be used in 5G communication equipment The MT8000A Radio Communication Test Station ■ Smartphone Development Before new smartphones are released, Anritsu measuring Chipset manufacturer Handset manufacturer connection Standards conformity Carrier acceptance testing Mass production testing technology verification and functionality assessment testing instruments are generally used to verify functionality Conformance Test (CT) Carrier Acceptance Test(CAT) and performance in a variety of processes, as shown in Protocol the figure on the right. Anritsu provides social value through use of MT 8000A measuring equipment, which verifies handset manufacturer connections and Baseband testing Set/RF circuit Functional/performance RF calibration evaluation and inspection functionality (see the second figure from the left). ■ What is the MT8000A? When smartphone manufacturers develop new modMT8000A ME7834NR/ME7873NR MT8870A Radio Communication 5GNR Mobile Device Test Universal Wireless Test els, they need to connect to base stations that relay Test Station Platform Set radio waves to test functionality and performance. However, since a smartphone under development cannot be connected to a base station currently in Role of the MT8000A operation, the manufacturers need some kind of Real alternative environment for the testing. The MT8000A environment Mobile network can simulate the behavior of a base station and is Base station Base station compatible with the latest 5G communication system. Since 5G uses a higher frequency (millimeter wave) Data center / cloud than conventional 4G (LTE) communications, it is Simulates dotted line important to ensure that the measuring equipment Test environment used contains the most sophisticated measuring technology available. Anritsu has been able to develop advanced and innovative 5G measurement solutions Smartphone MT8000A undergoing Acts as a base station, connecting with the smartphone to test for performance by leveraging the latest technological innovations and performance test its partnerships with leading global customers. ■ Examples of Customer Use High frequency Using the MT8000A Radio Communication Test Station, (millimeter wave) customers can quickly develop smartphones meeting Accurate measurement 5G communication standards using a chamber-based Over The Air (OTA)* • T esting if RF transmission/reception is compliant connection with standards • Testing if the communication protocol between the *OTA is a measuring method using an antenna-based wireless connection rather than a cable smartphone and the base station is compliant with standards • Millimeter wave measurement using the anechoic chamber ■ Social Value Provided by the MT8000A Radio Communication Test Station 5G is expected not only to allow an improvement in performance in mobile devices such as smartphones, but is likely to be used through IoT in a variety of industrial applications, including autonomous driving, telemedicine and diagnosis, and virtual reality. The MT8000A Radio Communication Test Station is also being used for the new wireless devices embedded in equipment used in such applications. The MT8000A Radio Communication Test Station supports innovation and the creation of new social value, as well as the new services likely to be born from the realization of 5G and IoT. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 10 Sustainability Vision Solving Social Issues Through Business PQA Business ■ Description of Social Issues Through the use of food processing technology that raises the storage life of perishables, our daily lifestyles have undergone rapid advances in the modern era. Instead of buying ingredients and preparing meals at home, food is now distributed as a packaged product that has greatly improved convenience and plentifulness in people’s lives. Once food is distributed in large quantities, however, uneaten food is thrown away (i.e., food loss) in increasing amounts, a social problem that has drawn attention lately. SDG Target 12.3 is stated as, “Halve per capita global food waste at the retail and consumer levels and reduce food losses along production and supply chains, including post-harvest losses,” a clearly stated objective to ensure a sustainable food consumption and production pattern. Today, most food processing companies have identified the reduction of food loss as a major issue alongside guaranteeing the deliciousness, safety and security of their products. ■ Anritsu Initiatives At food processing plants, factory automation has facilitated the faster processing of food in larger amounts for shipment. It is necessary to inspect each individual product to ensure processed food is safe and reliable. In the past, a large number of workers were used in the food inspection process to examine the food before shipment. However, inspections by people are subject to issues related to differences in individual skills and fatigue causing people to lose their concentration. Along with providing solutions for automating the quality inspection process on food production lines, Anritsu aims to provide solutions linked to minimizing food loss. Together with its customers, the Company will continue to provide advanced quality assurance solutions with the aim of contributing to the realization of a sustainable society with little food loss, and a society where anyone can live their lives in safety without worry. Solving Increasing the sophistication of quality assurance social for food and pharmaceuticals to achieve: issues ・A safe and secure society ・A sustainable society with little food loss Quality inspections Packaging Inspection of mass, contaminants, and packaging Packing Customers Weighing and filling Anritsu Automatic electronic X-ray inspection Quality management/ Metal detectors Checkweighers weighing machines systems control systems  High-speed, high-precision, quality inspection technology for production lines  Engineering capability to adapt inspection equipment to various food manufacturing environments Strengths  Extensive maintenance service system and experienced maintenance engineers in Japan  Past record and top-class market position in the food inspection market in Japan Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 11 Sustainability Vision Solving Social Issues Through Business Product Reducing food loss using X-ray inspection systems and introductions QUICCA overall quality management and control systems ■ Food Loss and the Reasons for The example of Japan About 120 its Occurrence About 50,000 business locations About 820,000 business locations million people While global food production is estimates at about Food manufacturing industry Food service industry •Processed seafood •Restaurants, Consumers four billion tons annually, about one-third of this, or products •Refrigerated food, About one million cafeterias •Fast food outlets retort products business locations •Pubs and taverns about 1.3 billion tons, is not consumed and ultimately •Ham and sausages •Dairy products Retail/wholesale •Food courts •Bento boxes/ industries Homes discarded.* Reasons for food loss, meaning food prepared meals •Confectionaries •D epartment •Supermarkets stores •Bread •Convenience stores that is discarded even though it is still edible, include •Instant noodles •Seasonings … •Drug stores •Discount stores the food losing its freshness over time or its expiration Food waste (10K tons) 1,617 154 199 789 date being reached, poor product quality, an excess Of which is 137 82 133 291 food loss of food leading to leftovers, and too much edible Major Reason Recalled on Expiration date/ Unsold Too much edible for food loss poor quality “best by” date Leftovers food being removed food being removed. It has been estimated that about Leftovers Reducing poor quality Contributing to safe 60% of food loss in Japan happens in the distribution Minimizing scope of recalls and reliable diets and household consumption stages.** Anritsu’s Quality Assurance Solutions Advances in refrigeration and packaging technologies have led to the distribution of processed foods with longer shelf lives, which in turn has contributed to reduced food loss. However, foods with longer periods when they are fit for consumption may stay in the market or on the shelves at home longer, and recalling and discarding these products can lead to substantial losses. For food manufacturers, extending the expiration date reduces the risk of food loss, but the increased risk of losses when the products are recalled highlights the need for the strictest standards in quality assurance. Sources: * UN World Food Programme. ** Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries of Japan. ■ Anritsu’s Quality Assurance Solutions Contribute to Reduced Food Loss Strict quality assurance activities prevent the occurrence of defective products in the manufacturing process and reduce the potential for defective products to make it to market. They also reduce the likelihood of accidents leading to products being recalled. Anritsu’s quality assurance solutions not only help reduce food loss, but also provide benefits by eliminating the problem of labor shortages on food production lines, thus boosting the customer’s profitability. Our solutions also enhance customer brand strength on the back of added safety and security. Below we have provided an outline of some of our mainstay products. ① X-Ray Inspection Systems X-ray inspection equipment is used to inspect the inside of a product, including food products, using an image obtained by irradiating the item with X-ray. There are a substantial number of X-ray applications, including detecting for contaminations, and inspecting for missing items, defective shape, or defective packaging. Anritsu’s state-of-the-art XR75 series of X-ray inspection equipment uses newly developed sensors and image processing algorithms, enabling inspection that was difficult when using conventional techniques, including the detection of bones left in chicken products and the detection of foreign substances in over-lapping products, such as bagged sausages. ② Overall quality management and control systems Anritsu’s QUICCA 3 overall quality management and control system is a data management and control system on production lines, including food production lines that: 1) automatically records production data; 2) monitors the operational status of production; and 3) investigates and analyzes the cause of any production problems. Together with the quality inspection equipment, the system constantly monitors production quality to prevent the occurrence of defective products. It also allows traceability, so should there be an accident, the cause can be quickly determined, the scope of risk can be identified, and recalls can be minimized. ■ Social Value from Quality Assurance Solutions It is vitally important that the international community unite to achieve a sustainable society. By providing highly sophisticated quality assurance solutions, Anritsu’s PQA business alongside its customers contributes to the realization of a sustainable society. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 12 Sustainability Vision Solving Social Issues Through Business Information and communications business ■ Description of Social Issues Natural disasters, including earthquakes and torrential rain, which has been said to have been exacerbated by climate change, occur quite frequently in Japan, and from the perspective of disaster prevention and mitigation, improving and expanding remote monitoring systems can be said to be a national concern. For example, the establishment of multiple monitoring systems in remote river areas could allow rapid responses to flooding in these river system caused by torrential rain and help to minimize damage. ■ Anritsu Initiatives Video surveillance The Anritsu Sight Visor is a video information Executive office monitoring system, produced by Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd., that can simultaneously monitor multiSightVisor River ple locations using the monitoring system in a surveillance Disaster response office IP network disaster response room and cameras at the water SightVisor level, playing an important role in activating initial response activities. Through products such SightVisor Road as these, we are contributing through our busiSurveillance video sent over the IP surveillance network is displayed on the monitor ness with the government to an enhanced resilience and the ability to adapt to climate change and other natural disasters. Devices business ■ Description of Social Issues As smartphones grow increasingly common around the world and businesses utilizing data continue to expand, the amount of data being transferred over networks is only increasing. The challenge now is to further increase speed and capacity in wireless communications between communication devices and base stations, as well as wired communication using optic fiber cables between base stations and other base stations or between data centers. ■ Anritsu Initiatives Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. is working with carriers and system vendors to build a robust communications infrastructure that can handle the increase in communications traffic. This includes providing small semiconductor optical amplifiers for optical transceivers that enable fast, high capacity, long-distance communications, as well as pump laser diodes to amplify degraded signal levels due to the loss of optical signal transmitted through fiber. Optical fiber amplifier using a pump laser diode (EDFA: erbium-doped fiber amplifiers) Erbium-doped fiber BPF Input optical signal Output amplified λ=1550nm optical signal Optical isolator BPF: Band Pass Filter Pump laser diode (light source) λ =1480 nm Anritsu Devices products Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 13 Environment ▪ Environmental Management ▪ Climate Change / Energy ▪ Water Resources ▪ Preserving Biodiversity ▪ Preventing Environmental Pollution ▪ Resources Recycling ▪ Environmental Impact Mass Balance ▪ Environmental Accounting Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 14 Environment Message We are contributing to the creation of a sustainable society while protecting the global environment. People cannot do anything to prevent large-scale natural disasters. While this powerlessness is known all too well, we must make every effort to mitigate natural disasters, even a little, by improving our business and lifestyle activities to lessen the impact of climate change. Among the SDGs selected by the United Nations, climate change is regarded as one of the most important issues that must be addressed. As our lifestyles change around the world, there are direct and indirect environmental issues that can influence climate change, such as reducing CO2 emissions, effectively using water, managing waste, and recycling resources. Anritsu has set related goals in its business activities to guide management and improvement initiatives. Senior Executive Officer, Chief While enhancing the ratio of renewable energy use, we are contributing to the realization Environment and Quality Officer of a robust and sustainable society through innovation in technological development. Akio Takagi Boundary of Global Environmental Protection While the boundary of global environmental protection extends to the entire Anritsu Group, in principle the reporting boundary for numerical data, such as environmental impact, encompasses Anritsu Corp. and the following Group companies. Group Companies Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd. Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd. in Japan Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. AT Techmac Co., Ltd. Anritsu Pro Associe Co., Ltd. Group Companies Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) Anritsu Ltd. (UK) Outside Japan * Within the Anritsu Group, the Hiratsuka site refers to the facilities of AT Techmac Co., Ltd. in Hiratsuka City, Kanagawa Prefecture; the Tohoku site refers to those of Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. in Koriyama City, Fukushima Prefecture; and the Atsugi site refers to the Anritsu Corporation, and those of other Group companies in Atsugi City, Kanagawa Prefecture, and the domestic sales offices. Environmental Management Social issues as a background Recently, our investors and other stakeholders have shown greater interest in ESG (Environmental, Social, Governance) and SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals). Description of Social Issues Companies are being called upon to get actively involved in the balancing act of protecting the global environment, developing a sustainable society, and growing the economy. In order to contribute to the sustainability of society and realize beneficial sustainable growth, Anritsu has been working to firmly instill environmental compliance related to our business activities and products, address climate change, create a recycling-oriented society, and prevent environmental pollution. In addition, we believe that administering an environmental management system that contributes to business and disclosing information in a manner that is easy for all of our stakeholders to understand in lock-step with business are also key challenges. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 15 Environment Environmental Management Policy * The Policy shares all the same items as Environment hereinafter. Anritsu’s “Environmental Policy” consists of “Environmental Principles” and “Action Guidelines.” * The “Action Guidelines” apply only to the Domestic Anritsu Group Environmental Policy ◆ Environmental Principles Anritsu strives to give due consideration to the environment in both the development and manufacture of our products. Through sincerity, harmony, and enthusiasm, we will endeavor to foster a prosperous society at one with nature. ◆ Action Guidelines We create “Eco-Offices“, “Eco-Factories“, and “Eco-Products“ based on the “Eco-management“ of our company and the “EcoMind“ of every one of us. (1) Over the whole life cycle of a product, from design and development, to procurement, manufacturing, marketing, distribution, and usage by customers, through disposal, we conduct environmentally conscious business activities. (2) We have set up an organizational and operational structure to perform environmental management activities, and have established and maintain an environmental management system that we continuously improve. (3) We comply with legal and regulatory controls and make every effort to continuously improve the environmental performance to meet the requirements from stakeholders. (4) In order to contribute to the prevention of global warming and conservation of biological diversity, we promote energy saving, the 3Rs (reduce, reuse, and recycle), and environmental pollution risk reduction in all of our offices and factories. (5) We provide Eco-Products by saving energy, saving resources, and reducing hazardous substances. (6) We cultivate Eco-Minds by providing appropriate environmental education and training. In addition, Anritsu has stated its intent to “contribute to the preservation of the global environment by promoting environmental management for the coexsitence of people and nature” in our Sustainability Policy (p. 6). Structure * The “structure” shares all the same items as “Environment” hereinafter. Anritsu has established a deliberating body with the executive officer of environmental management (Anritsu Corporation, Executive in charge of environmental activities as chairperson to promote environmental management. Deliberating Body Deliberating Body Objectives Group Members Global Environmental Address challenges that Anritsu Group Responsible officers from the three major locations of Japan, Management Meetings must tackle as a single global entity the United States, and the United Kingdom Officers responsible for the environment at each division* of the Domestic Environment ManagePromote the environmental management Anritsu Group, and the officers responsible for the Internal Control Department Committee system of the Domestic Anritsu Group ment, Legal Affairs Department, and Sustainability Promotion Center Promote the development and production of products Promotion of RoHS Representatives from the Development Department, SCM that do not contain hazardous substances such as those Group Meeting Department, IT Department, and Environment Department banned under the RoHS directive of Europe *Environmental management activity unit ■ ISO 14001 Certification Acquisition Status The Anritsu Group has constructed an environmental management system and has acquired ISO 14001:2015 certification for our core development and manufacturing bases of Japan and the United States. The coverage rate of the environmental management system is 70% when based on the number of Anritsu Group employees. Anritsu Corporation (Head Office) [Certification Date] August 1998 [Update] February 2016 [Certification Organization/Number] Japan Quality Assurance Organization/JQA-EM0210 • Anritsu Corporation (Includes all sales centers) • Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. • Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd. • AT Techmac Co., Ltd. • Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd. • Anritsu Pro Associe Co., Ltd. • Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. • Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. Details (WEB) • Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. • Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. Anritsu Corporation ISO 14001 Certification Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) (English) [Address] 490 Jarvis Drive, Morgan Hill, CA 95037 [CERTIFICATION DATE] MARCH 2007 [UPDATE] MAY 2018 Details (WEB) [CERTIFICATION ORGANIZATION/NUMBER] AMERICAN GLOBAL STANDARDS, LLC/ Anritsu Company (USA) ISO 14001 Certification AGS-USEMS-051618-1 (English) Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 16 Environment Environmental Management Mediumto long-term goals 2020 VISION: Building an environmental brand by pursuing global environmental management throughout the entire value chain Anritsu promotes environmental management toward realizing its 2020 VISION goal of “Building an environmental brand by pursuing global environmental management throughout the entire value chain.” Development of environmentally friendly products (saving energy and resources, reducing harmful substances, beneficial to the environment) Use by Supplier Overall business activities Transport Customers Disposal Material procurement Factories / Offices Employee business trips Transportation/ Customer use Waste Packaging CO2 29,057t CO 2 (Scope1 and 2) 12,736t CO2 4,002t CO2 52,096t CO2 33t Wastewater 59,000m³ CO2 2,791t Fueland Waste 217t Employee commuting energy-related NOx (Japan) 1,306kg CO2 3,404t activities not included SOx (Japan) 510kg in Scope 1 or 2 BOD (Japan) 261kg Waste disposal CO2 998t CO2 145t Capital goods Landfill amount 17% CO2 4,996t Identifying and improving the environmental profile of all our locations around the world Globally, we are developing and producing environmentally friendly (energy-saving, resource-saving, hazardous substance-free) products, determining and improving the environmental impact of all of our bases throughout the entire product value chain, and building a worldclass environmental brand. * Figures are calculated in accordance with the “Basic guidelines on calculating greenhouse gas emissions in the supply chain.” The figures listed here are those for fiscal 2018. Figures this time reflect a revised calculation method for CO2 emissions tied to customer use and CO2 emissions tied to material procurement. Details (WEB) Environmental impact across the entire value chain GLP2020 Environmental Initiative Anritsu is currently undertaking the GLP2020 Environmental Initiative, its three-year mid-term business plan, the final stage for achieving its 2020 Vision, that began in fiscal 2018. Biodiversity conservation Priority themes Continuous improvement themes Climate Change Measures Resource recycling Pollution prevention 2020Vision Eco-Management Make improvements through the integration of business processes with the management system [Theme 1] Improve the quality of information disclosure to elevate the environmental brand Eco-Communication [Theme 2] Strengthen energy-saving and resource-saving products Provide products that do not contain Eco-Products [Theme 3] hazardous substances [Theme 4] Reduce CO2 emissions Effectively use water and Reduce chemical substances Eco-Office, Eco-Factory [Theme 5] firmly instill the 3Rs and prevent risks Eco-Mind Cultivate an Eco-Mind Building an environmental brand by pursuing global environmental management throughout the entire value chainl Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 17 Environment Environmental Management Objectives and Progress Toward Objectives by Priority Theme in GLP2020 Environmental Initiative GLP2020 Environmental Initiative has largely progressed as planned. Remaining issues will continue to be addressed. Priority theme Fiscal 2020 objectives Fiscal 2018 progress Theme 1 In departments involved in product realization processes, q : L aunched the Integrated MS Examination Committee and the Management Systems (MS) is integrated into business confirmed the applicable scope of current Quality processes, targets related to quality and the environment Management Systems (QMS) and Environmental Manageare set, and management is implemented through the ment Systems (EMS). Also examined items on the integrated MS. integrated MS internal audit checklist. Construct and administer a mechanism to review compliq: W  orked to ascertain laws and regulations for bases with ance with environment-related laws and regulations globally significant environmental impact. Theme 2 Address SDGs, transition to GRI Standards, continue q: participating in the Ministry of the Environment’s •A  s an SDG initiative, provided general education about Environmental Reporting Platform Development Pilot the environment to all employees of the Domestic Anritsu Project and revitalize communication with investors Group. • Reviewed the content of the Sustainability Report 2018 to prepare for core compliance with GRI Standards. •D  isclosed information about ongoing participation in the Ministry of the Environment’s “Environmental Reporting Platform Development Pilot Project.” •R  eceived the 22nd Environmental Communications Awards. Theme 3 Reduce CO2 emissions related to products (Scope 3*1 △ : categories 1 and 11*2 *3 ) • In initiatives to reduce category 1 emissions, we are revising the calculation method and creating a system that can collect actual data for use from our suppliers and allow us to work in cooperation with them to reduce CO2 emissions. • In initiatives to reduce category 11 emissions, we are analyzing the power consumption status of each product, making revisions to more appropriate calculation methods, and considering further reduction plans. Theme 4 Address additional and revised product and environmental q:F  or category 3 products*4, responded to addition of regulations, such as RoHS in Europe, and continue to four substances to RoHS directives in Europe. provide products that do not contain hazardous substances Theme 5 Reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2*5 *6 CO2 emissions by 2% per q : Reduced emissions by 15.7% compared with fiscal 2015 year compared with fiscal 2015 (26% reduction by fiscal level 2030)*7 Set long-term CO2 emissions target for 2030 and 2050 q : Published the Sustainability Report 2018 with preliminary objectives for 2030. Sent a commitment letter for the SBT Initiative in March 2019. Currently drawing up long-term objectives based on SBT*8 standards. *1 Scope 3: Indirect CO2 emissions from non-energy sources *6 Scope 2: Indirect CO2 emissions from energy sources *2 Scope 3 category 1: Purchased products and services *7 Preliminary objectives until long-term objectives are set for 2030 and 2050 *3 Scope 3 category 11: Use of sold products *8 SBT (Science Based Targets): Targets for reducing greenhouse gases that conform *4 E uropean RoHS directive category 3 products: Information technology (IT) and with scientific knowledge about keeping the temperature of the earth from rising electronic communications equipment as defined by European RoHS directive more than 2°C compared with temperatures before the industrial revolution (likely *5 Scope 1: Direct CO2 emissions to be strengthened to 1.5°C or less) Activities / Achievements ■ Environmental Audit In fiscal 2018, the Anritsu Group’s main production bases in Japan and the U.S. were recertified as compliant with ISO 14001:2015. In addition, the Domestic Anritsu Group conducted internal environmental audits in July for the purpose of reviewing the conformance, effectiveness, and environmental performance of our environmental management system, and again in October for the purpose of reviewing legal compliance. In fiscal 2018, a focused audit was conducted on the drafting of action plans. As a result, there were no non-conforming items. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 18 Environment Environmental Management Opportunities for improvement indicated by external audits and observations pointed out by internal audits are reported to the Environment Management Committee and shared and rolled out throughout all management organizations. Improvements are made for issues faced by each management organization and confirmed during the internal audit conducted in the following fiscal year. ■ Environmental Education for Employees To raise the environmental awareness of each employee and encourage them to actively engage in environmental activities, we provide general education through Web-Based Training (WBT) every year for all Anritsu Group employees in Japan as well as environmental education programs designed for each job type and rank. These programs are also attended by the suppliers. With the goal of further entrenching understanding of SDGs, general education for all Anritsu group employees in Japan in fiscal 2018 included the theme of environmental management and SDGs. There were 2,673 participants in the course. Educational Programs New employee education Internal auditor training program Internal auditor follow-up education General education Education for technology departments Education for sales departments Onsite consignment worker education High-pressure gas handler courses Chemical substances manager training ■ Environmental Awards System The Domestic Anritsu Group gives awards to employees who have obtained environment-related qualifications, groups that have carried out environmental projects in the AQU Innovation Activities* and employees who have offered proposals for improvement. In fiscal 2018, 24 Group projects and 138 proposals were recognized with environmental awards. * Activities undertaken by the Domestic Anritsu Group to improve operational efficiency, quality, and other aspects. ■ Environmental Communication Anritsu actively communicates using various platforms both inside and outside the Company with a firm belief in the vital importance of raising stakeholder awareness of our environmental activities and gaining their support for our efforts to protect the global environment. The Domestic Anritsu Group has created a system for responding to inquiries about the environment from its many stakeholders. Anritsu publishes its Integrated Report and Sustainability Report, and places advertisements about the environment and releases environment-related news features. We also provide environmental information tailored for each group of stakeholders, including publishing “Anritsu Environment News” for customers and the quarterly “Eco Club” via the Intranet for employees. Our Sustainability Report issued in fiscal 2018 was updated with information in preparation for core compliance with GRI Standards. As a result, Anritsu received the 22nd Environmental Communications Awards for a second time for its environmental reporting from the Ministry of the Environment and the Global Environmental Forum. Anritsu continues to participate in the Ministry of the Environment’s “Environmental Reporting Platform Development Pilot Project.” We will make every effort to ensure prompt and effective communication with our stakeholders by disclosing our environmental information, responding to environmental surveys, and exchanging opinions. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 19 Environment Environmental Management ■ Climate Change Survey Results by CDP The score for Anritsu's response to the CDP questionnaire on climate change for fiscal 2018 was “B: Management level,” the same score received in fiscal 2017. This means that the “Company has considered the concrete impacts of climate change that are in line with its own businesses.” We will continue our efforts to enhance the reliability of our information disclosure and reduce CO2 emissions throughout the entire value chain to prevent global warming. ■ System for Collecting EnvironRegistrant at site A Environmental impact database system mental Impact Data Environmental impact data The Anritsu Group has been gathering registration tool Environmental data on its environmental impact after Registrant at site B impact database developing a system for collecting Environmental impact data environmental impact data, such as registration tool Environmental Aggregate data electricity usage, from its business sites, impact data collection tool Registrant at site X including those overseas. The environEnvironmental mental impact data collected from impact data registration tool Business documents business sites is stored in a database and used in aggregate data and to create business documents. ■ Global Product Assessment and Environmentally Friendly Environmentally Product Certification Program Friendly Products Excellent Anritsu is promoting environmental efforts across the product life cycle Eco Products from parts/materials procurement and manufacturing to shipment, customer use, and recycling/disposal, and conducts global product Eco Products assessments that evaluate the effects of environmental impact reduction from the early design stage of every product’s development. Evaluation Assessed Products items in the global product assessment cover basic factors such as improvements in volume, mass, and power consumption against a reference product (an existing product that is similar in function and performance to the product being assessed). Additional items for evaluation include resource savings and the reduction of harmful substances and overall environmental impact throughout production, distribution, use, and disposal. The assessment is conducted during the three stages of target setting, design review, and evaluation. We have established an environmentally friendly product program that certifies products as Excellent Eco-Products* and Eco-Products based on the global product assessment scoring results. Environmentally friendly products accounted for about 84% and Excellent Eco-Products for about 76% of Anritsu’s sales of measuring instruments for fiscal 2018. * Top ranking products in the industry that meet the environmentally friendly standards independently established by Anritsu. These products are indicated in catalogs and such with the Excellent Eco Product Details (WEB) mark. This mark is categorized under international standard ISO 14021 Environmental labels and List of Excellent declarations — Self-declared environmental claims (Type II environmental labelling). Eco-products Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 20 Environment Environmental Management TOPICS Development of MT8000A Radio Communication Test Station The MT8000A Radio Communications Test Station is used to test 5G mobile terminals, chipsets, and other devices under development. One unit can effectively handle both RF measurement and protocol testing operations. Development was based on the concept of constructing a single unit with the processing capabilities equal to the multiple existing testers currently required for 5G NR (New Radio) measurment instruments. The equipment was realized through the use of highly efficient power supply devices and low-power, highly integrated devices. Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) devices consume more power the higher the temperature, even when performing the same computation. The power consumption of FPGAs can therefore be controlled by efficiently dissipating heat by spreading out heat sources within the casing. Compared to conventional products processing at the same levels, we decreased the model’s volume by 80% and mass by 74%, with power consumption reduced by a substantial 75%. ■ CO2 Emissions Across the Life Cycle of Our Products The Domestic Anritsu Group is aware of the CO2 emissions at each stage of the product life cycle. CO2 Emissions and Breakdown across the Life Cycle of Product Groups (fiscal 2018) Manufacturing Distribution Use Disposal Total CO2 emissions for each product group (average) kg-CO2 Desktop measuring instruments 3,783 Handheld measuring instruments 64 Checkweighers 2,825 X-ray inspection systems 6,630 Metal detectors 2,417 Network appliances 1,916 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 (%) ■ Environmental Considerations in Supply Chain Management The provision of environmentally friendly products requires the use of parts and materials that reduce environmental impact. The Anritsu Group upholds environmentally friendly supply chain management through green procurement and conducts research on the chemical substances in the parts it purchases, in accordance with the Basic Rules of Procurement. For more information, please see “Supply Chain Management” on page 49. ■ Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations In fiscal 2018, Anritsu did not receive any complaints or citations for violations of laws and regulations related to the environment. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 21 Environment Climate Change / Energy Social issues as a background Torrential rainfall occurred in western Japan in July 2018, and typhoon No. 21 made landfall in the Kinki region in September 2018. These two natural disasters caused extensive damage to buildings, power outages, cutouts in water supply, and forced operations to halt. The impact of climate change caused by global warming has become more serious and pronounced. Stakeholders have become more aware of climate change. For example, in June 2017, the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)* published recommendations for companies regarding the disclosure of financial information related to the climate so that investors could make informed investment decisions. Natural disasters caused by climate change and the tightening of related regulations present a risk in business activities, but also opportunities for Anritsu to contribute to measures that prevent climate change through its business activities. The Company recognizes climate changes as the biggest issue in environmental management, and aims to strengthen measures to counter climate change. * T he Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) is an international initiative launched by the Financial Stability Board (FSB) in 2015 to improve the disclosure of information related to the financial impact stemming from climate-related risks and opportunities. ■ Risks and Opportunities from Climate Change • Risks and opportunities driven by changes in regulation Energy-related laws and regulations, including the Act on the Rational Use of Energy, are being tightened in line with the Paris Agreement and efforts to counteract climate change. We also believe there will be an increased need going forward to cut the absolute level of energy consumption. In order to respond to such risks, it will be vital to replace or rebuild aging equipment and buildings. It will also likely require the installation and purchasing of renewable energy. Regarding the provision of environmentally friendly products, the product assessment methods and LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) evaluations that Anritsu was among the first to adopt in the industry have become commonplace. Using these methodologies, Anritsu sets objectives for the development and provision of energy-saving products. We believe this system is effective for addressing customer needs to conserve energy. • Risks and opportunities driven by changes in physical climate parameters The Anritsu Group procures parts and materials from locations around the world and floods and hurricanes brought on by climate change mean that there is some risk of suppliers in affected regions being unable to supply necessary parts and materials. In response, the procurement department has mapped the main manufacturing and sales locations of our suppliers and has formulated a system in which we can grasp potential damage immediately and globally. The system also allows the Anritsu Group to make purchases from several companies. The No. 1 facility at Tohoku Anritsu’s plant in Koriyama City, Fukushima Prefecture is located near the Abukuma River, which has a high risk of flooding during torrential rains. The facility has endured flooding on its first floor in the past. Learning from this experience, the company build its second facility in a flood-free area within the city limits in 2013 and moved the major production lines to the new location. The company also built a flood barrier at the entrance of the first facility, which serves to limit damage to the first floor should flooding again occur. • Other Risks and opportunities The Anritsu Group produces products and solutions that help society adapt to and mitigate the effects of climate change, including the SightVisor series, which provides video surveillance of water levels and flooding rivers. The Company also provides information and communications infrastructure measurement technology that is used to assess electric power demand and supply, including home energy management systems (HEMS) for smart grid. For details, please see page 13 “Solving Social Issues Through Business.” Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 22 Environment Climate Change / Energy Mediumto long-term goals Fiscal 2020 Targets Fiscal 2018 Progress Reducing Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2 emissions by 2% per year q : Reduced 15.7% compared with fiscal 2015. compared with fiscal 2015 (26% reduction by fiscal 2030)* Setting long-term CO2 emissions reduction targets for 2030 q : We disclosed the provisional targets for 2030 in Anritsu Sustainability and 2050 Report 2018. We submitted a commitment letter to the Science Based Targets (SBT) Initiative in March 2019 and are currently formulating long-term goals based on the SBT criteria. Reducing product-related CO2 emissions (Scope 3 category 1 △ : and 11) • In our Category 1 reduction efforts, we are revising the calculation method and creating a system that can collect actual data for use from our suppliers and allow us to work in cooperation with them to reduce CO2 emissions. • In our Category 11 reduction efforts, we are analyzing the power consumption status of each product, making revisions to more appropriate calculation methods, and considering further reduction plans. * Provisional target until planning for the long-term targets for 2030 and 2050 have been finalized Activities / Achievements ■ CO2 Emissions Throughout the Entire Value Chain We have calculated CO2 emissions throughout the Anritsu entire value chain. The calculated emissions value has received third-party verification. Scope 3 category 1 and category 11 data has been revised using a more reasonable calculation method. Value chain CO2 emissions by scope (fiscal 2018) Cat. 12 : End-of-life treatment of sold products 0.03% Direct emissions (Scope 1) 1.43% Cat. 5 : Waste generated in operations 0.13% Indirect emissions derived from energy use (Scope 2) 10.12% Cat. 3 : Fueland energy-related activities not included in Scope 1 or 2 0.90% Cat. 4 : Transportation and distribution 2.53% Cat. 11 : Use of sold products 47.25% Cat. 7 : Employee commuting 3.09% Cat. 6 : Business travel 3.63% 110,258t Cat. 2 : Capital goods 4.53% Other indirect emissions Cat. 1 : Purchased goods and services 26.35% (Scope 3)88.45% (t-CO2) CO2 emission volume FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Total CO2 emission volume ( + + ) 158,900 155,941 162,957 141,906 138,683 110,258 Scope1 2,376 1,669 1,722 1,698 1,591 1,574 Scope2 (Market based) 11,045 13,396 13,387 12,581 11,206 11,162 Scope2 (Location based) 14,174 14,262 15,310 14,741 12,354 11,991 Scope3*1,2,3,4 145,479 140,876 147,848 127,626 125,885 97,522 *1 Categories subject to calculation in fiscal 2013: 1,2. 4-7, 11, 12 *2 Categories subject to calculation in fiscal 2014: 1-7, 11, 12 *3 We revised the calculation method for category 1 data from fiscal 2018 *4 We revised the lifetime utilization period used in the category 11 calculation from fiscal 2018 ■ Energy-saving Activities at Factories and Offices We have focused our efforts on reducing energy consumption, as more than 99% of Anritsu Group CO2 emissions (Scope 1 and 2) are from energy consumption. Our efforts have resulted in the group’s energy consumption on a crude oil equivalent basis dropping by about 25% over the past ten years. In fiscal 2018, we implemented the Cool Biz / Warm Biz activities at the Domestic Anritsu Group and the operating conditions improvement of air conditioning equipment and, by means of a raft of measures that included the new installation of high-efficiency air conditioning equipment, reduced energy consumption (crude oil equivalent) by approximately 2.2%. However, due to an increase in the number of overtime hours worked, the Anritsu Group’s energy consumption (crude oil equivalent) increased by 1% compared with the fiscal 2017 level. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 23 Environment Climate Change / Energy Energy Use (Crude Oil Conversion) CO2 Emissions from Energy Use [Market Based] (㎘) (㎘) (t-CO2)(t-CO2) 12,000 12,000 20,000 20,000 14,930 14,930 14,87214,872 9,0009,000 8,2658,265 15,000 15,000 13,825 13,825 14,212 14,212 8,0648,064 7,9877,9877,9627,962 7,9837,983 7,7747,774 7,6987,698 12,72112,721 12,69812,698 12,66012,660 6,0006,000 10,000 10,000 3,0003,000 5,0005,000 0 0 0 0 2012 2012 2013 2013 2014 20142015 2015 2016 20162017 2017 2018 2018 (FY) (FY) 2012 2012 2013 20132014 2014 2015 20152016 2016 2017 2017 2018 (FY) 2018 (FY) ■ Atsugi site ■ Hiratsuka site ■ Tanasawa site ■ Tohoku site ■ Atsugi site ■ Hiratsuka site ■ Tanasawa site ■ Tohoku site ■ Sales offices, etc. in Japan ■ U.S.A. ■ U.K. ■ Denmark ■ Sales offices, etc. in Japan ■ U.S.A. ■ U.K. ■ Denmark Other Targets of the Domestic Anritsu Group Result for Fiscal 2018 Improving the basic unit of energy by 1% every year toward 2020 16.8% improvement from base year (Program promoted by the electric and electronics-related industries in Japan for establishing a low carbon society) (fiscal 2012) Achieve annual reductions of at least 1% in the basic unit of energy consumption per 3.8% improvement real sales for the past 5 years under the Act on the Rational Use of Energy ■ Renewable Energy Anritsu Group has solar power generators with maximum output capacity of 200 kW and15 kW installed at the Koriyama Second Factory and Global Headquarters Building, respectively. In fiscal 2018, the Koriyama Second Factory used 206 MWh of renewable energy generated by solar power, representing about 13% of its total electricity needs, and the global headquarters building used 20 MWh of solar power, representing about 0.6% of its total electricity needs. Excess power generation from the Koriyama Second Factory, such as generated on holidays, is provided free of charge to the power supply company. At present, while drawing up a future renewable energy introduction plan, we are also considering the installation of solar power generators with a total maximum output of several megawatts by 2030. In addition, we received third-party verification for the amount of renewable energy we generated. Renewable energy (Annual electrical output) (MWh) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Solar energy 216 212 241 227 233 241 * The Koriyama Second Factory: installed in fiscal 2013. The Global Headquarters Buildings: installed in fiscal 2015. ■ Reducing CO2 Emissions from Purchased Goods and Services Anritsu is working to reduce CO2 emissions relating to purchased goods and services (Scope 3, Category 1), which account for a particularily high ratio of CO2 emissions throughout the value chain. It is imperative to reduce Category 1 emissions in cooperation with our suppliers. So that data better reflects the results of cooperation, we have revised our calculation method based on the direct collection of CO2 emissions data from our suppliers. ■ Reduced CO2 Emissions from the Use of Products Sold Anritsu is working to reduce CO2 emissions generated during product use(Scope 3, category 11), which has the highest percentage of CO2 emissions across the entire value chain. For category 11, we are analyzing the power consumption status of each product and making revisions to more appropriate calculation methods. Reducing product energy consumption* 1 , * 2 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 *5 GJ* 3 25,665 29,852 27,748 36,713 31,241 71,744 t-CO2*4 1,416 1,650 1,611 2,162 1,604 3,569 *1 C  onversion coefficient x time spent in operation over one year x sales volume x *3 Source for conversion coefficient: Act on the Rational Use of Energy reduction in power consumption when compared to a conventional product at the *4 S ource for conversion coefficient: National average coefficient based on the Law same level of functionality and performance Concerning the Promotion of Measures to Cope with Global Warming *2 D omestic Anritsu Group hardware products for which product assessments have *5 Reflects revision to annual utilization from fiscal 2018 been conducted Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 24 Environment Climate Change / Energy ■ Third-party Verification of CO2 Emissions and Annual Renewable Energy Power Generation In order to ensure the reliability of the report, we sought and received third-party verification from the Sustainability Accounting Co., Ltd. regarding CO2 emissions (Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3) and annual renewable energy power generation. Related data Scope 1, 2 CO2 Emission Volume per Sales Units: t-CO2/¥100 million FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope 1, 2 CO2 Emission Volume per Unit (Sales) *1 13.2 15.2 15.8 16.3 14.9 12.8 *1 Scope 1, 2 CO2 emissions (market based) / sales Energy Consumption*1 and Reductions*2,*3,*4 GJ Type of energy*5 , *6 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Reductions Total energy consumption in the Organization 309,793 308,465 320,197 309,232 298,178 301,108 19,089 Subtotal for non-renewable energy Sources 26,772 24,374 23,713 25,927 24,066 24,364 -651 Class A heavy oil*7 6,498 5,832 5,202 6,830 5,476 5,018 184 Light oil* 7 291 269 285 262 223 224 61 Gasoline*7 10,678 10,204 9,925 10,165 9,113 9,098 827 Kerosene*7 969 969 969 969 969 932 37 City gas*7 2,695 2,571 2,216 2,409 2,824 2,750 -534 LPG*8 175 189 189 158 146 115 74 Natural gas*7 5,466 4,340 4,927 5,134 5,315 6,227 -1,299 Purchased electrical power*7 281,610 282,817 296,076 283,304 274,112 276,744 19,333 Regional heating*9 1,411 1,274 408 — — — 408 *1 M  ethod for calculating energy consumption: Volume purchased x conversion coefficient *2 Method for calculating reduced energy consumption: 2015 energy consumption – 2018 energy consumption *3 Base year for reduction comparisons is fiscal 2015 *4 R  eason for choosing base year: 2015 was chosen as this was the year the global headquarters building was completed in March of the same year, which ushered in major changes in the use of energy-saving equipment. *5 Consumption of cooling and heating, and energy sold are not derived from renewable energy sources. *6 Energy consumed outside the organization not included due to the difficulty of documentation. *7 Source for conversion coefficient: Regulations in line with the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. *8 S ource for conversion coefficient: Agency for Natural Resources and Energy: Act on the Rational Use of Energy, Procedure for periodic reports under Articles 15 and 19 (2) (revised March 30, 2018) 50.8 x (1/458) (propane/butane m3 equivalent). *9 Source for conversion coefficient: Reports from operations in Denmark Energy Consumption per Sales GJ/¥100 million FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Energy Basic unit of energy consumption (Sales)* 304 312 335 353 347 302 * Total energy consumption/sales Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 25 Environment Water Resources Social issues as a background Water is irreplaceable for us to lead our daily lives and for conducting economic activities. Currently, water resource depletion and dispute issues over water are occurring on a global scale due to factors that include the growth of the world’s population, economic growth in developing countries and climate change. The state of California, where the Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) is located, experienced record-breaking droughts from 2011 to 2017, and in 2015 all residents were asked to reduce their water use by 20%. Anritsu believes that efforts to use limited water resources efficiently and appropriately are important. Mediumto long-term goals Fiscal 2020 Target Fiscal 2018 Progress Maintain Domestic Anritsu Group water consumption at less than 60,000m3 q: 59,723m3. An increase of 1.7% (about the level consumed in fiscal 2017) compared with fiscal 2017. Activities / Achievements ■ Reducing Water Consumption Most of the Anritsu Group’s water usage is in toilets, for the washing of hands and so on. The Domestic Anritsu Group has reduced water consumption through efforts such as leakage inspections, upgrading to water-saving toilets, and the use of circulated water in production facilities. The Hiratsuka site uses alkaline washing agents to degrease metallic materials, and the rinsing water used by the facility in this process is reused by circulating it through filters and ion-exchange resins, which reduces annual water consumption by approximately 40m3. In the Domestic Anritsu Group, in fiscal 2018 water usage increased by 1.7% compared with fiscal 2017 due to an increase in the overtime hours worked in the development and manufacturing departments as a result of increased sales. The Anritsu Company was able to reduce its water consumption by about half from fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2015 through efforts such as replacing a water-intensive lawn with plants that can withstand dehydration and introducing water-saving toilets. Since 2017, we stopped watering plants in the rainy season. In fiscal 2018, among other measures we repaired water leaks, swapped out plants for those that are more resistant to dryness and installed water-saving valves, but water usage at Anritsu Company increased by 8.4% year on year due to the increase in working hours and the effects of the leaks. ■ Consideration for Water Resources With regard to the Anritsu Group’s water usage by the source from where it is drawn, other than using underground water at the Atsugi site, we use city water, which uses surface water drawn from rivers as its source, at all our facilities. At the Atsugi site, where we use groundwater to flush toilets, we have reduced our use of groundwater to about a quarter of the volume in the past 10 years by upgrading to water-saving toilets. And considering the possibility of groundwater depletion and flooding caused by heavy rainfall, we installed a rainwater permeation basin at the global headquarters building to facilitate the penetration of rainwater into the ground. For additional information on the treatment and management of wastewater, please see page 29 “Preventing Environmental Pollution.” Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 26 Environment Water Resources Efforts to Protect Water Resources Details of our efforts Atsugi Site Hiratsuka Site Tohoku Site U.S.A. Introduced a body detection sensor for men’s toilets q q q Introduced water-saving toilets q q q Introduced automatic faucets q q Used groundwater for flushing toilets q Reuse of rinse water from the metal degreasing unit q Installed a rainwater permeation basin q Installation of Valves to Conserve Water q q Installed a sound emulator, “Otohime,” for toilets q Conducted leakage inspections q q q Upgraded to high-efficiency water heaters q Replanted plants that can withstand dehydration q Replaced to a drip water supply system q Cessation of Watering in Rainy Season q Introduced a waterless method for cleaning windows q Arranged an inspection of a water supply facility by exterq nal institutions Participated in Mt. Fuji Green Fund Afforestation Efforts q q Participated in a cleanup of the Sagami River (River cleanup activities) q 200000 Consumption Water Water usage by source Unit: m3 (m ) 3 Water 150,000 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 source 112,800 Water104,426 80,943 73,253 65,207 63,382 54,371 55,774 94,931 works 100,000 82,794 80,352 70,837 72,777 Ground23,483 21,678 17,587 16,970 16,466 17,003 water 50,000 Total 104,426 94,931 82,794 80,352 70,837 72,777 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) ■ Atsugi site (Groundwater) ■ Atsugi site ■ Hiratsuka site ■ Tanasawa site ■ Tohoku site ■ Sales offices, etc. in Japan ■ U.S.A. ■ U.K. ■ Denmark Preserving Biodiversity Social issues as a background If biodiversity is lost, natural resources will be lost and people’s survival will be threatened. The biodiversity crisis is a major risk affecting corporate sustainability. In the cycle from the procurement of raw materials to the disposal of a product, there are elements at Anritsu that affect biodiversity, such as waste, releases of chemicals and energy usage. We therefore have an obligation to work on biodiversity conservation and have a basic policy to reduce environmental impact, while also engaging in social contribution activities for the purpose of protecting the natural environment. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 27 Environment Preserving Biodiversity Policy and medium-to long-term goals The Anritsu Group has formulated and implemented a basic policy on preserving biodiversity based on its understanding of the relationship between the Company’s business activities and biodiversity. Since we have no specific business activities that have a direct impact on biodiversity, our basic policy for preserving biodiversity is focused on activities aimed at reducing environmental impacts. Our efforts are centered on three areas: 1) the promotion of activities aimed at preventing global warming in order to mitigate climate change; 2) the promotion of resource saving and 3R with an aim to limit overexploitation and habitat loss; and 3) controlling the use and release of chemical substances in order to reduce pollution and habitat loss. Biodiversity Conservation Basic Policy We strive to reduce environmental impact, focusing on the following three areas of our business activities: ■ Mitigation of climate change Business Operations Activities to Reduce Environmental Impact ■ Control overexploitaBusiness activities with ● Global warming prevention Mitigation of climate change tion/habitat loss environmental impact ● Resource-saving/recycling Control overexploitation/habitat loss ■ Control pollution/ limited within an acceptable range for the Earth ● Control chemical substance release Control pollution/habitat loss habitat loss Social Contribution Activities Activities to Reduce Environmental Impact ● Social contribution activities for preserving biodiversity Increase the regenerative capacity of the Earth Joined the tree planting activities, local cleanups, etc. For information on our mediumand long-term goals for “Global Warming Prevention Activities,” “Resource-saving/ Recycling Activities,” and “Control Chemical Substance Release” based on our Biodiversity Conservation Basic Policy, please refer to each relevant item under “Environment.” Activities / Achievements In addition to environmental impact reduction activities in line with the Biodiversity Conservation Basic Policy, we actively participate in social contribution activities, such as greening and cleanup activities, to expand the global environment’s ability to regenerate itself. In the greening of Company premises, we carry out planting that shows consideration for the original vegetation (potential natural vegetation) that matches the climate and soil of the site. ■ Joined the Declaration of Biodiversity by Keidanren Promotion Partners The Domestic Anritsu Group has endorsed Nippon Keidanren’s Declaration of Biodiversity and participates as a promotion partner to exercise leadership in creating a society that values and supports biodiversity. ■ Participation in the Nijyu-maru Project (Double 20 campaign) The Domestic Anritsu Group in fiscal 2017 pledged its contribution toward achieving the Aichi Biodiversity Targets as part of the Nijyu-maru Project, which is being run by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature – Japan (IUCN-J).* Activity name Actions Target Participation in the Mt. Fuji “Forest This project has been active since 2000 and focuses on Habitat destruction fund-raising” greening project reviving forests cleared by the 1996 typhoon over a span Preserving vulnerable of 80 years. Anritsu has been a participant since 2006. ecosystems Ecosystem servicing We planted trees and vegetation appropriate to the Habitat destruction Greening when constructing a new climate and soil of the area on the grounds and surrounding Ecosystem servicing building area of the Anritsu global headquarters building, for which construction was completed in March 2015. *C itizen groups, companies, and local governments declared their support and registered activities for achieving the 20 Aichi Targets at the 10th Ordinary Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP10). Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 28 Environment Preventing Environmental Pollution Social issues as a background The use and control of chemical substances is becoming an increasingly important issue given a tightening in regulations in regard to their handling. These regulations and laws include the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law, which focuses on the emission of specific chemical substances and improved management, the Poisonous and Deleterious Substances Control Act, the Industrial Safety and Health Act, the Fire Service Act, the Water Pollution Prevention Law, the Air Pollution Control Act, and the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act. In product development and manufacturing, Anritsu handles chemicals so that, if they were not properly managed, would seriously affect the surrounding environment. Thorough measures to prevent environmental pollution are essential for Anritsu to continue its business activities. Mediumto long-term goals Fiscal 2020 Target Fiscal 2018 Progress Maintain zero excess of the voluntary management limit for industrial wastewater q : Zero excess maintained. (Atsugi site) We will work to maintain zero excess of the voluntary management limit. Activities / Achievements The Domestic Anritsu Group is working to prevent environmental pollution by establishing voluntary management standards that are stricter than laws and regulations. ■ Industrial Wastewater Management The Atsugi site operates an industrial wastewater treatment facility to detoxify industrial wastewater containing acids and alkali and wastewater discharged from small boilers used to adjust humidity inside cleanrooms. We upgraded the facility, modifying the structure to incorporate a breakwater to prevent any leaks of raw water, intermediary wastewater, or chemicals used for treatment from the tanks. We are working to reduce risks by, introducing a double monitoring system to ensure that water exceeding the permitted pH limit would not be discharged into the surrounding environment. At the Hiratsuka site, we degrease and wash metal materials using alkaline washing agents, and the degreasing solution is collected in batches. Since the water used for rinsing is circulated, this is not released as process wastewater. While there are no specific facilities that discharge industrial wastewater at the Tohoku site, we have installed a pH monitor and emergency cutoff valve to address the risk of water being discharged from boilers and septic tanks in the event of malfunction. Each site has developed response procedures to address the potential leakage of chemical substances due to human error or natural disaster. Regular equipment inspections and training are also conducted, and necessary revisions are made to prepare for unexpected accidents. ■ Wastewater Quality We conduct regular water quality analysis and management activities for wastewater discharged from manufacturing sites and offices. Naturally, there are no violations, either of laws and regulations or Details (WEB) of voluntary management standards. Wastewater quality data from the Domestic Anritsu Group ■ Air Quality The Koriyama First Factory Office at the Tohoku site operates heavy oil boilers subject to the Air Pollution Control Law and there are naturally no violations, either of laws and regulations or of voluntary management standards. There are no facilities at the Atsugi site, the Hiratsuka site, or the Koriyama Second Factory at the Tohoku site that generate air pollution that is subject to legal regulations. Details (WEB) Air quality data for the Tohoku district Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 29 Environment Preventing Environmental Pollution ■ Noise The Domestic Anritsu Group strives to detect abnormalities at an early stage, including by pre-screening equipment prior to installation, inspecting equipment ahead of the launch of operations, and conducting regular patrols of the facility. We also measure noise levels at the boundaries of our facilities every year. At the Hiratsuka site, where there are many types of machinery, we are working to reduce noise by moving particularly noisy equipment to a soundDetails (WEB) proofed room and placing noise reducing covers over exhaust vents. Results show that measured Noise data for the Domestic Anritsu Group noise levels not only meet legal standards but also do not exceed our voluntary standards. ■ Chemical Substances Management Use of chemical substances by the Domestic Anritsu Group is determined by designating banned or restricted substances in manufacturing from the standpoints of environmental regulations, hazardousness, safety and health, and disaster prevention, and having expert evaluators with knowledge of each criterion conduct prior assessments. We also inventory all chemical substances used by Domestic Anritsu Group divisions and employ a chemical substances management system that makes a record of the amount of chemical substances purchased, used, and disposed of every three months. We use this database to assess the amount of substances subject to the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law, calculate the total stored amount of hazardous materials as designated by the Fire Service Act, calculate as greenhouse gas emissions, and monitor designated chemical substances in line with revisions to laws and regulations. We also consider replacing substances as necessary with alternatives that are safer and have a lower environmental impact. In fiscal 2018, the handling volume at the Tohoku site of methylnaphthalene, a substance found within the Class-A heavy oil used in boilers, exceeded 1t. As this substance falls under the PRTR Law, we calculated the transfer amount and submitted reports to the appropriate regulatory authorities. Methylnaphthalene is burned in boilers and very little is released externally, but we will still work to reduce handling volume moving forward. Regulated Chemical Substances in manufacturing by the Anritsu Group Banned 7 Groups of substances: CFC (chlorofluorocarbons), halon, tetrachlormethane, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, substances in HBFC (hydrobromofluorocarbons), bromochloromethane, methyl bromide manufacturing Suppressed 7 Groups of substances: HCFC (hydrochlorofluorocarbons), trichloroethylene, tetrachloroethylene, substances in dichloromethane, HFC (hydrofluorocarbons), PFC (perfluorocarbons), SF6 (Sulfur hexafluoride) manufacturing ■ Groundwater Management In regard to organochlorine substances, we completely eliminated the use of trichloroethylene at the Atsugi site in 1970 and 1,1,1-trichloroethane in 1993, though we continue to voluntarily analyze and monitor the five designated organochlorine substances in groundwater at regular intervals. While levels of tetrachloroethylene were higher than permitted under environmental standards, this substance has never been used by the Anritsu Group. The results of the soil survey showed that Anritsu was not responsible for trichloroethylene contamination. This data suggest that the Details (WEB) source of contamination originated upstream from Anritsu’s location, which the local government Groundwater data from the Domestic Anritsu Group is also aware of. We will continue to conduct regular analysis and monitoring of the site. ■ PCB Management In respect to condensers of high concentration PCB waste at the Atsugi site, which account for a significant portion of PCB waste, processing at the Japan Environmental Storage & Safety Corporation (JESCO) Tokyo Facility was completed in fiscal 2016. Our analysis also revealed that pressure-sensitive copying paper came under the category of low-concentration PCB waste, and we contracted a government-certified treatment company to properly complete processing of the waste. In fiscal 2018, we outsourced the treatment of low-concentration PCB transponders to processing companies certified by the government. Following confirmation that the waste had been properly treated, we submitted a notification to the Kanagawa Prefectural government that the processing of low-concentration PCB waste had been completed. With regard to the remaining ballasts containing a high concentration of PCB, we completed loading and unloading registration for consigned processing with the JESCO Hokkaido Facility. We regularly report storage status to the Kanagawa Prefectural government based on our strict management guidelines, which comply with the storage standards for specially controlled industrial waste. Anritsu does not store PCB waste outside of the Atsugi site. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 30 Environment Resources Recycling Social issues as a background As the global population increases, so too does the amount of waste it generates. We believe solving the issue of waste requires the proper management and disposal of waste on a global basis. Anritsu understands that it is our social responsibility to properly manage not only the waste generated by our plants and offices, but also waste in the form of used products. We are working to solve the issue of waste, including by using the 3R (reduce, reuse, and recycle) approach. Mediumto long-term goals Fiscal 2020 Target Fiscal 2018 Progress Maintain zero emissions* at the Domestic Anritsu Group q : Maintained zero emissions. Maintain industrial waste volume at the Domestic Anritsu Group at 67 tons or q : Maintained industrial waste volume lower below 67 tons (66.7 tons in fiscal 2018) q:M  aintained general waste output Maintain general waste and put at the Atsugi site at 36 tons or lower below 36 tons (31.3 tons in fiscal 2018) * Zero emissions is defined as achieving a directly landfilled and burned disposal rate of less than 0.5%. Activities / Achievements ■ Waste Reduction The Domestic Anritsu Group is promoting “3R” activities and the separation of waste in our offices and production lines. We replaced special wooden frames used to ship components produced abroad to Japan with rented reusable plastic frames, which led to a reduction of wood waste in fiscal 2016. We installed in fiscal 2015 a raw garbage disposal tank* at the Atsugi site, and a second in fiscal 2017. We are continuing to reduce general waste output. In fiscal 2018, we were able to improve value by shifting some waste oil from thermal recycling to material recycling. * L andfill disposal tanks are installed underground, where the temperature remains stable. Raw garbage can simply be thrown into the tank, where it decomposes naturally with both anaerobic and aerobic bacteria, significantly reducing the volume of garbage. It works like a large compost bin that does not require periodic maintenance and does not consume any electricity. Volume of Waste Generated by the Domestic Anritsu Group Change in Volume of Waste by Treatment Method and Waste Type (Domestic Anritsu Group) (Including valuables) (t) (t) 150 Treatment method Type of waste FY2018 Material recycling Metal scraps 137.0 100 Paper 111.0 Sludge 1.9 50 Oil 1.8 Glass/ceramic scraps 1.3 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Plastics 1.3 Woodchips 1.0 Alkali 0.1 General waste : ■ Atsugi site ■ Hiratsuka site ■ Tanasawa site Animal and plant residues 36.3 Thermal recycling ■ Tohoku site ■ Sales offices, etc. in Japan Plastics 30.8 Industrial waste :  Atsugi site Hiratsuka site Tanasawa site Tohoku site Sales offices, etc. in Japan Oil 16.2 Woodchips 10.0 Sludge 2.7 Paper 2.4 Alkali 1.2 Acid 0.4 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 31 Environment Resources Recycling TOPICS Supporting the Kanagawa No Plastic Waste Declaration A dead blue whale calf was found washed up on the shores of Yuigahama beach in Kamakura, Kanagawa prefecture in 2018. A later autopsy found a store of plastic garbage in the calf’s stomach. Kanagawa Prefecture considers itself an “SDGs Future City” and views this incident as a “message from the whales.” In line with the SDG for creating a sustainable society, the prefectural government issued the Kanagawa No Plastic Waste Declaration with the aim of working toward a solution for the issue of marine pollution, which is becoming increasingly severe, especially in regard to the problem of micro-plastics. Anritsu is not only a supporter of this activity, but also conducts clean-up activities in the areas around the Atsugi location, works to prevent plastic pollution in rivers and the ocean through participation in Sagami River clean-up activities, and works to educate its employees through general environmental programs and the quarterly publication of the Eco Club environmental magazine. ■ Environmental Considerations in Packaging The Domestic Anritsu Group seeks to reduce the volume of packaging materials. Together with our packaging subcontractors, in fiscal 2018 we completely discontinued the use of shock-absorbing material for packaging made of urethane foam produced by using a liquid concentrate containing Methylenebis (4,1-phenylene) diisocyanate, which is designated as a Class I Designated Chemical Substance under the PRTR Law. The total elimination of urethane foam has contributed to a reduction in packaging material waste volume. Eco-friendly Packaging Efforts at the Domestic Anritsu Group Target product group Action Result Polyethylene foam Desktop measuring equipment Adopted polyethylene foam as Reduction in packaging material packaging and handheld measuring a cushioning Material waste volume (waste material is equipment shipped overseas*1 polyethylene foam) *2 (PEF packaging) Volume reduction of 40% (compared to film packaging) Film packaging Desktop measuring equipment Adopted method where Reduction in packaging material shipped overseas *3 product is held between two waste volume (waste material is layers of elastic film elastic film) *2 H160 Air-based Unit components and small Adopted air-based cushioning Reduction in packaging material cushioning materials measuring equipment shipped material that can withstand waste volume (waste material is overseas atmospheric pressure changes air film) *2 in air transport Cardboard as a Handheld measuring equipment Adopted cardboard as a Reduction in packaging material cushioning material for domestic and overseas cushioning material in packaging waste volume (waste material is locations Package standard attachments cardboard) *2 packaging and optional parts in the open Volume reduction of 40% spaces within the cardboard (compared to when Access Master cushioning material equipment is packaged using urethane foam Eco-logistics Products shipped domestically Adopted reusable boxes for Reduction in waste volume by (mainly calibration instruments) delivery and pickup (cushioning 94% compared to regular packagmaterial is also reusable) ing*4. Simplified product packaging (Packaging with protective polyethylene) No packaging Large products shipped Adopted method in which Achieved zero waste emissions domestically (mainly Anritsu product was wrapped in through a shift from disposable Infivis products) stretchable film and put in a crates to reusable pipe frames. reusable pipe container *All packaging materials must protect the product from shock and vibrations while in transport. *1 Desktop measuring equipment and handheld measuring equipment being developed and shipped overseas from fiscal 2016 is, in principle, shipped using PEF packaging. *2 Reduction in packaging material based on a comparison of urethane foam waste with waste when item in parentheses is used *3 Used for large measuring equipment and measuring equipment with a shape for which PEF packaging is problematic *4 Assuming eco-logistics boxes are reused 20 times Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 32 Environment Resources Recycling ■ Recycling Center Anritsu led the measuring instrument industry in establishing the Recycling Center at Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd., as a division in 2000. Anritsu Kousan obtained a license to engage in the industrial waste disposal business in 2002 and started operating in fiscal 2003. The center is primarily engaged in treating products used by customers. In fiscal 2018, the center received 138 tons of used products and equipment generated by the Anritsu Group and recycled nearly 100% of the waste after disassembling and sorting, shipping 92.7% of the resultant material as valuable resources. The center also promotes the refurbishment of used products. A selection of equipment used in demonstrations is reconditioned and calibrated by Anritsu and then delivered with a one-year guarantee, thus extending the lives of the products. Recycling System for Used Products Finite Resources Material Material Recycling Chemical Recycling Anritsu Group Thermal Recycling Recycling Center Disassembly Design/Production × Disposal Landfill Zero Emissions Selection Sales Customers Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 33 Environment Environmental Impact Mass Balance*1 (fiscal 2018) Input *2 Output *2 CO2*5 Electricity CO2 emitted as a Electric power for 28,415MWh 1% result of using 12,736t -0.5% use at manufacturing electricity, gas, fuel sites and offices or other greenhouse gasses NOx*6 Gas Nitrogen oxides City gas, LPG, and 205,292m3 10.2% generated as a result 1,306kg 35.9% natural gas used as of using gas and energy fuels SOx*6 Fuels Sulfuric oxides Heavy oil, diesel, and generated as a result 510kg 52.4% gasoline used in 423kℓ -3% of using gas and factories, offices, and fuels vehicles, etc. Wastewater Wastewater disWater charged from 58,530m3 0.3% Municipal water, manufacturing sites groundwater 72,777m 3 2.7% and offices (excluding recycled water) BOD Biochemical oxygen 261 kg -17.9% Chemical demand in wastesubstances water Greenhouse gases 79kg -66% such as HFC, PFC, SF6, N2O General waste in Japan Waste other than industrial Chemical waste that is generated as a 35t -13.1% substances result of business activities (such 7t 2.9% as kitchen waste and waste Chemical substances paper) that are regulated by laws in Japan *3 *4 Industrial waste in Japan Waste generated as a result of business activities, that is 67t 2% Chemical regulated by the ‘Waste Disposal substances 2t -4.6% and Public Cleaning Law' such as sludge, waste plastics, waste PRTR acid, and waste alkali Waste outside Japan 115t 5.7% All waste generated Paper by business activities Copy paper used at 16t -27.6% factories and offices Recycle ratio 83% 0.7% Packaging material Packaging material 355t -5.8% for transportation of Non-recycle ratio 17% -3.1% products *1 E nvironmental impact mass balance: Environmental impact expressed in the form of a balance sheet in which substances entering the company are identified and listed by name and mass in one column and substances and mass exiting the company are identified and listed in the other column to more clearly display the relationship between business activities and environmental impact. *2 Percentages expressed in the right hand column for Input and Output reflect percentage change from the previous fiscal year. *3 S ubstances regulated by law include toxic, deleterious and hazardous substances, organic solvents, and specified chemical substances. *4 A  heavy oil used as fuel is not included. *5 Calculated using the “Emissions factor by electric utility” under the Ministry of the Environment’s “Greenhouse Gas Emissions Accounting, Reporting, and Disclosure System” for electric power in Japan; the emissions factor reported by electric companies for electric power in the United States; the emissions factor from the BEIS GOVERNMENT GHG CONVERSION FACTORS FOR COMPANY REPORTING for electric power in the United Kingdom; and the emissions factor under the Ministry of the Environment’s “Greenhouse Gas Emissions Accounting, Reporting, and Disclosure System” for energy other than electric power in Japan and outside of Japan. Data include the CO2 conversion values for greenhouse gases other than CO2. *6 For NOx and SOx, annual emissions are calculated based on values measured annually. Details (WEB) Environmental Impact Mass Balance Data Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 34 Environment Environmental Accounting (The Domestic Anritsu Group Fiscal 2018) Environmental Category Benefits conservation cost Main category Sub-category 1 Sub-category 2 Investment Cost Economic benefits Environmental (millions of yen) (millions of yen) (millions of yen) Impact Business area cost Pollution prevention cost 4.6 12.7 146.3 *2 — (Includes risk policy) 0.0 6.0 146.3 *2 — Global environmental Prevention of 11.3 13.2 30.7 *2 511.0t-CO2 conservation cost global warming 17.1 14.7 32.4 *2 798.3t-CO2 Resource circulation Resource recycling/ 0.0 63.4 0.2 4.9t cost utilization activities 2.2 64.4 0.1 3.2t Waste disposal 0.0 40.2 11.7 348.7t Cost 0.0 41.1 14.1 358.2t Upstream/ downGreen purchasing/procurement cost 0.0 19.5 131.5 *2 3,458.4t-CO2 *2 stream cost 0.0 24.9 Design of environmentally friendly 0.0 15.2 products 0.0 20.7 62.7 *2 1,604.4t-CO2 *2 Recycling and treatment of products, 0.0 0.0 containers, and packaging 0.0 0.0 Administration Environmental education/training 0.0 16.7 0.0 — cost 0.0 18.6 0.0 — Operation and maintenance of EMS 0.0 76.5 0.0 — and internal audit 0.0 79.7 0.0 — Environmental impact monitoring 0.0 11.9 0.0 — and measurement cost 0.0 17.1 0.0 — Personnel expenses for environmental 0.0 7.6 0.0 — management 0.0 10.7 0.0 — Greening and upkeep of greenery 0.0 12.7 0.0 — 0.0 13.2 0.0 — Social activity Support for community groups, envi0.0 1.5 0.0 — cost ronmental conservation bodies, etc. 0.0 1.8 0.0 — Disclosure of information 0.0 8.3 0.0 — 0.0 10.2 0.0 — R&D cost Research and development to reduce 0.0 0.1 0.0 — environmental impacts 0.0 0.8 0.0 — Environmental Cost incurred for recovery from 0.0 0.0 0.0 — remediation cost environmental degradation 0.0 0.0 0.0 — Total 15.9 299.6 320.4 — 19.3 323.9 255.6 — *1 Shaded portion is for fiscal 2017 *2 Effects of estimated reduction Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 35 Social ■ Respect for Human Rights and Diversity ■ Human Resources Development ■ Occupational Health and Safety ■ Supply Chain Management ■ Quality and Product Safety ■ Data Sheet (Social) Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 36 Social Message Contributing to solving social issues through fostering human resources and diversity Anritsu is expanding its business at the global level, backed by the state-of-the-art technology in its products and services. We believe it is important for Anritsu to continue to foster human resources leadership that can improve corporate value and allow the Company to continue to contribute to society. We intend to redouble our efforts in the hiring and training of human resources, while at the same time fostering discussions and collaboration between management, the business divisions, and our group companies. As we promote the hiring and fostering of human resources, we believe it is important to remember our corporate philosophy of “Sincerity, Harmony, and Enthusiasm” and create an environment in which a diverse range of employees can continually challenge Vice President Chief Human Resource and themselves and work with pride and enthusiasm. In fiscal 2018, we strongly promoted Administration Officer measures aimed at encouraging the active participation of a diverse workforce. These Ichiro Takeuchi measures included hiring foreign employees and appointing female executives, and in line with the promotion of workstyle reforms, we advanced measures aimed at promoting a healthy life-work balance*, including the promotion of health management and flexible working hours. We intend to further our efforts in these areas moving forward. * L ife-work balance: Placing the lifestyle of each individual at the center of how they spend the 24 hours of each day and where they place work in that day, the Anritsu group is focused on enabling its employees to enjoy a harmonious Life-Work Balance (we use this term to emphasize “life” first, rather than the more common “work-life balance”). Respect for Human Rights and Diversity Social issues as a background Since 2006 Anritsu has participated in the United Nations Global Compact, which encourages conduct under the universal principles of human rights and labor. As a signatory, we are focused on ensuring gender equality and are promoting efforts aimed at advancing respect for human rights and diversity. In order to better secure human resources and respond to the risks and needs of a diversifying market in an aging society with a declining birth rate, we believe it is increasingly important for companies to promote diversity management. For Anritsu, for which overseas sales account for 68% of total sales, becoming the leader in the global market in 2020 and maintaining its current business activities requires us to create an environment in which a diverse group of employees can work actively and share their values. Policy As a company developing its business at the global level, Anritsu streamlines policies and guidelines based on international standards, including as set out in the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights endorsed by the UN Human Rights Council, and ISO 26000:2010, which provides guidance on how companies can operate in a socially responsible way. In the Charter of Corporate Behavior for guiding the Anritsu Group in the conduct of its social responsibility, we declared we will respect the human rights of all those who are connected with it, and will not permit any discriminatory practice related to race, gender, and so forth or infringement of individual dignity, and will never accept child labor or forced labor. As for the Code of Conduct, which guides the daily operations of all Anritsu Group employees, it states that we will not discriminate in word or deed or engage in acts of violence or impair personal dignity and that we will seek to deepen our understanding and act to respect human rights through educational programs and other appropriate means. Finally, we will continue to practice diversity and inclusion throughout the entire Group as stipulated in our Diversity Policy. Details (WEB) Details (WEB) Details (WEB) Anritsu Group Charter of Anritsu Group Diversity Policy Corporate Behavior Code of Conduct Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 37 Social Respect for Human Rights and Diversity Structure Centered on the Human Resources and Administration Department, the Sustainability Promotion Center, the Legal Department, and the Global Procurement Operation Division, the Anritsu Group engages in activities aimed at promoting respect for human rights at each stage in the value chains, including our employees, customers, and suplliers. The Diversity Promotion Team, established in fiscal 2016 as a special section within the Human Resources and Administration Department, will promote respect for diversity in a number of ways, including by advancing the career development of women, promoting Life-Work Balance, hiring more persons with disabilities, and developing the careers of non-Japanese employees and senior employees. Mediumto long-term goals The Anritsu Group is focusing on the promotion of workstyle reforms through the creation of a company where employees can work to the best of their abilities, the promotion of diversity, as well as improved productivity as a mediumto long-term goal. Anritsu promotes a corporate culture that allows a diverse range of employees to demonstrate their personal abilities by providing a workplace in which they can play an active role regardless of race, nationality, gender, age, views on work, faith and region, sexual orientation or disability. The Company has set the goal of raising the ratio of women hired to 20% of all new recruits by 2020 and has enhanced the working environment in order to achieve this goal. For additional details, please see the “Empowerment of women’s career development” section. Activities / Achievements ■ Assessing and Monitoring Risk Anritsu Group employees in Japan are required to submit letters of confirmation that provide assurance they understand and agree with the Code of Conduct of the Anritsu Group. We also seek to address and improve the status of human rights issues through the use of corporate ethics surveys and consultation points. For more information on the consultation points, see “Establishment of Compliance Helpline (Reporting/Consultation Service)” (page 65). In the supply chain, we seek the understanding and cooperation of our supply chain partners through Anritsu CSR Procurement Guidelines in establishing a supply chain based on a respect for human rights, labor, health and safety, and the prevention of corruption and consideration of the environment. For more information, see “Supply Chain Management” (page 49-52). ■ Complying with the UK Modern Slavery Act We are particularly focused on human rights issues and as part of supply chain due diligence in compliance with the UK Modern Slavery Act. In fiscal 2016, Anritsu Corporation and Anritsu EMEA Ltd. released the UK Modern Slavery Act Statement. Our efforts in fiscal 2018 can be found in the section on “Supply Chain Management Supply Chain Due Diligence” on page 50. ■ Appointing Female Executives Anritsu is committed to promoting diversity in the appointment of executives. The company on June 26, 2019 appointed Keiko Shimizu as an outside director and member of the Audit & Supervisory Committee. In April of the same year, Hanako Noda became the company’s first internally promoted executive officer, rising to the position of CTO. We have provided the highlights of a three-way discussion among Audit & Supervisory Committee members, including Ms. Shimizu on pages 32–33 of the Anritsu Integrated Report 2019, and a message from the CTO on pages 18–21 of the same report. ■ Empowerment of Women’s Career Development Anritsu hires new employees on a gender neutral basis in all positions, be they in office administration or technical areas. The Company is committed to creating a comfortable working environment and supporting career development even after an employee joins the Company. In regard to childbirth and childcare, the Domestic Anritsu Group has created a system that exceeds legal requirements including in terms of paid leave, maternity leave, reinstatement, and shorter work hours, both before and after childbirth as well as during childrearing. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 38 Social Respect for Human Rights and Diversity To ensure that employees applying for these programs can balance work and childcare with greater peace of mind, regardless of gender, we disseminate information Companywide to establish familiarity with the programs and raise awareness to inspire greater understanding. In accordance with the Act to Promote Women in the Workplace, which went into effect in Japan in August 2015, we have provided specific plans for women’s career development at Anritsu to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare’s data base focused on enterprises promoting women in the workplace. We set the goal of raising the ratio of women hired in Japan to 20% of all new recruits by 2020 and our public relations activities focused on female students have resulted in the female ratio among new recruits reaching 19% in fiscal 2018, with 5 of the 27 new graduates hired for the year being women. In terms of supporting the career development of women, we conducted a survey of female employees and managers and in line with the requests received in the survey launched a training program aimed at supporting the advancement of women’s careers in fiscal 2017, with the number of those wishing to attend exceeding capacity. In the same fiscal year, we also revised the tier-based training system for young workers and leaders, which previously accepted only workers recommended by department managers, to allow participation by anyone once certain conditions were met. This contributed to the female participation rate rising from about 12% through fiscal 2016 to 17% in fiscal 2017 and 15% in fiscal 2018. These efforts aimed at increasing female participation contributed to a rise in the number of new female managers, with the number of female managers at Anritsu increasing by three as of April 2019. We will continue to conduct career development training programs for female employees in fiscal 2019. Reference: Data (Social) Employee data, employment conditions for women around the world, childcare leave, employees by age (P. 55-56) ■ Life-Work Balance Placing the lifestyle of each individual at the center of how they spend the 24 hours of each day and where they place work in that day, the Anritsu group is focused on enabling its employees to enjoy a harmonious Life-Work Balance (we use this term to emphasize “life” first, rather than the more common “work-life balance”). We seek to improve employee productivity by encouraging them to pursue a fulfilling personal life as well as an equally fulfilling professional life, by allowing them to work in a way that is well balanced with their personal pursuits. In line with the Anritsu Corporation’s Action Plan to Support Child-Rearing (5th stage), which began in fiscal 2017 (see table below), we have focused on promoting improved life-work balances among our employees and have accordingly been working to advance awareness of revised workstyles and reductions of overtime work. We will continue to strive to improve working conditions in fiscal 2019 torward workstyle reforms. Efforts by labor and management through the Committee for Promoting Life-Work Balance are also under way, and we applied for the Kurumin Double Star certification from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in 2018. Anritsu Corporation’s Action Plan to Support Child-Rearing (5th Stage, April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2020) Objectives Measures Action Increase initiatives for reducing • Implementation of management • Implemented Ikuboss e-learning for managers (2017) overtime work and improve training on supporting work/life • Altered “36 agreement”, revising upper limit on working conditions toward balance, workstyle reforms overtime work (2017) Work-style Reform • Considering a system allowing • Implemented telecommuting to allow employees workers to choose from a variety of to cope with the time difference with some overseas workstyles locations (2018) • L aunched campaign to review labor union/ management working relationship (2017, 2018) Review and reinforce systems With the goal of promoting life-work Introduced an hourly-based leave system and to support childrearing balance, Anritsu is committed to expanded the acceptable reasons for taking childcreating an environment in which it is care leave as part of the support leave* (2018) easy for employees to take leave. Create an environment where Providing an environment in which our • Held seminar on balancing work with nursing care employees can balance work employees can balance their work with responsibilities (2018) with nursing care responsibiliany nursing care responsibilities. • Conducted survey on nursing care conditions (2018) ties * Support Leave: This leave covers a range of reasons including child rearing and nursing, commuting to hospital, and school events. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 39 Social Respect for Human Rights and Diversity Parenting and childcare Programs End of April of the Start of elemenThrough the Through the Pregnancy Childbirth 1-year-old 3-year-old Support system for balancing work with childcare responsibilities following year tary education third grade sixth grade Support leave (hospital visits for fertility treatment) Leave for fertility treatment Leave for prenatal hospital visits Leave for post-natal hospital visits Leave Maternity leave (8 weeks * Childcare leave is allowed in special circumstances until child Childcare leave* before and after giving birth) reaches the end of the month in which he or she turns two. Special leave for men at the time of childbirth (5 days) Men’s parental leave to experience childcare Childcare leave* Leave for nursing children Support leave (child vaccinations, school events, etc.) Restrictions on engaging in hazardous operations Mitigation measures for commuting Work-related Work breaks during Time off for nursing pregnancy (time off for child rearing) Restrictions on overtime, working overtime on holidays, and late nights Time off for nursing (shorter work hours) Restrictions on working overtime, on holidays and late nights Flex-time system for child-rearing (shift in core working times) ■ Women ■ Men ■ Both Anritsu Corporation parental leave usage results Reporting Period Gender Result Total number of employees eligible to take Male 23(persons) Fiscal 2018 parental leave Female 4(persons) Total number of employees who took parental Male 2(persons) Fiscal 2018 leave Female 4(persons) Total number of employees who were reinstated Male 2(persons) Fiscal 2018 following parental leave during the reporting period Female 12(persons) Total number of employees remaining in the Company Of those employees reinstated during the three years from 2015 to Male 4(persons) 12 months after being reinstated from parental leave 2017, the number of employees remaining more than 12 months Female 15(persons) Reinstatement and retention rates for employees Male 100% Fiscal 2018 following parental leave Female 100% ■ LGBT Consideration The Anritsu Group is taking a proactive stance in improving the environment for LGBT employees, including by installing multi-gender bathrooms, eliminating the gender section from the recruitment entry sheet, and creating a function within the internal and external consultation points for addressing LGBT issues. We will continue to work to foster a climate of diversity and acceptance. ■ Promoting the Careers of Non-Japanese Employees The Domestic Anritsu Group hire employees, including new recruits and mid-career employees, regardless of nationality as it participates in employment-related events organized by overseas universities, accepting interns from universities in Japan and overseas, and hiring exchange students in Japan. As of March 31, 2019, 51 non-Japanese nationals are employed at our worksites in Japan. We broadened our in-house training programs for employees who are not fluent in Japanese.We will continue to develop a working environment that supports the engagement of non-Japanese employees. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 40 Social Respect for Human Rights and Diversity ■ Status on Employment of Those with Disabilities As of the end of March 2019, the ratio of employees with disabilities at Anritsu Corporation was 1.63%, which fell below the legally mandated employment rate of 2.2%, though the Company continues to engage in related recruitment activities, including in cooperation with outside organizations such as Hello Work, the Japanese government’s employment services center. We are committed to creating a comfortable workplace where people with disabilities can work together with others and to the best of their abilities. Employment rate for people with disabilities at Anritsu Corporation (%) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Legal disability employment 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.20 ratio (reference) Ratio of employees with 1.71 1.78 1.89 1.72 1.74 1.63 disabilities *As of March 31 for each fiscal year ■ Applying the Skills of Senior Employees The Domestic Anritsu Group operate an employment extension program in which employees can continue working after retirement at age 60. In principle, we grant extensions to all applicants, who are then able to continue applying the ample knowledge, experience, and advanced skills they have gained over the years and provide guidance and training for the next generation. To enhance productivity we will continue to promote diverse working styles and develop a working environment in which diverse personnel can excel at their careers. ■ Labor Unions and Dialog Between Labor and Management Anritsu respects freedom of association and the right of employees to collective bargaining. The Constitution of Japan guarantees the rights and activities of labor unions, including the right to organize, as well as bargain and act collectively. Members of the Anritsu labor union include those in general positions at Anritsu Corporation, Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd., and Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd., (excluding part-time workers and managers). Among regular employees, labor union members comprise 73.3% of workers at Anritsu Corporation, 71.1% of workers at Anritsu Networks, and 81.7% of workers at Anritsu Customer Support. Labor union rate for all general employees at each company is 100%. With the goal of building a sound labor-management relationship, the representatives for each company regularly interacts and shares information with the Anritsu labor union, and issues raised in the process are discussed and solutions negotiated on an individual basis. The spring 2019 labor-management negotiations were launched with a theme of “investing in people.” Labor membership rates at the three Domestic Anritsu Group companies Company Labor union members Regular employees Labor union participation (persons) (persons) rate (%) Anritsu Corporation 613 836 73.3 Anritsu Networks 54 76 71.1 Anritsu Customer Support 58 71 81.7 * Labor union participation rate = labor union members/regular employees * As of the end of fiscal 2018 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 41 Social Human Resources Development Social issues as a background Competition for human resources in Japan is likely to intensify moving forward as the labor force shrinks in line with the low birthrate and the aging of society in the country. Moreover, we note that endeavors such as Society 5.0 and the fourth industrial revolution are contributing to the world moving closer to creating a sustainable, super-smart society, one in which cutting-edge technologies such as 5G, IoT, robots, artificial intelligence (AI), and big data are incorporated into industry and the daily lives of citizens. In such a world, companies will be expected to continue to produce scientific and technological innovations. Anritsu aims to contribute to the resolution of social issues by offering “Original and High Level” products and services, which makes the acquisition, securement, and training of human resources a key management issue for the Company. Policy The real source of a company’s value is the diversity of its human resources, and for a company such as Anritsu, where technology is a core competence, the hiring and development of human resources capable of leading technical innovation is a key management issue. At the Domestic Anritsu Group, we believe in the importance of being an organization in which employees feel they are contributing to society and their own growth through their work while working with enthusiasm toward achievement of the Company’s goals. With this in mind, without regard to nationality or gender, we are focused on continuously developing employment plans that prioritize diversity in both education and training programs to support the independent growth of our employees. Structure Under the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer at Anritsu Corporation, in the Human Resources and Administration Department and the Domestic Anritsu Group Human Resources Department create the employment plans and educational training systems in line with the goal of training human resources to contribute to Anritsu’s business and the development of a global society. Anritsu in fiscal 2017 established a hiring committee, chaired by Vice President and Chief Human Resource and Administration Officer. The committee focuses on recruitment policies and plans for their implementation. Through discussions with business division leaders on the committee and executives, the committee continually works toward securing the quantity and quality of human resources required by the company. The company has held a meeting between division leaders and the human resources and administration department to exchange views on human resources since fiscal 2014. With human resources development as a main theme, the meeting has been an opportunity for the company to improve its educational and training system. Mediumto long-term goals L Hiring ■ Education and Training • Securing a certain number of new graduate hires • Expansion of self-development support programs • Maintaining overseas hiring • Improve training programs for next-generation leadership candidates Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 42 Social Human Resources Development Activities / Achievements ■ Hiring As part of the selection process when hiring new graduates in Japan, Anritsu spends a considerable amount of time confirming that the company and the prospective hire both understand each other’s expectations in interviews. While time may be limited, we are committed to ensuring a match by deepening mutual understanding through discussion. The turnover rate over the first three years for new graduates joining via the selection process centered on these kinds of discussions is only 0.0%–5.9%, well below the turnover rate of about 29% for companies of equal scale (500 to 900 employees) and the turnover rate for the manufacturing sector, as announced by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, of about 20%. Anritsu Corporation: Turnover rate over the Domestic hiring of new graduates at Anritsu Corporation first three years for new graduate hires (%) April 2018 April 2017 April 2016 Joined the company in April 2014 0.0 New graduate 27 17 17 Joined the company in April 2015 0.0 hires (persons) (22 male, 5 female) (11 male, 6 female) (14 male, 3 female) Joined the company in April 2016 5.9 For information on promoting the careers of non-Japanese employees, see “Respect for Human Rights and Diversity” (Page 40). ■ Education and Training Anritsu is focused on training its employees through on-the-job training (OJT)as well as through educational and training programs. On-the-job training allows employees to gain the skills and experience built up by the Company over its many years of operation, while educational and training programs encourage the same employees to pursue self-study and personal growth. In line with the basic concepts of “choosing what to study and learning when you want to” and “employees should know their own capabilities and strengths,” the Company in fiscal 2017 overhauled its conventional correspondence courses and group training programs. As a human resource development program shared among the Domestic Anritsu Group, the Company supports career advancement efforts that meets the lifestyle needs of its employees. Level-based training Educational content Executives New appointment Off-site Genre-based content, intraining training cluding thinking skills, Appointments People, objects, and money, Professional education based on job type language education (participation possible if certain conditions are met) Self-improvement Training • Thinking about your own career Career counseling Easy ways in which anyone can learn Mid-career, leadership & Hands-on Management • Learning management Selective programs • Web-Based Training Training (MDP) Producing results and developing human resources • Online English lanSimulating the experience of being a manager guage conversation • Correspondence courses •A  cquiring awareness and independence as a Leadership Basic businessperson • F ostering awareness of group outcomes • Leadership role playing Training (YDP) Communication, leadership, teamwork • Management school Diversity acceptance and developing a nurturing attitude • English conversation classes Second •U  nderstanding Anritsu New hires year • Understanding the actions and awareness necessary to work in an organization • Acquiring the basics as a productive member Knowing your own abilities Joined the of society company Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 43 Social Human Resources Development • Level-based Training In fiscal 2017, we have also redefined and revised traditional training under the titles of “Leadership Basic Training” and “Selfimprovement Training & Hands-on Management Training.” With the goal of making it easier to participate and taking life-work balance into account, we shifted some training sessions in fiscal 2018 from overnight programs to one-day programs. • Self-development Program (Learning Content) The correspondence course was released as a new “learning content” self-development program, with enhanced content, including online English conversation courses and classroom-based course work. The number of applications for this program has tripled when compared to fiscal 2016. We added English conversation classes as a high-level program in fiscal 2018. Moving forward, we plan to prepare and further improve the environment for employees to learn on their own. Learning content: a comparison of the total applications submitted Name Old content Revised learning 2016 2017 Increase in total applications content submitted (%) Fiscal year 2015 2016 2017 Domestic Anritsu Group 127 169 547 224% total Anritsu Corporation 59 81 313 286% • Improving Training for New Employees In fiscal 2019 we revised group work programs with the goal of further bolstering in new employee training the concept of understanding the actions and awareness necessary to work in an organization. Using hands-on training in a real-world experience, the program focuses on promoting team-based results with each person acting in a leadership role. • Fostering Candidates for Next-generation Leadership Training As part of our business succession plan, which focuses on finding and New employees taking part in group work training fostering management candidates, we traditionally send those selected for participation to management school, and are considering an optional educational menu that will allow development in line with individual departmental policies. ■ Global Human Resource Development The Domestic Anritsu Group is working to expand its business overseas, primarily in the area of test and measurement. Developing human resources capable of leading these overseas businesses represents a key challenge for achieving growth in the coming years for Anritsu Group. In developing global human resources, we think it is important not only to raise the level of language proficiency but also to develop the mindsets of employees so they can effectively work around the world. As part of the training for new recruits, the trainees learned how important it is to collaborate with colleagues in and outside Japan and are given the opportunity to learn details of international business from staff members with plenty of overseas experience in representative projects. The importance of staff members inside and outside Japan and their real-life overseas business pointers clearly motivated new recruits. We also send employees abroad proactively in order to gain direct overseas experience. In addition to improving language skills and promoting cross-cultural understanding, the program also serves to promote the formation of overseas connections. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 44 Social Human Resources Development ■ Global Training for the Test and Measurement Business Anritsu holds global training in the Test and Measurement business for about 100 sales engineers engaged in this business at our overseas bases. The training is comprised of sessions on a wide range of subjects, such as new products, new product functions, market trends, Anritsu’s solutions, success stories, demonstration know-how, sales strategies, and product road maps. The participants not only became more knowledgeable through the lectures, they were also able to develop their practical skills such as by operating instruments on their own as a means of gaining direct experience to assist in selling points, while also learning how to better demonstrate the instruments. More recently, Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. was added to the device products training program. Sharing market trends and new product functions ■ Global Training for the PQA Business Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd. holds global service training for overseas distributors in the PQA business. Service employees from European and Asian agencies gathered together at the company’s headquarters in fiscal 2018 to gain new skills and knowledge, including in regard to maintenance and product features, while also participating in equipment handling exercises. The meeting provided an excellent venue for exchanging information helpful for product development, including as a result of product inquiries from customers and distributors by service personnel in the closest contact with the company’s customers. Occupational Health and Safety Social issues as a background Given the increased focus on the prevention occupational accidents, in addition to death from overwork and mental health disorders as social issues, we believe it vital to renew our efforts at creating a workplace environment in which every employee can work safely and in good health. There are more than 3,700 employees in the Anritsu Group, and we believe creating a workplace where each employee can work with enthusiasm and in the best health bolsters creativity and productivity, resulting in even greater strength in our business activities. We understand that maintaining and supporting the health of our employees contributes to value creation and is this is therefore an important point of focus for the Group. Policy The Anritsu Group believes that in order to enable every employee to fully achieve their potential, it is important to secure employee safety and health and to create a comfortable and efficient workplace. As part of the effort to achieve this, the Company puts an emphasis on “Respect for Employees” in its Charter of Corporate Behavior and “Improving the working environment” in the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct, stipulating the creation of a working environment in which employees can work with enthusiasm in safety and good health while complying with all related laws and regulations. In addition, with the goal of the Company and health insurance union playing an active role in maintaining and improving the health of each employee, we have established separately the Anritsu Group Health Management Policy for the Domestic Anritsu Group. Anritsu Group Health and Productivity Management Policy The Anritsu Group believes our corporate value is founded on the ability of each employee to work to the best of their abilities and in good health. With the goals of creating an environment in which all employees have an interest in health, are cognizant of their own health challenges, and taking measures on their own to maintain and improve their heath, the Anritsu Group companies and the Anritsu Health Insurance Association work together to promote effective health management throughout the Group. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 45 Social Occupational Health and Safety Structure The executive office overseeing occupational health and safety at Anritsu Corporation is in charge of safety and health for the Domestic Anritsu Group and is tasked with formulating and implementing safety and health related matters common to the Group. We have also established a safety and health management system that complies with all relevant laws and regulations. Moreover, to maintain and improve the health of Group employees, a variety of initiatives and support services are provided by industrial physicians, counselors, and health staff assigned to the Anritsu Corporation Health Management Center. These services include regular worksite visits, a variety of medical checkups, post-stress check follow-ups, and individual consultation services for mental and physical health. Anritsu Corporation holds monthly meetings of the formal joint management-worker health and safety committee. A breakdown of the committee as of fiscal 2018 is as follows. Matters discussed by the committee are promptly disclosed along with the minutes via the Intranet to all employees. Employees of the Domestic Anritsu Group have also participated in the Anritsu Safety and Health Committee as observers, and the addition of health insurance union leaders has further contributed to the sharing of information and strategies across the entire Domestic Anritsu Group. Anritsu Corporation Occupational Health and Safety Committee (fiscal 2018) Chairpersons: General Health and Safety Manager: (Executive in charge of safety and health) Vice-chairpersons: Two individuals (of which one is selected by the Anritsu labor union) Committee members: Eight (of which four are selected by the Anritsu labor union) Also participating are industrial physicians, observers (Domestic Anritsu Group company employees), health insurance union leaders, and Secretariat members. The Anritsu labor union has a union shop agreement with Anritsu. Anritsu Corporation has agreed in the collective agreement concluded with the Anritsu labor union to certain necessary matters concerning safety and health. More specifically, we will implement appropriate measures as the owner of the business to ensure safety, and will promote measures to maintain and improve the health of our employees. We will also establish the Safety and Health Committee and criteria for the selection of committee members, conduct educational and training programs, and place workplace restrictions on hazardous operations. Work by employees of the Domestic Anritsu Group is neither high risk nor connected to the incidence of specific diseases. Mediumto long-term goals The Domestic Anritsu Group targets zero safety-related accidents. The Domestic Anritsu Group was successful in having no incidences that led to absences from work in fiscal 2018. However, there were six minor incidents that did not require the person affected to leave work, so we were unable to achieve our goal of zero incidents for the year. We review the work procedures taken for each incident, implement countermeasures, and enact risk assessment in order to prevent any reoccurrences. We will renew our efforts to achieve the goal of zero incidents for the entire the Domestic Anritsu Group in fiscal 2019. In fiscal 2018, there were four commuting accidents involving Domestic Anritsu Group employees, down by 11 from fiscal 2017, though three of these accidents resulted in lost work time. The most-common commuting accidents in fiscal 2018 involved stumbling and falling while walking or falling from a bicycle due to the brake being applied too forcefully. Given that the accidents were related to walking or riding a bicycle, we understand that there is a further, ongoing need to increase safety and hazard awareness. With the goal of maintaining and improving the health of our employees, we have formulated a three-year medium-term health management plan, covering fiscal 2018–2020, and we continue to work toward meeting the targets of this plan. In fiscal 2018, we focused on raising employee health awareness and we enhanced our health seminars focusing on specified diseases such as cancer and those applying specifically to women. We also enacted new measures to improve cancer screening rates. While the ratio of patients exhibiting glycometabolism issues is still an issue, progress toward achieving targets in the first year of the plan has been favorable, thanks in part to these efforts. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 46 Social Occupational Health and Safety Progress toward meeting the goals of our Medium-term Health Management Plan Main focus points KPIs FY2017 FY2018 FY2020 Targets ☆ Ratio of patients exhibiting glycome1 Minimization and mainte42.0% 43.4% 40% or under tabolism (HbA 1c 5.6% or higher) nance of the demographics with risks to future health ☆ Ratio of patients exhibiting elevated Maintained at 2017 9.9% 9.4% maintenance, stable and blood pressure (140/90 or higher) levels continuous employment ★ M ental leave rate (leave ratio at year’s Maintained at 2017 0.4% 0.4% end) levels Betterment of the abnormal ☆ A bnormal findings rate at periodic 57.9% 57.9% 60% improvement in 2 finding rate at periodic checkups estimate for 2020 medical checkups (59% or under) Improved awareness of ☆ Ratio of those with proper body 3 67.7% 68.4% 69% or higher health weight (40 years of age and older) ☆ Ratio of those habitually exercising 26.5% 27.0% 28% or higher (40 years of age and older) Establishing health Certified as an Excellent Enterprise of 4 Certified Certified Continued certification management Health and Productivity Management ☆: Indicates current and target values based on periodic checkup results in the Head Office area of Kanagawa Prefecture ★: Indicates current value for the Domestic Anritsu Group Reference: Data (Social) Occupational Health and Safety figures (P.56) Activities / Achievements ■ Major Efforts for Safety, Health and Health Management • Review of the activity status and formulation of accident prevention measures by the Occupational Health and Safety Committee • Reducing the risk of accidents by conducting inspections before introducing, relocating, or changing equipment, or when purchasing chemical materials • Enhancing the awareness of safety and health through training at different organizational levels, and providing training on specific issues such as risk assessment • Providing a safe, secure, and comfortable workplace by assessing working environments, work place patrols, emergency drills, and basic life-saving training • H ealth checkups (periodic, special, when starting employment, for overseas assignee), stress check system implementation and follow-up • Questionnaire screening, interviews by industrial physicians and health maintenance measures for overtime workers • Raising health awareness through lectures by industrial physicians, for example, on preventing lifestyle diseases and infectious diseases and health promotion seminars for woman • Mental health care education and counseling for senior executives • Traffic safety workshops to prevent commuting accidents (traffic safety lectures, traffic KY (hazard awareness) workshops, motorcycle safety driver training sessions, bicycle safety workshops) • Implementing occupational health and safety education when dispatched, part-time, contract, or other non-regular employees are hired. Lecture on cancer for women Occupational Health Week special lecture Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 47 Social Occupational Health and Safety Seminars, lectures and educational presentations for Domestic Anritsu Group employees (total number of participants: 656) Number of Number of Program content participants Program content participants In-house open seminar In-house training, education Seminar on health for women 44 Traffic awareness training 30 Seminar on cancer for women 48 Basic lifesaving training 30 Seminar on cancer for men 155 Bicycle safety workshop 40 Special Health Lecture during National OccupaTraffic safety lecture 32 160 tional Safety and Health Week Health and safety education for new employees 55 Occupational health education for new employees 48 Health and safety education for new employees (foreign employees) 7 Earthquake and risk training for new employees (foreign employees) 7 ■ OHSAS 18001 Certification In May 2012, Anritsu EMEA Ltd. in the U.K. obtained certification for OHSAS 18001 (2007 version), the international standard for occupational health and safety management systems, and the certification was updated in May 2018. Based on this standard, we have established a framework to promote the creation of a safe and healthy work environment, including efforts to: identify and control health and safety risks, reduce the potential for accidents, aid legal compliance, and improve overall performance. ■ Certified as an Excellent Enterprise of Health and Productivity Management in 2019 Anritsu Corporation was certified by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) of Japan as a White 500 (large enterprise category) company in the 2019 Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program for meeting the selection criteria in a survey conducted by the ministry on regular health checkups, Life-Work Balance, health maintenance, lifestyle disease prevention, and mental health support. This marks the third consecutive year in which the Company has received the certification. The program recognizes enterprises that demonstrate outstanding health and productivity management aligned with the healthcare recommendations of the Nippon Kenko Kaigi. It evaluates companies in the following five aspects, which are also used by the METI and Tokyo Stock Exchange in their joint selection of the Health and Productivity Stock Selection: (1) management philosophy; (2) organizational structure; (3) implementation of systems and measures; (4) evaluation and improvement; and (5) compliance and risk management. ■ Initiative to Realize the Work-Style Reform To prevent health problems from overwork, the Domestic Anritsu Group continuously promotes measures based on the Groupwide management policy to ensure appropriate work hours, including shortening overtime work, minimizing midnight shift work, and implementing “no overtime” days. In accordance with the Article 36 Agreement between the Anritsu labor union and the Company up to March 2019, and from April 1 the Labor Standards Act (enforced on April 1, 2019), we determine and manage the target value of a predetermined number of working hours. We have abandoned the old notion that the best performers work the longest hours. In its place since August 2016 is a new policy under which we expect employees to work, with energy, in the morning hours, and we abolished the flextime program so that all staff begin working at the start of each workday. We basically prohibit work after 7:00 p.m., while also turning off the lights, and promote shorter, streamlined meetings. Moreover, we pursue work-style reform, which raises the level of productivity, thereby allowing us to promote innovation that leads to increased corporate value. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 48 Social Message Responding to social demands with our suppliers Since the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were adopted by the United Nations in 2015, there has been an unprecedented rise in demands from society on human rights, as shown by the United Kingdom and other countries passing and enacting legislation on human rights and labor practices. Together with its suppliers, Anritsu has been practicing material procurement that takes into consideration social factors, such as human rights, labor practices, health and safety as well as the environment, and will further strengthen its efforts. Our suppliers are Anritsu’s business partners and also represent assets of the Company. In addition to the soundness of our supply chains, we are also focusing on co-creation through technology exchanges and discussions. To contribute to Society 5.0—the concept Vice President, Chief SCM Officer of the future society advocated by Japan—which is in line with the SDGs, we will amass the knowledge of all parties at our suppliers and at the Company and participate in creatHiroyuki Fujikake ing the future through open innovation. Supply Chain Management Social issues as a background Anritsu’s procurement operations are global in scope, reaching beyond Japan and across the world. To provide better products and to promote corporate activities on an ongoing basis, relationships of trust with our suppliers are important, and management on a global basis along entire supply chains essential. To that end, not only do we offer equal opportunities to every company in Japan and overseas through fair assessment practices, we also believe it important to respond to the expectations and demands of society across entire supply chains. This we achieve by developing stronger partnerships with suppliers on the basis of compliance with relevant laws and regulations, business practices and social norms as well as of respect for human rights. Policy We believe in the critical importance of moving as one with the entire supply chain, together with our suppliers, in conducting procurement, and linking this activity to the mutual growth of all parties. With this conviction, we established our Basic Rules of Procurement in 2005 to forge partnerships anchored in mutual trust and seek the understanding and cooperation of suppliers. Having also formulated the Anritsu Group CSR Procurement Guideline and the Anritsu Group Global Green Procurement Guidelines, we are asking our suppliers for their cooperation. We are building supply chains that take into consideration human rights, labor, health and safety, fair trade and ethics as well as the environment. Details (WEB) Details (WEB) Details (WEB) Anritsu Group Global Basic Rules for ProcureAnritsu CSR Procurement Green Procurement ment Guideline Specification Structure Anritsu has procurement bases mainly in the U.S., China, and Japan, and is working to establish a globally unified set of assessment criteria approved by each location to optimize the mutual use of the supply chain. We intend to promote parts procurement through global collaboration. Mutual approval is also offered as a means for recognizing suppliers that provide us with products we commonly use within the Anritsu Group as a Global Preferred Supplier (GPS). We also intend to shorten time to market for product development by sharing development roadmaps and technological issues with these suppliers. We decided on a common standard for assessing suppliers between our operations in Japan and the U.S., and we selected nine companies to our GPS list to enhance our mutual interests and build stronger relationships. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 49 Social Supply Chain Management Mediumto long-term goals We are working towards the following objectives stated in the GLP2020 mid-term business plan. 1. Promote global CSR procurement We are promoting CSR procurement that strictly protects human rights, labor, health and safety, throughout the entire supply chain, including our overseas suppliers, thereby working to strengthen the global supply chain. Through our supply chain due diligence based on CSR Surveys and visiting audits to our suppliers, we aim to increase the CSR Survey assessment scores. 2. Promote global green procurement We are promoting environmentally friendly green procurement throughout the entire supply chain, including our overseas suppliers, thereby working to strengthen the global supply chain. By surveying the environmental initiative standing of our suppliers and undertaking activities to raise the quality of the environmental initiatives of our suppliers, we aim to enhance the ratio of certified Environmental Partners among our suppliers. Activities / Achievements ■ Anritsu Group CSR Procurement Guideline Formulation In fiscal 2010, we formulated the Anritsu CSR Procurement Guideline, which complies with the Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook published by the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA). Along with posting the Guidelines on our website, we also ask that our suppliers have an understanding of and take initiatives for CSR Procurement at the outset of business with new suppliers and during policy briefings with suppliers. Details (WEB) Anritsu CSR Procurement Guideline ■ Supply Chain Due Diligence Since fiscal 2011, we have received many letters of consent as we ask for the cooperation of suppliers in promoting CSR procurement by requesting them to submit the letters. In addition, we conduct CSR Surveys for the purpose of verifying the CSR initiatives taken by our suppliers with respect to established items, such as human rights and labor, health and safety, fair trade and ethics, quality and safety, and information security. In fiscal 2018, we obtained positive results, with responses from 95 of our major suppliers. To confirm the actual status of CSR, we also performed inspections of several Chinese suppliers and confirmed that there were no significant risks. Focusing on human rights issues in particular in its supply chain due diligence, Anritsu remains in compliance with the UK Modern Slavery Act. Anritsu Corporation and Anritsu EMEA Ltd. are legally obliged to disclose a statement to remain in conformity with the Act, and both companies have uploaded the statement to their respective websites every year since 2016. In efforts with regard to the Act in 2018, the implementation of the previously mentioned CSR Surveys and inspections were included in the statements and made public. Anritsu is also working continuously on the issue of conflict minerals. Following the 2012 adoption of the final rule of Section 1502—the conflict minerals provision of the U.S. Financial Reform Bill—Anritsu declared its support. To prevent the use of conflict minerals in its products, the Company holds briefings for its suppliers and gives responses so that they understand the reason for them. Furthermore, the Company responds to customer inquiries related to this issue by requesting investigations by suppliers in Japan and abroad. For new suppliers, we conduct surveys of, for example, their credit status, quality control and environmental management as well as of their factories. We also transmit a Basic Procurement Policy to them and request that they submit a written consent. Details (WEB) Supply Chain Management Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 50 Social Supply Chain Management ■ Compliance in Practice In order to ensure transparency of trading, we conduct fair business by following a strict code of conduct that includes not accepting entertainment or gifts or buying or selling stocks based on the inside information of our suppliers. Furthermore, we set up the Direct Delivery Mailboxes in the negotiation rooms of our head office and the Koriyama site in an effort to promote CSR procurement based on the direct feedback from our suppliers. We will continue to promote greater understanding and initiatives in CSR procurement with our suppliers. ■ Green Procurement Guidelines Anritsu undertakes green procurement to promote the production of environmentally friendly products with suppliers in accordance with its Green Procurement Guidelines established in fiscal 1999 by giving preference to the procurement of environmentally friendly parts and materials. Under our revised Anritsu Group Global Green Procurement Specification, we have since fiscal 2016 sought to unify our green procurement activities with those of Group companies operating manufacturing bases outside Japan. Details (WEB) Anritsu Group Global Green Procurement Guideline ■ Environmental Partner Company Certification System In fiscal 2001, we launched the Environmental Partner Company Certification System to evaluate the status of Anritsu suppliers’ environmental management systems and product assessment procedures by ranking them at three levels and encouraging the environmental initiatives of suppliers. We focused in particular on providing assistance toward improving environmental partner rankings at suppliers where there appeared room for improvement based on the European RoHS Directive assessment of chemical substances contained in products. The number of certified Environmental Partner Companies stood at 202 as of May 2019. Rankings in the Environmental Partner System Rank A Reliable management Rank B Flawed in certain aspects Anritsu provided support and improvement activities Rank C No reliable management system ■ Exhibition of Supplier Products and Technologies In November 2018, we held an exhibition at the Anritsu head office featuring products manufactured by 43 of our suppliers. The event is held every year to showcase the products and technologies of major suppliers that procure products and materials for the Anritsu Group. The most recent exhibition focused on acquainting development engineers at Anritsu with new products and technologies, with a focus on the automotive, IoT, and 5G markets, including millimeter wave and microwave components, printed circuit board technologies, optical components, as well as components that ensure heat dissipation and various software products. The event also included seminars featuring lecturers from our suppliers, with the aim of keeping participants abreast of cutting-edge technologies and the latest market trends. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 51 Social Supply Chain Management ■ Suppliers Gatherings In January 2019, we hosted a business partner gathering that drew 315 representatives from 160 Anritsu suppliers, including overseas companies. Focusing on the 5G/IoT theme, we explained the measures we have taken to become a global market leader and our efforts to promote sustainability management. In the field of material procurement, we called for even stronger partnerships to expand our value chain through collaboration and co-creation under our global procurement system. Moreover, we presented awards to those of our suppliers who excelled in all three aspects of quality, delivery, and pricing. ■ Promoting Partner QU Proposal Activities We are promoting the Partner QU (Quality Up) Activity as a communication channel for suppliers so that they can offer proposals for improvements, requests, and opinions concerning Anritsu. Not limited to procurement, we also accept proposals in a broad range of other areas, including sales, technology, manufacturing, services, safety, health, and the environment, which are serving to improve our business operations. A council that promotes and supports the activity deliberates and determines whether or not to adopt the proposals, as well as selects companies to receive awards. In fiscal 2018, we adopted 46 out of 59 improvement proposals, which included changing the design to reduce costs and adopting a different procurement method to speed up delivery. ■ Collaboration Room Anritsu maintains a collaboration room within the Company to revitalize communication between our development engineers and suppliers. We invite different manufacturers and agents to dispatch their sales engineers in a daily rotation, provide an environment conducive to generating new solutions, and strive to play a leading role in promoting development. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 52 Social Quality and Product Safety Social issues as a background Anritsu's social mission is to contribute to the realization of a safe, secure, and prosperous society. To achieve that mission, we believe that providing safe and secure products is a prerequisite. Providing electrical equipment, Anritsu bears a particular responsibility to engage as one to prevent product accidents and will work to elevate quality across the Group. Policy Anritsu Corporation has established quality policies and action guidelines under its corporate philosophy, “Contribute to the development of a safe, secure, and prosperous global society by offering Original & High Level products and services with sincerity, harmony, and enthusiasm,” and has been firmly implementing them in order to provide products and services that satisfy customers and society. Quality Policy Conduct Policy Supply satisfactory products to customers and ▪ Work with sincerity and seriousness not to make nonconforming products. society with sincerity, harmony, and enthusiasm. ▪ Handle after-processes considering customers and harmony with others. ▪ Propose improvement with enthusiasm. Structure To maintain and improve product quality and ensure the proper operation of the quality management system, the Domestic Anritsu Group established, the Quality Management System Committee, and the Internal Quality Audit Committee, which comprises the quality managers of each of the Group companies within the Domestic Anritsu Group, chaired by the Quality Management Officer (Anritsu Corporation’s Chief Quality Officer). Furthermore, at the quality management subcommittee, which also comprises the quality managers of each of the Group companies within the Domestic Anritsu Group, consideration is given to policies and initiatives for quality improvement common to all Group companies and efforts made to improve quality across the Group. From the product safety aspect, we have also set up a Product Liability (PL) Committee chaired by the Quality Management Officer. With regard to maintaining a system in case an accident involving a product occurs, a system designed to prevent product accidents and approaches to prevent a recurrence, we will conduct investigations and hold discussions with committee members (public relations, legal, internal control, materials, service department and quality managers of Domestic Anritsu Group companies). President Quality Management Officer Quality Officer Quality Management System Committee PL Committee Quality Management Subcommittee Internal Quality Audit Committee Anritsu Group Companies ■ ISO 9001 Acquisition Status Anritsu has been certified under the ISO 9001 international quality management standards for quality assurance since 1993 and has developed a consistent global framework for quality control, from product design and development to production, services, and maintenance. In Japan, we completed the transition to ISO 9001:2015 in December 2017. The transition for all Anritsu Group companies outside of Japan was completed by September 2018. For a list of Anritsu Group companies that have obtained ISO 9001 certification, please refer to the reference WEB page Companies with ISO 9001 Certification. Of the total number of Anritsu employees Details (WEB) in our global operations, about 74% of them are covered by the quality management Companies with system. ISO 9001 Certification Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 53 Activities / Achievements Social Quality and Product Safety Mediumto long-term goals Having formulated its GLP2020 Quality Initiative, a mid-term quality management plan for the three-year period from fiscal 2018 to fiscal 2020, the Domestic Anritsu Group established the themes listed below and commenced activities. Themes Fiscal 2018 Progress and Performance 1. Improvements through the integration of the Investigated of QMS/EMS integration as planned. Obtained certification with expanded scope (addition of sales departments management system in Japan) from external audit 2. Strengthening of energy-saving and resource-saving Studying the creation of a system in which CO2 reductions (reduced products (environmentally friendly products) energy consumption) are reflected in product requirements 3. Strengthening of compliance with laws and Established substances under control of product safety in the Anritsu Group’s Global Green Procurement Specification and held regulations/product safety management explanatory briefings for suppliers Measures to establish risk-based thinking in operational processes 4. Proactive prevention process strengthening under consideration 5. Promotion of global quality/environmental activities Commenced global sharing of quality information Activities / Achievements ■ Improvements through the Integration of the Management System Having trained internal auditors in the integration of QMS and EMS, we accordingly started to consider a checklist for integrated internal audits. We expanded the scope of QMS to include the sales departments in Japan. Operations began in April 2018 and an external review in fiscal 2018 allowed continued certification under the expanded scope. ■ Strengthening of Energy-saving and Resource-saving Products (Environmentally Friendly Products) For CO2 emitted during the manufacture of purchased parts, we are revising the calculation method and creating a system that can collect actual data for use from our suppliers and allow us to work in cooperation with them to reduce CO2 emissions. In terms of CO2 emitted when a product is used, we are analyzing the power consumption status for each product and are considering further reduction plans. For additional information, please see pages 23–24 “Climate Change / Energy”. ■ Strengthening of Compliance with Laws and Regulations/Product Safety Management In addition to compliance with laws and regulations, Anritsu has independently given consideration to and specified product safety in the Anritsu Group’s Global Green Procurement Specification. The Company also newly established substances under control of product safety category for materials that have restrictions imposed on, for example, content. There is a possibility that red phosphorus, which is on rare occasions added as a flame retardant in the resins used for electronic components, may lead to an accident, such as a short circuit that will cause a product to emit smoke. At the present time, we have therefore designated red phosphorus as a substances under control of product safety substance and initiated investigations of the content of purchased parts. ■ Proactive Prevention Process Strengthening We conducted investigations of preventive measures in business processes and regularly held lecture meetings on technology related to software quality. ■ Promotion of Global Quality/Environmental Activities We started to share quality information, for example on lithium battery exports, with global bases and to share the status of quality control at each site at global meetings on quality and the environment. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 54 Social Data Sheet Employee Data Employee Data by Global Region (Global/Consolidated Basis, as of March 31, 2019) (Persons) Japan Americas EMEA Asia, Other’s Global Total Number of regular employees 2,248 629 335 566 3,778 Male 1,919 437 263 413 3,032 Female 329 192 72 153 746 Non-regular employees 506 40 27 10 583 Employee Data for the Domestic Anritsu Group (as of March 31 for each fiscal year) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Total No. of employees of Domestic Anritsu Group companies 2,206 2,212 2,244 2,249 2,251 2,248 Male 1,913 1,917 1,932 1,938 1,936 1,919 Female 293 295 312 311 315 329 Foreign nationals 26 30 38 44 49 51 Average age (Regular Employees) 41.9 42.3 42.6 42.6 43.2 43.6 Average working years (Regular Employees) 18.9 19.2 19.3 19.8 20.3 20.7 Number of Non-regular employees 567 566 537 500 428 506 Anritsu Corporation 1.71 1.78 1.89 1.72 1.74 1.63 Ratio of employees with disabilities (%) Legal disability employment ratio (%) 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.20 Domestic Anritsu Group (reference) 1.75 1.74 1.70 1.76 1.70 1.75 Ratio of employees with disabilities (reference) (%) Employee Data for Anritsu Corporation (as of March 31 for each fiscal year) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of employees: Male 646(165) 684(177) 695(176) 705(184) 726(198) 715(198) Figures in parentheses refer to number of managers Female 111(4) 105(4) 108(4) 110(4) 118(3) 121(2) included in total count. Total 757(169) 789(181) 803(180) 815(188) 844(201) 836(200) Male 41.5 42.0 42.4 43.0 43.7 44.1 Average age Female 37.3 38.4 39.4 39.9 40.6 41.2 Total 41.0 41.5 42.0 42.6 43.3 43.7 Male 17.6 17.8 18.2 18.9 19.5 19.9 Average working years Female 14.9 15.9 16.5 17.0 17.1 17.5 Total 17.2 17.5 18.0 18.6 19.2 19.6 Annual rated working hours 1,860.00 1,860.00 1,867.75 1,867.75 1,852.25 1,852.25 Average days of paid holidays used per year 14.5 15.1 15.6 15.5 16.3 16.3 Number of employees who took paid childcare leave 9 9 5 5 11 5 Number of employees whose Number of eligible employees 6 4 9 5 9 11 employment has been Number of extended beyond normal retirement age employees over 4 3 7 2 6 8 retirement age hired Anritsu Corporation in Japan Turnover Rate Number of Employees by Age-Group (as of March 31, 2019) (Persons) Number of employNumber of personnel Turnover rate (%) ees who left as of March 31, 2019 Domestic Anritsu Group Anritsu Corporation 22 836 2.6 Under 30 293 Under 30 113 Notes 1 T arget year: fiscal 2018 2C  ompiled in accordance with turnover rate calculation method that appears 30 50 1,264 30 50 481 in the Company’s quarterly reports. 3 Turnover rate = Number of employees who left in target fiscal year / (Number 51 and over 691 51 and over 242 of regular employees at end of fiscal year + Number of employees who left in target fiscal year) 4 Definition of employee who left: Among regular employees, those who leave the Company’s employment for reasons other than retirement or promotion to directorships, or those whose transfers were cancelled. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 55 Social Data Sheet Worldwide Ratio of Female Employees (as of March 31, 2018) Ratio of female employees (Number of female employees/total employees) (%) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Japan 13 13 14 14 14 15 Americas 30 30 31 31 31 31 EMEA 22 21 20 19 19 21 Asia and Others Total 26 26 26 28 27 27 Global Total 19 19 19 19 19 20 Ratio of female managers to male managers ((Number of female managers/Number of female employees)/(Number of male managers/Number of male employees)) (%) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Japan 9 9 8 8 6 6 Americas 59 56 64 72 66 58 EMEA 74 72 83 105 118 112 Asia and Others Total 78 66 63 73 73 86 Global Total 47 44 44 47 47 48 Occupational Health and Safety Safety and Health Related Figures FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Figures based on the results of regular health checkups Regular health checkup rate (%) 100 100 100 (group checkups) of the Domestic Anritsu Group in Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan Figures based on the results of regular health checkups Regular health checkup with 68.2 56.7 72.5 (group checkups) of the Domestic Anritsu Group in complete physical rate (%) Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan Figures based on the results of regular health checkups Regular health checkup with 56.0 57.9 57.9 (group checkups) of the Domestic Anritsu Group in diagnosis rate (%) Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan Figures based on the results of regular health checkups (group Smoking rate (%) 26.1 22.1 21.8 checkups) of the Domestic Anritsu Group in Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan (smoking rate of employees aged 40 and over) Figures based on the results of regular health checkups (group checkups) of the Domestic Anritsu Group in Regular exercise rate (%) 23.1 26.5 27.0 Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan (ratio of employees aged 40 and over who exercise two or more times per week for 30 or more minutes per session) Annual rated working hours 1,890.7 1,877.3 1,872.2 Average for the Domestic Anritsu Group Average monthly overtime working hours for regular employAverage monthly overtime 15.1 14.8 16.9 ees, excluding those in management positions employed by the working hours Domestic Anritsu Group as of the end of each fiscal year Usage rate for regular employees, excluding those in management positions employed by the Domestic Annual paid holiday usage rate 73.2 79.0 78.2 Anritsu Group as of the end of each fiscal year (number of (%) paid holidays used ÷ number of days granted for the fiscal year being reported × 100) Incidents of on-the-job accidents 4 7 6 Total for the Domestic Anritsu Group Incidents resulting in absence 1 0 0 Included in the total for the Domestic Anritsu Group (four or more days) Incidents of occupational illness 0 0 0 Included in the total for the Domestic Anritsu Group Number of days absent (days) 9 0 0 Total for the Domestic Anritsu Group Number of fatalities (persons) 0 0 0 Total for the Domestic Anritsu Group Frequency rate of lost-worktime Statistic for the Domestic Anritsu Group (number of 0.21 0.00 0.00 injuries injuries and fatalities ÷ total working hours × 1,000,000) Statistic for the Domestic Anritsu Group (days lost ÷ total Accident severity rate 0.002 0.000 0.000 working hours × 1,000) Incidents of commuting accidents 8 15 4 Total for the Domestic Anritsu Group Incidents resulting in absence 2 5 3 Included in the total for the Domestic Anritsu Group (four or more days) Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 56 Governance ■ Corporate Governance ■ Internal Control ■ Establishment of Compliance ■ Promotion of Risk Management Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 57 Governance Corporate Governance Basic concept on corporate governance Anritsu aims for “continuous growth with sustainable superior profits” and “enhanced corporate value” by responding to changes in the operating environment in a flexible and speedy manner and improving competitiveness as a global company. The Company seeks to fulfill these objectives by continuing to maintain and strengthen corporate governance systems and frameworks aimed at (1) enabling cooperation with various stakeholders such as shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, creditors, and local communities, (2) transparent, fair, prompt, and decisive decision making, and (3) appropriate and timely information disclosure. ■ Corporate Governance Structure Shareholder Meeting Audit & Supervisory Committee Board of Directors Management Audit Department Nominating Committee Corporate Governance Compensation Committee Accounting Auditors Department Independent Committee Management Strategy Global Audit Department Enforcement Organs Conference Group Headquarters Functions Test and Measurement Business Group PQA Business Group Other Subsidiaries, etc Anritsu has opted to become a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee in order to strengthen its audit and supervisory functions. In addition, the Company has introduced an executive officer system in order to enable rapid business execution, separating the Board of Directors’ decision-making and supervisory functions from business execution undertaken by executive officers. The Board is composed of nine directors, five of whom are not involved in business execution (four of those five are independent outside directors). Of note, independent outside directors had a 98% attendance rate at Board meetings in fiscal 2018. The Company has established a Nominating Committee and Compensation Committee chaired by independent outside directors in order to complement the functions of the Board of Directors and further clarify its accountability. Moreover, the Independent Committee is composed of all the Company’s independent outside directors, nominates senior independent outside directors by mutual vote, and serves as a place to facilitate smooth communication among outside directors. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 58 Governance Corporate Governance ■ Composition of Board of Directors and Committees As of June 26, 2019 Independent Nominating Compensation Independent Audit & SuperviPosition Name Executives Committee Committee Committee sory Committee Representative Director Hirokazu Hamada q q Director Akifumi Kubota q q Director Masumi Niimi Director Takeshi Shima Outside Director Takaya Seki qq q qq Outside Director Kazuyoshi Aoki q q q q Outside Director Norio Igarashi q q q q q (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Outside Director Keiko Shimizu q q q q (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Director Toshisumi Taniai q (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Independent executive qq Chairperson q Committee member ■ Reasons for Selection of Directors Non-executive Directors (Outside Directors) Name Reasons for Selection Important Concurrent Posts Takaya Seki Mr. Seki was deemed to be qualified as an outside director for his abundant Director of Corporate Practice Partners, Inc. knowledge and outstanding insight as a specialist in global corporate Professor, Rissho University Faculty of Business governance along with his knowledge and experience as a Director (Audit & Administration Supervisory Committee Member) of the Company. Kazuyoshi Mr. Aoki was deemed to be qualified as an outside director for his having served Aoki as a manager of finance and accounting of a listed company, for having specialized knowledge and abundant experience of and remarkable insight into finance and accounting, and also for having a wealth of experience in global business. Norio Mr. Igarashi was deemed to be qualified as an outside director for his Outside Director (Audit & Supervisory Committee.) of Igarashi specialized knowledge and abundant experience in finance and accounting Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings Co., Ltd. as a certified public accountant and university professor as well as for his wide-ranging expertise in management from his experience as an outside auditor of a listed company. Keiko Ms. Shimizu was deemed qualified as an outside director for possessing Director of Shimizu CPA Office Shimizu expertise and rich experience in finance and accounting as a CPA and Professor, Department of Business Administration, Faculty university professor. As a qualified auditor she also has remarkable insight of Economics, Teikyo University into areas that include information security. (Internal Director) Toshisumi Mr. Taniai was deemed qualified as a director for his broad knowledge and experience in the areas of corporate planning, corporate Taniai governance, and compliance, having overseen the Group business administration as Chief Corporate Officer. He also has a wealth of experience obtained as Director of the Company. Executive Directors Name Reasons for Selection Hirokazu Tasked with product development and domestic/overseas marketing at the Group’s mainstay Test and Measurement Business Group, Hamada Mr. Hamada possesses broad knowledge and experience in operations that include keeping abreast of industrial and technological trends. Currently serving as the Company’s Representative Director, President, Anritsu Group CEO and the head of Test and Measurement Business Group, Mr. Hamada was deemed qualified as a director who is demonstrating his leadership in driving global businesses. Akifumi Having been in charge of the Accounting & Control Department for the Company and overseas subsidiaries, Mr. Kubota currently Kubota oversees accounting strategies and Group business administration as CFO and corporate controller. Mr. Kubota was deemed qualified as a director for his extensive knowledge and experience in the areas of finance, accounting, and corporate governance. Masumi Mr. Niimi has wide-ranging knowledge and experience, having been tasked mainly with production management, corporate planning, Niimi and overseas subsidiary management at the Product Quality Assurance (PQA) Business Division, which has expanded to become a Group business pillar. Mr. Niimi was deemed qualified as a director after demonstrating his leadership as manager of the PQA Business Group and Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd., which runs the PQA business. Takeshi Possessing a wealth of knowledge and experience in global business, as Chief Global Sales Officer Mr. Shima currently leads global sales Shima and develops the measurement business, which is the main business of Anritsu Group, in the global market, including Japan. He was therefore deemed qualified to be appointed as a director. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 59 Governance Corporate Governance Board of Directors Effectiveness Evaluation ■ Board of Directors Effectiveness Evaluation Methods The Company conducts an annual review of the Board of Directors effectiveness on the criteria of each item listed in its basic policy on corporate governance, and implements measures to increase effectiveness. Evaluations of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors take place for four to five months every year, after first reconfirming the previous fiscal year’s issues and evaluating, for example, the status and level of improvement. We start with discussions about whether there are points about the evaluation method or evaluation items that should be changed from the previous fiscal year for the current fiscal year. This is linked to implementation in the following fiscal year through an exchange of opinions by the Board of Directors, deep discussion and the sharing of issues. ■ Board of Director Effectiveness Evaluation Results and Issues The main results of evaluation for fiscal 2018 are as follows: Leading to a deepening of discussion, the Company confirmed the status of measures that had followed the previous year’s evaluation results. The measures had included discussing mediumand long-term business with external technical advisors, the faster provision of documents to outside directors, and the carrying out of briefings on monthly proposals in advance. The Company also verified the establishment of a system which is aimed at fostering constructive discussions and decision making regarding key management items as well as supervising business execution. In addition, the composition of the Board of Directors is appropriate in terms of the presence and number of internal/external management personnel for global business expansion and management system enhancement. However, as with the previous fiscal year, the need for further diversity-oriented measures has been confirmed. The participation and contributions of each director are discussed (which includes self-assessments) at meetings of the Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Committee, Independent Committee, Nominating Committee, and Compensation Committee. The results indicate that all directors fully understand the role they play in enhancing the Group’s corporate value, have insights on high levels of expertise based on a wide array of experience, and, in turn, engage in lively discussions. On the other hand, the following proposals have been raised and shared at Board of Directors’ meetings with regard to key issues that prioritize further increases in the Board’s effectiveness. (1) Board of Directors’ Diversity On an ongoing basis, the Board of Directors will consider inviting outside directors who are knowledgeable about the Company’s future business areas and the technologies of those areas, or outside directors who possess experience as corporate executives. (2) Contributions to Sustainability The Board of Directors will further enhance contributions to address social sustainability issues. Details (WEB) Anritsu Corporation Basic Policy on Corporate Governance The Basic Rules of Corporate Governance in relation to the role of the Board of Directors are outlined here. Details (WEB) Corporate Governance Report (Japanese only) Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 60 Governance Internal Control Social issues as a background There appears no end of late to corporate scandals involving improper accounting and compliance violations, and companies amid such an environment are being called upon to further strengthen measures aimed at preventing these kinds of incidents. Once such a scandal occurs, there is a very real risk of a company losing the trust of its stakeholders, making the continued conduct of its business very difficult. Anritsu believes it is important to establish rules and clear business processes, to abide by them faithfully, and to build and strengthen its operating systems so as to prevent any such improper conduct. Policy The Anritsu Group’s internal control system is intended to raise the effectiveness and efficiency of Group management, ensure the validity of financial reporting and establish legal compliance. We are continuously improving and reinforcing the system to respond to the changing business content of the Anritsu Group and growing complexity and diversity of the business environment. This has enabled us to practice sound management activities sustained by a viable internal control system and strive to enhance corporate value. Details (WEB) Arrangement of internal Basic Policy for Establishing control system and risk Internal Control System management system Structure In the Anritsu Group, the Internal Control Committee, which deals with the validity of financial reporting, and the Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee, which oversees compliance and related committees for information management, promoting fair trade, export/import control, and environmental management, undertake the necessary deliberations, establish and operate internal control systems by implementing cross-Group information sharing and educational programs, and conduct activities to ensure viability. On a global basis, the Anritsu Group has established a Global Internal Control Committee consisting of members of the internal control and promotion divisions in Europe, Asia, the United States, and Japan. This committee shares the current status of the response to risks inherent in the business activities and management issues in each region. They also support the incorporation of internal control procedures for all business processes and are conducting activities to develop an effective and efficient internal control system. Furthermore, the Internal Audit Department of Anritsu Corporation and the other Group companies, directors elected as Audit & Supervisory Committee Members, and the Management Audit Department conduct audits as part of their responsibility to evaluate the activities of these committees and the internal control system and to offer recommendations to related organizations. Activities / Achievements With regard to activities related to the evaluation of internal controls conducted in fiscal 2018, and in the area of financial reporting, the Internal Audit Department of Anritsu Corporation and other Group companies evaluated the effectiveness of internal controls related to financial reporting. Appropriate improvements were implemented against potential risks identified during the evaluation process. In areas other than financial reporting, Anritsu Corporation’s internal audit division evaluated the effectiveness of internal controls related to compliance, such as information management and export controls. During the audit, emphasis was placed on verifying processes that had been revised in their control environment due to organizational reform and IT system upgrades. With regard to Group companies outside Japan, in addition to audits conducted by audit officers in each region, our directors in their capacity as Auditors elected as Audit & Supervisory Committee Members, along with staff from the Management Audit Department and the Internal Audit Department, visited each company to evaluate the effectiveness of internal controls. In fiscal 2018, Anritsu conducted audits on some of Group companies in Asia and Europe in relation to their status on business execution, financial reporting, and compliance. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 61 Governance Establishment of Compliance Social issues as a background Compliance violations can damage the company’s credibility, reduce corporate value, and cause significant losses to stakeholders. While it seems unlikely that compliance violations in the corporate world will end any time soon, we believe it important to state that companies are obliged to not commit compliance violations and in addition to remaining in full compliance with established laws and regulations, they should conform to social demands by ensuring sound and sincere corporate behavior. Anritsu believes the continued conduct of our business requires us to continually strive to entrench compliance throughout the Group. Policy Everyone working in the Anritsu Group is required be deeply aware of corporate social responsibility, comply with relevant laws and regulations in all their corporate activities, and behave in a manner that conforms to the demands of society. With the goal of maintaining Anritsu as an ethical corporate group, the Company established the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct as a guideline for all Anritsu Group employees in the conduct of their day-to-day business activities. (See “Respect for Human Rights and Diversity” on page 37.) Structure Promotion of compliance at the Domestic Anritsu Group is led by the president, who takes the role as the chairman of the Management Strategy Conference. Under this conference, we have set up a Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee, chaired by the executive officer in charge of compliance, which oversees activities related to compliance promotion at Anritsu Group companies in Japan. The Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee and the Legal Department, which serves as secretariat to the former, work with committees dealing with legal matters to provide guidance and necessary support to Anritsu Group companies outside Japan in complying with the ethics and laws of the country or region in which they operate, giving due respect to the legal systems, cultures, and customs of those areas. The Legal Department also works with compliance officers at each overseas company in line with the goal of establishing a global compliance system. The Internal Audit Department conducts an audit of the system to ensure that it is functioning appropriately and offers recommendations and requests for improvement as needed. Compliance Promotion System Management Strategy Conference Vice President in charge of compliance Vice presidents Anritsu Group companies Support outside Japan Cooperation Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee Various committees • Security trade control • Environmental Executive Office • Fair trade promotion management, Support • Information security Others Legal Department Reporting/ Guidance/ Global Audit consultation supervision Helpline Department Reporting/ Guidance/ consultation supervision Monitoring Anritsu Group Companies in Japan Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 62 Governance Establishment of Compliance Mediumto long-term goals With the objective of further advancing the entrenchment of compliance and maintaining sound and reliable management that meets the demand of society, the Anritsu Group maintains its target of zero serious compliance violations. In fiscal 2018, the Anritsu Group incurred no serious compliance violations and accordingly incurred no accompanying fines or sanctions. However, the risk of compliance violation is ever-present. We believe that it is necessary to enact compliance promotion activities on a continual basis to avoid serious compliance violations amid heightened risk. Based on an examination of the results from the fiscal 2018 corporate ethics questionnaire, a study of the free comments section, and a comparison of risk awareness with other companies, including in regard to revised laws, we believe compliance promotion efforts at the Anritsu Group need to be focused on the following areas: • Improving control in regard to overtime work • Creating a workplace environment free from harassment • Anti-bribery and corruption outside Japan Activities / Achievements ■ Creating a Domestic and Overseas Compliance System The Anritsu Group is focused on promoting the development of its compliance system. The Domestic Anritsu Group shares the Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior (revised in April 2018) as the common principles of corporate behavior, and the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct, which guides all employees in the implementation of the Charter of Corporate Behavior in their daily activities. Employees of domestic Group companies participate as members of the Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee, which focuses on compliance promotion, as well as managing compliance promotion events and various types of educational activities throughout the Domestic Anritsu Group. The Guidelines and Insights for All Members of the Anritsu Group, which contains elements of the Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and Anritsu Group Code of Conduct (excerpts of key parts), has been distributed to all employees and is to be carried at all times to guide them in their actions. Overseas Group companies have created their own codes of conduct based on the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct and customize them to reflect the respective legal systems, cultures, and customs of each country and region. Compliance Promotion Activity Cycle April: C orporate Ethics Reinforcement Week • Submission of confirmation letter on Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee Anritsu Group Code of Conduct (Reporting on annual plan, development of • Familization with the helpline for Corporate Ethics Reinforcement Week plan) reporting/consultation Implementation of the Compliance Other • Compliance education for new employees Promotion Activity Program Development of Compliance Promotion • Compliance education for new managers Activity Program Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee (Reviewing progress of annual plan, monthly plan Corporate Ethics promotion) Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee (Questionnaire compilation/analysis of results) October: Corporate Ethics Promotion Month • Corporate ethic questionnaire • Lecture by external experts • Group education, WBT (Web-Based Training) • Divisional educational activities Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 63 Governance Establishment of Compliance ■ Anti-bribery and Corruption With a high ratio of overseas sales, the Anritsu Group recognizes bribery prevention as the most important issue and has established measures to address the issue. We established the Anritsu Group Anti-Bribery Policy in April 2012. With the goal of more thoroughly preventing bribery-related activity, we updated our policies in accordance with global standards and established and began enforcement of the Anritsu Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Rules, which outlines the company’s specific policies and procedures, on April 1, 2016. These rules specifically focus on the high risk issues of seeking prior approval for entertaining and presenting gifts, as well as due diligence* prior to signing new contracts with a third party, including sales agents. Our anti-bribery educational efforts include Web-Based Training (WBT) and face-to-face training for domestic and overseas Group companies. The WBT course has been taken by 1,450 domestic and overseas employees. New initiatives in fiscal 2018 included country manager-led self-assessments at overseas locations, which were later analyzed and evaluated at the head office. * Due diligence: to be paid appropriate attention to business-related duties, obligations, and efforts ■ Bribery-related Violations Based on the results of the fiscal 2018 self-assessments, the Anritsu Group moved to deepen understanding of the Company’s policies and rules in regard to bribery, and in the same year saw no instances of bribery-related violations. ■ Initiatives to Protect Personal Information (GDPR) Over recent years, there have been moves to legislate the strengthening of personal information protection and appropriate handling of information in countries around the world. The Anritsu Group recognizes the importance of the personal information of stakeholders, including Anritsu Group employees, and is committed to do everything possible to protect this information. The Anritsu Group has established a range of information protection measures, including personal information protection policy and personal information protection rules, and we strictly manage personal information in accordance with these measures. Moreover, the Anritsu Group acquired TRUSTe certification issued by TrustArc, a third-party certification organization in the United States. In addition, the Anritsu Group concluded a standard contractual clause (SCC) encompassing all Anritsu Group companies to ensure compliance with the EU General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) which came into effect on May 25, 2018. This contract makes it possible to legally transfer personal information within the European region to other countries. Education in relation to GDPR is being progressively introduced, and mainly led by a Data Protection Officer (DPO) appointed in Europe. The Anritsu Group is concluding SCCs within the Company and also with external contractors to protect personal information within Europe. Details (WEB) Details (WEB) Anritsu Web GDPR Statement Privacy Statement ■ Promotion of Fair Trade in Relation to Sales Activities The Domestic Anritsu Group established the Committee for Promoting Fair Trade for Sales Activities to comply with the Anti-Monopoly Act and related laws and regulations and promote fair and free marketing activities and transactions. The committee’s activities include conducting internal audits once a year for all sales departments of Anritsu Corporation. Internal audits are conducted through hearings based on the self-checks by the audited department, verification of evidence and suggestions for improvement. Conducted in tandem with internal audits, the Anritsu Group also provides group training in areas such as the Anti-Monopoly Act and related regulations to raise compliance awareness and an appreciation of risk among its employees. In addition, with the aim of investigating risks such as bid rigging, the Legal Department conducts secondary audits of internal audits for the sales departments participating in bids for public projects. In fiscal 2018, internal audits, both primary and secondary, did not uncover any events or problems that would conflict with the Anti-Monopoly Act or related regulations. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 64 Governance Establishment of Compliance ■ Tax Compliance The Code of Conduct of the Anritsu Group, which also applies to overseas subsidiaries, stipulates that Group companies will: • Perform proper accounting that abides by relevant laws and company regulations in the course of operation • Accurately prepare and properly save all the various records of finance and accounting, and not perform improper accounting or any other activity which would cause damage to the company The Anritsu Group has adopted the same stance in regard to tax-related operations. Specifically, the company stipulates that it will comply with all tax-related laws and regulations in the countries and regions in which it does business, and will not intentionally avoid taxes through the use of tax havens or seek to reduce taxes through the use of tax-law interpretations that differ from the spirit of the law or regulation. The Company will make use of tax incentives available in the normal course of its business to ensure that it is carrying an appropriate tax burden. The Company is also working to reduce uncertainty in taxes by consulting with tax officials in advance and making relevant information disclosures. ■ Transparency in Political Donations The Anritsu Group does not make political contributions, including to political parties, organizations, or candidates for public office. ■ Violation of Law and Regulations in the Socio-economic Field Violation of laws and regulations in the socio-economic field The Anritsu Group incurred no serious compliance violations, accompanying fines or sanctions in fiscal 2018. ■ Helpline (Reporting/Consultation Service) The Anritsu Group has set up two helpline systems inside the Company and outside the Company for the purpose of reporting and preventing violations of internal ethics laws. Reporting or consultations on the subject can be made anonymously, either via phone, dedicated e-mail, or letter. For overseas employees working in Japan, we have established a Workplace Helpline, which can accept submissions in both Japanese and English. The Helpline appears to be functioning effectively, with the results of a recent survey showing that a strong 97% of employees in fiscal 2018 knew about the reporting and consultation service. Also, as the details and facts of any consultation and reporting are handled confidentially, the person making the consultation or reporting will not suffer any disadvantage. Number of cases at the reporting/consultation service (April 2018 ~ March 2019) Reporting/consultation service Number of Total Consultations 1 External reporting/consultation service Phone 11 Workplace Helpline (cases) 13 E-mail 2 2 Internal reporting/consultation service Direct contact or phone 5 In-house Helpline (cases) 10 E-mail 5 3 Interview conducted based on response in the Corporate Ethics Survey (cases) 17 Note: Total number of cases Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 65 Governance Establishment of Compliance ■ In-house Educational Efforts to Prevent Harassment (Domestic Anritsu Group) Anritsu’s efforts in regard to sexual harassment and power harassment are not limited merely to defining the issue and educating employees about prohibited behavior. Rather, the company is focused on providing an education centered on determining what kind of behavior should be taken to improve the workplace culture, and how to effectively promote communication within the workplace and the organization as a whole. In addition to educational efforts targeting executives, we also hold lectures for all employees to learn how to prevent harassment of this type. Number of participants in educational efforts to prevent harassment for executives: • Fiscal 2018: 88 • Fiscal 2017: 72 ■ Case Study Sheets (Concrete examples) The Domestic Anritsu Group references cases that have actually occurred or could occur in daily life and business, as well as examples of scandals involving other companies reported in the mass media, and post these as Case Study Sheets on the front page of our intranet with concise notes of caution and brief explanations. A total of 197 cases have been posted as of March 2019. In addition, the case study sheets are used as a tool for in-house educational activities that promote workplace discussions and are used as case study material at the manager level during Corporate Ethics Promotion Month (October). Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 66 Governance Promotion of Risk Management Anritsu Group Risk Management Social issues as a background The globalization of the economy in recent years has contributed to an ongoing increase in corporate business opportunities. Amid such conditions, companies are faced with a variety of social obligations and must take on a multi-faceted approach to risk management. In order for the Anritsu Group to achieve sustainable profit growth and a global expansion in its business, the Company needs to establish a system capable of responding to a variety of risks with the potential to impact business, and at the same time promote risk management on a companywide basis. Policy The Anritsu Group views risks as uncertain events that affect corporate value such as organizational profit and social credibility. In other words, we do not consider risks as necessarily negative but instead as potentially positive events if managed appropriately. We recognize proper risk management as a vital management issue and have established a risk management system for the Anritsu Group as a corporate entity. We focus on initiatives that will enhance the risk sensitivity of not only top management but of all employees. At the same time, we promote risk management through an all-inclusive effort to maintain and expand our corporate value, fulfill our corporate social responsibility and seek sustainable development for the Group. Risk Management Policy The Anritsu Group will maintain and increase its corporate value, fulfill its corporate social responsibility and seek sustainable development for the Group by appropriately managing risks that affect management. (1) W  e will seek to enhance the risk sensitivity of not only general managers but of all employees in an all-inclusive effort to promote risk management. (2) General managers and all employees will promote risk management by complying with the Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct as well as laws and regulations as the basis of the Company’s internal controls. (3) We will generate profit and limit losses by controlling management risks related to strategic decision making such as entry into new business areas and product development strategy, as well as operational procedures. (4)We will anticipate potential emergency situations insofar as possible to prevent their occurrence. In the event that an emergency does occur, we will seek to minimize and limit losses and promptly extricate ourselves from the critical situation into a state where autonomous recovery is possible, and subsequently prevent a recurrence. Structure Under the supervision of the Group CEO’s risk management, the main risks are divided into the following categories: (1) business risks associated with management decision making and execution of operations; (2) legal violations; (3) environmental; (4) quality of products and services; (5) export/import control; (6) information security; and (7) disasters. Anritsu has clarified the risk management officer (executive officer) responsible for the management for each category of risk. The risk management officer for each category of risk supervises a committee comprising the heads of relevant divisions and management officers of Group companies, exercises overall control of the Group companies involved in managing the relevant risk, and provides timely reports to the Management Strategy Conference on the risk management measures, plans, status of implementation, and results of the management cycle throughout the year. In addition, Anritsu’s risk management promotion divisions are responsible for setting rules and guidelines and conducting education and training to raise the level of risk management and ensure ongoing business development. Each risk management officer supports the activities of overseas Group companies in managing the relevant risk. In addition, the regional headquarters in the Americas conducts its own activities with a task force in charge of the management of each business risk. With respect to compliance risk, compliance officers at each regional headquarters conduct risk assessments that operate in accordance with formulated annual plans. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 67 Governance Promotion of Risk Management Risk Management Promotion System Audit & Supervisory Board of Directors Committee Management Overall Head of Risk Management Crisis Response Emergency Response Audit Department Project Group CEO Headquarters Risk Management Management Management Promotion Divisions Strategy Conference Strategy Center Risks associated Risks associated Environmental Risks associated Risks associated with Information Risks associated with business with legal violations risks with quality export/import control security risks with disasters Risk category Anritsu Group Charter Basic Rules of Rules on Quality Rules of Security Basic Rules on Basic Rules on of Corporate Behavior Environmental Management Trade Control Information Disasters and and related — Systems Systems Management Emergency Response Anritsu Group Code regulation(s) of Conduct Vice president in charge Vice president in Chief officer in Chief quality officer Chief officer Chief officer in Chief officer in of each business division, charge of charge of in charge of charge of charge of disaster Responsibility presidents of subsidiaries compliance environmental trade control information prevention and Vice Presidents in management management for Risk charge of operations Management Executive organ Corporate Ethics Environmental Quality Management Export/Import Information Disaster Prevention of each business Promotion Management System Committee Control Committee Management Headquarters (Main division division and the Committee Committee Committee corporate division Environment and Trade Control Human Resources of responsibility) Legal Department Environment and Quality Promotion Department Management and Administration Quality romotion Department Information Department Department System Department and others Anritsu Corporation Anritsu Group Within the risk management promotion system is “risks associated with legal violations,” which mainly focuses on identifying risks tied to the following of laws and regulations. Personnel working in the field conduct annual inhouse reviews of activities and results. Key laws and regulations under focus include: labor laws, subcontracting laws, anti-trust laws, truth-in-advertising laws, the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, laws and regulations pertaining to intellectual property, laws and regulations pertaining to the environment, the Companies Act, laws and regulations pertaining to the prevention of bribery, export and import laws, laws protecting personal information, and the Modern Slavery Act (as well as other laws and regulations pertaining to human rights). Activities / Achievements ■ Training We conducted risk management workshop training on managing practical business risks for newly appointed managers of the Domestic Anritsu Group. ■ Incorporating Strengthening Activities in Relation to Global Risks Anritsu in fiscal 2018 enacted the following measures to lower risk in line with the Risk Assurance Map* created in fiscal 2017. (1) The corporate division at the company headquarters prepared a questionnaire and received answers in order to improve what it believed to be an insufficient understanding regarding the risk control situation at the overseas companies, including whether or not there were real controls and what the actual operating conditions were like. The division focused its attention on risk areas related to personnel, compliance, governance, as well as accounting and taxes. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 68 Governance Promotion of Risk Management (2) In cooperation with the overseas subsidiaries, the corporate division at the company headquarters took the lead in activities aimed at reducing risk in areas such as the protection of personal information, trade management, environmental law strategies, procurement management, information security, and the reliability of financial reports. Anritsu at the end of the fiscal year revised the risk assurance map to reflect the aforementioned results and newly emergent risks. Moreover, the Company in fiscal 2019 aims under the leadership of the corporate division at headquarters and in cooperation with regional headquarter to create a management guideline, outlining minimum requirements for each company, for all the overseas subsidiaries (including subsidiaries operating under regional companies), with the company continuing to monitor compliance in line with the guidelines at each local subsidiary from fiscal 2020. Through implementation of these efforts, we aim to ensure that all global risks are properly managed by the end of fiscal 2020. * Risk Assurance Map: A list providing a view on the status of risks and risk responses for the Anritsu Group, contributing to early detection and the avoidance of damage to corporate value. Information Security Risk Social issues as a background Cyber-attacks that threaten corporate management evolve day by day, and the method of attack has become increasingly diversified and malicious. The targets of these attacks are broadening in reach, and, irrespective of size or industry, we have entered an era where everyone is a target. For companies and organizations, information security is regarded as an important management task, and we continue to seek further advanced measures to deal with the issue. Policy In conducting its business activities, the Anritsu Group considers it a social obligation to protect the information of all stakeholders, including customers, shareholders and investors, suppliers, employees, and also recognize information assets as important property to the Anritsu Group and all related parties. The Anritsu Group is making a continuous effort to maintain and enhance information security through its information security management system. Details (WEB) Basic Rules of Information Management Structure The information security management system consists of the Information Management Committee made up of key executive officers from each business division and Group companies, and the Information Security Subcommittee operating under the Information Management Committee. The Information Management Committee formulates policies on investment and strategies related to information management for the entire Group, and the Information Security Subcommittee conducts policy enactment and implementation measures and activities such as employee training, countermeasures to deal with an incident when it occurs, and information sharing. The Information Security Subcommittee composed of representatives of Japanese Group companies and the Global Security Subcommittee consisting of Chief Regional Officers. As the security officer of their respective affiliated organizations, each member of these subcommittees strives to maintain and enhance information security. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 69 Governance Promotion of Risk Management Information Management Committee Corporate Ethics (Management Information System Dept.) (Formulate policy for the entire Group) Promotion Committee Information Security Information Security Subcommittee Global Security Subcommittee (Formulate and promote measures and plans for the (Formulate and promote measures and plans for the entire Group in Japan) Group outside Japan) Headquarters Business Divisions in Japan Overseas Business Divisions Divisions at Group companies in Japan Divisions at Group companies outside Japan (Manage and implement measures, etc.) (Manage and implement measures, etc.) Internal Audit (Internal Audit Committee, Global Audit Dept., and third-party audits) Mediumto long-term goals Anritsu operates businesses globally and is linked by a network of offices all around the world that engage in information sharing. In information security, if there is a vulnerability in even one place in the system, it will impact on the overall security level. We are now working to raise the overall level of security and eliminate regional disparities by correcting the variation in the level of security that exists between regions. Anritsu is also working in each region to ensure compliance with the global security policy we developed two years ago. We believe management based on the PDCA cycle is important to the maintenance and improvement of information security, though it appears there is still room for improvement in some regions. Anritsu aims to create a management system that includes not only our major locations, but also the subsidiary sales companies and business divisions. Activities / Achievements ■ Initiatives in Global Security Level Visualization Anritsu believes that it is important to improve the company’s understanding of the current information security situation in each region if it is to eliminate regional disparities in global information security levels. Information security is an area in which clarity is not particularly easy to come by, and the Company accordingly from last fiscal year launched efforts to improve regional security level visualization. Our evaluation was based on utilization of a website that allows a comparison of the organization’s weaknesses with those of other companies, based on answers to about 100 questions across the four categories of planning, organization, technology, and incident response. The website allows a comparison to other regions, making it possible for the user to see the most effective security countermeasures. We intend to use the website as a guide to eliminate security level differences among the different regions. ■ Conducting Educational Programs on Global Information Security Anritsu conducted information security educational programs for employees around the world in fiscal 2018, focusing on cyberattacks and effective countermeasures. While there were some variations in participation by region, about 95% of Anritsu Group employees participated in the programs. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 70 Governance Promotion of Risk Management ■ Focus on IT Investment The Anritsu Group considers “Supporting business growth,” “Promoting overall optimization of Group management,” and “Providing safe and secure IT services” to be priority items for IT investment. “Supporting business growth” is achieved through investing in the construction of our website, marketing automation (MA) and the customer relationship management (CRM) system which acts as the point of contact with customers. We are taking on the challenge of business process innovation by introducing the latest technologies, such as cloud computing, AI, and RPA.*1 “Promoting overall optimization of Group management” is achieved by completing ERP*2 standardization at Japanese Group companies, and contributes to the automation of Group transactions, internal control, business continuity planning (BCP), and visualization. We are now promoting the introduction of ERP in overseas Group companies. *1 RPA (Robotic Process Automation): Automation of business processes with software robots *2 ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning): Integration of core business processes in areas such as accounting, sales, production, and procurement Business Continuity Management ■ Basic Policy on Business Continuity Management (BCM*1) Each Anritsu division creates a business continuity plan (BCP*2) to maintain smooth operations in the event of a disaster or emergency by minimizing damage and resuming full business activities as quickly as possible. In fiscal 2017, we examined our disaster recovering planning and business continuity planning (DRP*3 /BCP) based on an earthquake at the same level as the 2016 Kumamoto earthquake. We will conduct a survey with Group companies and continue to consider how to proceed in the future. *1 BCM: Management activities conducted during normal operations, such as formulating, maintaining, and updating business continuity plans, securing budgets and resources for continuing business, taking preparatory measures, implementing education and training before launching initiatives, conducting inspections, and making continuous improvements. *2 BCP: A preparatory action plan formulated to ensure the rapid resumption of critical business functions in the event that business activities are interrupted by an emergency *3 D RP: Disaster recovery plan ■ Disaster Prevention The Anritsu Group has laid out its BCM policy in the following Basic Policy on Disaster Response. Basic Policy on Disaster Response The Anritsu Group establishes a prevention system against disasters that may significantly affect its management, places top priority on ensuring the safety of its stakeholders including employees and local communities in the event of a disaster or accident, and strives to minimize damage and promptly resume business activities in order to fulfill its social responsibility and continue to seek enduring success for the Anritsu Group. • Business continuity management at manufacturing bases The stable procurement of production materials represents the fundamental part of any manufacturing company’s BCPs. Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd., which serve as the manufacturing bases of the Anritsu Group, have formulated BCPs to respond to earthquakes and other natural disasters by identifying them as material risks even before the Great East Japan Earthquake. These clearly set out concrete steps for each process in the event of a disaster. Applying the lessons learned from an actual large-scale disaster, we revised the criteria for invoking BCPs in an emergency to prepare against a broader range of risks and refined our procedures for responding to each risk. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 71 Governance Promotion of Risk Management • Developing infrastructure for stable supply—Global head office building installed with seismic isolation equipment Seeking to disperse exposure to risks, Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. opened a second factory in July 2013. Production lines have been distributed between the two plants to ensure stable supply. In March 2015, we constructed a global headquarters office building in Atsugi City, Kanagawa Prefecture, as a BCP countermeasure to maintain the continuity of Group core functions. This building takes on head office functions in the event of a disaster and is a steel frame building consisting of both a low-rise building and a high-rise building. In addition, it adopts a seismic base isolation system to enhance earthquake safety and provides an emergency backup power supply of 144 hours. ■ Introduction of a Building Safety Assessment System, Equipment and Facility Disaster Prevention Protocols Anritsu has been steadily expanding the building safety assessment system for the Atsugi Headquarters region that was introduced in fiscal 2017. The goal of this initiative is for the Company to be better prepared to quickly understand conditions at the buildings during an earthquake or series of earthquakes and move rapidly to either enact or end entry restrictions. We are also implementing disaster prevention measures for secondary materials, including ceilings and electrical equipment. ■ Securing the Information Systems Key information systems such as the Anritsu Group’s core systems are located and operate in the data center in the Nagoya district, and data is backed up in the data center located in the Tokyo metropolitan area. The CAD system used for product development operates from the server located in the Atsugi head office area, and the data is backed up via the network to the Koriyama factory. In the event where the Nagoya or Atsugi regions are stricken by disaster, it is possible to continue to operate the information system through either of the standby sites used as the destination for backing up data. Also, in tandem with designating emergency procedures with a targeted recovery time, we are preparing our response to disasters by conducting regular disaster response and recovery training and evaluating the effectiveness of this training to correct any issues. Offices Affiliates in Japan outside Japan Private network Differential Differential copy copy Koriyama Factory Atsugi HQ Tokyo Metropolitan Nagoya Region DC Main System/ CAD System Area DC Main System Backup System Backup System Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 72 Stakeholders ■  roviding Information and Communicating P with Stakeholders ■ Recommendations from Stakeholders Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 73 Stakeholders Providing Information and Communicating with Stakeholders Anritsu establishes good partnerships with stakeholders by providing disclosure information in an appropriate and timely manner and ensuring transparent, fair, prompt, and resolute decision making to its various stakeholders. An example of a communication Stakeholders Status of activities opportunity, related site ● Creating cutting-edge products and services witha high degree of safety and quality and Customers providing appropriate product and service Customer help line, information on website information, satisfying customer inquiries. Established the Information Disclosure Covered period: July 2018 – June 2019 Committee that participates at the manage● Participated in two overseas IR events (North ment level in investor relations briefings, America and Hong Kong) and four domestic shareholders meetings, IR individual interconferences. Conducted multiple face-to-face views, and IR activities for overseas investors Shareholders/ discussions proactively with investors in Asia (Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, and South Korea). Details (WEB) Investors ● Interviewed 269 Japanese investors and 166 Rating Information for Stocks and Corporate Bonds overseas investors ● Provided a voice from shareholders and investors as feedback to the board of directors Management Details (WEB) Strategic Conference and intranet for managers Disclosure Policy ● Established a social gathering for our suppliers to explain our Company policies and give awards ● Established an information exchange meeting to explain policies such as business policy and materiSuppliers Gathering al procurement policy Information Exchange Meeting ● Created business opportunities through activities Exhibition of suppliers products and Suppliers such as supplier product exhibitions, seminars, and technologies technical exchange meetings Partner QU (Quality Up) Activities ● Promoting Partner QU (Quality Up) Activities to Established a collaboration room facilitate proposals for improvements and requests Questionnaire at the time of interviews from suppliers ● Implementation a questionnaire at the time of interviews to receive feedback on interviews with our employees ● Implementation of surveys into satisfaction levels of employees Establishment of employee satisfaction ● Implementation of ethics questionnaire Employees ● Establishment of Helpline survey, ethics questionnaire, Helpline, and a range of other training ● Implementation of training at different organizational and departmental levels Contributions include; Fun Science Classroom sponsored by Atsugi City Board of Education, The Anritsu Cup, an Atsugi city invitational U12 Soccer Tournament, Atsugi City Kids’ ● Developing community-based social contribution Softball Competition, Anritsu Cup Dodge Ball programs under the three pillars of “partnerCompetition hosted by a citizen group in Regional Societies ships for educating youth,” “contributing to Atsugi, Donation of unused socks to the local communities,” and “protecting the environAtsugi City child consultation office, Radio ment (biodiversity conservation)” Production Experience Class, sponsored by the Koriyama City Board of Education, Fukushima Prefecture, and Mt. Fuji Green Fund Afforestation Campaign ● Information sharing in the event of disaster Provided support for the Emergency NGOs and NPOs ● Delivered donations to Japan Platform (JPF), a Response to Western Japan Floods program registered NPO (July 2018) Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 74 Stakeholders Providing Information and Communicating with Stakeholders Social contribution activities For details about social contribution activities in fiscal 2018, please refer to our webpage. Details (WEB) Corporate Philanthropy TOPICS Supporting global efforts to care for malnourished children Because of conflict or instability of certain countries in Africa, children of hunger and malnutrition need access to protein and medical treatment but there is difficulty for them to do so and many lose their lives. In order to save these children, ready-to-use therapeutic foods (RUTF), like a paste of peanuts with nutrients, are produced. RUTF does not need water, cooking materials and can be stored at room temperature yet provides needed proteins and nutrients not readily found. It is unique in nature because the contents are more suited to children’s taste meaning this product will be delivered and is unlikely to be confiscated by others. Erik Brainard, President and CEO of Anritsu Infivis Inc. (USA) met one of his old friends Erik Brainard President at the exhibition in Jan. 2018 and came to know a company who was working on the Anritsu Infivis Inc. project which contributed to the improvement of such hunger and malnutrition con(Anritsu Infivis Inc. Local U.S. subsidiary) cerns by producing RUTF. “As part of the Anritsu Cares Program at our company and because we all have great concern and sympathy for all children, we decided to support the project by providing an inspection system to the producer of the RUTF at a lower cost. Specifically, we supplied an X-ray system product to find foreign materials in the food packages that could have been introduced by production or processing equipment as required by UNICEF. We are proud to support global activities to save children of hunger and malnutrition and hope our small contribution will assist in saving lives.” Mr. Brainard’s decision is based on his company’s concept “Anritsu Cares” and it links to SDG’s Goal No.1 (No Poverty), No.2 (Zero Hunger) and No.3 (Good Health and Well-Being). X-ray testing equipment Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 75 Stakeholders Recommendations from Stakeholders Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 Third-party Opinion As a global company with an overseas sales ratio of about 70%, the Anritsu Group is focused on expanding the disclosure of information in line with international standards for sustainability. I appreciate that the company, backed by the firm commitment of the Board of Directors, as well as supervisors and upper management, has shown strong leadership in promoting sustainability-related activities across division lines. Given global trends in sustainability, I have favorable expectations from an E.S.G. point of view that the Anritsu Group is moving forward. When looking at governance (G), the expansion in ESG investment over Caux Round Table–Japan the past few years has contributed to a growing emphasis on “measurability” Director Toshimune Yamaguchi in non-financial disclosures. Measurability refers not just to quantitative data disclosure but also the disclosure of qualitative information that can assist in predicting and assessing where the company is going, including policies, targets and progress in the achievement of those targets, and current challenges. The Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 provides an enhanced description of management’s approach to a number of important issues, and I look forward to the disclosure of information with a view toward measurability and further improvements in governance and management systems that make this possible. Turning to the environment (E), amid ongoing moves to codify rules for information disclosure, with the TCFD* being one example, new challenges have also appeared, including the issue of plastic garbage. In this year’s report, there is an increased amount of information on environmental considerations in packaging, showing that the company is responding to the increased need for detailed environment-related information. On the social (S) front, it is vital that companies address the issue of human rights in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The Anritsu Group is focused on human rights in regard to its employees and the supply chain, though I believe a focus on comprehensive human rights policies and the building of a structure for ensuring due diligence in human rights might be preferable. On a last note, there have recently been improper activities exposed at companies where CSR activities have to date been highly rated. With this in mind, I look forward to the company improving transparency and trustworthiness by promoting information disclosure to external stakeholders and developing in-house reporting lines and an open environment for communication so as to ensure that systems and mechanisms are functioning effectively. * T he Task Force on Climate-related financial Disclosures (TCFD) is an international initiative launched by the Financial Stability Board (FSB) in 2015 to improve the disclosure of information related to the financial impact stemming from climate-related risks and opportunities. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 76 Others ■ GRI Balance Sheet Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 77 Others GRI Balance Sheet This report refers to compliance with core GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). General Disclosures General Standard Disclosures Report Page 1. Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization 3 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services ▶ Anritsu Integrated Report 2019 -17 102-3 Location of headquarters 3 102-4 Location of operations 3 102-5 Ownership and legal form 3 102-6 Markets served ▶ Anritsu Integrated Report 2019 -17 102-7 Scale of the organization 3 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 55-56 102-9 Supply chain 49-52 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Not applicable 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 7-8, 17-18 102-12 External initiatives 1 102-13 Membership of associations 1 2. Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 7-8, 67-69 3. Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 5-6 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 65 4. Governance 102-18 Governance structure 7, 58 102-19 Delegating authority 7 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 7, 67-68 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 74-75 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 58-60 ▶ Fundamental policy of corporate governance 4. 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 2. 5. Chair of the Board of Directors 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 58-60 ▶ Fundamental policy of corporate governance -2. 102-25 Conflicts of interest Relationship with stakeholders 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 7 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body — 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 60 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental,and social impacts 7-8 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 7-8, 67-69 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics — 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting — 65, ▶ Fundamental policy of corporate governance 102-33 Communicating critical concerns -2. 2 .5. Internal notification system 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 65 ▶ Website: Corporate Governance 102-35 Remuneration policies (Executive Compensation) ▶ Website: Corporate Governance 102-36 Process for determining remuneration (Executive Compensation) 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration — 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio — 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio — 5. Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 74 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 41 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 74 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 74 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 76 6. Report Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 1, 3 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 1, 7-8 102-47 List of material topics 7-8 102-48 Restatements of information Not applicable 102-49 Changes in reporting Not applicable 102-50 Reporting period 1 102-51 Date of most recent report 1 102-52 Reporting cycle 1 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 1 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 78-80 102-55 GRI content index 78-80 102-56 External assurance 25 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 78 Others GRI Balance Sheet Specific standard 200：Economic / 300：Environmental/ 400：Social 200：Economic Report Page 201：Economic Performance ▶ Anritsu Integrated Report 2019201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Anritsu Value Creating Story-6-7 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 22 ▶ Securities Report 5. Accounting 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans notes 21. Employee benefits 86,87 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Not applicable 202：Market Presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage — 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community — 203：Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 9-13 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 9-13 204：Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers — 205：Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 64 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 64 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 64 206：Anti-competitive Behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 64 300：Environment 301：Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 34 301-2 Recycled input materials used — 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 32-33 302：Energy 103 Management approach 7-8, 15-18, 22-23 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 24-25, 34 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization — 302-3 Energy intensity 25 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 23-24, 25 302-5 Reduction in energy requirements of products and services 20, 24 303：Water 103 Management approach 7-8, 15-18,26 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 27, 34 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 26 303-3 Water recycled and reused 26 304：Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 304-1 Not applicable protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 27-28 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Not applicable 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations Not applicable 305：Emissions 103 Management approach 7-8, 15-18, 22-23 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 23 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 23 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 23 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 25 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 23-24 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Not applicable 305-7 Nitrogen oxide (NOx), sulfur oxide (SOx), and other significant air emissions 34 306：Effluents and Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 29, 34 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 31, 34 306-3 Significant spills 21, 29-30 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Not applicable 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Not applicable 307：Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 21 308：Supplier Environmental Assessment 103 Management approach 7-8, 49-50 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 50-52 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 50-52 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 79 Others GRI Balance Sheet 400：Social 401：Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 43, 55 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees — 401-3 Parental leave 40 402：Labor/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes — 403：Occupational Health and Safety 103 Management approach 7-8, 45-47 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees 46 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 56 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 46 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 46 404：Training and Education 103 Management approach 7-8, 42 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee — 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 43-45 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews — 405：Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103 Management method 7-8, 37-38 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 55, 59 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men — 406：Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken — 407：Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk — 408：Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 50 409：Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 50 410：Security Practices 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures — 411：Rights of Indigenous Peoples 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples — 412：Human Rights Assessment 103 Management approach 7-8, 37-38 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 38, 50 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 38, 50 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights 412-3 Not applicable screening 413：Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs — 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities — 414：Supplier Social Assessment 103 Management approach 7-8, 49-50 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 50-52 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 50-52 415：Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions 65 416：Customer Health and Safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 53-54 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services — 417：Marketing and Labeling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling — 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling — 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications — 418：Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data — 419：Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 65 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2019 80
