Corporate Citizenship Annual Report December 2018 Table of Contents Message from our CEO 3 Message from the Chair of the 4 Message from Corporate Citizenship Council our CEO Our new Corporate Citizenship Mission Transforming the Social Sector: 5 Message from Technology for Social Good the Chair of the Corporate Citizenship Council Preparing Youth for the Digital Era 6 Junior Achievement 6 Transforming JA Europe Enterprise Challenge 2018 #JAEEC18 7 the Social Sector: Avanade STEM Scholarships 8 Technology for Social Good Avanade Gives and Volunteers 9 Responsible Business 10 Preparing Youth for the Digital Era Inclusion is Everyone’s Responsibility 10 Environmental Sustainability 11 Ethics in the digital age 12 Avanade Gives and Volunteers Responsible Business Corporate Citizenship 2 Annual Report Message from our CEO Through our ongoing work with Junior Achievement FY18 Achievements Adam Warby, and the Avanade STEM Scholars, we are equipping the CEO workforce of the future, especially young women, with $99K raised for charities across the globe in Message from essential STEM and entrepreneurial skills. We’re teaching FY18 through our Avanade Gives program our CEO practical skills and nurturing the growth mindsets needed to help imagine the “art of the possible” for our clients. 800+ hours volunteered by Avanade As part of our contribution to the United Nations’ employees for Junior Achievement activities Sustainable Development Goals – particularly around Message from As CEO of Avanade for the past 10 years, one of quality education and gender equality – we are also 1,259 students supported in skill the Chair of the things that I am personally passionate about committed to helping to shape and build the workforce development by Avanade employees the Corporate is the ability to combine good business with what of the future, making sure that today’s young people have through Junior Achievement 2017-2018 Citizenship Council is good for society. Our Avanade employees have access to learning the technology and leadership skills that Adam Warby named as Chair of the also told us that they want to be inspired by the they need to succeed. JA Europe Board and Avanade named as work that they do and the opportunities that we JA Worldwide Global Technology Partner Transforming offer them to give back; to their communities, In 2018, we also committed to the 10 principles of the UN the Social Sector: to their regions and globally. Global Compact which demonstrates the importance we 58 women supported in higher education Technology for place on responsible business practices, particularly in through Avanade’s STEM Scholarship Social Good That’s why, when we revamped our approach to (at time of printing) helping to define the founding principles of digital ethics, corporate citizenship twelve months ago, we gave and ensuring such tenets are built in to all digital innovation. 168 girls introduced to STEM careers careful thought to where we believed we could make Plus, we are creating solutions to deliver social good through job shadowing in Brazil, Spain a genuine human impact. Today our mission is to: and recently announced our partnership with Microsoft and Italy Preparing Youth “Enable young people and their communities to do Philanthropies on a program called “Tech for Social Good” for the Digital Era more through the power of our people and digital which will bring transformative digital innovation to the 490 girls attended leadership programs with Avanade volunteers in Norway innovation” and we have three main areas of focus: social sector and help propel them forward. 1. T ransform the social sector and bring digital I am proud of the progress that we have made this year 1,021 laptops donated to give young people innovation to enable non-profits and charities to in advancing our corporate citizenship mission and would access to technology Avanade Gives leverage digital technology. like to extend my personal thanks to our Avanade team and Volunteers 2. Enable young people, and especially young globally for their inspiring contributions and engagement women, to realize their potential through the 130 students received resume assistance this year. Together we are focused on making a human by Avanade volunteers in the Netherlands power of digital innovation. impact on our clients, their customers, their employees 3. Give our employees opportunities to engage, and the communities in which we work and I’m already contribute and grow through our corporate looking forward to seeing the impact that we can have in Signed the UN Global Compact Responsible committing to 10 principles Business citizenship initiatives. the future! I am pleased to share that we have made significant Received Silver Rating by the EcoVadis progress in each of these areas over the course of 2018. Sustainability Ratings Agency Corporate Citizenship 3 Annual Report Message from the Chair of the Corporate Citizenship Council David Oksandy, Our new Corporate Our Mission: To enable young people and their Executive, Citizenship Mission communities to achieve more through the Message from General Counsel & Secretary and The May 2017 ALLI survey of employees found power of our people and digital innovation our CEO Chair, Corporate that 63% believe Avanade’s commitment to We will fulfill this mission by focusing on three Citizenship Council social responsibility is genuine. Analysis of the main pillars of effort: results suggested that to build on this success, 1. Transforming the Social Sector Message from we should enhance internal visibility of projects, I’m so proud of what we achieved increase investment in local initiatives, and align 2. Preparing Youth for the Digital Era the Chair of the Corporate under our FY15-FY17 mission, more clearly to Avanade’s strategic focus. 3. Engaging our Employees Citizenship Council The Corporate Citizenship Council embraced “To help close the gender, these recommendations as it developed In addition, we will ensure we run Avanade as a technology and income gaps for Avanade’s new corporate citizenship mission responsible business and contribute leadership on Transforming policy issues important to that commitment. women, to better enable them to statement and focus. the Social Sector: Technology for realize their full potential.” Social Good Looking back over the last three years, highlights . include supporting 1.2 million women through our mentoring program, enabling 58 female STEM students realize their academic ambitions, Preparing Youth and partnering with Junior Achievement and for the Digital Era local charities to help hundreds of women enter the workforce. I hope that the evolution of our mission and the innovative new program we have put in place Avanade Gives inspire you as much as they do me. I believe they and Volunteers truly reflect Avanade’s values, and I urge every employee to seek opportunities to get involved in FY19. Responsible Business Corporate Citizenship 4 Annual Report Transforming the Social Sector: Technology for Social Good Avanade cares about the people and communities Pamela Maynard, where we work. We want to bring the power President, Product and Innovation, of cloud and digital technology to non-profit Message from Avanade organizations to digitally transform their workplace our CEO and accelerate social impact. And so Technology for Social Good was born. It’s goal: to become a trusted partner to non-profit Message from organizations and the wider social sector to Combining our citizenship bring about systemic change through the the Chair of the Corporate mindset and delivery strategic delivery of Microsoft technologies on a Citizenship Council excellence global scale. It all started with a “What if”… What if Avanade can support humanitarian causes Technology for Social Good was launched at the Transforming As we developed our new start of FY19 at the NetHope Summit in Dublin with by offering its expertise? Let’s take the case of a young girl, we’ll call her Salma, living in the Social Sector: mission statement for Avanade a commitment to provide relevant, affordable and a besieged city in Syria. Salma suffered from Technology for transferable solutions to non-profit organizations. Corporate Citizenship, we also set a heart condition that left her struggling and Social Good We additionally made a commitment to work out a “purpose statement” about with Microsoft Philanthropies to develop a suite of blue-faced whenever she tried to play with friends. our intention to better support solutions built on Dynamics 365 and Microsoft’s Common Data Model. Specific to the non-profit Using OneDrive for Business, powered by the Preparing Youth the social sector. sector, it targets capabilities in six main areas: Microsoft Cloud, staff on the ground in Syria for the Digital Era constituent management, fundraising, donation from SOS Children’s Villages shared photos of management, program delivery, volunteer Salma along with her story with potential donors management and grant and awards. across the world. Using crowdsourcing, sufficient funds were raised to pay for Salma’s surgery in just two days! As a result, Salma received Avanade Gives life-saving surgery, all thanks to the Microsoft and Volunteers “Many non-profit organizations face systemic challenges in leveraging technology, whether it’s a shortfall Cloud and the generous support of donors. in technology talent or scalable industry solutions. As a strategic partner with Microsoft Philanthropies and its Technology for Social Impact business, we will work together to bring forward cutting-edge solutions that solve complex business problems. At the same time, we will enable our employees to work with non-profit organizations making a difference in our world today.” Find out more about Technology for Responsible Social Good here. Business – Pamela Maynard, President, Product and Innovation, Avanade Corporate Citizenship 5 Annual Report Preparing Youth for the Digital Era Our Partnership with Junior Achievement Prepares Youth for the Digital Era Working closely with Junior Achievement as its Global Technology Partner gives us the opportunity to help millions Message from our CEO of young people around the world develop skills and job readiness, creating the workforce of the future. Junior Achievement prepares young people for In addition, Avanade CEO Adam Warby employment and entrepreneurship through handsassumed the role of Chairman of the Board 172 Avanade employees donated Message from the Chair of on, experiential learning. Its network of more than for Junior Achievement Europe and became a a total of 543 working hours to the Corporate 465,000 volunteers serves more than 10 million member of the JA Worldwide advisory board. students in more than 100 countries to create Avanade executive Adam Drutz joined the JA South JA in FY18. By 2020, we plan to Citizenship Council pathways for employability and job creation. East Board in Houston, Texas, North America. reach 10% employee engagement Beginning in 2016, Avanade and Junior In FY19, we plan to widen our global reach, deepen in the program (approximately Transforming Achievement have collaborated to teach young our mentoring relationships further and strengthen 1,100 people). the Social Sector: people about the world of technology, leadership our organizational ties. We will expand the program Technology for and entrepreneurship. We strengthened our to Australia, Ireland and Japan, as well as Houston Social Good partnership in September of this year by stepping and Seattle in the United States. We will work with up as Junior Achievement’s Global Technology Junior Achievement students on a more individual Partner, working together to drive a global basis, offering job shadowing and mentorships. Preparing Youth digital transformation of the organization. Mentors will be selected from Avanade employees for the Digital Era and our Avanade STEM Scholars (see page 8). It is important for Avanade to be involved in JA ”to get more young people, especially young women, interested in technology, and to show them that the IT industry is a very diverse industry, where there’s Avanade Gives a need for very different skills. Over the years, the jobs available will change, and giving young people and Volunteers the skillset to start their own businesses can be very important for their future careers.” – Kaisa Lervik, Talent Community Lead Analytics, Avanade Norway, and JA volunteer Responsible Business Corporate Citizenship 6 Annual Report Preparing Youth for the Digital Era JA Europe Enterprise Challenge 2018 #JAEEC18 Message from our CEO Avanade sponsored the Digital Innovation Signature Award of the JA Europe Enterprise Message from Challenge 2018 to recognize the Chair of the Corporate young entrepreneurs using Citizenship Council digital technology. Our panel of experts judged the digital business Transforming plans of 16 student teams from 15 European the Social Sector: countries. The winning team, “Cook Me Up” from Technology for France, created a new dining experience offering Social Good healthy and creative options for French diners, supported by a Click and Sit app. Our sponsorship continues in FY19. Preparing Youth for the Digital Era Find out more about our relationship with “This is more than just an award, this is a recognition of our digital innovation. It is a big opportunity JA here. Watch our Avanade executive for us to be mentored by senior executives at Avanade. It will be great, and we are sure we will learn a lot. team coach students in Dublin, Ireland As for the [cash] prize, we will use it to further innovate our idea.” here. To learn more about our relationship Avanade Gives – Martin Courtois, CEO at Cook Me Up with JA, contact Heba Ramzy. and Volunteers Responsible Business Corporate Citizenship 7 Annual Report Preparing Youth for the Digital Era Avanade STEM Scholarships In 2018, we celebrated the first graduations, from our class of 2015, forming the beginning As a business major at the New Jersey Avanade’s STEM Scholarships give of our Avanade STEM alumnae network. Institute of Technology’s Martin Tuchman Message from We have welcomed three graduates from Cal Poly School of Management (MTSM) in the our CEO young women the opportunity Pomona into permanent roles at Avanade and US, Dikasse Zalla never imagined that to succeed in the digital era by another student from the New Jersey Institute of she would qualify for one of our Avanade Technology will join us this year. We will add three making it possible for them to new university partners in FY19. STEM Scholarships – or land her dream Message from job at Avanade. fulfill their ambition to study the Chair of Feedback from our STEM Scholars have helped STEM disciplines. us improve the program, including a mentorship “This opportunity has had a very positive the Corporate influence on my education at NJIT,” she says. Citizenship Council Coupled with internships and mentoring, we have program launched last year. Now every STEM “Having the scholarship gave me a real been able to grant scholarships to 58 young Scholar receives a mentor from Avanade, providing sense of security and the ability to focus on female STEM students to date, helping to close the the opportunity to engage and participate in Transforming my studies”. gender gap in the technology workplace and activities in their community. Spreading our reach the Social Sector: create women technology leaders of the future. beyond the scholars themselves, more students After being awarded the scholarship, Technology for We plan to support nine more young women will be offered mentorships in FY19 and will have Dikasse was teamed up with Valentin Guerin, Social Good scholars in FY19. the opportunity to discuss and engage in digital Director, People Ecosystem, New York. innovation workshops. “The experience with Avanade has honestly Ahead in FY19: we plan to introduce the Avanade been amazing. It’s made a huge difference. Preparing Youth STEM Scholarship program to additional countries Just having that mentorship relationship was for the Digital Era including Canada and Brazil. invaluable.” Dikasse, soon to graduate from the New Jersey Institute of Technology, will join Avanade in May 2019 Avanade Gives and Volunteers “Being part of the scholarship program has helped me to help more Find out about Nandita Chauhan’s people. How Avanade not only treats its clients but also how it treats their journey here. Hear stories from scholars employees makes me want to work for that type of company.” around the world here. To learn more, Responsible – Nandita, a graduate of Cal Poly Pomona and a Avanade STEM contact Heba Ramzy. Business scholarship recipient, now works for Avanade. Corporate Citizenship 8 Annual Report Avanade Gives and Volunteers The Avanade Gives program Through the generosity of our employees, Avanade also provides employees eight hours of company donations and company match funding, paid volunteer time each year to spend as they wish harnesses Avanade employees’ we have raised more than US$224k through in support of a charity, cause or non-profit. Message from natural generosity and desire to Avanade Gives in two years (US$101k in FY17, Growing our volunteering opportunities for our our CEO make a human impact. It matches US$123k in FY18). Much more than simply a giving employees is a major focus for FY19. Through our platform for donations, Avanade Gives allows us to donations to charities and causes set up fundraising campaigns, mobilize volunteers key partnerships with Junior Achievement, our STEM Scholars and university partners, our social sector up to US$250 per employee per and coordinate our giving activities across the clients and partners for Technology for Social Good, our Message from Avanade community. Campaigns vary widely, from year. Avanade Gives also gives sponsoring one of our colleague’s charity triathlons goal is to significantly increase the number of people the Chair of the Corporate employees time they can use to to responding to huge humanitarian disasters such participating in our Avanade Gives volunteer program. Citizenship Council volunteer for a charity or cause as the California wildfires. Avanade Gives helps us unite in support of communities in need and allows they select. us to make a genuine human impact. Transforming the Social Sector: Our Volunteers Technology for Social Good Preparing Youth for the Digital Era “It was an amazing experience. I’m glad I did it and I “I am a volunteer 911 emergency medical technician “I started out thinking I was just giving… that others think it’s so important to serve others. It’s something for my local EMS squad and have been volunteering would benefit from my volunteering, but I had no everyone should experience.” since 2012. What I get from the experience is the ability idea how much I would receive from it too! It is an – Antonella Castaldo, Security & Infrastructure to help people when they are most in need, and that experience like no other, it really is awesome.” Avanade Gives Senior Analyst, Avanade New York. makes me feel like I am making a difference.” – Flávia Souza, Sr Sales Operations Analyst, and Volunteers Antonella supported Relief Bus in New York City. – Prasant Sinha, Security Consultant, Avanade Avanade Sao Paulo. New York. Flávia volunteers to teach English with Cidadão Pró Prasant is a regular 911 Emergency Medical Mundo in Brazil. 1,430 employees used Avanade Gives Technician volunteer in New York City. Responsible in FY18. Together with the Avanade Business Every Avanade employee is eligible for 8 hours of paid volunteer time per year. In addition, Match Fun, Avanade employees all employees are also eligible for the Avanade Match Fund of up to US$250 per person per year. raised almost $100,000 for charities For more information on our policies, contact Heba Ramzy. Corporate Citizenship 9 Annual Report Responsible Business Inclusion is Everyone’s Avanade’s Five “Bold Steps” As a company, we have made great progress in the area of gender diversity, but we recognize there’s much Responsibility more to do. Examples of our investments thus Message from Inclusive and diverse teams are critical to innovation and growth, 1 Represent, demonstrate, lead the change far include: • We are developing awareness and skills that allow us to mitigate bias in our processes and our CEO Make our Inclusion & Diversity vision and are critical for any business come alive with visible actions decision-making. Message from that wants to remain competitive Leverage leadership influence to • We are putting Inclusion & Diversity action the Chair of plans in place in every geography and Market Unit. the Corporate and relevant in a rapidly evolving, amplify the impact We invest in global celebrations of International Citizenship Council increasingly digital and connected Women’s Day and Pride each year. global marketplace. In FY18, we refreshed our approach, to cultivate an 2 Guide the change Engage key influencers for transformative change • We are committed to pay equity and in the U.S., Avanade is proud to have joined 30+ other progressive companies committing to the Transforming the Social Sector: environment in which everyone can do their best White House Equal Pay Pledge. Technology for work. We are embedding diversity and inclusion Social Good 3 • We signed the Adhesion Term for the Forum throughout Avanade, via our five “Bold Steps” with Leverage data and insights of LGBT Companies in Brazil, reaffirming our a focus on our three cornerstones – Our People, Harness data/technology to inform our commitment to LGBTQ rights and inclusion. Our Workplace, and Our Clients – to ensure that we set an example across our industry and beyond. strategy and drive behavior change • We sponsored and had key speaking roles at Preparing Youth the 2018 UK Women’s Silicon Roundabout for the Digital Era 4 Combined with our new vision and mission, Conference. our commitment is clear: we believe inclusion is Inspire with our story • We won the 2017 TechDiversity award and in everyone’s responsibility. When we all press for Share our story so we can bring 2018 achieved a Bronze level in the Australian progress, we ALL win! everyone with us – our employees, Workplace Equality Index (AWEI). Avanade Gives our clients… and our future Vision: • We launched a “Colour Up” Inclusion & Diversity and Volunteers employees/clients Inspire innovation, growth and engagement Council in Austria, Switzerland and Germany to through inclusion complement our existing councils in the United 5 Make Inclusion & Diversity Kingdom, Brazil and Australia. We plan to further Mission: expand our number of councils in FY19. Cultivate a culture of inclusion and diversity business as usual Responsible that is central to the way we do business, • We sponsored the 2018 Gay Games, held in France. Integrate into how everyone Business enabling us to delight our clients and our experiences Avanade • We host Girl Geek Days and Girls Who Code people. events in locations around the globe. We are excited about our path forward. If you have ideas, would like to get involved or want to learn more, contact Elizabeth Derby or Erica Fletcher or Manuela Sforza. Corporate Citizenship 10 Annual Report Responsible Business Environment We work closely with both of our parent Travel and Transportation companies, Accenture, and Microsoft and in When choosing our office locations, the At Avanade, our Work Green partnership with our business partners, our accessibility of public transport options is an Message from suppliers and our clients to identify risks and our CEO initiative directs our efforts to incorporate leading environmental practices important consideration. We actively promote the use of technology to reduce the need to travel enhance Avanade’s environmental throughout our business practices and operations. for business. We also foster environmental and health and impact. We are committed safety awareness and responsibility among our Message from Refurbishment and Reuse to minimizing the negative employees through training, campaigns and the Chair of Avanade donates its used assets and equipment the Corporate effects of our operations on the collaborative opportunities. to InterConnection, a non-profit organization Citizenship Council environment while promoting Our commitment to environmental awareness providing high-quality refurbished equipment to under-served communities around the world. safe and sustainable practices is represented by our commitment to the FY18 saw a fourfold increase in the number of Transforming UN Global Compact, EcoVadis, and Ethisphere. through education and technology We achieved a silver CSR supplier sustainability laptops donated by Avanade, jumping from the Social Sector: solutions. rating from EcoVadis for our Work Green policies in 348 in FY17 to 1,021 in FY18. We have also donated Technology for FY17, and we recently completed the process again cell phones and phone chargers for reuse to Social Good for FY19. Each of these organizations evaluates our educate and connect women and children in effectiveness and pushes us to do better with each developing countries. milestone we reach. With our parent company, Accenture, we implement best practice initiatives to Preparing Youth minimize the effects of our operations. We do so by In FY19, we will be looking at what for the Digital Era addressing the following impact areas: sustainable procurement means Environmental, Health and Safety for Avanade. Management Systems Avanade, in conjunction with our parent company, Avanade Gives Accenture, is committed to implementing effective For more information on our and Volunteers environmental policies, contact environmental management systems and occupational health and safety measures across our Heba Ramzy. global operations. Responsible Business Corporate Citizenship 11 Annual Report Responsible Business Ethics in the digital age Avanade’s Digital Ethics Task Force, formed in In accordance with UK law, each year we publish 2015, draws on the expertise of our legal, security, our Modern Slavery Act statement, setting out the Avanade has a leading role to play marketing, tech innovation and advisory teams. steps Avanade UK is taking to ensure that slavery Message from The task force devised Avanade’s Four Pillars of and human trafficking are not taking place in any our CEO in tackling the ethical questions Digital Ethics to provide the litmus test of whether a of our supply chains or in any part of our own raised in response to accelerating new AI innovation can be considered to be ethical. business. These four pillars emphasize the importance of digital innovation. Artificial human dignity, transparency and compassion. Message from Intelligence presents exciting If you have queries or concerns about the Chair of Avanade embeds the Four Pillars into our delivery digital ethics, contact us in confidence the Corporate opportunities, but it also raises methodology and internal practices. In addition, through the Avanade Business Ethics Line Citizenship Council questions about governance, in our engagement with JA and other non-profits, (0808 234 2204; charges can be reversed) free will, social interactions, we encouraged young entrepreneurs to build or here. Transforming digital ethics into their business plans. employment and privacy. the Social Sector: Technology for Social Good Avanade’s Four Pillars of Digital Ethics A product or a service is digitally ethical if it satisfies all the following criteria: Preparing Youth for the Digital Era Fairness and Human Trustworthiness Adaptability inclusiveness accountability Avanade Gives and Volunteers Responsible Business Corporate Citizenship 12 Annual Report Heba Ramzy, Avanade Corporate Citizenship Lead Message from our CEO Message from Thank you for reading our FY18 As we take our new mission forward in FY19, the Chair of we will continue the excellent employee the Corporate Corporate Citizenship report. volunteering and engagement that has been Citizenship Council the hallmark of our corporate citizenship work FY18 has been a most exciting up to now. year for Corporate Citizenship at Transforming I, for one, am very excited to see what another the Social Sector: Avanade, with inspiring genuine year brings! Technology for enthusiasm and support from our If you have questions, suggestions or would like Social Good leadership and engagement from more information, please contact me directly our people. at Heba Ramzy. Preparing Youth for the Digital Era Avanade Gives and Volunteers Responsible Business Corporate Citizenship 13 Annual Report
