Comunication on Progress OUR STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY OUR CEO 2019 1 1. Our Statement of continued support October 19th, 2019 by our CEO To our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that jp.ik reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the fields of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Jorge Sá Couto Chairman OUR STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY OUR CEO 3 4 Comunication on Progress Our Commitment We are dedicated to contributing for a more sustainable world for everyone, no exception. We believe education is transforming our World and technology is powerful. Our goal is making information accessible to everyone and everywhere. Through education and technology, together, we can build authentic Knowledge Societies and, consequently, a more sustainable world for everyone! We believe great companies are inspired by purpose and can change lives! OUR STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY OUR CEO 5 Index 1. Our Statement of continued support by our CEO 3 Our Commitment 5 2. Description of Actions 9 Human Rights 9 Labour 15 Environment 15 Anti-Corruption 16 3. Measurement of Outcomes 18 Human Rights 18 Labour 20 Environment 20 Anti-Corruption 21 Our Manifesto 22 How to reach us 22 INDEX 7 2. Description of Actions HUMAN RIGHTS FROM OCTOBER 2018 TO Education is a Universal Human Right. OCTOBER 2019 We engage with strategic global and local stakeholders in the fields of Technology for Education, Innovation, Education and Sustainable Development, as well as close partners in the segment with deep knowledge of the communities. Therefore, in order to strengthen these trust relations, jp.ik participates in some reference events linked to Education and Technologies, namely: Relevant ICT – Events Innovation Africa, Harare, Zimbabwe | November 28 – November 30, 2018 Africa’ s Official Ministerial Summit for Technology for Education and Innovation was organized under the Official Patronage of Honorable Paul Mavima, the Minister of Primary & Secondary Education. This event gathered high-level representatives of ministries of Education and ICT, organisations & universities from more than 30 African countries, such as Ghana, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Senegal, Somalia, Uganda and Zambia. Throughout the event, the diverse stakeholders had the opportunity to attend pre-scheduled meetings and engage with ministers and senior government officials. Bett Show, in London, UK | January 23 – January 26, 2019 BETT, the first event of 2019 in the segment of education technologies, gathers the sector largest companies, edtech start-ups, government agents linked to education and ICT and thousands of participants from over 130 countries of the global education community. In this context, BETT is a global forum to share and debate the future of education alongside with the role that technology and innovation have on the capacitation of educators and students all over the world. OUR STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY OUR CEO 9 III Virtual Educa Regional Meeting, in Sucre, Bolivia | July 8 – July 10, 2019 Virtual Educa is a multidisciplinary initiative that promotes Education innovation towards social transformation and sustainable development. The purpose of this Regional Meeting aimed to analyze the role of ICT for the development of equitable and inclusive educational models, gathering pedagogical agents, governmental agents and industry in the field of technology for education. MENA Innovation, in Muscat, Oman | September 15 – September 17, 2019 MENA Innovation took place in Muscat, Oman, under the official patronage of the Omani Minister of Higher Education. This high-level meetings-based forum brought together ministers, senior government officials, universities and civil society stakeholders from across the Middle East & North Africa, in order to engage with leading ICT for education industry and solution providers. Sustainable Education Meeting, in NYC, USA | September 25 – September 27, 2019 In parallel to the UN General Assembly that takes place in NYC in September, the Sustainable Education Meeting is held with the purpose of building a discussion forum that brings together high-level ministerial representatives of ICT and Education Ministries around the world and high-level 10 Comunication on Progress representatives of Universities and Non-profit Organizations whose field of action relies on Education, Sustainability and Innovation. This forum also gives the opportunity to some selected industry partners to engage and learn more about these entities challenges, priorities and best practices towards a Quality Education and a sustainable growth of Nations. In sum, it is a referral forum to debate how to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals towards a long-term, sustainable and inclusive development of all Nations. Meaningful ICT-based Education Proofs-of-Concept Proof-of-Concept in Senegal | September 2018 Blueprint of the Teachers’ Professional The purpose of this collaboration aims to raise awareness of how ICT in Development Pilot Project WHEN 2018; education aligned with a comprehensive teacher training can leverage WHERE Dakar; the learning experience towards an inclusive and quality education. TARGET teachers of Primary School Matar In this context, this initiative aims to assist teachers through the effective Seck in Rufisque and CEM Ouakam 2 located in Dakar area; integration of technology in the day-to-day teaching to prepare students PARTNERS jp.ik, Intel and Microsoft. to develop skills, such as cognitive flexibility, decision-making, creativity, critical thinking and problem-solving, increasingly demanded by a job market in a frenetic mutation. The local beneficiary schools face the typical challenges public schools in Western Africa, as CE2 classes of the primary school and the 6th grade class of the secondary school, the main targeted grades, count over 70 pupils per class. For the Primary School, the Proof-of-Concept is a first initiative where the kids have direct access to computers, whereas the CEM Ouakam 2 was already beneficiary of an initiative that equipped a room with server and thin clients where general ICT classes were performed. [+] Proof-of-Concept in Ivory Coast | October 2018 Blueprint of the Education Pilot Project A quality teaching can be powerful enough to break the vicious cycle of WHEN 2018; WHERE Abobo, Aboisso and Yamoussoukro; exclusion, poverty and violence as it supports children in the development TARGET teachers and students of the SOS of the needed skills to live and prosper with dignity, tolerance and respect, Villages d’Enfants schools in Abobo, Aboisso contributing actively to the community life and development. and Yamoussoukro; PARTNERS SOS Villages d’ Enfants Ivory Afterward the Ministry of National Education and Vocational Training Coast, jp.ik, MGCI and Google. (MENET) has established ICT programs for primary and secondary cycle. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS 11 Nevertheless, there is still a gap between the will to integrate the new discipline in the curriculum and the effective implementation of the teaching in the schools. Therefore, contextualizing the Ivorian reality, the biggest challenge is how to mitigate the lack of access to the pedagogy manuals by the students. Over than 60% of the active teachers do not have ICT skills. Furthermore, schools are not being sufficiently equipped with devices and internet connection as the Government has not been able yet to take any initiative to lower the excessively high cost of the material. In this context, the scope of this project was to foster the familiarisation of the students with technology and the acquisition of basic digital skills. [+] Our Contribution for the Community Donation of € 1500 to Instituto de Apoio à Criança | October 2018 The Instituto de Apoio à Criança is a Portuguese private Institution of social solidarity born in 1983, aiming for defending and promoting the Rights of Children. The commitment and the developed work for this Institution is assisting the children, families and the community, especially where lacks support for many children, guaranteeing them their rights, interests and needs. Donation of 2 cargo trolleys to AJUDARIS | March 2019 AJUDARIS, founded in 2008, is a Portuguese non-profit Institution of national scope, which fights daily against hunger, poverty and social exclusion. This Institution was founded by a group of volunteers who occasionally made Social Intervention on the ground with the most deprived populations of Greater Porto. Faced with the constant calls from the supported community, the need arose to create more regular, organized and efficient responses aimed at the development of multidisciplinary work. 12 Comunication on Progress Donation of 57 tablets to Associação Leonor – Aceita e Sorri (APLAS) | March 2019 Associação Leonor – Aceita e Sorri (APLAS) has as mission assisting all children and teenagers and their families how to overcome as best as possible the diverse problems that arise as soon as cancer is diagnosed. In 2013, Vanessa Afonso, the founder of APLAS, has a story to tell. On June 14, 2013, her daughter Leonor was diagnosed with a bilateral Willms tumour with pulmonary metastases. On that day a new phase for the family began, where fighting the tumour took over everything. Vanessa quickly found she could help other families who go through the same situation. APLAS does everything they can to make these children happy. Making them happy means providing them with well-being and make their dreams come true. It also means making those they love happy, and that means trying to lighten the burden on those who need to be calm and comforted to carry on with the mission of accompanying them: The Family. Offer of 4 computers for Competições Nacionais de Ciência (PmatE) | April 2019 The purpose of the University of Aveiro Mathematics Teaching Project (PmatE/UA) is today the same that has moved it for over two decades: developing content and promoting events in order to foster school success and scientific literacy, bringing together Science and young people in a ludic format. The Competições Nacionais de Ciência (CNC) relies on a set of twelve competitions in the fields of Mathematics, Biology, Geosciences, Physics, Chemistry, Portuguese, English and Financial Literacy, targeting the young people from the 1st cycle of Basic Education and Secondary Education. Dá um Bónus à Vida1 | April – June 2019 In the context of the commitment of the well-being and health of our collaborators and their families, last April we launch an internal campaign entitled “Dá um Bónus à Vida”, which can be translated as “Give a Bonus to Life”. Within this campaign that lasted for three months, we supported all collaborators to join a program that included medical assistance, if needed, through which they can be assisted to quit smoking and improve their life quality. Alongside this program, for each day participants did not smoke, 1€ per participant was saved. After the three months’ program, all the money saved was donated to Liga Portuguesa Contra o Cancro. 1 In English it means “Give Life a Bonus”. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS 13 Federação Portuguesa dos Bancos Alimentares2 | June 2018 – June 2019 The Federação Portuguesa dos Bancos Alimentares fight food waste by using these products to be distributed to the people in need. The network collects and distributes several tens of thousands of tons of products and support throughout the year. In turn, they distribute cooked meals and food baskets to citizens in need, assisting over 390,000 people. In this context, we fostered an internal campaign entitled Papel por Alimentos, which can be translated as “Paper for Food”. In collaboration with Banco Alimentar, per each ton of paper, donated by individuals, companies and institutions to the Banco Alimentar, a waste is generated that GREENPAPERS, 2 In English it means “Portuguese Federation Lda., as the only environmental partner, prepares the waste for recycling. of Food Banks”. GREENPAPERS, Lda. values economically every ton of paper waste, converting it into food products, helping countless families in need of assistance. On June of 2019 we had already deliver a total of 1.143kg of paper. As a company commited with the environmental sustainability of the Planet, we encourage all collaborators to diminish as much as possible the printouts. However, if we still must print some documents, we can use that paper to help a noble Cause. Donation of 1 Computer to U.DREAM | July 2019 U.DREAM believes education and awareness are the best plans to transform our World. The Institution has as core purpose the commitment regarding the accompaniment of children with severe pathologies (cancer, cerebral palsy, autism, among others) and their families, culminating it with the fulfilment of the dream of those children, aiming for a long-term impact. In this case, we offer one computer to be used for a child with Special Needs. Our Contribution into fostering an online community in the Education spectrum INSPIRE Web Edition | April 2019 – currently INSPIRE was born in the beginning of 2016, aiming to bring to the spotlight themes, such as education, technology and sustainable development, fostering reflection, productive discussion and exchange of experiences. At the beginning of 2019 we decided to print one edition of the Magazine per year instead of two editions; this means less paper and less ink, reinforcing our commitment to a more sustainable world. Afterwards, INSPIRE landed at the digital sphere of life, aiming to be a digital global community where people around the world whose work, commitment and research in the fields of Education, Innovation, Technology for Education and Sustainability, can share their experiences, projects, approaches and best practices. We believe together we learn more, we move faster and we grow stronger. 14 Comunication on Progress LABOUR Diversity and equality of opportunities are central pillars of our own DNA. Therefore, we are strongly committed to build and share transparent and clear policies of non-discrimination for recruitment processes, training and career progression, as well as fostering engagement, open horizontal and vertical communication and collaboration. JP.HUB Digital Platform for collaboration and communication | June 2018 currently JP.HUB is our internal digital platform, which functions as a collaborative channel open to all collaborators, whose purpose is to promote synergies between different areas, highlighting open communication and a collaborative environment. Training Policy jp.ik comprehends how important is contributing to the increase of market’s competitiveness through the promotion of human resources’ high quality and the training provided to jp.ik’s collaborators. Therefore, jp.ik invests in the following training initiatives: Internal training initiatives aiming the development of synergies and the knowledge and experiences sharing between collaborators from distinct areas. Training on Hygiene and Safety at Work is key for jp.ik, in order to promote better work conditions to the collaborators. In addition, this training aims sharing important information and training to all collaborators, so we ensure everyone’s safety in case of hazard or fire risk. Furthermore, and with the purpose of investing in the professional development of the collaborators, we keep fostering the Skills Development Reward with the value of 1500€ available to all workers with the goal of supporting workers on their training implemented in the beginning of 2017. ENVIRONMENT “There’s no Planet B” is a reality. Planet Earth is our home and it is our job to ensure its sustainability. It is our job to ensure there is a bright future. And we all are accountable! We, as a business organization, believe we have our own share to contribute actively for the sustainability of our Planet. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS 15 Lights Off, Nature On | 2017 currently We invest in initiatives of awareness, targeting jp.ik’s collaborators on the relevance of energy saving for the sustainability of our Planet. In 2019, we continue with this internal initiative of awareness ‘Lights off, Nature on’. Paper and Plastic Recycling Aiming to contribute for a more sustainable Planet as we raise awareness about environmental issues within our own community, we keep recycling these two types of materials. Nevertheless, and because we wish to reduce the plastic in our Headquarters. With this goal in mind, we offer all collaborators an aluminium bottle, so they can storage their water and to encourage them to stop using plastic bottles. After offering the aluminium bottles to our community, we stop acquiring plastic cups for the Water dispensers located in some strategic spots in our headquarters. ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management Systems Certification Jp.ik adopts this normative and his requirements for an environmental management system to enhance its environmental performance and to seek managing its environmental responsibilities in a systematic manner while contributing to the environmental pillar of sustainability. In this perspective, ISO 14001:2015 assists our organization in achieving the pursued outcomes of its environmental management system, which provide value for the environment, the organization itself and interested parties. Aiming to achieve this mission, jp.ik accomplished this period the readiness to be certified according the standard reference ISO14001:2015. Through this process, was analysed and evaluated our management activities, as well as the products we develop, manufacture, assemble and resell, in order to reducing our ecological footprint and contributing to the carbon neutrality by optimizing a responsible management alongside a structured integration of our environmental concerns and priorities. ANTI-CORRUPTION Corruption is an undeniable obstacle to economic and social development around the world, with a high cost for the sustainable development and it particularly affects the poorest communities. 16 Comunication on Progress Code of Ethics | since April 2017 Our Code of Ethics reflects our ethical values and principles of conduct. In addition, the purpose of this document is to share how these values and principles should be reflected in our relationships with distinct stakeholders. Here is what we mean by parties or stakeholders: individuals and entities, individual or collective, which may affect or be affected by our activities, products or services. Into this category fits, especially but not exclusively: collaborators, shareholders, customers, suppliers, service providers, counterparties, business partners, competitors, government authorities and regulators, financial institutions and local communities. Ultimately, the Code of Ethics expresses the respect for our corporate values, as well as the rejection of all types of practices related to bribery or favoring other entities. Annual Account Report | April 2018 The release of our annual Account Report ensures the divulgation to all stakeholder of relevant information concerning our activity, namely financial situation, investments and performance indicators. JP.HUB Digital Platform for collaboration and communication | June 2018 currently Our internal digital platform, referred above (page 12) that functions as a collaborative channel open to all collaborators, has a multiplier effect regarding the Code of Ethic themes through the dissemination of articles by the Ombudsman. Quarterly Bootcamps and Kick-offs | October 2018, January, April, July and October 2019 These internal events promote a collaborative and cooperative sphere through which it is possible to share a quarterly balance and the projection of the following trimester. Alternating between extended sessions and personalized sessions, the Bootcamp events featured, for instance, thematic blocks on product portfolio (hardware and software), pedagogy and industrial engineering. The Kick-off events usually take place to wrap-up the Bootcamp week and it brings together the entire team. These two types of events promote communication, collaboration, convergence, team spirit reinforcement, empathy and sharing. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS 17 3. Measurement of Outcomes Concerning measurement means evaluating the impact of our initiatives and FROM OCTOBER 2018 actions in our own communities and in the social and professional groups TO OCTOBER 2019 we engage with. It means acknowledging the relevance of our actions and interrelating them with a sphere of significance. In this context, most of our outcomes are intrinsically qualitative, which allows us to create the best conditions and situations towards a continuous development and the transformation of our community and the communities we engage with. “To deny people their HUMAN RIGHTS human rights is to challenge their very humanity.” Relevant ICT – Events Nelson Mandela Innovation Africa, Harare, Zimbabwe | November 28 – November 30, 2018 Promotion of the engagement with global and local stakeholders, such as governmental agents, ONGs representatives, private sector partners in the field. Establishment of solid partnerships with these stakeholders to step efforts towards a quality education and a sustainable development for all. Bett Show, in London, UK | January 23 – January 26, 2019 Promotion of the engagement with global and local stakeholders, such as governmental agents, ONGs representatives, private sector partners in the field. Establishment of solid partnerships with these stakeholders to step efforts towards a quality education and a sustainable development for all. III Virtual Educa Regional Meeting, in Sucre, Bolivia | July 8 – July 10, 2019 Promotion of the engagement with global and local stakeholders, such as governmental agents, ONGs representatives, private sector partners in the field. Establishment of solid partnerships with these stakeholders to step efforts towards a quality education and a sustainable development for all. MENA Innovation, in Muscat, Oman | September 15 – September 17, 2019 Promotion of the engagement with global and local stakeholders, such as governmental agents, ONGs representatives, private sector partners in the field. Establishment of solid partnerships with these stakeholders to step efforts towards a quality education and a sustainable development for all. Sustainable Education Meeting, in NYC, USA | September 25 – September 27, 2019 Promotion of the engagement with global and local stakeholders, such as governmental agents, ONGs representatives, private sector partners in the field. Establishment of solid partnerships with these stakeholders to step efforts towards a quality education and a sustainable development for all. 18 Comunication on Progress Meaningful ICT – based Education Proofs-of-Concept Proof-of-Concept in Senegal| September, 2018 Empowering teachers through training courses regarding the meaningful integration of technology in the classroom environment. Through the promotion of teachers’ professional development, it is possible to catalyze the community development. Proof-of-Concept in Ivory Coast| October, 2018 Fostering a learning environment that enables students to improve the 21st century skills, such as problem solving, critical thinking, media literacy, creativity, as well as gives them the opportunity to learn at their own pace and build their own knowledge. Empowering teachers to assist their students in achieving their best academic performance. Our Contribution for the Community Donation of € 1500 to Instituto de Apoio à Criança | October, 2018 By fostering the sustainability of the Organization, we aim assisting the achievement of initiatives, which help children in need. Donation of 2 cargo trolleys to AJUDARIS | March, 2019 By fostering the sustainability of the Organization, we aim empowering the achievement of initiatives, which assist the surrounding community who needs assistance. Donation of 57 tablets to Associação Leonor – Aceita e Sorri (APLAS) | March, 2019 By fostering the achievement of specific initiatives enabled by the Organization, we aim empowering the assistance of the children in need and their families. Offer of 4 computers for Competições Nacionais de Ciência (PmatE) | April, 2019 By offering the computers, which became the awards given to the winners of the competition, we aim to foster a quality education based on a STEAM approach. Dá um Bónus à Vida3 | April – June, 2019 Promoting a program to stop smoking guided by a medical professional to our collaborators means fostering a healthy lifestyle and a longer and good life for those who accept the challenge. Through this program we aimed to spark a change of behaviour in our 3 In English it means “Give Life a Bonus”. collaborators into a healthier lifestyle. The program had a duration of 91 days. 18 collaborators decided to join the program and 6 of them ended the program; meaning they achieved the 3-month mark without smoking. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES 19 Federação Portuguesa dos Bancos Alimentares | June, 2018 – June, 2019 Assisting the Organization that works national wide to achieving the fulfilment of the SGD 2 – No Hunger within the Portuguese society. Donation of 1 Computer to U.DREAM | July, 2019 Through this initiative, we aim to support the Organization daily work, assisting them into ensure their own sustainability, as well as keep on promoting the amazing initiatives for the surrounding community. Our Contribution into fostering an online community in the Education spectrum INSPIRE Web Edition | April, 2019 – currently Engaging the diverse communities of thinkers, academics, pedagogical practioners and experts, teachers into one global digital community where they can share priorities, challenges, good practices; where they can reflect on a certain perspective; and where they can experiment and wonder. INSPIRE Web Edition is a huge opportunity for all of us, because we really do believe together we learn more, we move faster and we grow stronger. “Never give up on a dream LABOUR just because of the time it will take to accomplish it. JP.HUB Digital Platform for collaboration and communication | June, The time will pass anyway.” 2018 – currently Fostering a collaborative environment, a fluid communication and catalysing Earl Nightingale a multidisciplinary landscape. Promoting an authentic cooperative environment, which means catalysing an environment where cooperation and competitiveness interlink and join efforts towards a more proactive attitude, engaging and reliable relations and a sustainable business for all parties. Training Policy Promoting professional development and individual growth to our collaborators to assure professional and personal fulfilment. “Climate change is moving faster ENVIRONMENT than we are, but we don't give up because we know that climate Lights Off, Nature On | 2017 – currently action is the only path.” Actively raising environmental awareness by promoting the change of behaviour within our work community. António Guterres, UN Secretary-General 20 Comunication on Progress Paper and Plastic Recycling Actively contributing to the transformation and reutilization of the paper and plastic we still use. Raise environmental awareness and simultaneously promote a community feeling. It is undeniable we have a business, but we also give back to our community. ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management Systems Certification Within our scope of work, and in order to comply with ISO 14001:2015, our organization is now identifying the risks in the areas of: > Threat and opportunity Management > Answer significant aspects for the environment > Fulfillment of compliance obligations ANTI-CORRUPTION “Integrity, transparency and the fight against corruption Code of Ethics | since April, 2017 have to be part of the culture. Through this document, we aim to nourish a collaborative environment of They have to be thought as transparency, accountability and integrity, both vertically and horizontally. fundamental values.” Annual Account Report | April, 2018 Ángel Gurría, OECD Secretary General This annual document has the purpose of cultivating a cooperative environment of transparency, accountability and integrity. JP.HUB Digital Platform for collaboration and communication | June, 2018 currently Our digital collaborative platform, by nature, has a multiplier effect concerning the dissemination of the Code of Ethics’ themes; empowering the reach of the corporate responsibility messages. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES 21 Our Manifesto How to reach us jpik.com Check out our growing online community for education: inspire.jpik.com 22 Comunication on Progress
