Scope of this Report We declare this report in accordance with GRI core level. Material aspects and indicators are shown on p. 8 of this report. Detailed Disclosures Independent assurance statement on Management Approach (DMA) are in online supplement ‘C’. The scope of the The ‘made for life’ report is a component (the ‘summary’) of our complete information and data in this report covers global operations from January to sustainability reporting (the ‘Report’) for the year ended 31 December December 2018. 2018. Aperam’s production capacity is spread across: The Report is composed of five items: the ‘made for life report’ and four > 6 production facilities in Brazil (Timóteo), Belgium (Châtelet, Genk), and France Online Supplements – A,B, C and D. Our 2018 Report can be found on (Gueugnon, Imphy, Isbergues/Recyco). our website (www.aperam.com/sustainability), together with the four > 14 Steel Service Centres (SSC from our Services & Solutions segment) online supplements. The summary report provides part of the information > 6 transformation facilities required to satisfy GRI standards ‘In Accordance Core’.Therefore, the > 17 sales offices summary should be read with its accompanying Online Supplements to > Registered office: 12C rue Guillaume J. Kroll, L-1882 Luxembourg constitute the complete Report. The report does not cover any joint venture operations or activities of partner organisations. Deloitte Audit Société à responsabilité limitée issued and unmodified limited assurance report using ISEA 3000 limited assurance with respect Safety data cover Stainless & Electrical Steel, Services & Solutions and Alloys & to the Report on the following subject matters: adherence to the Global Specialties, as well as on-site contractors. Human resources data exclude Reporting Initiative GRI Standard guidelines with respect to the contractors. Principles of Materiality, Stakeholders Inclusiveness, Sustainability Subject to the exclusions indicated below, environmental data covers all main context and Completeness, the adherence of the disclosure int the Report industrial sites, SSCs and corporate offices. to the GRI Standard in Accordance Core criteria amd the Environmental information is compiled locally and aggregated centrally. In our appropriateness of the GRI Index on pages 59 and 60 of the Report and greenhouse gas emissions calculation we apply ISO 14404-1 and ISO 14404-2 the fair presentation in all material aspects in accordance with GRI standards, which state that biomass is considered to be carbon neutral. The CO​2 Standard Guidelines, of selected performance indicators, marked with a emissions data relate mostly to Scopes 1 and 2. * in the Report: The following exclusions apply to the environmental data: (1) Raw material data exclude packaging and miscellaneous parts; – GRI 302-3: Energy intensity (pages 26 and 28), (2) Scope 3 indirect emissions. – GRI 303-3: Water withdrawal by source (page 26 and 34), – GRI 305-4: GHG emissions intensity (pages 3, 25 and 26), The report represents our Communication on Progress relating to UNGC – GRI 305-7: Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other membership (see Online Supplement ‘A’). significant air emissions (dust only pages 26 and 32), – GRI 403-9: Work related injuries ( LTIFR only pages 3, 10 and 11) 1 Contents About Aperam Opening words​ from our Chief Executive Officer. Company profile ​A global leader in Stainless and Specialty Steel​ ​serving multiple markets. Sustainability strategy ​How Aperam’s roadmap and reporting comply with GRI principles. Social: Our People With safety as our top priority, Aperam aims to be a sustainable and profitable company. The key to achieving this is our efficient and passionate workforce. > See how our approach ensures the safety, development and well-being of our people. Environment: Our Planet As part of an energy-intensive industry consuming metallic ores and other raw materials, Aperam takes environmental stewardship seriously. >​ ​Read about how we are becoming a more sustainable company by reducing our industrial footprint and working to raise awareness about the issues. Governance: Relations with our Stakeholders From the energy of our subcontractors who assist our teams to the strong partnership built with our suppliers and our customers and up to the local infrastructures our success is dependent on the communities we operate in. Knowing this, our Corporate Governance is based on the highest standards and complies with the most rigorous business ethics. > See how we continually strive to develop in a way that benefits the public at large. About this report GRI Index Country Supplements ​In local languages for the stakeholders from our three main countries of operations (Belgium, Brazil, France). Methodology Supplements​ United Nations’ Global Compact reference; Materiality Process at Aperam; GRI Index and Disclosures on Management Approach. 2 About Aperam Opening Words from our CEO Aperam’s commitment to sustainability is rooted in our values CO​2​ and energy targets. In 2018, we significantly improved our dust emissions, an and in our mission to produce endlessly recyclable products in outcome of our ongoing efforts, although much more can be achieved in terms of water a responsible manner.​ As can be seen from our 2018 and wastes. Our excellent environmental performance is also confirmed by our achievements, this commitment embraces all dimensions of our employees, who consider Aperam to be an environmentally-responsible company​2​, as well corporate responsibility equally. as by surrounding communities. However, Europe continues to face unmatched import pressure, most of which comes > Let me start with our people their safety is our top priority.​ Our from countries with less advanced sustainability standards and concern products entire organization was shaken by a fatality that occurred at our Genk elaborated with extractive materials, which corresponds to an overall CO​2​ footprint (scope plant in Belgium during 2018. To better understand and eradicate the 1+2+3) much higher4 than Aperam’s! Hence, to guarantee a sustainable future for root causes of this terrible accident, an unprecedented audit of our stainless steel produced according to the best environmental standards, we urge the practices and behaviours was launched. Even with a relatively stable lost time injury European Commission to create a fair and level playing field that includes CO​2​-indexed frequency rate of 1.4*, which is two times better than the industry average1, we cannot be green taxes for imports. satisfied until we become a zero-accident company. However, our duty to our people goes > Beyond regulations, our governance framework takes into consideration all our well beyond health and safety. For example, we align our Human Resources program to stakeholders and is built on the strongest ethics.​ ​Our internal processes are based on the feedback we receive from our regular Engagement Surveys. best practices and include regular routines to reiterate the Aperam way of doing business. In the 2018 edition2, not only did our employees confirm their adherence to our strategy For example, in 2018 we further developed our annual reporting on potential conflicts of and their trust in Aperam as a good employer, they also highlighted the areas where we interests, our anti-corruption program and our Human Rights policy. We also remained can improve. Our People Management System and its dedicated Learning & Development strong advocates for such values with our external partners. This is aligned with our vision module, which will be rolled out in early 2019, is also in response to this feedback. The that being the partner of choice for all our stakeholders means active and transparent system will enable our people to fully embrace the technological evolution of our sector, to communication about what is important to us and to them. To be exemplary neighbours grow both professionally and with us. In 2018, we also paved the way for the launch of a to the communities we operate in, we build trust through regular engagement. Our proactive diversity program that aims to unlock the potential of our female employees customers benefit from an entire organisation dedicated to their needs an organisation while also working to attract more female talent. The goal is to position Aperam as a fair, that uses the latest technologies to enhance the relationship and boost innovation. In this diverse and inclusive company. area, 2018 was a pivotal year, with a multitude of initiatives that you will discover in more Overall, we aim for excellence in employee relations and meet the standards set by some detail in this report. of the best performing companies. The external recognitions we have received in this field signal that we are on the right track. Overall, this report confirms the trust that our employees and external stakeholders place > On the environmental side, Aperam continues to produce one of the world’s in Aperam. It also highlights the risks created by a lack of a fair and level playing field for greenest stainless steels3, with carbon emissions at 0.49* tons of CO​2​ per ton of crude the industry, where responsible products must compete against imported steel containing steel, 50% of ISSF average, and 37% of our energy mix coming from renewable sources. significantly high CO​2​ content. To further progress on our Sustainability roadmap and This record footprint is the result of a maximum usage of scrap by our European furnaces position our 100% recyclable products as ​the ​material of choice for a sustainable way of and our Brazilian operations’ replacement of coke with renewable charcoal produced from life, we will raise the bar with ambitious 2030 energy and CO​2​ objectives. The indicators FSC​Ⓡ​-certified eucalyptus disclosed in next year’s report should bring clear evidence of significant progress in this We remain determined to be a sector leader in environmental excellence a determination area. that can be seen in our efforts to reduce our energy consumption and reach our bold 2020 Sincerely, Tim di Maulo, CEO 1 ​2.87 as per ISSF June 2017 report, most recent data for 2016 4 As per Stainless Steel and CO​2​: Facts and Scientific Observations (ISSF, 2015), the extraction of the ferro-alloys needed 2 ​More information regarding the detailed results can be found in this report. to produce one ton of stainless forsters 4.2 tons of CO​2​, these emissions are cut by 52% with an input including 50% of 3 ​Average (scope 1+2) ISSF CO​2​ of 0.94 tons per tons of crude steel (ISSF, 2016) stainless scraps. 3 About Aperam Company profile EUR millions​ unless 2018 2017 2016 2015 otherwise stated​ 1 Shipments​ (metric tons) 1.97 1.94 1.92 1.89 Revenues 4,704 4,492 3,887 4,271 Operating costs​ 2 3,635 3,381 2,903 3,294 Employee wages & 534 502 500 527 benefits Payments to providers of 114 97 23 135 capital​ 3 Payments to government 75 57 54 63 Community investments 0.3 0.9 0.5 0.9 EBITDA 504 551 445 451 Economic value retained 332 406 330 389 Direct economic value 4,492 3,887 4,271 4,704 generated Economic value 4,086 3,556 3,882 4,372 distributed Aperam is a public limited company listed on the Luxembourg stock exchange 1​ Differences between Global Aperam and the sum of the different regions and segments and on Euronext Amsterdam, Brussels and Paris. are due to all operations other than those that are part of the Stainless & Electrical Steel, Services & Solutions and Alloys & Specialties operating segments, together with > 6 main plants inter-segment eliminations and/or non-operational items that are not segmented. For FTE, > 4 melting shops: it is related to Headquarters. Timóteo (Brazil), Châtelet and Genk (Belgium), Imphy (France) 2​ Operating costs include R&D costs of EUR 20 million for Aperam Group. > 5 main cold rolling sites: 3​ Payments to providers of capital = Net Cash Interest and dividends paid to capital Timóteo (Brazil), Genk (Belgium), Gueugnon, Isbergues and Imphy (France) providers during the year, in line with an amount of interest paid (net) of EUR 5 million, EUR 8 million and EUR 10 million and dividends paid of EUR 130 million, EUR 106 > 1 FSC​Ⓡ​-certified​ ​BioEnergia eucalyptus plantation and charcoal production facility (Brazil) million and EUR 87 million stated in the cash flow statement of 2018, 2017 and 2016 Annual Reports respectively. In 2015, payments to providers of capital only related to net cash interests as there was no dividend paid. 4 About Aperam The most complete range on the market Aperam performance by segment​ ​GRI-201-1 Services & Alloys & Stainless & Electrical Steel Solutions Specialties Europe​: South America​: Worldwide Worldwide: Aspect Indicator Unit Genk, Châtelet, Timóteo, 14 service centers Imphy, Amilly, Rescal Gueugnon, Isbergues BioEnergia 6 transformation units Imhua (PRC), & Recyco, Precision 17 sales offices Indore -ICS (IN) People Own Staff (End of Period)​1 FTE 3,356 3,264 1,796 1,282 Shipments Steel shipments kt 1,267 647 819 36 Revenues 3,001 946 2,049 548 Employee Wages & Benefits 276 80 89 68 Payments to Providers of Capital​ (3) -56** 64 37 11 Economic Community Investments m€ 0.0 0.3 0.0 0.0 Contribution Payments to Government 42 12 8 6 EBITDA 260 162 43 46 Economic Value Distributed 2,553 855 2,047 513 OHSAS 18001 100 100 95 100 ISO 14001 (excl. Recyco, Bio, sales ofc 100 100 50 80 % of ISO 9001 sites Site (excl. Recyco, Bio, sales ofc) 100 100 100 100 Management System ISO 50001 (excl. Recyco, Bio, sales ofc) 60 0 25 0 Certification IATF 16949 (excl. Recyco, Bio, sales ofc) % 80 100 30 80 FSC​®​ CoC & M *** 1 site ISO 26000 Others total *** (BioEnergia) 1 site SA8000 3 sites EN 9100 ** Amount is negative due to an intra-group dividend of €136 million received from an entity being part of another segment *** Other specific certificates and approvals to be found on https://www.aperam.com/documentation#4_certifications 5 Stainless steel properties Aesthetics Recyclability It has a great variety of surface finishes from matt to bright, Stainless steel is the “green material” par excellence and is infinitely recyclable. including brushed and engraved. It can be embossed or tinted Within the construction sector, its actual recovery rate is close to 100%. It is and this makes stainless a unique and aesthetic material. environmentally neutral and inert when in contact with elements such as water, it does not leach compounds that might modify their composition. Mechanical properties These qualities make it a material ideally suited to building applications exposed Stainless steel has strong mechanical properties at ambient to adverse weather: roofs, facades, rainwater recovery systems and domestic water pipes. temperatures in comparison with other materials. In particular, Stainless steel’s longevity fulfils the requirements of sustainable construction: effective it combines ductility, elasticity and hardness, enabling it to be selection, installation and low maintenance guarantee the user an unrivalled service life. used in difficult metal forming modes, while offering resistance to heavy wear (friction, impact, elasticity, etc.). Collected for recycling Life cycle of stainless Average Resistance to fire To steel in main application lifetime landfill As As Stainless steel has the best fire resistance of all metallic sectors (in years) Total stainless carbon materials when used in structural applications, having a steel steel critical temperature above 800°C. Stainless steel is ranked Building and infrastructure 50 15% 85% 95% 5% A2s1d0 for fire resistance with no toxic fumes emissivity. Transportation​ ​(passenger cars) 14 10% 90% 40% 60% Resistance to corrosion With a minimum chromium content of 10.5%, stainless steel is Transportation​ (others) 30 10% 90% 80% 20% continuously protected by a passive layer of chromium oxide that forms naturally on the surface through the combination of Industrial Machinery 25 10% 90% 90% 10% chromium and moisture in the air. If the surface is scratched, Household Appliances and it regenerates itself. This particularity give stainless steels 15 20% 80% 60% 40% Electronics their corrosion resistance. Metal Goods 15 20% 80% 60% 40% Cleanability and sanitation Source: Yale University/ISSF Stainless Steel Project, 2019 The inert nature of stainless, together with its cleanability, make it an ideal candidate for applications related to fresh water and water treatment. 6 Sustainability Strategy Our sustainability strategy is simply a part of our overall strategy, the natural result of our constant vigilance regarding the impact we have on all our stakeholders. > ​At Aperam, safety always comes first. In parallel to the constant attention we give to our people’s Health & Safety, we also work to create all the necessary conditions to allow our people to thrive and transform the company into a connected, agile and innovative organisation capable of answering tomorrow’s challenges today. In doing so, we listen and provide the feedback, training and development opportunities needed to keep everyone motivated and nurture a feeling of belonging to the Aperam family. > ​We are not content to simply comply with environmental regulations, we aim to exceed them and rank among the best players in our industry. For example, although we are still working hard to reach our 2020 targets on CO​2​, energy, water consumption and air emissions, in an effort to keep spirits high, we decided to set up bold 2030 objectives5. In doing so, we ensure we remain vigilant on those items where we have already demonstrated our sense of responsibility. > ​Our high ethical standards can be seen in our strict corporate governance rules and our structured compliance programme. Our relations with all stakeholders are based on transparency and respect for their legitimate needs. With our business partners, this is reflected in the true partnerships we forge. With local communities, this is the root of the multiple initiatives we arrange locally to address concerns in a responsible way​. Congress and music hall, Strasbourg France Rey-Lucquet et associés Atelier d’Architecture / Dietrich I Untertrifaller Architekten © Bruno Klomfar Executed using grade 304L with Uginox Brushed finish 5 Our new 2030 objectives for Dust emissions and Water consumption are disclosed in this report, but those related to Energy and CO2​ ​ will be released later as the validation process is still under way as we finalise this report. 7 While continuing with the efforts we initiated from day one, we have also taken up need for our industry to put Sustainability into practice. 65% of the respondents new actions. were fully convinced, with only 1% not quite convinced. Finally, when questioned about what they would need to become more sustainable at their level, the top Sustainability Strategy and governance in 2018 responses included a clear sustainability roadmap (65%) and more skills (52%). However, a number recognized that a higher personal interest or commitment The makeup of the organisation is as follows: could also play a part (resp. 34% and 40%). This is consistent with the 42% who ➤ ​Members of the Board of Directors: in charge of the overall management of the noted that they were only factoring sustainability logic into their decisions less than Company. They decide on the direction taken based on proposals from the 25% of the time. Leadership Team (LT), a group of nine senior executives headed by Mr. Timóteo This initiative helped management realize that changing their own perspectives is Di Maulo, the Company’s CEO. The Board of Directors has two committees, the key to embedding a true sustainability mindset at Aperam. entirely composed of independent directors: the Audit and Risk Management Committee and the Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate Governance Working and reporting on the right topics Committee, whose purview covers compliance and other sustainability topics on a quarterly basis. Since 2013, we have used GRI guidelines (Global Reporting Initiative’s ➤ ​CEO: responsible for Aperam’s sustainability performance and compliance. sustainability reporting guidelines, GRI G4 and GRI standard starting 2018) to ➤ ​CHRO, Head of Communication and Sustainability: responsible for steering the define our most material sustainability issues and the impact they have. The Sustainability Strategy via discussions with the rest of the Leadership Team (LT materiality of an issue is based on its potential impact on both our business and eg. Aperam’s Executive Committee). our stakeholders. This assessment, based on a 4-level scale ranging from minor to ➤ ​LT reviews: quarterly meetings are held by the Leadership Team to ensure the critical, is regularly reviewed and updated: involvement of the entire organisation. These meetings are the heirs to the former > ​2013 and 2014: defined the materiality matrix based on stakeholder input ESG Committee, which was dissolved in the course of the year. gathered at our six major sites. > ​2015: updated matrix based on a survey of Aperam’s closest stakeholders our employees. Embedding the sustainability logic within each and every process > ​2016: resumed the matrix update while expanding its scope. Thanks to the 11 Moving forward, we expect to see even more results as the Company further matrices defined by the major sites from all our segments, we covered 85% of our incorporates its sustainability roadmap into our everyday decisions. global workforce. To do so, awareness-raising actions will be accentuated. For example, to ensure > ​2017: continued with our methodology to focus every-other-year on one specific alignment and prioritisation, in 2018, company-wide objectives were implemented stakeholder group. We also set up specific meetings to engage with local across the organisation. To support these objectives, the first chapter of our CEO’s authorities at each of our main sites and realise a systematic assessment, with all personal objectives, cascaded at all levels of the organisation, was entitled “Health topics from our materiality matrix rated. From this emerged the need to incorporate & Safety and Sustainability” and encompassed topics clearly labelled as “Health” in our matrix and Sustainability reporting a handful of topics seen as salient by and “Sustainable Industry with Long-term Environment and Energy Focus”. It also these officials: “Urban Integration”, “Industrial Risk” and “Noise”. included business ethics under a “Compliance and Reputation” label and We had also explained within our report how our approach was aligned with and “Diversity”, with a clear initial focus on gender. The process will be reasserted in enriched by the Sustainable Development Goals. 2019. > ​Towards the end of 2018, we asked the same sites surveyed in 2016 to refresh In addition, we organised an internal survey during March’s strategic seminar, their matrix, taking into consideration the many interactions intervened during the which gathered the company’s 100+ highest ranking executives. To further raise course of the year with their various local stakeholders. awareness, we asked them to rate some 25 global risks, with the result being > ​The result of this year’s update clearly demonstrates the ongoing evolution of compared to the Davos World Economic Forum 2018 Global Risk Report, which society at large, our changing mindsets, the impact from good and bad rated 3 environmental risks among the top 5 and 4 among the 5 more impactful experiences, and of the new perception of some newcomers. risks6. To check their alignment, we also asked how convinced they were about the 6 2018 World Economic Forum 2018 Global Risk Report mentioned the following 5 top risks in Climate Change Mitigation and the following 5 top risks in impact: Weapons of Mass Destruction, likelihood: Extreme Weather Events, Natural Disasters, Cyberattacks, Data Fraud or Thefts, Failure of Extreme Weather Events, Natural Disasters, Failure of Climate Change Mitigation, Water. 8 The key takeaway of this review is that there is no need to revise our full matrix. actions continue to contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals. Instead, in the table below, we have highlighted how our Climate Survey is echoing For full details of our final 2018 consolidated matrix and its variations, see our our materiality analysis. We have also noted throughout the report where our online methodology appendices. Material Aspect 2017 Category Comments in view of last Aperam Climate Survey Page Comment Occupational Health & Safety People 93% of our employees believe Aperam provides adequate safety training. 10-13 Industrial Risk & Pollution Prevention Environment 36 Legal & Fiscal Compliance Governance 47-48 + Annual Report (esp. p.38) Innovation Stakeholder 84% of our employees feel encouraged to come up with innovative solutions 42, 50 Air & Dust Emissions Environment 86% of our employees consider we are an environmentally-responsible company 31-32 Fair Business Practices Governance 87% of our employees feel comfortable raison concerns related to unacceptable behaviours 47-48 With Compliance Energy Consumption Environment 86% of our employees consider we are an environmentally-responsible company. 27-229 Sustainably Profitable Governance 85% of our employees believe strongly in the goals and objectives of Aperam 40-41 + Annual Report Customer Satisfaction Governance 84% of our employees believe Aperam is truly customer-oriented. 53-54 Waste/Recycling Environment 86% of our employees consider we are an environmentally-responsible company. 35 Attracting talents to our industry People 14-22 New item 2016 Employee Engagement People 67% of our employees consider that sufficient effort is made to get the opinion of Aperam’s employees. 18-44 Social Dialogue People 86% of our employees recommend Aperam as a good place to work. 44 Here in Governance Water Management Environment 86% of our employees consider we are an environmentally-responsible company. 33 Competition & Free trade Environment Noise and smells Environment 38 Add in 2017 Community Engagement Governance 78% of our employees are proud to the Aperam’s contribution to the community and society. 50-52 74% of our employees feel encouraged to pursue their self-development and learning Competencies & Employability People 21-23 81% of our employees feel empowered to make the decisions needed to do their job well. Supplier Labor Practices People 45-46 Market Dynamics Governance 40,49 + Annual Report p.23-24 Urban Integration, Circulations, Aesthetics Governance 52 Add in 2017 Cash, Debt & Financing Governance n/a + Annual Report (esp. p.44-51) Raw Material Consumption Environment 27, 35 Within Waste/Recycling Diversity & Equal Opportunity People 82% of our employees consider they are treated with respect, regardless of their job. 17-19 + Annual Report p.62 Transport impact Environment 37 Data Privacy and cyber-criminality Governance 48 Supplier Environmental Practices Governance 45-46 Climate Change & severe weather events Environment n/a See previous reports Philanthropy People 50-52 9 Social Our People Our top priority is the health and safety of our people. As such, health and safety are not only a key component of our business model, it is the essence of who we are as a company. As a core value, health and safety guides all our actions, and we continue to work on programs to support the health and well-being of our employees. For example, as part of our People Transformation Journey, we have revamped our Performance Management, introduced our eight global leadership competencies, increased our focus on learning, launched a Career Portal and started a periodical Global Climate Survey to measure our progress. Health & Safety training and our H&S performance, the feedback from the trainees has been very positive. In 2019, we will continue this training effort as we strongly believe it will Occupational Safety help create the right level of H&S risk awareness amongst all our employees and will play an important role in preventing accidents from happening. Indicators and statistics To ensure their effectiveness, we started adapting the training to our local sites. Aperam’s LTIFR (All Employees) for 2018 was stable compared to 2017 at 1.4. For example, in Brazil, the training goes by the “Imersão” name, and our Services Looking at the LTFR’ (number of LTI’s ​and​ Restricted Work cases), we see a slight & Solutions centers are implementing 40-hour trainings in Germany, Italy and decrease (2.1 in 2017 vs. 2.0 in 2018). This means that, overall, in 2018 we had Spain, among others. slightly less accidents in both categories of employees (Own and External). Overall, this considerable effort has been acknowledged by our employees, 93% of Turning to the Total Injury Rate (TIR), we see an even bigger decrease: 26 in 2017 whom feel they have adequate safety training, as per our last Climate Survey, vs. 24 in 2018. which is higher than the standard for the Heavy Manufacturing sector. In 2018, we also started to fully review the reporting process and the methodology used for the calculation of the severity rate. As we have not completely finalised the implementation of our new standard across 100% of our entities, we are not SAFE Training (2018) ready to disclose our severity rate for 2018, but we will resume this reporting for 2019 figures. Taking a closer look at the split between employee categories, we see that our 67,220​ ​hours ​of training contractors are more likely to have accidents than our own employees (including interims). In 2019, we will work to improve this by reinforcing our Contractor Management initiative. ​GRI 403-9 1,681​ ​trainees SAFE training Company-wide extension ​in progress In 2018, we continued the company-wide implementation of our SAFE training program an effort that received a Health & Safety Silver Award from the ISSF . A substantial proportion of Aperam’s total population has now been trained (up to Awarded by ISSF ​in 2018 89% in Châtelet). Although it is too early to see a direct correlation between the 10 At a glance ​(GRI 403-9) Voices Indicator Unit 2018 2017 2016 Page Employee 9,777 9,599 9,558 “An increasing part of our responsibility is to Joiners FTE 665 793 674 drive cultural change.​ § Workforce p.14 Leavers 483 538 674 This is particularly true for the ‘Safety First’ Turnover rate % 5.0 5.7 6.7 Culture we want to establish. % staff 11.8 11.9 11.9 Women § Diversity p.15-16 Tools such as our 360० assessments, Climate % exempts 20.0 20.2 20.4 Survey and our new Performance Fatalities All 1 0 0 Management move us away from the Fatalities Employees # 1 0 0 § Safety p. 10-12 Fatalities Contractors 0 0 0 traditional ‘manager evaluates employee’ LTIFR All 1.4* 1.2* 1.4* (and Responsibility in approach and contribute to creating a Culture /1,000,000 the Value Chain LTIFR Employees 1.4 1.3 1.6 of Continuous Feedback. hours p.45-46) LTIFR Contractors 1.6 1.7 1.1 These tools, along with our focus on Learning Training hours SAFE hours 67,220 35,000 8,900 and Mentorship, will prove invaluable as we Training hours Total hours/ FTE 34 34 36 § Training & transform ourselves into the agile Learning Total trained people FTE 9,391 n/a n/a Development Organisation we want to be.” Annual reviews % 68% 75% 77% p.20-23 Absenteeism % 2.29 2.19 2.19 p.44 Bert Lyssens Employee Satisfaction​ (1) % 86 82 n/a p.18 Chief Human Resources Officer, * Data highlighted with a star have received external assurance. Head of Communications and Sustainability (1) Employees that would recommend Aperam as a good employer 11 Having policies in place is one thing, but having ALL employees incorporate them A Fatality in Genk into their daily operations requires an additional step to be taken. ​> ​H&S is not seen as something ‘extra’, but as a fundamental part of how we Regrettably, a fatal accident occurred on September 8, 2018 at our Genk Mill. operate and perform our activities.Thus, we launched a project to work on the While putting the upper cylinders back into our cold rolling mill 3, the back up Cultural Maturity​ of the organisation. The output of this project will be an Aperam cylinders came out of the cassette and fell onto the victim. Although emergency Expectations Framework on H&S, which will clearly detail the behaviours we want first responders were quick to respond, nothing could be done to help the victim. ALL Aperam employees and subcontractors to demonstrate in their daily A thorough root cause analysis has since been performed, as well as an operations. independent site H&S audit. Both have led to the implementation of a series of actions, both on site and at the Group level, to avoid such a tragic accident from These will be reported on in next year’s report. In addition to this new being repeated. company-wide program, we will also provide a glimpse of the initiatives being implemented at our sites. The journey towards zero accidents Poster in Châtelet (one from a series of 8) In 2018, to further strengthen our focus on these important matters, it was decided Voices highlighting the imperatives of our new Code of Behaviour, with our employees as models to split the responsibilities of Health & Safety, on the one hand, and that of Environment on the other. Two joiners were added to take up the challenge of “I took the time to go and visit setting up the new organisation, both of whom report directly to a member of our our production sites to listen and Leadership Team (Aperam’s Executive Committee). talk to our employees about Hans Vanhorebeek, Aperam’s new Head of Health & Safety explains:​ “After joining H&S and understand their Aperam in August of 2018, I took the time to go and visit our production sites to listen and talk to our employees about H&S and understand their expectations. expectations. This input helped This input helped build our H&S roadmap for a sustainable future. The new build our Health & Safety roadmap is oriented around three main axes: Standards and Tools, Organisation, and Cultural Maturity.” roadmap for a sustainable > ​Having clear H&S standards in place​, including a detailed description of the future. roles and responsibilities of all involved employees, is a key component of sustainable H&S management. In Q4 of 2018, we started revising the existing H&S We are now on our way to standards, focussing on the main hazards within our industry. In 2019, these new making our Vision a reality.” standards will be put into practice. Another project that was launched focuses on creating a common tool to help the Hans Group manage H&S and, in particular, the reporting and investigation of incidents. This tool will help the Group share events, track actions and follow-up on REX’s Vanhorebeek (Return of EXperience). Aperam Head of > ​We will also tackle the way H&S is organised within Aperam​. The Mission, Health & Safety Vision and Values of the H&S department are being defined and a new on-site and Group level organisational structure is being implemented. Our H&S structure consists of different layers. For example, a monthly H&S Leadership Team Committee was established to set the strategic direction of H&S within Aperam. Furthermore, a network of H&S responsible persons has been created. Called the H&S restricted committee, the group meets quarterly to jointly work on new H&S initiatives. 12 instrumental in the initiative’s implementation, hope to expand it to other No mobile phone on S&S shop floor! Feedback departments in 2019. In January 2018, the S&S segment decided to move “No distractions due Well-being also includes taking care of our mental health. In Brazil, we are helping forward with a plan to increase vigilance in the to Whatsapp means our employees avoid the extreme stress that could lead to fatigue or even workshops and prevent such distractions as mobile more productivity, depression by encouraging the uptake of an enjoyable activity and good nutrition. phones and the hypnotic use of social media. After a more quality, and less This could include such aerobic exercises such as running and swimming, or first phase of design and preparation, the plan to equip mistakes.” physical conditioning exercises like yoga and pilates. Add a healthy diet, and you all sites with dedicated lockers for mobile phones was Brazil have a recipe for sleeping better and achieving emotional balance. rolled out in August, with monitoring of the results “Less distracting starting in November. behaviors on the As of December 2018, 94% of the sites were equipped production floor and with lockers and safety markings on the ground, with the fewer conflicts remaining unit being in the process of adding the between workers of equipment. The change was accepted without issue at different generations.” all sites and the feedback was very positive (see aside). Poland Morning gym session in Gueugnon. Morning gym session in Timóteo. ■■■​ In France, a specific three-year collective agreement on “Qualité de Vie au Left,​ markings on the ground Travail” (QVT) has been in force since 2015. and poster. A highlight from 2018 was the regulatory negotiation that led to the elaboration of a Above,​ new map in S&S new agreement for 2019-2021. To structure it and enhance its efficiency, unions Spain to identify areas where and management shared a detailed analysis of the outcomes of the past three phones are forbidden. years. Health and Wellbeing Among other subjects, the new QVT collective agreement places a specific focus on preventing harassment and enhancing the methodology used to investigate a Although we have yet to implement a company-wide program on health and claim. In particular, identified employee representatives and Human Resources well-being, as highlighted below, our individual sites continue to take locally officers will be appointed and trained as “contact persons” at each site. Another adapted actions. highlight is the new set of rules relating to the use of digital tools. These rules aim ■■■​ It has been years since our Brazilian units started the day with organised to raise employee awareness about the 2016 French regulation on the “right to exercise sessions. But in 2018, to help prevent headaches, back aches and sore disconnect”. In fact, our efforts here exceed what is required for compliance. wrists associated with poor posture and mechanics, our Gueugnon site rolled out a Another important part of the new QVT agreement that goes beyond the regulatory new workstation warm-up and stretching initiative. As a follow-up to last year’s “We framework concerns “painfulness at work” by offering a range of solutions that take Nudge” evaluation on joint pain in the workplace, this new initiative trains volunteer into account the arduous nature of some jobs. employees on proper warm-ups and stretching. It was first implemented in the Whereas the previous agreement set up dedicated QVT committees to follow up general store and disc sectors where, every morning, the departments kick the day on the penibility roadmap, the new agreement has the employee representatives off with a 10-minute stretching and warm-up routine. These sessions are not only and management jointly monitoring the progress made through the sites’ new good for everyone’s health, they also strengthen team spirit – another important unique representative bodies (CSE, Conseil Social & Economique) covering all factor in workplace wellness. The Gueugnon occupational health service was issues related to well-being at work. 13 A highly competent and engaged workforce fourth being under 25 and 7% over 50, ensuring that we have a good blend of experience coming in. A diversity of talent Our workforce at a glance Aperam’s workforce is made up of 9,777 full-time employees, of which 10% are exempts and 66% blue collar. Overall, approximately 98% of our staff are permanent employees (as of Dec. 2018, see table below)​ (​ GRI 102-8)​. Aperam Workforce Aperam consolidated total of Full-Time Equivalent employees, at 31/12/2018​ ​(GRI 102-8) 2018 Gender Permanent Fixed-term TOTAL Full-Time Part-time Female 329 3 332 336 6 Blue Collars Male 5,943 185 6,128 6055 72 White Female 597 15 612 521 91 Collars Male 1,637 5 1,642 1609 33 Female 211 2 213 195 18 Exempts Male 848 3 850 840 10 TOTAL All 9,565 213 9,777 9548 230 2017 Gender Permanent Fixed-term TOTAL Full-Time Part-time Induction program with a visit to Isbergues for the newcomers. Female 332 0 332 327 6 Blue Collars Attracting talent to our industry Male 5,596 88 6,084 6,003 81 White Female 608 7 615 525 91 Speaking about new talent, we often hire profiles that are very different from our Collars Male 1,554 3 1,557 1,519 38 current skills base. We focus on the (often digitally oriented) competencies of the Female 201 1 202 181 21 future and ensure a large portion of our hires are young graduates and apprentices Exempts who bring new perspectives and ideas. Male 797 4 801 792 10 (**) Attracting diverse talent requires us to create a modern employer brand. In the TOTAL All 9,489 103 9,592​ 9,346 246 course of 2018, we added specific videos to our website that promote the jobs of (**): With the new system implemented, some figures have been slightly adjusted compared to last year, including the Full-Time Employee follow-up (9,592 FTE 2017, as compared to the figure of 9,558 reported in our last report). the young women and men who recently joined us and who bring critical competencies in data science, digital simulation and innovation. These skills help > ​Our workforce has increased slightly compared to 2017, with 665 joiners (793 us accelerate projects on preventive maintenance and automation. last year), mostly in France (34%), Brazil (24%) and Belgium (21%) and the Furthermore, an active campus recruitment program brought the Aperam brand to departure of 483 FTE (vs. 552 in 2017), with a 28% leaving for pension or schools and job fairs in Belgium, France, Germany and Italy. pre-pension purposes (compared to 24% last year). We can also report that 444 interims work with us (514 in 2017). Overall, in 2018, we had 46 apprentices (incl French “VIE” contracts) and 86 > ​Overall, our joiners were 13% women, which is lower than in 2017 and not interns. As seen in the testimony provided from Nicolas (see p.19), such sufficient to improve our Gender Diversity all the more so considering that 17% of experiences are often the starting point of enthusiastic careers. our leavers were also women. Turn to p.15 to see how we plan to improve this! ■■■​ Our sites are also developing partnerships with local educational institutions. > ​Based on the 2018 workforce, the average seniority within Aperam is 14 years For example, every year our Châtelet site invites a dozen schools to tour the plant. (vs. 15 in 2017). In terms of age, 26% of our staff is over 50 years-old and 6% “I had already visited other plants in the context of my studies, but I was below 25 (unchanged). Our 2018 joiners had an average age of 33, with almost a particularly responsive to the explanations and the tour of Aperam’s site,” says 14 Cyril, who graduated with a degree in chemistry and materials and now serves as there is a diverse representation of men and women in the company’s internal and a Furnaces & Roughing Mill Process Engineer. external communications, for hiring as well as for other purposes. A specific page Because of success stories like this, the Châtelet site has increased the number of was added to the new website highlighting the company’s commitment to gender exchanges it hosts and regularly sponsors student projects. An example of the diversity. Lastly, training about stereotypes will be widely rolled-out. Our plan is latter can be seen in the group of six students who were invited to develop a already causing a change in mindset, a change that was on full-display at a project sponsored by the company for their second-year engineering curricula at specific Gender Diversity video conference held in September where all top 100 the ISIC Mons institute. The group regularly visited the Châtelet Hot Strip Mill to managers committed to working towards fast results. develop an improvement project for the adjusting table of the coiling machine that Last but not least, we used the outcome of the Climate Survey to identify the areas uses sensors to optimize the centering of the slab. The scale model that can be where the gender gap is most striking. The study confirmed that our action plan is seen in the picture of the final assessment below was also presented on-site. addressing most of the feedback received, but this we will detail in next year’s report, together with our first achievements. In addition to this roadmap, some sites have continued with their local efforts. ■■■​ In France, the existing program concluded its first intermediary step in July 2018, with the renewal of the Gender Equality Collective Agreement and a new action plan. The main objective is to attract more female employees, with a special focus on the jobs where women are significantly underrepresented. In 2018, a few women were hired in France to fill such predominantly “male jobs” as shift workers and maintenance, but not enough... However, taking into account the initial results of the French program has helped us structure the Group-level initiative and allowed us to define areas needing improvement for the new local program. Among these are: the implementation of a dedicated network planned for 2019 Students from an Engineering institute that realized Cyril, Châtelet Process Engineer at the HSMl, their 2nd-year project at our Châtelet plant. through a partnership with an association, a training about stereotypes, and an discovered the plant during a school visit. awareness-raising campaign about sexism in general. Embracing diversity: let’s start with recruiting more women! That being said, our sites have already started fighting stereotypes, and most of Last year we reported on our desire to improve Gender the French sites are very actively involved in a national program called “Semaine Diversity. We started building momentum on this topic in de l’Industrie” (Week of the Industry). In Isbergues, for instance, the plant opened March 2018, when a preliminary working group was set up at its doors to welcome 100 visitors (middle school and job seekers) and “modernize” the management level. Among the group’s first actions was a the image of the manufacturing sector. Some career focuses were presented as self-assessment using the United Nations’ Women posters to show the types of professional development paths available at Aperam. Empowerment Principles benchmarking tool. The outcome of Laurence, Area Technical Manager at Isbergues, explained: ​ There are still not this assessment was then used to help structure a subsequent company-wide enough women working in industry, and even more so in metallurgy. The important action plan. The aim of this plan is twofold. Firstly, it aims to ensure that our female thing is to do the job you want to do and not to allow your gender to be a barrier to employees are treated fairly, with an emphasis on fighting stereotypes and taking your professional success. Women can accomplish just as much as men.” specific, female-focused measures regarding ergonomics, work environment, Specific actions are also organised throughout the year. Our career development etc. The second objective is to increase the number of women Imphy facility sent women ambassadors to participate in two working at Aperam by recruiting women at all levels of the company, from the local events: Girls and science, a possible future! (Oct.), a traditionally male-dominated shopfloor up to the management level. conference for young girls in the 11th grade interested in One of the first outcomes was the development of a specific Gender Diversity exploring a career in science, and “Women's Career (Nov.). Charter using a 5-dimensional working plan to summarize our management’s The purpose of these events was to raise awareness and fight strong commitment. Specific actions included ensuring the readiness of all plants gender stereotypes, promote jobs and sectors where women (showers, work clothes, ergonomics of the workshops), regardless of whether or are underrepresented, and broaden the career perspectives of not females were working on the shopfloor. Another action point aims to ensure girls and women. 15 Beyond France, which has one of the highest rates of female employees in Aperam at 14% (after Luxembourg: 28%), things are also changing fast Career: Magali, Head of First Annealing at Gueugnon everywhere... After graduating with a degree in chemistry in 1998, Magali ■■■​ In December, the Timóteo site organised a seminar called “Diversity & joined the Gueugnon Research Center to work on production Gender Inclusion” where the Brazilian HR Professional Association was support and company projects. In 2004, she left Aperam to represented. The goal was to promote the importance of recruiting women, join the site’s utility services supplier, where she later became including through internship and apprentice programs. In fact, the group of interns a Regional Manager, although still working within the admitted in January 2019 was 50% female! Gueugnon site. In 2016, she returned to Aperam, this time as Annealing Production Manager.​“It was a new challenge, Right​: Laurence (Isbergues); L ​ eft​: Machine driver Eduarda and I was particularly interested in joining the production (Timóteo), who states: “We (women) are ready to assume field,” she says. different roles and get excellent results in our jobs. I am proud to be part of a company that recognises that”. In 2017, Magali b ​ ecame Head of the RD79 line, the largest at the Gueugnon plant. According to Magali, what she loves most about this intense job is the teamwork and the diversity of subjects dealt with every day.​ “My very first priority is the safety of my teams,” she says. ​“Next to that, I ensure that we can address customer requests in terms of planning and quality.”​ In addition to overseeing the line, Magali is also responsible for the continuous improvement of the equipment. She says both tasks demand having the very best organization: ​“This means providing my team the necessary support, feedback and the opportunities to grow,” ​she adds. As for the stereotypes, Magali doesn’t believe that this is a ‘male’ industry. ​“I jumped from a remote management experience to leading a close team of 60 people,” ​she says. ​“But the change was smooth thanks to the support I received from colleagues, management and other teams, who all provided the information I Women in Aperam needed and made me quickly feel part of the team.Visits to other Aperam sites to see all the steps of the production process and meeting Group colleagues also 5% ​of ​blue collars helped with the transition.” As the mother of two children, Magali says that although the balance between professional and private life can sometimes be challenging, it is a ‘must do’. ​“Even 12%​ ​of ​employees if I usually stay ‘connected’, I organize my life to be able to enjoy the precious moments with my family,” ​she says. 20%​ of ​exempts “For the moment, I wish to go further on the production field as I still have specific goals and some competencies to acquire,”​ she explains.​ “Later, working on the 12%​ ​of s​enior executives environment, health and safety or quality could be quite interesting. 22% ​of ​LT members Imphy female employees at the 2018 “Carrefour des carrières au féminin”. Her tip to newcomers:​Do not hesitate to get help from others. Be curious about your environment, ask questions, and listen to the answers. Work in-line 28%​ of ​Board members with your performance and quality goals so you can have the satisfaction of a job well-done. 16 ■■■​ A number of actions have also been initiated by Services & Solutions (S&S), the segment responsible for the sale and distribution of all transformed steel Career: Ivana, Head of Automation & Infrastructure in Timóteo products. S&S has 20 production sites in 13 countries, each of which is dedicated to cutting our steel coils to the right dimension as requested by our customers. At Ivana first arrived at​ the Timóteo site in 1984 as an the beginning of 2018, the segment took steps to make the shopfloor a more Information Technology System Analyst, after having been attractive work environment for female employees. This involved addressing the selected by Aperam (then Acesita) via a recruitment program ergonomics of the shopfloor and the mindsets of those currently working there. at the local university. Upon completing her studies and Furthermore, the segment also reviewed the hiring process to identify more graduating with a degree in electrical engineering, Ivana continued with Aperam, being trained as a System Analyst potential female candidates, both for interim and own staff positions. capable of developing all internal mainframes, and in particular A few months into this program and we can already see results. At the end of those for production systems. When this service was 2017, there were 48 women working in Production & Logistics positions across the outsourced, Ivana went with the outsourcing company, where 14 S&S units, of which 22 were in S&S Brazil (we discussed the pioneering she managed 150 people. Campinas unit in our 2016 report) and 21 in Tubes Usti (Czech Rep.). One year In 2005, Ivana returned to Aperam as Operational Excellence Manager, leading 20 later, the segment reports a +31% increase, with 16 women having joined and all people. After earning her MBA, she moved to her current role as Head of Automation S&S units having at least one woman in their Production and Logistics ranks. But and Infrastructure at the Timóteo site. With a team of 380 people (plus a thousand the success is not only in the figures, from the management (men and women!) to externals), her responsibilities include overseeing utilities, high voltage, gas, liquids, fellow workers, feedback from everyone is positive! hard machinery, central maintenance pool, mobile lift frames, automation and infrastructure. She is also charged with driving innovation in all these areas. Ivana has Ines Kolmsee, CEO of Services & also served as president of CIPA (Accidents Prevention Commission) for 9 years, Solutions, explains: ​“Initially, we had to Voices where she developed a strong relation with the unions. overcome physical obstacles, such as To manage such a huge team, rigorous discipline and organisation are necessary. But building changing rooms for female “Achieving more gender diversity according to Ivana, the most important thing is to be available to her team all day long. workers and checking the ergonomy of is a personal priority of mine. This is why her door is always open whenever people need her. ​“I believe the role of a some processes. More importantly, we manager is to support and orient people, communicate and ensure the flow of I find the steel industry information, and to facilitate the performance of the team,”​ she says.​ “It is not ‘easy’ had to fight the unconscious biases in both male colleagues (“this is not a fascinating and want to give to work with me as I am very demanding, but in exchange, I supply my team with the suitable environment for women, they information and means they need to do a good job and exceed my expectations.” more women the opportunity to As to the new generation, Ivana says that they tend to set their sights on the top too will never be interested”) and female candidates (“isn’t that work too physically experience this fascination as quickly. Her advice is to understand that a career is built day-by-day, and that by showing one’s added value to the company, the company will be able to give demanding?”). well.” recognition and opportunities. ​“In my team, I am attentive to give such opportunities But once this was overcome and the first internally and also to give chances to our female team members,”​ says Ivana. female blue collars were hired, the Ines Kolmsee “​Despite this kind of job being seen as physically hard, or not adapted to us, I have experiences were very positive for demonstrated that it is possible for a woman to develop a nice career!” everyone and the overall atmosphere of CEO Services & When talking about her personal life, Ivana says balancing her professional and the shopfloor has improved. Overall, this Solutions, ​LT member personal lives can be challenging, so, having a sense of organization helps. ​“I must has been a very promising start of the have done something right, as both of my children have chosen careers as engineers programme, but we are not done yet.” in the steel industry!.“ Her current goal is to leave a legacy at the company, especially about innovation: ​“An When it comes to becoming a more example of this is the development of the Integrated Control Center (See p. 36), which inclusive company, our efforts aren’t limited to gender diversity. For example, on proves that automation can bring a lot of benefits to the company,” she adds. the occasion of the 70th anniversary for the United Nations’ Charter, this year we conducted a special campaign to fight discrimination (see p.47). Furthermore, our Her tips:​Do not sell problems, bring units continue their efforts to open up to people with disabilities (see previous solutions. Do not sell dreams, show results. reports and the insert on p.22.) 17 Co-construction of our HR programs Employee Survey 2018 To make the most of our talented workforce, we have to be active listeners and to ensure a high level 81% ​response rate of engagement and motivation. With this in mind, we launched our first anonymous All-Employee Engagement survey in January 2017. We recorded a 92%​ ​are proud​ of our products 63% response rate and an overall satisfaction rate of 82%, and some areas of improvement were identified and action plans defined thanks to 86%​ ​recommend feedback sessions organised at all units. These actions focused on improving communications, in Aperam​ ​as a ​good place to particular as to career opportunities. Here we New screens in Genk work​ (+2pts vs 2017) launched a Career Portal, accessible firstly to exempts and, starting January 2019, to all In addition to this company-wide program, sites are also developing new ways to employees. ensure proximity with all employees. Some sites have implemented face-to-face At the end of 2018, we launched a new iteration of meetings with senior executives, like in Brazil, where Frederico Lima, COO of the this global survey, taking considerable steps to improve the response rate among Brazilian branch of our Stainless & Electrical Steel segment , regularly meets blue collars in general and at some specific sites. We again promoted the survey employees of all ranks over lunch or during informal meetings. via posters and digital newsletters. In addition, we also made special videos featuring Isbergues and Châtelet plant managers explaining how they analyse the ■■■​ Our Genk site regularly communicates with its employees via a bi-monthly results at the site level and use this to build or adjust local action plans to better printed newsletter. In 2018, for the first time, the April paper edition also contained meet the particular needs and desires of the site’s population. Looking at the the Belgium country supplement to our Aperam Sustainability Report, which has overall results, we are particularly happy with the final response rate of 82% (7477 been released online since 2016. This short report is available in Dutch, French individual responses), which is 19% higher than the previous year. This is also a and English and includes a list of indicators consolidated at the country level. With very good result compared to our benchmarks, both versus our industry and the aim of engaging with our people and external stakeholders, the report also versus best-in-class practices, and all the more so considering our company’s summarizes Aperam’s progress on social and environmental topics, as well as on limited history with global climate surveys. stakeholder-orientation. Next to this, we are very satisfied to see that our action plans have paid off and The fast-paced nature of our business also justifies the use of modern and flexible that all the dimensions covered are rated higher than in 2017. This is particularly means of communication. In 2017, to improve direct communication with the true in terms of Career & Development (+15 pts), as well as with Leadership and workshops, 50 screens were installed at various strategic locations, including: Communications. In addition, all categories meet or exceed Heavy Industry norms factory entrances, large refectories in the steel shop and the cold rolling mill, team with Safety & Sustainability even overshadowing the results of High Performance corners and local refectories near the shopfloor. The rollout was completed in companies (see the rating regarding the Health & Safety training on p.10 and 2018. those related to Environment, Stakeholder Orientation and Compliance on p.26, 40 Employees now get real-time information on a range of topics, including Health & and 48 respectively). The same can be said for Retention and Alignment with the Safety instructions and videos on dangerous situations. The screens are also used Company Strategy, among others. to highlight community events and general interest topics like a traditional cycling Our biggest challenges remain in the areas of Career & Development, tour of Châtelet-Genk and the Genk Loopt event. The continuously running loop is Performance Management (objective setting and evaluations) and Non-Financial rounded out with general site information, online news flashes and weather Recognition. Of course, all results are being analysed in detail and taking into forecasts. They also highlight company-wide campaigns, like the video dispatched account all relevant: geographical, organisational, employee status, gender (see for the United Nations’ Day of Human Rights (see p.47). p.15), etc. The conclusions will again serve as the basis for adjusting our 2019-2020 action plan and aligning it with our People Transformation strategy. 18 ■■■​ Our Imphy site also decided to improve its internal communications. A new intranet, called “Imphyni”, was launched in July 2018. The site is a one-stop-shop Nicolas, Head of HRM at Châtelet for all general information related to the unit and is used to share information In 2002, while studying industrial management in France, among and within each department. It also helps with the induction of newcomers Nicolas had the opportunity to undertake a one-year and to improve the effectiveness of awareness-raising campaigns (see in section internship with Ugine & ALZ (now Aperam) in a Service Center Environment, p.39). At the end of the year, the satisfaction rate with the intranet in Detroit (USA), where he worked on the site’s expansion. was 87%, with an average visit time of 10 minutes per week. Several areas for After that, he moved to Rome (Italy) to follow an Erasmus improvement have been identified for 2019. program during his last year of study. Once he received his diploma, Nicolas applied for a job at Aperam, where he started ■■■​ Even our smaller sites are working to better engage with teams. For example, in 2005 as Supply Chain Analyst in the Saint-Denis office. In the S&S Ibérica team (less than 60 employees) recently celebrated a new sales 2008, he moved to the Cold Rolling Plant in Genk, where he record and 0% absenteeism. To do this, the complete Viladecans staff was stayed for about six years, first working as a Production gathered after the summer break for a brief review of July results, emphasizing the Engineer and, later, as a Project Leader in the supply chain. In late 2013, Nicolas impact of teamwork. Employees were then invited to participate in a team building moved to a new challenge, this time as the Head of Upstream Supply Chain at the exercise to demonstrate that despite clear and simple targets, teamwork requires Châtelet site. Since 2016, he has served as Head of the Hot Strip Mill, where he strong coordination and communication to guarantee a positive outcome. The manages about 300 people. event was concluded with a tapas-style team lunch and a motivating message Asked why he followed this geographical and functional career path, Nicolas from Regional CEO Francesc Bonamusa. explains:​ “I believe we have to take opportunities to get outside our comfort zone, and moving to different countries and sites not only gave me another perspective of the company, it was also an enriching experience to adapt myself to different cultural environments,” ​he​ s​ ays.​ H ​ e adds that his path within Aperam has given him the opportunity to experience two different but equally important aspects of career development.​ “In supply chain, I could develop my expertise, whereas in production I manage people and deal with safety and social aspects, thus developing soft skills and leadership,”​ he adds. In terms of daily tasks, after checking production results, Nicolas splits his time between cascading objectives, defining the day’s priorities and supporting his team in solving potential problems. Speaking about his team, he states: ​“I have a very supportive and skilled team, which I can count on and be proud of. It is composed of diverse profiles in background and experience.” “What motivates me most in my job is the combination of diverse challenges, even in especially difficult times, and the fact that I have this team to lead towards the best possible performance,” he adds. So, what’s the next chapter in Nicolas’ storyline? ​“There is still more to learn and to give, so the short-term planning is to carry-on by accomplishing the goals defined for this year, especially putting in place an additional shift team, a springboard for the sustainability of the Châtelet site.” His tips for newcomers​ : Be open to the multiple sources of development your company can offer. Going further either functionally or geographically can expand your life. Take the chance to get out of your comfort zone, while always aiming to go deep and wide in your job in each step of your career. S&S Iberica team celebrating good results. 19 Career & development Aperam’s Key Leadership competencies We presented the new set of competencies that Aperam wants to develop within An efficient framework to deploy our strategy our last report. We believe these competencies are necessary to address the challenges of the new era in which we live. A new People Management System This is why we conducted an in-depth 360 degree assessment of all our top 100 During the course of 2018, the Human Resources team focused on deploying our executives based on our eight Aperam leadership competencies. This resulted in new People Management System called MyHR. This tool provides a globally two important outcomes: consistent view on all relevant people data, drives more manager and employee ● Individualized feedback to the manager on his/her development ownership and supports the roll-out of our People Transformation Roadmap. This opportunities, to be addressed via development actions jointly agreed on; plan is structured around 5 axes: ● A group profile of Aperam’s top management and an adequate depiction of > Competency Management:​ From eight fundamental leadership competencies our culture, including both strengths and opportunities for improvement. to a variety of business and technical skills that are vital to the future development The conclusions highlighted some of Aperam’s key strengths, with “Accountability” of Aperam. and “Faster in execution” being perceived as crucial advantages. On the other > Learning:​ The cornerstone of this part of the plan is the implementation of a hand, the competencies of “Leader as a Coach”, “Creativity” and the ability to work global learning infrastructure to support the development of a culture of continuous in a fully “Connected” (neural) organisation were identified as areas needing learning. improvement. > Performance Management​: Our people learn and develop through the open Along with this in-depth assessment of the top 100, we also requested all exempts and honest feedback they receive, not only from hierarchical managers, but also (approx 1,000 employees) to assess themselves on the same competencies. from everybody they work with: peers, internal customers, team members, etc. Managers then evaluated these exempt assessments to identify any gaps between Performance Management has been redesigned to focus on aligning individual the two assessments. Gaps were addressed with the employee, from which an and organisational goals and the use of (180 degree) participant feedback. action plan was proposed. Starting in February 2019, the on-line learning system > Job Mobility: ​Changing jobs is always a learning experience, but on top of that also offers educational content around all eight competencies. it also significantly increases the interconnection of our organisation and its ability We believe this kind of initiative is key to making sure our company has the to adapt. Our Career Portal is already known to 90%+ of exempts and was further adaptability needed to address the quick changes that can impact our business rolled-out to all employees in mid-2018. and industrial environment. Aperam Leadership Style > Leadership: ​The fuel of every transformation is leadership style. Do we 1. ACCOUNTABLE inspire the need to transform or do we 2. FASTER ​IN EXECUTION prefer the comfort of the status quo? Our 3. CONNECTED vision for the leadership of the future was 4. AWARE ​OF THE ENVIRONMENT condensed into eight key leadership 5. ​ABLE TO ​TRANSFORM ​BY competencies, on which all our exempts are evaluated. LEARNING 6. INFLUENCING The top 100 executives even went 7. ​LEADER AS A ​COACH through a full 360 degree evaluation 8. CREATIVE ​& INNOVATIVE based on these competencies (see left THINKING and next section for more information). Housing complex, France Philippe Dubus © Sergio Grazia -​ The project, which utilises Aperam’s 304L grade with Uginox Bright Finish, won the 2018 Eiffel Trophy for Steel Architecture in the ‘Living’ category. 20 the SAFE training in Europe and its derivatives elsewhere. Next comes the Training and developing our people technical areas, which account for 29% of the total recorded training hours. Soft skills (8%) and languages (6%) are also important topics, with ethics & compliance As we announced in our last report, we put a tremendous amount of effort into also increasing as we start to develop more learning within our compliance developing Aperam as a truly learning-oriented organisation. In 2018, 9,391 framework (see 47-48). people received at least one training, which is a 96% rate. Training We spent the entire year building our Learning Management System, which is due to launch in February 2019. In the table below we present a few figures (in USD for consistency with previous years), but going forward our reporting will be much more detailed and in Euros.​(GRI 404-1)​. 2018 training follow-up Training 2018 2017 2016 2015 Country Hours Cost USD Hours Cost USD Hours Cost USD Hours Cost USD Belgium 58,050 2,881.9 43,713 2,767.3 30,350 1,885.7 30,638 1,963.5 Brazil 126,650 622.0 176,243 850.8 191,148 823.3 186,788 868.4 France 99,978 1,107.1 78,122 988.1 71,123 974.0 56,481 979.7 Germany 7,677 105.4 5,576 104.1 3,395 108.0 2,965 94.2 Italy 11,105 54,3 6,203 54.2 3,575 47.9 3,831 39.9 RoW 20,591 132.51 19,168 249.5 16,780 304.4 16,500 234.5 TOTAL 324,051 4,903.3 329,025 5,014.0 316,371 4,143.3 297,203 4,180.2 Aperam consolidated. Total of external training hours and spent reported, without internal costs​ ​(GRI 404-1) Media library, social centre and digital work space Ropa & Associés Architectes © Luc Boegly Executed using grade Aperam 304 with Uginox Bright surface finish. 2018 performance In 2018, the training hours were almost stable compared to 2017 (1.7% decrease). 2019 outlook This is due to a strong effort, particularly visible in Belgium (+25%), France We will continue with the strategy depicted in last year’s report, focusing on the (+22%), Germany (+27%) and Italy (+44%). The apparent reduction recorded in key areas that will help our employees face the challenges of evolving jobs and to Brazil (-39%) is the reflection of the finalisation of very substantial programs develop their ability to thrive in a constantly evolving industry. focused on H&S and maintenance that terminated in 2017 on the one hand, and During the course of 2018, a key development in the Learning area was the on several adjustments in the methodology, on the other hand. Such preparation of several of the “Academies” that will structure our future Learning methodological difficulties (eg. number of hours considered for the H&S day at Management System. These Academies will rely on both internal content prepared each site) will be solved in 2019 thanks to our MyLearning system and the in-house and learning modules purchased from specialised providers. homogenization of guidelines and workflows. When the new Learning Management System in launched, the following Based on existing reporting tools, we can already identify trends that reflect our Academies will be available: Leadership & Management Academy (built around new philosophy. For instance, we notice that the proportion of training followed the 8 competencies of the Aperam Leadership Style), Digital Transformation through e-Learning increased from around 5% in 2017 to 16% in 2018. Academy, Ethics & Compliance Academy, Sales Academy, and the IT Academy Furthermore, in 2018, Health & Safety accounted for 56% of total training hours in (IT for Information Technology professionals). The Health & Safety Academy will volume, consistent with last year’s 55% and reflective of our continuous roll-out of 21 be finalised and added shortly thereafter, together with the Legal & Finance Academy. The first mandatory e-learning for all exempts will focus on the key Aperam Leadership style competencies (see p. 21), with each being presented by a member of the Aperam Leadership Team via a specific video. Exempts will also be required to complete a module on Cybersecurity, in-line with our digital transformation. Induction of new teams Previous reports elaborated on the way we organise the induction of joining exempts, having them visit our plants and providing them with a detailed introduction to the fascinating world of steel. In this report, we decided to promote the training efforts of our Châtelet unit as they added a new fourth team to the Hot Strip Mill (HSM). ■■■​ Firstly, this decision triggered the need to hire and train almost 60 people. Training this many people disrupts schedules as it requires existing teams to run the production lines while, at the same time, also training their future colleagues. Furthermore, as the training program was built to achieve maximum efficiency, it incorporates a personal follow-up of the trainee using a combination of theoretical and practical lessons. To illustrate this process we can look at Dorian, a 24 year old HSM team member Training session for the electro-mechanics at Châtelet. who has been in the Aperam training program since May 2018. ​“The training itself ​ dmits. ​“We go from one pulpit to the other, we have is intense and a bit tiring,'' he a Human Rights/Inclusiveness: Raising awareness in Gueugnon technical training and also exams that we have to prepare for ahead of time but the daily life is very enriching. The trainers also know their roles and their tools like Aperam Gueugnon, in partnership with Sameth the back of their hands!”​ This testimony is illustrative of how our training by (support services for disabled employee in-house experts is not only excellent in terms of technical competencies, it also retention) and Cap Emploi organised a day excels at developing the human relations needed for more cohesive teams and dedicated to raising awareness about disabilities in the workplace. The goal was to long-term efficiency. This is why this good training practice will be extended to the teach supervisors and staff with the CHSCT new shift electro-mechanical technicians in 2019. (hygiene, security and work conditions Dorian’s final feedback is very positive: “​My job is very diverse and demands me to committee), HSE (Health and Safety be polyvalent. I really like that, and at the end, thanks to the training provided on Executives), Human Resources and health each and every step of the Hot Strip Mill line, I will be operational on the full departments how they can better support process from the charging phase to the coiling station.” workers with disabilities in terms of professional integration and job retention. Sameth speakers defined and explained visible and non-visible disabilities, followed Initially, the calendar indicated a startup of the fourth team as soon as April 1, by a scenario-based workshop that helped supervisors understand how disabilities 2019. However, the latest planning foresees this being postponed until September. impact a worker’s daily life. Nevertheless, the training schedule terminates in May, meaning the fourth team will be ready to replace the three other teams during their summer vacations. This By the end of the event, everyone felt confident in their ability to discuss disabilities, not only allows us to put the training into practice, it also means we can avoid share experiences, and use what they learned to help improve the integration and using interim replacements that are less qualified and more expensive. Finally, it’s retention of workers with disabilities. But Gueugnon’s commitment to disability worth noting that 23 of our prior interim workers have become permanent awareness in the workplace does not stop here, as it requires continuous vigilance members of the new fourth team. and ongoing communication with the teams. To be continued... 22 Development Career: Alex, Head of Production S&S BeNeLux (Genk) Although training is very important, the development of our people should be mainly done on the job, through real-life experience, management’s regular Alex joined Aperam in 1995, coming from the feedback, peer advice and mentoring when necessary. construction sector. Although he was already an In this context, we pay a lot of attention to implementing regular patterns of electrical technician, he didn’t have experience in feedback interviews and have integrated this procedure to operate within our new the industrial world. But after just two months of Human Resource Management Information System (MyHR) starting 2019 for training, he was working as a machine operator. ​ “It exempts. was quite exciting to start as a machine operator on the first cut-to-length line at the brand new service 2018 Annual Performance Reviews center,” h​ e recalls. When the new machines arrived, Rate 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 he helped train the new arrivals, becoming the line Blue Collars 60% 68% 71% 65% n/a responsible. White Collars 67% 84% 90% 85% 87% By 2000, Alex gained responsibilities as the Shift Exempts 98% 99% 95% 96% 95% Coordinator, where he continued to operate the machine together with his team. By Aperam 68% 75% 77% 73% n/a 2002, he was promoted to Shift Supervisor, responsible for the production Above: teams in Gueugnon. organisation and managing about 20 people. And by 2010, he was invited to move 2018 was a year of transition, with many of our resources dedicated to updating to an off-the-line job, as the Technical Occupation Planner.​ “It was a little hard to our processes and tailoring the new MyHR system. That being the case, and as make this decision as it would change my daily activities being mostly off the floor seen in the table above, the apparent rate of annual reviews conducted during the and take me away from the people on the shop floor,”​ says Alex.​ “But one needs to course of the year went down from 75% to 68%. accept every opportunity to move further in life, so I accepted.” ​Although he missed This fall is mostly due to the severe decrease affecting the 37% of Aperam the production floor, Alex quickly adapted to his new job and learned to appreciate workforce that is based in Brazil: -12%. the work from his former team members from a different point of view. By the end of However, this apparent decrease for the non-exempt population is due to the fact that the launch of the process was postponed to November and completed only in 2017, Alex had become the Head of Production, where he leads and supports a 2019. If we considered the figures at the closing of the process, in February 2019, team of 70 people to whom he is available and supportive.​ “My day basically we would report a +4% increase in the total number of performance reviews consists of checking the status of previous shifts, identifying and if needed solving conducted in Brazil, which would impact the global rate and give an overall problems to make sure everything is in place to have a safe and productive day,​” he Aperam rate of 75%, fully comparable to 2017. says.​ “I feel that I have a very diverse and stimulating job, as every day brings new challenges.” Besides, going forward, the annual reviews will be fully integrated within the To keep his team motivated and in good working condition, Alex says he treats them processes run in our MyHR system. The rollout will be starting with Brazilian white as he expects to be treated himself. In other words, he treats everyone with respect. collar non-exempts in 2019, followed by a wider deployment. “Respect for their development needs, working conditions, work/life balance, etc., As a result, we are confident that this apparent decrease is just a temporary my main objective is to always ensure that after the working day, every member of reflection of the changes happening at Aperam and that we will be back with high completion rates in 2019-2020. my team can return home in good health,”​ he concludes. His tip:​Be open minded, approach problems in a positive way, be a part of the solution and don’t be afraid to make decisions. Above all else, believe in yourself! 23 Recognitions In South America again... Over the past few years, we have been proud to celebrate the recognitions granted to our Brazilian unit, which has been repeatedly named one of Brazil’s best employers. This year, we are again pleased to confirm Guia Você S/A magazine selected Aperam as one of its “150 Best Companies to Work”, placing second in the siderurgy sector. But we have more awards to report! So many that we don’t have enough room to report on them all, so let’s highlight only a few. For example, Guia Você, together with Exame and FIA, listed Aperam as one of the 45 best companies to start a career (18 to 26 y.o.), and Exame’s Sustainability Guide named us as the second most sustainable company in the ‘Mining, Siderurgy and Metallurgy’ category. According to Gestão RH, Aperam South America is the best company of 2018. And after evaluating 1,000 companies based on transparency, human capital, sustainability, governance and corporate citizenship, HDI (Human Development Index) named us the “Best company to work” and “Largest and Best Companies of Brazil”. Aperam South America management receiving the award again in 2018 with, starting from the left: COO Frederico Ayres Lima, Carolina Majuri (Aperam Finance), Humberto Marin (Head Timóteo Melting … and Europe too shop), Layane Gomes and Luiz-Otavio Procopio (Aperam South America Human Resources). Similar recognitions are also coming from other parts of the company, demonstrating how our entire organisation is dedicated to ensuring a good Voices experience for all our staff. For example, in 2018, French magazine “Capital” listed Aperam among France’s “Our success depends not only on our ability to best employers. The magazine asked around 20,000 respondents from companies attract diverse talent, but also on our ability to with over 500 employees to rate whether they would recommend their employer to relatives and what their opinion was regarding other companies. In 2017, Aperam keep our talent motivated. The latter requires was ranked 6​th​ within the metal-sector “Heavy Industry & Metals”. By 2018, us to provide ample learning opportunities and according to the latest report released in February 2019, Aperam has climbed to an organisational structure that makes the the #3 spot. most of individual competencies while also Talk about encouragement to use best practices to go even further along the path fostering true teamwork. we have defined for ourselves! The best advertising for Aperam as an employer is the feedback of existing employees and we work hard to earn their trust and recognition and continue to improve every single year.” Frederico Ayres Lima COO Aperam South America 24 Environment Our Planet Our plants use immense energy and hazardous substances to transform raw materials into the precise blend of Alloys required by our clients. In turn, these Alloys are used to make affordable, long-lasting and sustainable products, including energy-efficient buildings and low emission vehicles. Although Aperam is an industry leader in sustainability, we continue to strive to improve. With our new 2030 milestones already set in terms of air and water, and those for energy and CO​2 to ​ be released shortly, our goal is to minimize the impact our production processes have on the environment and our neighbours. We are proud to provide the world’s “greenest stainless steel” and to be at the forefront of improving our industry’s reputation for sustainability. Industrial Footprint claim of producing “the world’s greenest stainless steel”​GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-4, 305-5​. Energy and CO2 Forests and Carbon off-set Carbon footprint As we have considered it our duty to focus on our industrial footprint, historically we have not studied carbon offset via CO​2​ sequestration (beyond what our forestry Performance naturally does). Our carbon footprint reported to the CDP is calculated according to In the steel sector, which is one of the most energy-consuming sectors, Aperam’s the current standard (enacted by ISO 14404 and supported by our professional CO​2​ footprint ranks among the best. organisation WorldSteel), whereby the process considered from forestry to This performance is driven by two elements: our low energy consumption, which consumption in the form of charcoal is supposed to be carbon neutral. impacts our Scope 2 carbon emissions (see below) and the fact that we use However, for us, this does not reflect reality as charcoal in our Brazilian Blast Furnaces instead of extractive coke, which reduces our BioEnergia forestry is actually carbon our Scope 1 emissions. Although the standard steel-making process demands that positive, with the leaves and branches falling to carbon be added during the melting process, Aperam has invested heavily to the forest floor degrading into humus and adjust its blast furnaces and processes. This process started in 2009, when our feeding the local flora. blast furnaces began accepting carbonised (eucalyptus) trees instead of mining Considering the exact carbon retention of coke, and continued in 2017-18 when we stabilized the hearth, whose consistency eucalyptus and CO​2​ emission of charcoal in is rendered more tricky by the tendency of wood charcoal chunks to disaggregate. calculations, we actually improve by 10% at As a result of these efforts, our Brazilian operations have seen their CO​2​ footprint least the carbon footprint of our products made decreasing from 1.05 tons per ton of slabs in 2008 to 0.42 tons in 2018. At the in Brazil. In addition, we consider that we stock Group level, our 2018 (scope 1+2) CO​2​ footprint now stands at 1,125 kilo-tonnes with our well-managed forests four times more (781 +343 kt) or 0.492* t/ tons of slabs7, in line with last year’s performance. This is CO​2​ than what we emit annually companya 34% decrease from 2008 and close to our 2020 objectives (-35%), giving us the wide. This is also how we participate in the fight against climate change. 7 ​ISSF 2016 average footprint 0.94tCO2e/tcs (latest information available) 25 Our FSC-certified BioEnergia eucalyptus forestry, in Mas Garais (Brazil), from which we produce renewable charcoal to replace extractive coke in our blast furnace operations. Voices Aperam’s environmental footprint at a glance Indicator Unit 2020 target 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Page ​ ​ of Aperam employees “86%(1) GJ/ tcs​(2) Energy consumption -10% intensity vs. 2012 § Energy consider us to be an 12.5* 12.4* 12.8* 12.8* 13.0* (by source p.28) ie. 12.2 ​p.28-30 environmentally-responsible -35% intensity vs. 2007 § CO​2 CO₂ emissions t / tcs​(2) 0.49* 0.49* 0.58* 0.54* 0.48* company. We always aim for more ie. 0.49 p.25-27 than compliance, and we are very t 203* 343.2* 549.8* 520.9* 441.8* § Dust Dust emissions g / tcs​(2) -12% intensity vs. 2015 ie. 211 89 151 242 240 213 p.31-32 proud of our ability to produce Recycled input % n/a 29 27 27 30 28 metal solutions that rank among the best, with a record CO2​ ​ footprint. Wastes ​(landfilled) kt Zero waste for landfill 121 116 115 103 110 § Waste & To stay ahead, we are setting up > Reuse rate % 100% reused /recycled 93.3 94.2 93.3 93.5 93.4 Recycling p.34 targets that encourage our people to > Wastes: hazardous 52 51 51 36 54 kt Zero waste for landfill creatively look for clever solutions > Wastes: non-hazardous 69 65 65 67 56 3 that will reduce our industrial impact Water consumption million m​ -5% vs. 2015 22.8* 22.6* 23.0 22.1* 22.3* > Intakes (by source p.34) m​3​ / tcs​(2) (ie. 21.1 millions m​3​) 9.9 10.1 9.9 10.0 10.5 even further.” > Water recycling % n/a 95.6 95.3 96.3 95.4 95.5 § Water Laurent Piranda Water discharge million m​ 3 n/a 15.9 15.8 14.9 14.7 16.9 p.33-34 Aperam’s Head of Environment & Industrial Risk > Suspended solids in water n/a 154 390 355 204 379 t > Metal discharge in water n/a 5.5 8.1 7.6 6.4 10.7 GRI 302-3 305-4 305-7 303-3 306-2 303-4 ​*​ Data highlighted with a star have received external assurance. (1) as per last Climate Survey, (2) tcs = ton of crude steel 26 ■■■⎢​On the CO​2​ front, in 2018 we can report the inauguration of two new pieces of Impact of Carbon markets equipment at our BioEnergia unit in Turmalina: the world's largest furnace for charcoal production (see picture) and a gas burner capable of reducing smoke All over the world, a growing number of jurisdictions are setting up incentives to emissions to the atmosphere. Both place the Company in a prominent position encourage companies to cut their CO2 emissions. Currently, only our European thanks to their use of innovative, sophisticated and sustainable technologies to operations (which represent 68% of our Scope 1 emissions) were subject to produce a high quality final product, along with gains in standardization and such rules in the form of fixed CO2 emission allowances (or quotas), and there charcoal costs. This contributes to our blast furnaces ability to operate with quality is no indication that a comparable system will be established in Brazil in the charcoal instead of extractive coke, thereby producing the “world’s greenest near future. Based on current assumptions and ETS rules, we do not anticipate stainless steel”. an overall shortage of free allowances before the mid-2020s. That being said, with no technological breakthrough capable of substantially However, to support the transition to a low carbon economy, Aperam is among changing the carbon intensity of our industry in sight, our focus remains primarily the few companies in our industry to have implemented an internal price for on our charcoal usage (see above) and energy consumption (see next section), CO​2 (based on scope 1+2 emissions). This internal price has been applied to which gives us one of the best carbon footprints of the sector. all planned investments since 2016, meaning our profit calculations include the financial impact of our carbon footprint. Scope 3 and total footprint For 2018, we applied a price of EUR30/t. We constantly review and adjust the In addition, we continue to monitor some of our Scope 3 emissions, primarily those price if necessary to maintain the CO​2​/t savings incentive in line with our stated related to our transport and IT emissions. In 2017-2018, our Scope 3 footprint targets. related to transport and IT, as reported to the CDP, was at 547 kt of CO​2​e and 6.0 kt of CO​2​e respectively ​(GRI 302-3). In a 2015 report, our professional association the International Stainless Steel Forum (ISSF), published estimates regarding Scope 3 CO​2 emissions ​ related to the raw materials used in the process. According to their study8, the production of the ferro-alloys needed to elaborate one ton of stainless steel from pure raw materials (including the energy needed to refine such materials) corresponds to a CO​2​ footprint of 4.2 tons. Furthermore, based on these calculations, the key to reducing such emissions is the use of stainless steel scraps: ISSF estimates that a 50% share of stainless steel scraps would cut this 4.2 footprint by 52%, resulting in a lower (scope 3) ferro-alloys footprint of 1.92 tons of CO​2​. This means that a stainless steel maker relying only on these extractive raw materials would incorporate in one ton of its products four times more emissions related to the pure raw materials used than the average ISSF Scope 1+2 emissions related to the ​processing o ​ f such materials. This also means that the best way to cut emissions is to reduce the share of extractive raw materials to a minimum and rely as much as possible on recycled stainless which is what Aperam does (see p.35). New kiln at our BioEnergia charcoal-production unit, allowing a 30% increase in production. 8 Stainless Steel and CO2: Facts and Scientific Observations (ISSF, 2015) 27 steel, in line with last year, with an increase in Brazil almost offset by Aperam 2018 energy split (%) Mix effect improvements in Europe. This gives us a -8.2% decrease, compared to our 2020 objective of -10%. In other words, we are well on track! ​(GRI 302-3, 302-4) Our energy intensity depends not only on our efforts to optimize consumption, More details regarding our projects but also on the metallurgical blend we produce as not all metals melt at the > ​LED lighting projects ​replace old and obsolete lighting technologies (Sodium or same temperature. Furthermore, when Metallic Vapor) with LED lighting. This change will result in a 50 to 60% savings on we “sophisticate” our products during electricity consumption, enhance the health and safety of our people thanks to downstreams operations, such as better light quality, and reduce maintenance costs. It will even have an indirect when we give them a bright surface positive impact on product quality and equipment reliability. This switch is being finish or transform them into wires or implemented at three sites, each of whom use their own approach, as part of the tiny precision strips, we use more Industrial Innovation program or as local project. energy than for semi-products. Between the three sites, about 2,500 lamps were replaced in 2018, with 2,600 However, the volume of initial crude more set to be changed by the middle of 2019. As of 2018, this project has already steel remains unchanged, which resulted in an annual energy saving of about 4.3 GWh. In 2019, other sites impacts ratios. (Châtelet, Gueugnon, Isbergues) will accelerate their switch to LED lighting using This means that our strategy to create the learnings derived from the Service Contract model tested at Pont-de-Roide. more high added value products Overall, we believe that a 1.5% saving in electricity can be achieved with this requires us to remain even more project. ambitious on our energy efficiency Energy Our approach and 2018 performance Steelmakers are big consumers of energy, but not all can boast of having 37% of their energy mix (see next page) coming from renewable sources, most notably charcoal biomass. Still, Aperam is continuously striving to improve its energy efficiency and in-line with our -10% 2020 target, using three types of initiatives: New technologies, like Alternative Current (or asynchronous) motors, General process optimisation, Specific energy optimisation (fatal energy re-use, etc.) In 2018, Aperam gave even more support to its energy saving efforts. An example of this can be seen in the Energy Saving projects within our “Industrial Innovation” program that aimed to accelerate the implementation of new, and sometimes not widely used, technologies at Aperam. Among the more successful of these were an initiative to replace lights with energy-efficient LED lights, the use of Variator Speed Drives (VSD) and a study on Process Optimization (see below). Overall, in 2018, we report a slight increase in our consumption in terms of absolute value (+1.9%), but our energy intensity is stable at 12.45*GJ/ton of crude The new LED-enlightened halls in Genk. 28 > ​Regarding general process optimisation​, we have several active programmes Prospecting is also under way to identify greenhouses that could use the heat to in place. In Europe, we are rolling out strong management systems, often through produce soilless vegetable cultures and bring more activity to the area. ISO 50001 certification, while in Brazil this is done with the help of the Viridis Current schedules aim to get the final profitability analysis for the project by System. In addition, since 2017, we have been running a reliability-focused project October 2019 and decide on the way forward. that is fostering significant energy savings. This is because unplanned stoppages generate heat losses, which in turn demand warm-up energy during restart and Energy result in a much higher consumption than what is used during a normal run. This project continued to progress in 2018. More significant is our use of VSD and high performance motors. VSD brings 37%​ ​Renewable energy energy savings by running motors at the exact power level that is proportional to used in 2018 the activated load. This is in sharp contrast to traditional systems, where motors run all the time at nominal power even if there is no particular effort requested by the process. Our use of VSD is expected to result in a saving of between 40 and 60%. The key projects implemented in 2018 were the dedusting systems at -8.2%​ Consumption intensity Timóteo (EAFs) and Chatelet (AOD), both of which were concluded in Dec 2018. vs. -10% target​ (2012 basis) Together, these two projects will save 14.6 GWh/year. 2030 target in preparation > ​In terms of specific energy optimisation​, we can recall the re-use of blast furnace gas (BFG) at the Timoteo site. ​The project focused on replacing Natural Participation in the Alliance Program Gas with Blast Furnace Gas on the Ladle Heating process at Melt Shop, thus increasing the site’s use of BFG and reducing its losses. The project also​ included In 2018, an important initiative for the Timóteo site was its participation in the improvements to automation and control, reliability, work conditions and safety. It Alliance Program (Programa Aliança). The program, a voluntary partnership became a truly innovative solution once a flex burner was developed. between the Brazilian industrial sector, CNI (Brazilian National Confederation of The project, which concluded in 2016, was awarded for its efficiency and Industries) and government agencies, aims to promote energy efficiency in innovation. Since its implementation, it has generated 61 GWh/year. Today,​ we energy-intensive industries like ours. The ambition is to cover 100 big industrial use around 90% of the generated BFG, but there are several studies that aim to sites by 2022 and achieve at least a 5% reduction in energy intensity of these further increase its use and completely eliminate the need for such flares as companies. Metallic Charge Drying, New Steam Boiler, and Regenerative Burners on HRM. The main objectives of this program are: implement an Energy Efficiency program with measurable and permanent results; reinforce the institutional ■■■ ​We mentioned in the last report that our Isbergues site had also launched a public-private partnerships to promote energy efficiency; and internalize study on fatal energy. After an in-depth analysis, 43 sources of fatal energy had specialized technical knowledge in Brazil. The 24-month program began with been identified but only a few viable options stood out. Among these was the several studies focused mainly on process optimization to save energy in some design of an urban heating network for the nearby cities based on the heat selected processes. The studies, which lasted three months, were conducted recovered from our Recyco unit and Weee Metallica (one of the host companies) jointly by Aperam and specialists hired by CNI. During the remaining 21 months, furnaces. This concept has been discussed from the start with the various Aperam is counting on the support of CNI's specialists for the implementation of stakeholders, including Regional Authorities but in 2018, the project was refined the identified and agreed upon opportunities, which represents a potential and an additional nearby city integrated into the discussions. savings of 13 GWh/year. According to the latest scheme, an external operator needs to be found to invest The program’s costs are shared between Aperam and CNI, using subsidies from around EUR 10 million into catching the fatal energy in the form of heat, a governmental agency (Procel, Eletrobrás, Ministry of Mines and Energy). transforming it into power and distributing it to the users. Aperam entities and other hosted companies of Isbergues site would purchase this energy, and so will the neighbouring cities that intend to heat their public buildings from the power. 29 Voices ​■■■ ​Following the construction of windmills at our Genk site, we are happy to report that our “ We aim to further improve our Châtelet site installed energy-efficiency looking to best photovoltaic panels (365 Wp per panel) on the roof of the Hall 3 internal and external practices and (see picture) during the summer innovation. maintenance period. We are preparing a bold target for These 1,368 panels began 2030 to ensure a continuous operation at the end of improvement of our energy November 2018 and should produce over 421 MWh of intensity. ” energy during the first year. Alain Menec Aperam’s Global Environment & Industrial View of the Hall 3 in Châtelet (above) Installation of the photovoltaïc panels by proud teams (below). Risk Coordinator Overview of the Châtelet site with the Hall 3 identified in red. 30 ■■■ ​At our Imphy unit, the situation is different: there is no charcoal being used, Dust and Air Emissions but there is a slag yard close to residential areas. Like our Timoteo site, the actions undertaken at the Imphy unit during the course of the year are part of a multi-year In our discussions with local stakeholders, dust (rather than more general air roadmap and focus on three actions: increasing monitoring, reducing diffused dust emissions) remains the key topic. This is why we do not consider it sufficient to though enhanced capturing and re-organising the dust-emitting treatment simply comply with local regulations. A few years ago, we set up an initial target of previously handled at a nearby yard (“Val-de-Loire”). a -12% reduction in the intensity of our ducted dust (compared to 2015). In doing so, we aimed to address the legitimate requests of our neighbours and trigger new > ​In our 2017 Report, we announced our decision to hire a new contractor that momentum on the improvement plans being prepared at our sites. operates a few hundred kilometers away from the plant. The objective was to The best example of such improvement plans is our two Belgian melting shops, dismantle the treatment workshop situated on the yard and reallocate the building who have developed high quality routines for the efficient management of dust for other uses (making all adjustments needed to tackle residual noise or dust). emissions (see previous reports). By ducting the dust, this process aims to send it This plan was put into action and in May 2018 we began the slag treatment with to our Recyco unit where its metallic content can be recovered. They are also our new subcontractor. continuously reducing our diffuse dust emissions, adding roofs or walls (see next > ​As to the rest of our plan, a lot of progress was made in 2018 in regards to the page) to prevent the dust from spreading to the surrounding neighbourhood. Our ramp-up of enhanced measuring and dust channeling. For instance, there has other Aperam units are beginning to apply these best practices, in line with our been a new ducting system on the bucket preheating workshop since January and, 2016 roadmap and methodology, starting with the intensification of measures and as of October, complementary continuous measuring has been in place (outflow an enhanced maintenance of our dedusting units. and dust concentration) on the four grinding machines. This adds up to the continuous measuring we set up in 2017 at the melting shop. In 2019, we aim to improve the channeling of the dust at the oxycuting station Summary of recent developments (January) and revamp our Electric Arc Furnace dedusting system (summer ▉ ​In 2015, our Timoteo unit, which is our largest unit and the only one operating stoppages), the latter of which will require substantial investments. All the dust blast furnaces, represented around 90% of Aperam’s total dust emissions. Thus, it collected in bag filters will be sent to our waste-to-value Recyco subsidiary in is our primary focus. Knowing the difficult conditions they operate in, with their Isbergues, where precious metallic content will be extracted. In addition to the blast furnaces loaded with charcoal, in 2016 we engaged an external consultant to ducted dust monitoring, we have been following-up on dust fallouts since 2014: on study and identify the priority systems to be enhanced. Using a stress test (in worst six points in the urban area surrounding the plant (monthly) and analysing our air conditions) to estimate the limits of our tools, it identified the key areas of focus to emissions in detail during two campaigns lasting one-month each. All our be the charcoal loading/unloading systems, conveyors, blast furnaces and melting monitoring confirms that we are in line with our permits. shop. Dust > ​In 2017, short-term actions were launched ​on critical chimneys and our main dedusting systems. Key achievements included the full covering of charcoal conveyors, replacement of clogged or leaking ducts and many (thousands!) filtering bags, and maintenance for the blast furnaces’ dedusting installation. 2020 target ​exceeded > ​In 2018 we adopted a five-year roadmap​ with carefully phased revamps of installations and related investments, significant reengineering and planned production stoppages. During the course of the year we changed a number of dedusting sleeves and conducted closer surveillance (using cameras connected to 2030 target ​70 g/t​NEW​ ie our new Integrated Control centre) of the key chimneys to keep the installations in good condition until a full refurbishment can be made. With this first action plan, -20%​ ​intensity vs. 2018 the dust intensity of the unit was cut by two thirds (based on 2016 levels). 31 Further improvements in dust emissions Best practices from Genk > ​Thanks to all these actions, we are happy to report that our reductions in dust emissions exceed our initial targets. Our Genk plant is located near the For 2018, the total group consolidated emissions using regulatory methodologies city of 66,000 inhabitants. For many indicate a -61% reduction over 2015, with 203* tons emitted (ducted and partially years now, the site has been diffused), compared to 343* tons in 2017 (a 41% decrease!). This figure improving its dust emission, thus corresponds to an 89 g/t cs dust emission intensity, an almost 50% reduction since further reducing its impact on its last year​ ​(GRI 305-7)​. neighbours. The levels of dust and This figure is demonstrative of the impressive results brought by our multi-year, their metallic concentration are company-wide programme, primarily focused on Timóteo and Imphy. These permanently measured at several excellent results confirm that we have adopted the right methodology to drastically locations around the plant. Over the cut air emissions and trigger new momentum towards reaching even more years, Genk has continued its ambitious goals. Based on the benefits gained from the methodology used and the award winning (ISSF sustainability investments realised or foreseen, we decided to further reduce our target to 70 g/t award in 2015) approach to further as the maximum level of dust emissions intensity by 2030, which is an additional reduce its impact via an extensive -20% reduction compared to our 2018 performance. action plan. The actions relate both to the reduction of ducted > ​Consistent with these figures, our stress-test simulations, which take into emissions (filters, stack) and diffuse account the abnormal conditions of dedusting installations, have also significantly dust, always based on scientific decreased, amounting to 332 in Brazil (down from 377 in 2017). We are confident analysis. this improvement will continue in 2019-2020, thanks to the upgrades already In 20172018, an additional wind protective screen was installed and planned at key installations, more frequent preventive maintenance actions and commissioned in the area of the slag yard. This helps reduce not only the noise the enhanced awareness among production teams. coming from the scrap yard, but also prevent the diffusion of dust emissions, as In Europe, we also exhaustively monitor NOx and SOx (see below) to ensure full the residential areas are mostly downwind from this area. Equipment process compliance with local permits and national regulations. optimisations for the continuous caster and torch cutting machine have also been executed, thus further reducing the amount of metals emitted into the air. > ​As our performance continues to progress, we will get a more complete picture as new monitoring is being set up at our plants according to our strategy. NOx/SOx emissions (Europe) ​GRI 305-7 tons 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 NOx 604 910 783 917 844 SOx 85 48 55 83 75 Right: A glance at the operations in progress on the Châtelet slagyard, before the Construction of the building (2017-2018) 32 Water Water Metallurgy plants have always been located near the rivers as they use the water to cool down equipment. Except BioEnergia that is monitoring very strictly its water Improvements not consumption (see previous reports), our units are not located in water-stressed areas see next page the split of our water sources. sufficient​ so far However, over the past few years our engagement with local stakeholders has confirmed the growing concern expressed by society as a whole with respect to Consumption intensity ​vs. 2015 climate change and its impact on water availability. This is why in 2015 we defined a target of a -5% reduction in water consumption by 2020 (compared to 2015). In parallel, the more severe seasonal variations fostered by global warming adds -5%​ target 2020 additional pressure. This is reflected in the fact that some of our sites (Isbergues and Pont-de-Roide) have been officially notified to reduce consumption during the Canal near Isbergues -43%​ ​target 2030 NEW ​ particularly dry periods of the summer 2018. Within this context, we aim to raise the bar and ask for stronger action plans. After Water Consumption analysing the results and determining which technical developments are possible, After continuous decreases between 2012 and 2015, in 2016 our consumption of we decided to set up a new, bold objective for 2030: to reduce our water intensity water increased by 3%. Since then it has been stable, with consumption intensity consumption by -43% compared to our 2015 baseline. up by slightly more than 1% in 2018 vs. 2017, at 9.9m​3​/ton of slab. Some of our sites are improving, such as Imphy, which discontinued the use of old equipment Due to its significant contribution to the group’s overall water consumption, our that operated with an open circuit. As a result, the site improved its water recycling Timóteo site the biggest within the Aperam Group must make the biggest rate by 1.7 points, reaching 96.3% in 2018. efforts, whereas our other sites will continue their ongoing improvement. Overall, our rate of closed circuits stands at 95.6% in 2018, slightly better than last Our Timóteo site is located next to the Piracicaba River. It uses up to 1980 m​3​/h of year, although this is below our best performance of 96.3% in 2016. water on average. The plant has planned various projects through 2023, each of which aims to help reduce the site’s water intake by 40% (by 2023, compared to ■■■ ​In our last report, we mentioned that the Isbergues site conducted a full study 2018). This effort involves a number of investment projects, with a total cost of a with an external company and the French Water Agency. Currently, there is a few million euros. rainwater collection system on a 27 hectares area and two water intakes from the canal that feed the various operations on the site, including non-Aperam companies. The site is below Aperam’s average in terms of water recycling ratio, even with Recyco reporting an excellent 99% rate. The situation is clearly complex, and based on the conclusions of the study received in January 2018, it has been Eucalyptus and Water decided to address it using a phased approach. In particular, all topics related to Like any vegetation, eucalyptus needs water and nutrients to survive. Studies recycling water from the sludge treatment station will be put on hold until the end of demonstrate that it consumes the same amount of water as native forests. In the current contract with our subcontractor (2021). In the meantime, the decision addition, our eucalyptus come from selected cloned saplings. was made to tackle two priority topics, namely a back-and-forth motion device that As a result, they present higher biological efficiency than other agricultural handles intakes from the canal and an outdated rainwater discharge system. cultivations, ie. they produce more timber from less resources. As an illustration, A specific study will be conducted in 2019, in partnership with the French Water 1,000 liters of water can give 400g of cerrado wood but almost 2.9 kg of Agency, to ensure that the important investments at stake (EUR 1-2m) bring eucalyptus wood. maximum benefits. In particular, we believe that a well-designed new system could In addition, the selection process deprives our eucalyptus from the so-called significantly cut intake by improving the water recycling ratio. In parallel, a different pivoting roots that only can reach water tables. As a result, our forests rely on study, also to be performed in 2019, will evaluate the measures needed to improve superficial layers of water for a fully sustainable use of local resources. the quality of the water we recycle so that it is equivalent to that of the canal. First improvement works could start in 2020. 33 Water Quality conducting a comprehensive review of the valves and other possible sources of leakage. We also stopped all rainwater rejection using special inflatable balls set In terms of water quality, which we started to report publicly in 2016, we constantly up by specialised divers and arranged for the pumping off of the sheet of liquid treat our effluents and monitor our discharge into the nearby rivers, sometimes using special vacuum trucks and skimmers, a process that took four days. Finally, conducting daily sampling and analysis of pH, temperature and turbidity. Overall, we used a dispersant (reference given by civil protection coordinator) to break the our indicators (water discharge in volumes, particles of suspended solids and carbonated chains of the pollution sheet and wipe off the last traces of irisation. metals in water) decreased in 2018 versus 2017, but more work is necessary to Overall, the intervention cost over €60,000. The swift and efficient way our unit improve performance to meet our new 2030 target. responded to the situation was even recognized by local authorities, who invited In 2018, we had several instances of water discharge not meeting our permits’ our team to discuss Aperam’s approach to accidental pollution during a conference specifications. These incidents, which occurred at our Châtelet and Gueugnon organized by the Samber River Association on this topic. sites, were identified either through visual detection, audits or chemical analysis. Although there is no reason to believe that these regrettable incidents had a Based on these incidents, Aperam will rethink its overall pollution and water significant impact on the natural environment, they led to official claims from the discharge management strategy for its main sites, with the aim of further authorities, which we responded to diligently. enhancing our across-the-board standards for equipment and procedures. First Company-wide standards will be finalised in the course of 2019 in this field. ■■■ ​In the case of Gueugnon, our water treatment station is equipped to treat all diluted residues coming from our production baths in accordance with our permits. Unfortunately, two significant non-conformities of our water discharge into the river 2018 Water intake by source were identified in 2018, which led to a formal notice from the regional authorities (m​3​ and %) G ​ RI 303-3 (Prefecture). The first event happened in January, when the weather conditions caused the Arroux River to flood, impacting both the town (embankments under water) and our plant, with some of our storage areas containing oils and steel scale being flooded. An immediate containment action was put in place by the unit. The second problem was identified during an audit by the Environmental Agencies, which highlighted the fact that some hazardous products were still being stored too close to the river. To prevent further problems in case of climatic events, it was requested that the storage basin be cleaned up and one of our water discharges be closed. The authorities asked for a full action plan, including verification of the waterproof layer of the containment and storage basins. Our root cause analysis Below our efforts to contain and absorb spotted a few operational mismatches, and new procedures were put in place the irisated layer in Châtelet. specifically to avoid any repeat incident. The site estimates that the adaptation measures requested will be completed by summer 2019. ■■■ ​In Châtelet, two distinct incidents were identified on the canal that runs along our plant. No damage was identified to the flora and fauna, but these incidents led to minutes established by the local authorities, which could lead to penalties to be paid by the company. While the root cause has been clearly identified at our Châtelet plant in the first case, in the second one (November), Aperam actively contributed to solving the issue even though our direct responsibility was not established (there are other industrial activities performed along the canal). However, as soon as the situation (a 700-meters long oily sheet on the Sambre River) was known, the unit organised a comprehensive action plan that involved stopping all production equipment, giving notice to the concerned authorities and 34 Waste & Recycling ■■■ ​Talking about the first two Rs in “reduce, reuse, recycle”, to help avoid waste, S&S Campinas took several new actions in 2018. Firstly, they cut the amount of We like to present ourselves as a recycling champion. Firstly, because we produce felt used in the production process (to avoid dust deposits between the plates) in metals that are endlessly reusable, secondly, because we use a large amount of half. Instead of disposing of the felt after each use, it is now cleaned (twice on recycled materials in our production process and, finally, because our Recyco unit average) and reused in the process. The unit has also developed a method for recovers the metallic content from the dust created by melting shops so it can be recovering slightly damaged plates by grinding and cutting them in the Recovery sent back to their furnaces. Recyco not only works for Aperam, but also for third Center. Once these new parts are optimised as first choice products, they can be parties from the steel industry. On top of that, Recyco was built re-using the tools used to address our customers’ needs, offering the best quality and price. This from our former Isbergues melting shop that were left idle after its closure in 2006. action avoids scraping of about 2% of some of our specific products and has contributed to a more sustainable use of materials and energy. This is all in line with our aim to become a zero-waste (for landfill) company. In 2018, 28.6% of our overall production input of 5,876,691 tons came from recycled 2018 Residues split ​ (%) ​GRI 306-2 sources (+2 pts versus 2017), G ​ RI 301-2​ a ​ nd less than 7% of our by-products were sent to the landfill, with the remainder being reused, recycled or stored for future recycling (see graph, right) G ​ RI 306-2​.​ In terms of metal input, some of our products contain over 80% metallic scrap. This is especially true for the stainless steels melt in Genk and Châtelet, with our austenitics often reaching levels beyond 88%. However, some of our by-products, such as acids or specific treatment mud, are still waiting for a viable technical solution to neutralize them and a market where they can be sold as a possible production input. We already mentioned in previous reports that our Timóteo unit is continuing to excavate residues stored in 1970s. In 2018, they again recovered some 11.3 kt that was previously engraved. Clearly, these efforts and patience have paid off and, thanks to the joint work of our 2018 Residues technicians, Aperam R&D and some external partners, some tricky wastes will soon be reusable. 9%​ Hazardous ■■■ ​Within the framework of its environment policy and waste recovery project, of which the Châtelet unit contributed to the 4th edition of Cleaner Wallonia by cleaning up the site. Two time slots were made available in March 2018 for people to 68% ​re-used or participate. A sign up sheet was sent to the inbox of all the employees and 60 recycled people volunteered to take part. The Environment team prepared all practical details in advance so that the various participants could be quickly paired off and equipped with cut-resistant gloves, a grey sack for cans and other bits of metal and an orange sack for other rubbish. ​This was a very successful clean-up and we collected 50 sacks of rubbish in two hours as well as used pallets lying around the site. I would also like to highlight the contribution received from external companies,”​ says Yves Bernis, head of Environment in Châtelet. The various items of rubbish were later taken to the right recycling point, by the site’s facility Management, some sent for incineration, all plastics, metallic and cardboard containers to their designated sorting site and finally, the cans and other bits of scrap directly to the plant’s electric furnace. The next campaign took place in March 2019 (See picture to the right). Motivated teams during the Cleaner Wallonia Day in Châtelet. 35 Other Initiatives work environment for operators, who can now make commands remotely. As per Ivana Coelho, Timóteo’s Head of Automation and Infrastructure: ​“It is actually just Industrial Risk a starting point. We call it an Integrated Center because we aim to go further, with the goal being to not only support infrastructure, but also all the productive processes of this plant.” In previous reports, we discussed the frequent exercises and simulations that we The use of Viridis, a specific software developed for Aperam, allows the team to run at our sites. This year, we want to report incidents that occurred at Châtelet monitor the use of energy on a real-time basis and analyse its historic and the subsequent company-wide program that the event triggered. performance. The modernization of Integrated Control Center was completed in six months and at a cost of over €200m. Aperam SA CEO Frederico Ayres Lima adds: ■■■ ​On 9 May 2018, there was an explosion at the Châtelet site’s oxygen station. “We are willing to bring the transformation to our site, becoming wiser in the use of As the explosion caused a small fire, all employees and the surrounding our technology and better prepared for what is coming in the future, such as population were alerted. The installations were immediately stopped and closed artificial intelligence, by taking advantage of connectivity and innovation and being and our employees were evacuated according to safety procedures. As a fast enough to stay ahead of the competition.” precautionary measure, police closed the nearby railway station and the city street bordering the site. Three workers were referred to the hospital for a medical check. Although the fire was quickly extinguished by the emergency teams, including local firemen, the damage was significant enough to affect operations at the melt shop for several weeks. Hopefully, this had no material impact on output. > ​Overall, the site’s swift reaction was reassuring and our CEO and Chief Technology Officer decided to sponsor a company-wide study aimed at systematically challenging our sites’ current approach to industrial risk mapping. This work started in 2018 at our Châtelet plant, with the external assistance of a specialised consulting firm that uses a methodology inspired by the chemical industry. In 2019 and 2020, it will be rolled out across our other main sites. The study takes into account a number of priorities, including the health and safety of our workers and neighbouring communities, the environment and any foreseen material impacts on our equipment. The idea is to assess a number of worst case scenarios (in Châtelet, we looked at more than 650!). We can respond to these scenarios with existing equipment and procedures, but some areas of improvement were also identified and subsequent recommendations issued. This analysis will be factored within the overall risk assessment of the company (reported in Annual Report) and combined with adequate action plans. The new Integrated control center in Timóteo plant. This company-wide review should be concluded in 2020. On a different note, we also want to highlight the work done in Brazil to optimize the follow-up of the key fluids and utilities and be able to react promptly in case of problems. ■■■ ​What used to be the Energy Center, which was dedicated to receiving, distributing and monitoring all electrical energy and fluids use at the Timóteo plant, is now the Integrated Control Center, the new brain for remotely controlling all of the plant’s energy and some of its fluids. Cameras and 111 sensors have been installed across the site to supply realtime information and remote control of every point using electric power and, in some cases, fluids. This change means a safer 36 These figures are reported within the overall ​GRI 403-9 ​indicator on page 45. Transportation Impact Upgrade of Genk’s “subway​” We changed our transportation methodology to better reflect our operating mode. This methodology integrates our Châtelet plant as the pivotal point from which Because of an increase in output, the transfer of almost all our products are dispatched to our European rolling mills via rail. In the our finished products from the plant to the table below, we include all the tons processed in Châtelet and consider them on storage and expedition halls also increased. To top of the shipments we send to our customers. After recalculation, and excluding increase our transfer capacity and to avoid a maritime (which in places like Imphy can represent 46% of our shipments), 39.8% bottleneck, a project was executed to decouple of our trips are operated by rail. This is down from 42.5% in 2017, a result of a the metro by placing a second car on the same reduction in Châtelet (-8 pts, linked to strikes on the French network) and Timóteo rail track (see picture). This has the advantage that at a minimum cost we avoid (-2 pts). The share operated by trucks is at 60%. The average loading of trucks other, less sustainable ways of transporting products in our mill. As a matter of has improved by over 2 points, showing a 91% optimised loading. Only two units fact, as this transport system doesn’t produce exhaust, it meets the challenge of were below 70% (Imphy and Pont-de-Roide) due to smaller volumes and timing increasing safety and reducing quality risks while also cutting air emissions and constraints. energy consumption. We continue to put a high emphasis on safety and inspect 100% of outbound trucks in terms of load securing, weight and protective equipment. We also had a second edition of our carrier seminar in Genk (see also 2015 Report). In accordance with our Transport Charter, we encourage our carriers to promote Eco-driving or Quiet Driving training. In 2018, we can report that our main sites are partnering with companies that have provided their drivers with an average of more than 1.5 hours of such training. In 2019, we will also start analysing the new European sustainability standards that have emerged for logistics, with the aim of better structuring our approach. Transportation impact​ (estimates, excluding maritime) Indicator Unit 2018 2017 Comments Rail traffic* % 39.8 42.5 Timóteo at 10% (8% in 2016, 12.6% in 2017) Road traffic* shipments 60.1 57.0 With most of our Service centres 100% trucks (except River/Other Maritime) 0.1 0.5 Imphy at 8% by Plane, with a -50% 2019 target traffic* Trucks loading* % 91.2 88.8 Strong improvement in Genk versus 2017. * Estimations based on major plants and the five largest Service Centres. > ​Following the Norwegian Sovereign Fund’s reporting on the beaching practices of five major maritime shipping companies on the shores of the Indian Peninsula, Aperam immediately identified one of these carriers as an occasional shipper to © AdobeStock some countries in Asia. With the collaboration our logistic partner, who operates all our maritime shipments, we decided to blacklist this company so long as no action plan for resolving the issue was taken. Alternative carriers were found to replace it. In our contract with our logistic partner, we agreed to make a reference to the French Law of Devoir de vigilance of 2017 and to the British Modern Slavery Act of 2015, which includes a specific clause on maritime transport. 37 Noise & Smells ■■■ ​In the course of 2017-2018, we started to receive remarks from the neighbourhood about a new annoying buzzing noise and sometimes also about Our basic principle regarding noise is very simple: our plants aim to be fully smells. To identify the source of the noise, site management hired experts to compliant with all applicable regulations, including our operating permits and the investigate based on a specific campaign of measurements. They identified the working conditions mandated by labour regulations. To ensure the efficiency of our new RD79 oven chimney as the main source of noise, along with several other noise emissions, especially where our sites are located near residential areas, sources. clear instructions are given to all actors operating in our plants, including truck Drawing inspiration from the mutes musicians use to quiet their trumpets, a drivers and subcontractors. Particular attention is given to hotspots such as scrap tailor-made cover was installed in July 2018, allowing the heating gas to evacuate yards and logistics and the timing of sensitive operations. In addition, we strive to while significantly reducing the noise level. Since then, and in parallel to the work promptly react to complaints and adjust our installations as necessary. planned on the other sources of noise, no further complaints have been received A lot has happened since last year, when we mentioned the encapsulation of one about noise or smells. of our German lines. Read on to see what’s new in 2018! Palais de Justice (Courthouse), Strasbourg France Garcés.De Seta.Bonet Arquitectes & Serra-Vives-Cartagena © Adrià Goula Executed using grade Aperam 304 with Uginox Top finish 38 Awareness-Raising Awareness-raising campaign to mobilize To make sure the company’s targets were fully clear to all employees, in 2017 the energy towards our Group kicked-off an awareness-raising campaign during the week of the United Zero-Waste Nations’ World Environment Day. In 2018, we wanted to support the United objective, in line with the United Nations’ Nations’ efforts on waste reduction by urging our employees to factor this element World Environment into all their daily decisions at home and in the workshops or office. To do so, we Day global campaign decided to echo the United Nations’ campaign (see poster, right) and encourage (Top). our people to help stop plastic pollution by choosing such sustainable materials as reusable cups or bottles over disposable cups or bottled mineral water. ■■■ ​Among our other company-wide campaigns was one aimed at raising awareness about the impact of Information Technology usage. Using the mascot presented in last year’s report, a special movie was designed in-house (see right) and translated into numerous languages urging Aperam employees to stop printing and adopt a ‘green mindset’ when deciding whether paper copies are really needed. Thanks to the numerous initiatives combined with this campaign, by the end of September, our global printing had been reduced by about 7% compared to 2017. ■■■ ​We mentioned earlier that our Imphy site launched a new intranet in 2018. Among its key objectives is to raise employee awareness about the company’s program to fight climate change. Called “Ensemble tous mobilisés: «L’énergie est en nous!»” (Together & committed: The power is with us) the campaign aims to strengthen the site’s eco-consciousness and generate new ideas for improving our Group Green IT project: the 2018 Video English(Left), and energy efficiency while also realizing financial savings. The campaign is monitored Aperam Imphy poster to watch heating consumption (Right). by the unit’s responsible for Energy, together with a motivated team of “ambassadors” from all departments. The goal is to ensure that each employee Encouraging bike commuting plays a role in the overall energy savings generated by the company. Last year we mentioned a program launched in To build enthusiasm around the campaign, different topics are highlighted each Genk to promote biking to work In 2018, Aperam month thanks to a newsletter illustrated with a mascot named “Energiser”. In 2018, Ústí (Czech Republic) took part in a Cycling to the first three topics covered were lightning, heating and compressed air. work event co-organized by the nearby city and Posters were distributed and stickers were placed over power buttons. All content environmental agencies. This challenge aims to can be found on the intranet, which includes educational videos, quizzes and entice people to replace their car with a bicycle checklists that aim to make learning fun. when going to work. Aperam supported participating employees and prepared an intracompany breakfast for cyclists , inviting other participants from nearby industrial companies to join. In total, 12 employees made 78% of their journeys to and from work on a bicycle, riding in total 3200 km and saving 413 kg of CO2. The unit will participate again next year, hoping to attract even more employees. 39 Governance Relations with our Stakeholders We aim to achieve best practices in governance and apply the strongest business ethics. These are the keys to building trust with our customers, our employees and the communities we work in, to protecting our market position and license to operate, and ensuring our ability to thrive. Our strong customer focus, with innovation and R&D being key pillars, is a testament to the fact that we are good at listening and able to find the right solutions a pattern we repeat in our social dialogue and stakeholder engagement. Sustainably profitable building a sustainable future for our teams. To do this, we have reorganised our tools, reducing them from 29 to 17 and, when necessary, downsized our staff in a In 2018, Aperam achieved a solid set of results despite an fully responsible way (see previous reports). extremely challenging market environment. EBITDA was €504 As a result of its operational and financial turnaround, Aperam is now million, the second highest amount since the creation of the well-positioned to seize the benefits of the long-term growth perspectives of our company. This is in large part due to the steps we have taken stainless and specialty-steel markets. This responsible strategy and its efficient and are continuing to take to make Aperam a resilient delivery are now recognised and often applauded by many of our stakeholders. company, prepared for the future and able to operate successfully in all market conditions. Our good performance is overall well recognised by financial and ESG analysts Eight years after our creation, we are now not only more cost (see aside), and when we face difficulties, we do so in earnest and with diligence. competitive than ever, we continue to develop a myriad of innovative services and The few difficulties we encountered last year in our water disposal management products. We are also raising the bar further in terms of sustainable profitability (see p.34), can be considered good examples of that. with our ambitions to increase the annualized targeted gains of our Leadership On a more permanent basis, we take pride in supporting the local economies of Journey® (Phase 3 Transformation Program) from €150 million to €200 million by surrounding communities through taxes and salaries and in local purchases. In the end of 2020. Aperam is well on its way on the Phase 3 of the Leadership some places, we are even a key actor in the local economy, which reinforces our Journey® the Transformation Program to achieve the next structural profitability sense of responsibility and our duty of efficiency. Overall, according to last Climate improvement, which involves leveraging the digital revolution and the power of big Survey, 78% of our employees are proud of our contribution to the local data to further enhance our operational efficiency and customer service offering. communities. In 2018, we channeled €527 million in salaries and $75 million in taxes to local Long-term strategy economies compared to €534 and €57 million respectively last year (​GRI 201-1​ ​ see also our three country supplements) and, at our largest sites, local purchases Efficiency as an Employer’s responsibility represent 53% of total spent (vs. 57% in 2017 both excluding raw materials, amid significant price increases of non-locally sourced materials G​ RI 204-1​). And this is Since Aperam’s creation, we have been successful in an early restructuring of our not counting the contribution we provide to the cultural life of our communities (see downstream operations in Europe to adapt to changing market conditions. As a page 50-52). result, we are better able to face headwinds and are already well on our way to 40 Picture:​ Aperam Stakeholder Day in Isbergues (“Journées des Familles”), with well-equipped relatives of our employees discovering the site. 2018 recognitions​. At a glance ​GRI 102, GRI 413-1I Indicator Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Page Reconfirmed as ​“AA”​ by Customer satisfaction: Alloys n/a 8.8 9.3 9.2 9.1 (Leadership level) Rate on 10 Customer satisfaction: Stainless 7.6​(2) 7.1​(1) n/a 7.4​(1) 7.8​(2) Customer & Innovation focus Innovation (R&D spent) $m 20 20 18 18 20 p.53-58 Rated ​“B”​ by (Management level) New products in Sales Index base 2015 130 122 113 100 n/a Sustainably EWC committees​(3) # 4 4 4 4 4 profitable p.44 Listed in ​Excellence register Fraud allegations reported # 12 17 7 11 9 Risk management Forensic cases founded # 2 4 2 5 3 and Compliance p.47-48 -o/w significant cases​(4) # 0 0 0 0 0 Rated ​Gold ​by EcoVadis in 2017 (Imphy Alloys) Local purchase at main sites % 53 57 57 58 62 Stakeholder Sites with exhaustive Stakeholder % relationships of main sites 64 64 n/a n/a n/a p.50-53 engagement policy (1): Europe, (2): Brazil, (3): EWC (European Work Council) initiated in April 2013, (4): Following review by the Audit & Risk Management Committee. 41 Innovating for a sustainable, safe and profitable future Below is a sample of the programs aimed at generating new ideas for improving the processes of our teams. (The innovative solutions proposed to our customers To remain sustainably profitable and competitive, we must leverage all available are detailed in chapter Customer & Innovation focus, p.53-58.) solutions, from the latest technologies, automation and digitalization to new ideas from our skilled and passionate workforce. At Aperam, we do our best to spur innovation at all levels of the company (see Holistic approach insert on Gamification Challenge). Most recently, we set up an Innovation Team to In 2017, we upgraded our internal procedures. First, we require an boost the flow of ideas and the lead-time needed to take them from concept to assessment of each investment project on five dimensions, with a view reality. Last year, the Team helped organise Aperam’s first “Innovation Day”. Held on its potential impact on Environmental, Social and March 15th and hosted by the Isbergues Plant, the event welcomed a variety of Governance-related aspects. Second, we require the integration of startups and vendors who shared some of the technologies that could help cost related to CO2 emissions as either a cost or a bonus whenever implement many of the ideas that will define Aperam’s future. Among the tools and the project improves our footprint. As the primary objective of this change was to concepts presented were drones, smart glasses, augmented reality, Internet of raise awareness, the internal price was set at $15 per ton of CO​2​ (see also, p.27). Things, 3D Factory, Machine Learning and collaboration tools. In 2018, we went even further along this path. After confirming that this procedure “I’ve been working here for 18 years and it’s the first time any thing like this was had proved useful to changing mindsets and improving our projects, we enhanced organised,” m ​ arvels Benoit, a research and development technician at Aperam its efficiency by improving the visibility of these assessments. As a result, starting in and one of the many curious employees who visited the event.​“It was a great September 2018, these elements are now among the first criteria visible on each opportunity to open your mind to the future, as being able to touch and try the tools file. Furthermore, projects can be retrieved from our database based on their impact. The idea is to better monitor our efforts with a simple reporting and to be able to makes you realise how they represent a revolution for our industry.” challenge the assessments and eventual impacts. For our 2018 investments, at this time we cannot yet easily filter all the projects that Voices incorporate significant H&S or Environmental features (starting in 2019, our new system will let us do this!). However, we can already report that over 6.4% of our “It was a great opportunity to open 2018 capital expenses were categorised as “pure” Health & Safety and 3.7% “pure” Environmental improvements. This is compared to a respective 6.1% and 2.7% from your mind to the future, as being 2017. And this is only the tip of the iceberg. We aim to further raise the awareness of able to touch and try the tools the organisation so that more investments seize the opportunity to improve the makes you realise how they sustainability of our company. represent a revolution for our industry.” Turning to our operating units, a few have annual routines worth highlighting here. ■■■ ​For instance, Aperam South America’s “Cosis” (S​emestrial Symposiums Benoît Organisation Commission) challenges employees to present projects and R&D Technician, Isbergues innovations aimed at improving processes​. This year's edition, entitled Bring Innovation to the Day-to-Day , showcased 29 projects in four categories. The To the left: Innovation Day in Isbergues, drones (Top) winners can be seen in the picture on the next page: and augmented reality (Bottom) Product: Reinaldo’s new ferritic stainless steel Management and Improvement: Benone’s IoT in Forest Equipment Management The Aperam Research ​Center was also part of the event. After all, its mission is to Maintenance and Equipment: Renato’s and Breno’s chimney converters ensure continuous improvements thanks to high competences on core business replacement stainless steel thematics and partnerships with best-in-class worldwide technical Process: Carolina’s box annealing cycle for the new grain oriented electrical steel centers. Ultimately, the Innovation Team collected over 50 ideas on how the new (GOBT), which also won the Innovation Trophy technologies presented during the Innovation Day could be used to improve employee efficiency and working conditions. The Team is now experimenting with some of these ideas. 42 ■■■ ​In Europe, the Genk site has been organizing its “Winner Trophy” since 2005. With this challenge, Genk management honours and thanks field operators for the improvement projects that they voluntarily propose and realize, either individually or in a team as a project group. The small financial reward they receive must be spent in a team activity. Last year, three teams received prizes: Team D SFA for efficiently solving the long-time problem of adjusting the hydraulic lines on breakers Team 1 KW BAL1 for improving the stability of the BAL1 furnace atmosphere using method and analysis techniques Team KW for their use of overhead cranes packaging shift maintenance dealing with the refurbishment of halls, proving that a safety problem (safety cone overhead cranes) can be successfully tackled by involving all stakeholders. These are just several specific examples of innovation in action at our individual sites, but innovation flows across our entire organisation. In 2018, our Legal ​ op:​ Our Legal team (Left) and 2018 Cosis winners (Right) ; B T ​ ottom:​ Genk’s Trophy Winners (from left Department was once again awarded the silver prize in the “Trophée du Droit”, a to right: Team D SFA, Team 1 KW/BAL1, Team KW Crane/Packaging/Maintenance) contest for innovative initiatives for the legal business involving more than 100 in-house legal departments from major international companies. Boost-Up Innovation Game Across Aperam, all our teams are proving what agility, ingenuity and leadership can provide! Last year Aperam decided to launch a unique challenge to bring forward a 'bottom-up' innovation approach. Based on “Lean Startup” methodology, the As a matter of fact, according to our last challenge was gamified, allowing global participation on topics that are 84% ​of our Climate Survey, 84% of respondents reported being encouraged to come up with strategically important for the success and sustainability of the company. The objective was also to instill an 'entrepreneurial' attitude across the length, employees ​feel innovative solutions to work-related breadth, and depth of the company. encouraged to come up problems. This represents a 4 point increase The initiative was branded as 'Boost Up! build learn transform'. It allowed since our last survey and a significant 7 with innovative points above the average for Heavy our employees to actively participate across all stages of our innovation efforts to enable the transformation as a true intrapreneur. To make it engaging, it was solutions. Manufacturing companies. It is also a 'gamified' in a fun and constructive way. It helped us in harvesting, prioritizing, testament to our commitment to encouraging elaborating and realizing a portfolio of valuable initiatives that will make the This is ​+7pts ​vs. Heavy innovation at all levels of the company. difference for Aperam. Our methodology focused on starting small and validating Manufacturing standard hypotheses step by step, in order to improve sustainably by reducing risks of losing investments and customers. Enabled by a digital tool, more than 2,000 people across the globe participated in the challenge during three months. We received more than 1,800 validated ideas, which were further filtered and consolidated into 10 final ventures. The finalists included such topics as industrial excellence, disruptive business models and energy efficiency, and showcased the benefits of a mixed use of technology, business processes and creativity. 43 Responsible employer 44km away from the current industrial site, was selected as the location of the new production facility and of the distinct sales offices, which were based in Erkrath. We believe that our operations are run in a constructive social climate. Our In early 2018, we started the negotiation about the social plan affecting the 110 absenteeism rate of 2.3% (2017: 2.2%) remains stable and our last Engagement employees of Duisburg and Erkrath. At the beginning of May 2018, the Survey shows a workforce aligned with the company’s strategy, ready to Duisburg/Erkrath Works Council and the Management of Aperam Germany signed recommend Aperam as a good employer and feeling empowered to do their part in an agreed upon social plan, which provides for the reimbursement of the extended the production of products they are very proud of (see the results mentioned p.9, travel expenses for a defined period, covers moving expenses and offers a shuttle p.18 and p.43). bus. For employees not wanting to make the transition, a severance payment was >​ ​We always try to facilitate an open and honest dialogue with the unions. negotiated. Next to the information and consultation with the local works councils and union We believe that the constructive atmosphere in which the discussions with our delegations that are often organized at site level and the central works council in employee representatives took place were critical in the success of the Haan France, we are also further developing the dialogue at the European level. project. This dialogue, in the form of monthly physical meetings with the local Work As an international company, our decisions are often taken at a local or global Councils, allows us to solve problems at an early stage, be it for large projects like level and the European Works Council (EWC) allows us to have a first high level the move to Haan, or for everyday topics. It will be continued at the new site. discussion with employee representatives. Senior Management is very much engaged in this process as several members of the Aperam Leadership Team (our Executive Committee) participate in the Selected Committee of the EWC and, during the plenary sessions, we usually have 4 to 5 members participating and giving a strategic outlook on the evolution of their business. >​ ​Overall in 2018, we had 4 meetings with our EWC (selected committee meetings and plenary sessions). The action plans related to the fatality in Genk were also the focus of several additional extraordinary meetings, as some organisational updates were in preparation. Members of the dedicated H&S Working Group were also appointed at the European level and started their work, supervised by the EWC. >​ ​In 2018, in addition to the usual training sessions dispensed to the members of the EWC, we arranged that 14 of them receive a two-day general training from the European Trade Union Institute (ETUI) to help them get a clearer view of the social dialogue at European level and better understand the differences with national-level committees. The training was also intended to facilitate the establishment of a better coordination among EWC members, to strengthen the committee’s consistency and empower members with tools to build their strategic vision. But being a fair employer also means taking the most responsible approach when it comes to difficult missions, such as redundancy plans or relocations. ■■■ ​ In early 2018, we announced the investment to transfer our German Service Haan: the brand-new building that will host the former Duisbourg activities of S&S Germany Center from Duisburg to Haan in full coherence with Phase 3 of our Leadership Journey. Germany is a core market for Aperam, representing about 25% of Group sales in 2018, and this investment will enable Aperam to serve its German customer base with an enhanced product and service level. The city of Haan, 44 Responsibility in the value chain > ​Regarding our transportation suppliers​, out of 42 freight partners, one maritime freight supplier was excluded in 2018 (see p.37). Aperam has been Overall supply chain CSR risk assessment checking the behaviour of its freight suppliers in regards to health and safety, human rights and labour practices, environment and ethics since 2006. Between We continued the methodology initiated in 2016 to assess our supply chain risk. 2006 and up to 2018, 18 suppliers have been denied listing due to human rights > ​Starting with the raw material supply chain,​ we only assessed one additional issues, two for ethics violations and one for labour practices. All had fully supplier this year, as the global campaign is conducted every two years, with the committed to respecting these points per the contract signed with us. next one happening in 2019. Here we can identify a reduction in risks related to H&S, with only two companies concerned, and the same number of suppliers > ​Overall in 2018, we assessed a total of 211 suppliers​ from our central raw identified for potential risks related to human rights and to the environment. The materials sourcing organisation and the bulk of our main sites (Châtelet, Genk, evolutionary analysis shows that only one of the suppliers “under scrutiny” is Isbergues, Pont-de-Roide and Timoteo) and the results are in the table below. recurrent, and its classification as “risky” is due to a lack of information about its During the course of the year, the non-raw material purchasing team defined a sustainability commitments, which will generate specific actions from the team in new regional cluster-based structure that will better support site suppliers. A new 2019. All other suppliers have been requested to present a short term action plan purchasing Center of Excellence was also created and, in 2019, will define a more and are under close follow up by our sourcing team. standardized and global approach for supplier qualification and performance. > ​Regarding non raw material suppliers​, in 2018 the global tool SAGA was used > ​We also continued to raise the awareness​ of the teams involved in purchasing to assess again our most critical suppliers, which is still focused on our main or suppliers’ quality assessment so they have a better understanding of Aperam’s subcontractors at our largest sites. On this scope, among the 71 suppliers expectations regarding suppliers’ Human Rights policies. During Spring 2018, we assessed, we identified eight suppliers with potential risks regarding Health and held informative meetings based on the SA8000 referential for all our main sites Safety, eight regarding the Environment and four concerning Human Rights ​GRI and countries. As a result, 62 buyers and qualicians from Europe and Brazil were 414-1, 414-2 ​/ ​GRI 417-1​. trained on using the new supplier audit referential, which now includes a specific Consistent with this assessment, specific actions were put in place to orientate and focus on Health & Safety, Human Rights, and Environment all in line with support the suppliers towards achieving better performance. One example of these Aperam’s sustainability commitments. In the near future, we aim to develop even actions are our Boss-to-Boss meetings (see next page). more robust procedures and clear guidelines as to when an audit is recommended.. Supply Risks identified in terms of: Universe Not Scope Labour, Chain Year covered assessed​* analysed EnvironH&S Human Ethics follow-up Rights ment 2016 89 14 75 9 6 7 0 Raw Mats 2017 94 13 81 3 6 4 0 2018 95 13 82 2 2 4 0 Non-Raw 2016 126 126 7 0 4 0 Mats ​(main sites’ 2017 50 50 6 0 4 0 subcontractors) 2018 71 71 8 4 8 0 2016 0 0 0 0 0 0 Transport 2017 42 42 2 0 0 1 (Europe) 2018 45 45 1 0 0 1 2016 215 14 201 16 6 11 0 During the second edition of the transport seminar organized by Aperam Genk (see Report 2015), the Total 2017 186 13 173 11 6 8 1 site welcomed around 50 Carrier participants. A visit to the loading dock took place in the afternoon. 2018 211 13 198 11 6 12 1 45 Pragmatic action plans our commitment to promoting high social, environmental and ethical standards, with a strong focus on Health & Safety and Human Rights. Later, in the context of An illustration of the work regularly performed with our suppliers can be seen at our anti-corruption policy, we also dispatched a letter to our over 8,000 suppliers our Châtelet site. Although the H&S indicators have improved considerably for asking them to refrain from offering gifts to our employees. employees over the past few years, they remained mediocre with respect to subcontractors working on the premises. In this context, site management is committed to strengthening its action plan, having taken action on several Aperam’s SAFE training as seen by on-site subcontractors dimensions. Already, the bi-annual meetings of the “club of companies”, which We recently invited one external subcontractor who participated in our SAFE training to gathers all the entities working on the site (around 15), are used to allow the 40+ share his feedback. Here’s what we learned: participants to share best practices and coordinate actions. However, specific First, the invitation was very well received, demonstrating that there is not a ‘two-speed’ Boss-to-Boss meetings can also be held on a reactive or preventive basis. approach to safety and that everyone at the plant both employees and subcontractors feel like they are part of the same team. ■■■ ​For instance, in 2018, two such meetings were organised based on the Second, the extensive use of videos was applauded for their efficiency and their ability to follow-up of two of our suppliers, who were showing a negative trend with a lot of make the 40 hours of training go very fast without downtime or boredom. Also, the remarks on Health & Safety. As the site is keen to develop a fair and motivating differentiation between risk and danger was valued, as well as the information about the follow-up on this topic, it tries to regularly collect and record both the positive and accident rate at the plant, on the road and at home (the last two being five and 15 times negative observations relating to protective equipment, ergonomy, tidiness, tools higher respectively). Last, our subcontractor also liked the live sessions on shop floor audits, where the or the location of the people. But when the records (the same of which are also trainees get to ask the operators questions, praise their good reflexes and challenge their integrated into our SAGA reporting as mentioned above) show too many negative habits. The methodology explained in detail beforehand ensured these were fruitful observations with little evidence of appropriate action plans for improvement, discussions that would have a longer lasting impact than a simple one-way notification specific meetings are swiftly organised between Aperam’s site manager, the H&S about a non-compliance. It even helped the person better understand the motives and site leader and the relevant buyer and, for the supplier, members of their spirit of some of the feedback received in the past, and put more emphasis on the need management team, in addition to their local contacts and H&S specialists. During to systematically compliment teams about their good behaviours. these meetings, the supplier is invited to present their overall H&S performance, Overall, extremely positive feedback! their company-wide and/or national regulatory action plans and to elaborate on any difficulties they may have encountered during the roll-out. The idea is to show the focus we put on the subject and to see if there are ways that Aperam can support its subcontractor. Usually, a formal follow-up meeting is planned for the next year to share results and maintain the focus. One of the suppliers that underwent such a thorough analysis at Châtelet in 2018 was in charge of mechanical maintenance. The action plan agreed upon included such actions as organising more joint formal audits, scheduling a review of the procedures, and raising awareness among workers, coach line management and team leaders so they can autonomously run shopfloor security engagement meetings and, last but not least, have the subcontractor’s line manager participate in our SAFE training. As to this last item, the task was completed (see right). Advocacy Developing a shared culture of vigilance within our Supply Chain requires more than accumulating policies and engaging in a reactive manner. We must also proactively engage with our partners on these topics. In the past we have advised our external commercial agents to follow an online anti-corruption training (see previous reports). In 2018, our CEO even wrote to our Silène luminaris sive Muflier de Borges, Miguel Chevalier, 2015; Painted stainless steel sculpture in red and orange. Clement Foundation, Le François, Martinique Executed using grade Aperam 316 Hot business partners to encourage them to read our Sustainability Report and support Rolled Finish. 46 Risks and Compliance >​ The first one focused on anti-Corruption and requested all exempts at minimum to follow an online interactive training module. Over 1,000 employees,mostly Risk monitoring exempts, followed this certifying training program proposed in 14 languages by the United Nations against Crime and Drugs, reaching a 94% training rate. Once Our Risk Management process is based on a quarterly review of our main risks again, very positive feedback was received, with an average rating of above four and their mitigation action plans. It encompasses all possible areas, from tax to out of five. In some sites the training was deployed to all employees, not only natural disasters, and includes such topics as corruption, electricity prices, exempts, thanks to the installation of rooms with computers at the disposal of all. economic sanctions and money-laundering. All risks are discussed at our Board’s >​ The second action related to Human Rights. In conjunction with the 70​th Audit and Risk Management Committee. All the top risks are disclosed within our anniversary of the United Nations’ Human Rights Charter, which was celebrated Annual Financial Report (p.62 and 63) and all are analysed, weighed and assigned on December 10th, we released our updated Human Rights policy, based upon a mitigation strategy. best practices and augmented with a specific Gender Diversity policy (see pX). In 2018, 12 allegations relating to fraud were referred to the Group's Combined This release was combined with pop-up posters opening on computer screens at Assurance Department for investigation. At the end of 2018, nine forensic cases login (see aside). The attached video included a few words from our CEO and had been finalised, with two cases founded (with no material impact on Aperam) invited all Aperam employees to fight discrimination and promote the respect and and seven unfounded. An additional three remained in progress. All cases were diffusion of Human Rights. reviewed by the Audit and Risk Management Committee, which reported Pop-up inviting all employees to join Aperam appropriately to the Board of Directors. In addition, a series of recommendations and the United Nations’ fight in favour of Human Our Anti-Corruption toolbox will be issued and implemented based on the investigation’s findings. Rights, here in Spanish (10 languages available). > Specific assessment matrix Solidifying our compliance approach > O ​nline training​followed by In 2018, our Compliance Framework continued the programme initiated last year, over 1,000 employees in 2018 which is based on six pillars: Communication, Alignment, Behaviour, Audit, > Special in-person training at Technical Expertise and Continuous Improvement. some sites or units Among the key areas of focus were also the topics related to the implementation of the Global Data Privacy Regulations, to anti-Corruption regulations (see next page >​Annual declarations of inserts) and to the economic sanctions policies. We have proper due diligences in Conflicts of Interest​mandatory place and we can confirm that, for the year 2018, we have not traded with entities for all exempts starting 2018 from the following countries: Afghanistan, Cuba, Iran, Iraq, North Korea, Somalia, Sudan/South Sudan, Syria, Crimea Region of Ukraine, Yemen or Zimbabwe. > S ​pecial No-Gift policy including monetary thresholds and Communications guidelines on travels, donations & entertainment We aim to regularly communicate on and raise awareness about the issues that are most > R ​eminder of our No-Gift policy important to Aperam. In 2017, this company-wide dispatched i​nternally a ​nd ​ to over communication strategy was inaugurated with a 8,000 suppliers b​efore year-end short quiz on Aperam’s Code of Conduct, which > Special ​ Season’s Greeting was rolled out in 10 languages. With over 3,200 official signature mentioning our individual responses and an average rating of four No-Gift policy out of five, this exercise paved the way for two additional company-wide actions taken in 2018. 47 Alignment & Behaviours Global Data Privacy at Aperam In terms of alignment, we continued with the roll-out of the routines started in 2017, including the “compliance certificate” that summarises the actions of the year and In 2018, Aperam appointed a dedicated team to implement the European General the specific adhesion rate unit by unit and the declaration of potential conflicts of Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679, which introduces robust requirements interests, the latter of which was deployed for the first time to all exempts. regarding the protection, security, and compliance of personal data and also Down the road, these routines will be embedded within our Human Resources addresses their dataflows outside the European Union. In 2019, they have already master system to ensure a more efficient follow-up, with automatic reminders and set all applicable Data Protection Group policies, filled the Data Protection Register, ready-made reporting by organisation all aligned with the most updated employee introduced data privacy clauses in new employment contract, enforced all data protection obligations in its contractual undertakings. The team, led by a Data database so nobody is forgotten. The intent is that the system also ensures that Protection Officer, is supported both by a Data Protection Committee, including each hierarchical manager is made aware of the response rate of her or his teams. several key executives of the company (Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel, In that way, she or he can convey the right message throughout the year, Chief Information Officer, etc...) and a network of local ambassadors at each site reinforcing the need for perfect discipline on these subjects and taking Speaking of them, our Brazilian ambassador organised a specific seminar (the accountability for all her or his teams across the organisational pyramid. The net second edition of the local Compliance Leadership Seminar) on the European result is a showing of the exemplary behaviour that is expected of a team leader General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and its Brazilian counterpart, the within Aperam. General Data Protection Law (LGPD), which will go into effect by August 2020. Over 240 local leaders were invited for a detailed presentation made by experts on Technical Expertise, Audit & Continuous improvement data protection subjects. Our local legal adviser, Renata, explained:​ “As part of To also improve the Technical Expertise of our teams on the topics relevant to Aperam, whose headquarters is in Luxemburg, we apply the same European them, we have a framework in place with particular focus areas defined according legislation to all Brazilian sites.” to the target populations (function, geography), which makes it easier to define the In addition to strengthening the practices concerning personal data protection, the necessary induction training for each employee. We have also decided to create a local team also decided to have users reflect on their web usage. As Raquel, our Compliance Academy with home-made and external catalogues of courses Local Ambassador, commented:​ “The way we use the web needs to be continuously evaluated. This is a good moment to rethink, for instance, if we are cautious enough providing an enhanced understanding of key compliance topics and policies, eg. when sending a simple email, and check quickly if all the recipients really need to be Antitrust, Anti-Corruption, Economic Sanctions, Human Rights. informed about the message’s contents.” In 2018, we also built specific in-house modules regarding Global Data Privacy Regulations and Aperam’s Code of Business Conduct that reinforce the exact messages we want our staff to memorize. These modules will be made available Voice to the entire Aperam workforce through our Learning Management System, which will allow for improved follow-up functionalities (assignments, automatic reminders, “Knowing that personal data is everywhere and is used organisational and hierarchical views). In 2018, we also taylored the Antitrust every day for business reasons, all Aperam employees module rolled-out in 2017 with our 100+ top need to see themselves as people with data protection executives to train our buyers with real-life situations adapted to their function. 87%​ of Aperam rights as well as individuals accountable for the way he or Furthermore, we aim to regularly refresh our employees are she manages the data regarding other individuals. policies as part of our Continuous comfortable raising In 2019, specific training modules will help to Improvement pillar. Along these lines, we that respect.” updated our Human Rights policy (released in problems r​ elated to December), requested the validation of an unacceptable behaviours Laurent Beauloye enhanced Code of Conduct applying best This is +7 pts vs. Heavy Company Secretary, Data Protection Officer practices (to be released in the first half of 2019) and started updating several other Manufacturing and ​+5 pts and Head of Communications policies. vs Best Performers. 48 Relationship with Authorities In principle, Aperam only engages in policy debates with governments and policymakers on topics that are of concern to its business. In particular, it is stated very clearly in our Code of Conduct that Aperam shall never subsidise any public body, civil servant, member of a political party or union and we pay scrupulous attention to respect the best anti-corruption practices (see our toolbox above) and to promote a fair and competitive marketplace. We also respond diligently to any enquiry of local, national or supranational authorities and, in particular, our public tax policy explains our approach in this respect. Although Aperam is aware of all regulatory updates under discussion, the © AdobeStock company usually relies on international or local trade associations, in particular EU Trade Defense Update ISSF (International Stainless Steel Association), Eurofer in Europe and the Brazil Steel Institute in Brazil with respect to influencing any policy relevant to our Aperam works closely with the steel industry associations and other local trade industry. Occasionally, however, Aperam does engage directly with governments associations, mainly in Europe and South America, to promote a fair and in Europe and Brazil, where the Group has its largest industrial sites, on policy competitive marketplace. issues that are essential to the future of the stainless steel industry (see insert on In 2018, this activity was particularly intense due to the repercussions of the Anti-Dumping for more information). US protectionist measures (Section 232) and the need to protect the European market from an increasing number of unfair forms of international trade Carbon markets and competition (dumping, various forms of public subsidies, circumvention, etc.). 2018 was a challenging year for Aperam and the stainless steel industry with This activity has always taken place within Eurofer, our European trade unprecedented import pressure in Europe, global trade tensions and stainless association, either during the periodic meetings dedicated to the commercial steel prices under pressure. Imports into Europe primarily originated from countries problems of the steel industry (External Committee) or, more specifically, within with less advanced environmental standards and without a CO​2​ pricing the sub-sector dedicated forums (Stainless Steel Working Group). mechanism. Compared to Aperam’s products made in Europe, we estimate that The most important issues addressed during 2018 (and which are still ongoing the CO​2​ emissions per tonne is manyfold for imported material. When it comes to in 2019) are as follows: CO​2​, we are the benchmark in the industry thanks to our electric arc furnace route Safeguard measures for steel products in the EU28 addressing 232 in Europe that relies on recycled stainless steel scrap and our own forests used Trade Barrier Regulation, attacking wide distortion in the industry for charcoal production in Brazil. Anti-Dumping / Countervailing Duties against unfair practice On top of the direct environmental impact of importing high CO​2​ content material, To manage and formalize the common positions at the European level, through this also has a social dimension. With CO​2​ in Europe now priced at close to Eurofer we have engaged the services and assistance of several major EUR20/t in the spot market, we face a severe competitive cost disadvantage, international law firms. We have also met several times with the public which puts the survival of our industry at risk as most of the imported material is administrations of France and Belgium, always within the global European not subject to any similar measures. We are determined to be a sector leader in framework, to transparently inform and seek support from the Member States of environmental excellence and strongly believe in our indefinitely recyclable reference. To defend specific business positions, Aperam has at times products, but to guarantee a sustainable future of our industry, we urge the individually committed itself in some parts of the world always with the support European Commission to implement CO​2​ related import duties to level the playing of competent local legal offices. field. Not addressing this important issue will further exacerbate the displacement In 2018, the total cost of these activities for Aperam was about $600,000 (vs. of our domestically produced green stainless steel with imported material at the $365,000 in 2017) including internal and external resources. expense of increasing global CO​2​ emissions and accelerated global warming. 49 Stakeholder relationships Aperam Acesita Foundation Aperam sites are encouraged to engage regularly with In 2018, our Foundation distributed close to R$ 3m (€0.7m, of which 34% comes from Aperam), to the benefit local stakeholders, as doing so is not only fully consistent of more than 70,000 people in the areas of Education (24%), Culture (17%), Environment (31%) and Social with our values, it’s also simply good business. It’s also (28%). The actions were focused on the development and empowerment of the communities of the Vale do very important to our employees. According to our last Aço and Jequitinhonha regions. Taking into consideration the diversity, culture, challenges, business scope Climate Survey, 78% stated that they are proud of the and prior needs, the Foundation aims to contribute to a sustainable and integrated regional development. Company’s contribution to the community. This is > Education: The “Entrepreneurship Program” taught 1,647 middleand high-school students how to become particularly true in Brazil, where we have a Foundation entrepreneurs. Furthermore, specific programs were put into place, including the Program for Drug Eradication that invest heavily in the support of local communities, (PROERD) and Intensivão, which prepared some 2,500 students for their highschool level exam. Other actions with particular attention to such topics as health, focused on the skills and professional development of educational professionals. For example, the Inclusive sustainability and employability (see insert). In Europe, Education Seminar (organized with the local government), involved nearly 1,400 people and promoted the our actions are less structured and more opportunistic. inclusion of disabled students through exchanges of experience, innovative pedagogical practices, and the Beyond philanthropy or investing to have a social impact, design of a policy that guarantees the needs of each individual student is respected. This year also saw the which is the primary purpose of our Foundation, we aim expansion of the Sou+ project, which was launched in 2017. Over 500 students received educational support to have sound and transparent relationships with all our and participated in games that promote best practices concerning health, safety and sustainability. stakeholders, starting with our neighbours and > Social: ​Another key program was organized by the Inox Institute, a surrounding communities. partnership between the Aperam Acesita Foundation and the Timoteo Retired Association. The Institute provides assistance to excluded A new pattern for communications people looking for a first job or active professionals aiming to improve their skills. Participants are offered training in such steel-based In 2017-2018 we developed a set of posters displaying processes as soldering, finishing and cleaning. In 2018, about 100 key indicators and a QR code for a central contact form. professionals were trained over the course of nearly 5,000 hours. Although initially put on hold for a few months to allow the Rural skills were also taught. Via a partnership with SENAR (National Head of Environment and Head of Health & Safety to Service for Rural Training), more than 100 people from the local validate them, as of 2019 the posters are on display at population received training in poultry, beekeeping (picture), running a the entrance of all our main sites. The online contact form chainsaw and water source recovery. serves as a portal to channel all enquiries to the relevant > Local culture: Culture is also at the heart of our Foundation’s programs. These programs aim to ensure people, either at site level for matters concerning the local access to cultural events and promote local artists and cultural organisations. unit or at a central level for general topics such as In 2018, 63 cultural events (theater, music, dance and artistic shows) attracted over 40,000 people. investor relations. Anyone can use the web-based tool, > Social organisations: By combining our own resources with those of the Itaú Social Foundation and Women which is available 24/7 and in the local language, to Consulate, we established an ‘Edict for Social Projects’. This edict confirms our commitment to strengthening resolve any problem before it escalates into a crisis. different projects concerning job and rent generation, a social and supportive economy, social inclusion, human Taking into account the fact that our implementation was rights recognition and sustainable practices. Financial incentives are proposed to schools, libraries, family delayed by one year, we consider that only 64% of our support associations and cooperatives who, together, provide for more than 2,000 people in the concerned main sites have fully cohesive engagement routines regions. In Vale do Jequitinhonha, for example, about R$ 400,000 (€120,000) has been allocated to 40 projects (same as 2017, after correcting a mistake for 2017), in covering installing ecological or septic tanks, building or repairing communal centers, improving infrastructure accordance with the methodology detailed in last year’s and buying educational equipment for courses on literature, music, environment, beekeeping and domestic fruit report. That figure will rise to 100% in 2019, thanks to the gardening. new pattern being enforced. ​GRI 413-1 For more information, visit: http://brasil.aperam.com/sustentabilidade/fundacao-aperam-acesita/a-fundacao/​ (in portuguese). 50 Specific 2018 engagement initiatives In addition to this initiative, our Isbergues unit joined other companies based at the site to publish a digital newsletter for local authorities and stakeholders. The first In 2018, we continued to have a number of sites develop local initiatives relating to edition went out in January 2019. stakeholder engagement: ■■■ ​Our Genk site held their open house event on Sunday, October 7, 2018. A ■■■ ​It has been 20 years since the Isbergues plant last opened its doors to the number of Flemish companies participated in the event, which provided over 1,600 public. Although it does regularly invite small groups (see p.15, “Semaine de visitors a chance to get an inside look at our production process. l’Industrie”), the event of September 15 reached an unprecedented scale. Between 9.30 am and 6.30 pm, 102 guided tours were given by 73 experienced Donning full protective gear, some 1,000 people (relatives or friends of local guides, who led visitors along different machines in the steel and cold rolling employees only) were able to partake in a 1h30 guided tour of the state-of-the-art plants. Videos broadcasted on screens along the pathway let visitors see a integrated rolling mill (LC2i) and service center. The visit concluded with a movie particular machine ‘in action’. The guides led the visitors safely through the factory describing the upstream phase of our process (operated at our Belgian steel and gave them additional information about the process. Visitors could also snap a plants) and a presentation from our Research & Development Centre. Thanks to picture at our selfie wall and share it on Facebook and enter a chance to win a the 30 volunteers who helped guide guests, prepared the booths that displayed the sports watch! final products, and helped keep the youngest visitors occupied in the kindergarten. We also used this opportunity to promote Aperam as an attractive employer, one And a big thanks to the fire brigade for opening up their trucks always a hit. The who is actively looking for talent! During the tour, visitors had the opportunity to day was a resounding success and remains a subject of pride. learn about five job profiles via information placed throughout the factory and within the videos. This was also a great way to promote some of our vacancies. After the tour, visitors could also check our job stand to learn more about these vacancies and leave their resume. All visitors were able to explore our history wall, watch our videos, get a drink or just have a chat. Overall, 52 volunteers (both current and retired employees) helped organize this event and make sure our visitors had a pleasant day! Based on the many enthusiastic comments we received, the day was a big success indeed. ■■■ ​The Services & Solution segment is a federation of units having less than 200 employees, with the majority having between 50 to 100 employees and being the sole Aperam site in the country. Their sense of belonging to Aperam is therefore often fueled by local actions organised to nurture a team spirit. Top:​ Isbergues Open Day: visit of the plant. B ​ ottom:​ the presentation well at Genk (left) and For example, in Poland, the 2018 edition of Family Day allowed children to visit the visitors learning about the production process (right). mill with their parents. Highlights included a chance to see forklifts, cranes and big weight, to play on the playground and participate in a doll decorating workshop. As a souvenir, every child received a T-shirt with the slogan: “my mother works for aperam” or “my father works for aperam” or even “my grandmother works for aperam” (see picture). In Usti, the Family Day event also gave families the opportunity to share in our company’s pride and to see the real working life of their relatives. In the afternoon, a program mainly focused on kids was organized featuring an interactive theatre, a performance by an acrobatic biker or a foam pool produced by a fire brigade. In total, the event gathered more than 300 participants and the feedback was very positive. 51 assure a safe crossing system for pedestrians. With the support of Aperam to prepare the documentation and also contact and involve the employees of the other companies surrounding the avenue, the process is now under analysis by the local authorities, DAER (regional roads department), and an action plan is expected for 2019. ■■■ ​Our Isbergues site is central to the surrounding urban area. In fact, the city developed around the plant, which dates back to the 19th century. Today, the plant’s walls represent a physical barrier between the Isbergues plant and Isbergues city. As the mayor had foreseen numerous improvement projects for the S&S Usti Family Day (Left and Middle) city, including renovating a 200 meter stretch of the wall along rue Roger Salengro and S&S Poland (Right) (which is also the official address of the plant), a special committee was formed between the city and the companies present on the site. The committee decided to Urban Integration & Aesthetics use the wall to tell the story of the city’s siderurgical past. To do this, 15 large photographs reflecting the industrial history of the site, as well as scenes from daily To reflect our 2017-2018 discussions with officials from local authorities, we life at the plant, were hung on the wall. decided to include this topic in our report starting last year. This chapter covers The two meters by one and a half meter images were installed starting at the end topics that encompass problems related to circulation and, in particular, the coming of 2017, with adequate lighting and greenery (in season) separating them (see and going of trucks around our sites and the danger and noise that come with it, picture). The work was finalised during summer 2018. the parking areas next to our entrances and the aesthetics of our sites’ surroundings. Some of these topics are still under discussion, as is the case for a new parking area in the city centre of Gueugnon, and we will follow-up on these at a later date. Those that were addressed during the course of the year are highlighted here. ■■■ ​With the Health & Safety of all employees, contractors and visitors in mind, our Italian unit requested permission from the Massalengo authorities to modify part of the only road leading to the Service Center to improve its safety. The tight and dangerous curve made it difficult for people to access and leave the site, especially considering the high number of trucks constantly going in and out. The curve was so tight that trucks were forced to move into the oncoming traffic lane. This, along with the road’s poor visibility and narrowness, made it very dangerous for Aperam employees. Thanks to the commitment of the team and the pressure put on local Authorities, changes to the road were made to promote safer mobility. For example, its width was increased, the curve is now one way, and a new street for bikes and The walls around Isbergues, just before Spring. pedestrians was created. This change has been very much appreciated by all Aperam’s employees, contractors and visitors, and they all value the commitment Aperam has shown for protecting and preserving their Health & Safety and ensuring a perfect integration of our site within the urban context. In the same context, in front of our S&S Caxias do Sul site (South of Brazil), there is a high traffic avenue that is not safe enough for the local community to use, and has been the scene of a tragic hit-and-run accident. After that, the local employees have undersigned a request for immediate action from the local authorities to 52 Customer and Innovation Focus steel applications, which includes a range of value-added niche options. Furthermore, our Alloys and Specialties segment specialises in the design, With rising trade tensions, unprecedented import pressure in Europe and falling production, and transformation of various nickel alloys and specific stainless stainless steel and raw material prices, 2018 was a challenging year – to say the steels. These applications are intended for high-end applications and are often least. Although we cannot control market forces, we can control our commitment to used to meet unique customer demands, especially in the aerospace, electronics customer satisfaction, innovative products and sustainable service. It is because of and petrochemical industries. this unwavering commitment that Aperam continues to achieve solid results, even during the most challenging of market conditions. Voices At Aperam, Sustainability is more than a slogan – it’s part of our DNA. After all, the “Over the past couple of years, ​85%​ of Aperam sustainability of our company is directly tied to our ability to sustain customer employees agree with “My loyalty via a sustained innovation pipeline – a pipeline that is committed to Aperam has doubled its share of department ​actively seeks producing environmentally sustainable products. innovative products. Our to ​understand To accomplish this, we continue to strive to meet the next generation of customer continuous efforts on innovation customer requirements needs by providing a better product offering today. By analyzing megatrends, conducting customer surveys, and listening to user testimony, not only is Aperam have positioned stainless steel at and expectations​” able to adapt our products to satisfy the needs of our customers today, we can the center of the most disruptive This is +4 pts vs. Heavy also anticipate future needs and align our research and development accordingly. technologies happening today. Manufacturing Leading Today From electrical and hydrogen cars to green energy, we are an Thanks to its recyclability, durability, versatility, ease-of-use, cleanliness and aesthetic appeal, stainless steel is the material of choice for applications of every important player in this new, kind and a ubiquitous part of our daily lives. From the alarm clock that wakes you technology-driven world.” up to the kettle that makes your night-time tea, stainless steel can be found in many of our home appliances, cooking utensils and other everyday objects. It also Nicolas Changeur plays a prominent role in an array of important industries, including energy Chief Marketing Officer, production, transportation and automotive, building and construction, heating, LT member food, chemical, and electronics. Behind many of these applications is Aperam’s portfolio of innovative stainless 53 To answer our customers’ immediate application needs, Aperam is Stainless Steel Container for Mining constantly improving, adapting and, when necessary, adding to our product portfolio: The cable buckets used by mining operations for the onsite transportation of Martensitic Stainless Steel for Knife Blades and Cutting Tools raw materials have traditionally been made Thanks to their high-degree of hardness, of carbon steel. Unfortunately, carbon steel martensitic stainless steels guarantee a is very susceptible to corrosion, especially good cutting edge. However, to get this when used to transport carbon-rich and level of hardness requires the use of a highly-corrosive coke. Due to corrosion, the significant level of carbon content – a buckets undergo regular maintenance, content that depletes chromium carbides which triggers constant work stoppage and during heat treatment and thus leaves the delays. To address this point, Aperam stainless steel more susceptible to proposes the use of stainless steel for corrosion. Although the corrosion resistance cable buckets. of high carbon grades can be improved by With a frame made from a 410 grade, the adding molybdenum, doing so is extremely buckets’ have seen an increase in durability expensive. As an alternative, Aperam introduces its nitrogen-infused MA5 grade. (their estimated lifespan is three times Not only does nitrogen offer the hardness advantage of carbon, when combined longer) and a decrease in maintenance with an increase in chromium content, it also improves corrosion resistance – cost. Furthermore, because stainless steel without the need to add molybdenum. Because MA5 offers a high degree of is 30% thinner than carbon steel, the hardness and improved resistance to corrosion, it is the ideal martensitic stainless overall weight of the buckets has steel for knife blades and other cutting tools. decreased, thus lessening the risk of Duplex for Depollution Systems in Maritime Transport derailment. Regulations in maritime transportation are Stainless Steel Floor for Garbage Truck Hoppers becoming increasingly stringent in regards to sulfur and SOx emissions. While heavy In the busy urban areas of Brazil, garbage oil with high sulfur content is commonly trucks pick up a lot of trash – keeping the used for maritime transport, the production streets clean and the cities sanitary. of low sulfur oil is limited and expensive. However, due to the corrosive nature of the Alternative solutions are under waste being collected, over time it begins to development, including the use of a eat away at the hopper’s carbon steel floor. depollution system to treat the exhaust gas. As this corrosion increases, so too does the By introducing dirty stream gas into a risk for unsanitary and potentially hazardous scrubbing liquid, the process removes more leakage. Aperam’s solution: stainless steel. than 90% of sulfur and 80% of particles. For such devices, Aperam’s duplex A floor made of stainless steel type 410 stainless steels, from the lean Duplex DX2202 to the super duplex DX2507, offer increases a hopper’s service life threefold, the corrosive resistance that this process demands. Moreover, the duplex stainless making sure the garbage stays inside where steels’ high mechanical properties help minimize the weight of the equipment. it belongs. As an added bonus, Aperam’s stainless steel solution is environmentally friendly. 54 Alloys for e-mobility Applications Disrupting Tomorrow As the aerospace industry moves towards In addition to playing an essential role in many of today’s most more onboard electrical applications, there important applications and industries, stainless steel is also the is an increasing need for new electrical and material of the future. Many of the applications that will soon electronic equipment. One proposed define how we live more sustainably, such as fuel cells, wind solution is to increase the rotational speed turbines and low emission vehicles, are embracing the benefits of the onboard generators. The challenge, of stainless steel. This is why in addition to our current product however, is that the stator parts of a portfolio, Aperam is always looking forward, with an eye generator require low magnetic losses, towards disrupting the future. while the rotating components require high-strength magnetic parts. The Driving this disruption are Aperam’s R&D centres. Through a soft-magnetic Fe-Co alloys currently being dedicated annual R&D budget of EUR 20 million, a team of 135 used cannot satisfy both needs at an industrial scale. innovation experts, and a network of partnerships with To fill this market gap, Aperam has been developing a product capable of academics, businesses and start-ups, we are committed to providing for the “complete process”. Our IMPHY AFK 502 FP, a patented addressing our customers’ unresolved challenges. As a result solution, has demonstrated clear punching ability and high yield stress while also of this ongoing investment, new products continue to account producing very low losses. for an increasingly large share of our portfolio. These are just a few examples of how Aperam answers our customers’ application The result of this future-forward strategy is an industry-leading product pipeline needs by improving, adapting and adding to our product portfolio. filled with innovations addressing the automobile industry, energy sector etc. This incremental innovation represents 3% of our non-commodity portfolio, making it an important component to our commercial strategy. In fact, new products in % MaX for Body in White of sales have increased by 30% compared to our 2015 baseline. This is fully New technologies, new regulations and aligned with our top line strategy to develop Aperam’s most profitable products, new expectations require car segments, clients and geographical areas and continue to build a quality service manufacturers to think outside the box. As offering for our customers a result, a new generation of vehicles is demanding new material solutions to New products* in Sales 2018 2017 2016 2015 reduce weight, improve safety, cut (Volumes, Index 2015) 130 122 113 100 emissions and lower costs. To meet this *New products defined as products being sold for less than 5 years. demand, Aperam partnered with market-leading companies to produce MaX – the market’s only Advanced High Strength Stainless Steel for body-in-white and chassis applications. As an ultra-high strength steel formed by hot stamping, MaX has the lightweight performance of aluminum and the cost-effectiveness of carbon steel. Its simplified production process, which reduces the number of required parts from 24 to just 3, not only cuts investment costs, it reduces weight by up to 15% – all while maintaining the same properties. In fact, in terms of fatigue performance, MaX matches baseline measurements, and for crash resistance, it even outperforms the baseline. 55 Battery Portfolio for Modules Partnerships in focus With the increasing electrification of the automotive industry, among Tekna, a world-leader in the development and others, there is an increasing manufacturing of plasma induction systems and metal demand for batteries. Looking at powders, and Aperam recently entered into a cooperation today’s energy matrix, it is clear that agreement to jointly develop high-quality spherical metal it is not prepared to meet the powders. By fusing the expertise and industrial facilities of changes and disruptive innovations both companies, they will be well-placed to meet the that will happen in the near future. As growing needs of additive manufacturing and metal a result, many companies are injection molding happening across a number of industrial working hard to install new battery segments. production plants and develop new The agreement is in-line with our strategy to further transform our business, battery-related technologies. As using new technologies to better address the next generation needs of our usual, Aperam is one of these companies and is working hard to develop customers. Furthermore, it will consolidate the company’s leading position in the innovative solutions for the battery itself. One of these solutions is the Module nickel alloys and specialty steel markets. Casing with a hardened Austenitic Grade. The innovative solution combines high mechanical properties to assure the sealing and safety of the part, high elongation for workability during the production processes, corrosion resistance and fire Trend to Watch protection, to name only a few of its many advantages. Aperam is also working with several partners to find the best solutions for the Battery Pack, with a focus on A top priority for many customers is a the core values of these applications, such as safety, lightweight and cost stainless steel solution that is reduction. resource-efficient and recyclable. Aperam is proud to meet this request INVAR​®​ for OLED Technology with the world’s greenest steel. We are the only steel mill in the world High definition displays are used in mobile that produces steel using 100% phones, digital cameras, Virtual Reality charcoal instead of extractive coke in Brazil. headsets and tablets. The OLED technology In Europe, most of our production comes from scrap, 80% for austenitics behind these displays consists of several particularly. Because it is produced from clean and renewable energy sources, layers of organic deposits, one of which is we classify our product as ‘Green Steel’. By doing so, we maintain a relationship formed by a pattern created by a light of respect with the surrounding environment. emitting pixel of more 65000/cm². To create that pattern, light emitting ink is vaporized through a mask. To guarantee the dimensional stability at process temperature, INVAR​®​ is required. Invar masks consist of a pattern of 2µm diameter holes made by photochemical etching. At this level of precision, each inclusion inside the metal could create a defect in the entire pattern. To guarantee the quality of the process, Aperam has developed a highly-clean Invar specifically for this application. The application is already being used by key players in the metal transformation industry. 56 ■■■ ​We know that our success depends on our customers being confident in their use of stainless steel. For this reason, Aperam is dedicated to supporting each customer through technical assistance, product co-development and skill sharing. Our global presence includes 17 sales offices and 14 service centres, meaning no matter your location, Aperam can provide local, on-the-ground assistance. For more technical requests, we also offer the opportunity to benefit from the support of our Stainless Steel Research Centre, the Força Inox training in Brazil and Atelier Inox training in Europe. Stainless Steel Research Centre:​ a one-stop-shop for all technical questions relating to the production and use of austenitic, ferritic, martensitic and duplex stainless steels, along with Iron Nickel and Iron Cobalt products. Located in our Isbergues production plant (Stainless) and in Imphy (Alloys), the Research Centres are the heart of our global technical network that includes research centres across Europe and Brazil and that work in partnership with several world-renowned universities and Aperam is always listening to our customers and working to better meet their expertise centres. Through this network, our customers have access to: support evolving needs. in optimising their processes; devices for tool and part modelling; welding and forming support; and the latest grades offered by Aperam. Every Aperam team shares the same goal: Co-development: ​by listening to our customer’s demands and to attain complete customer satisfaction. To ensure our efforts are aligned with our ​7.6​ ​Customer collaborating with them, together we develop the high-quality, customers’ needs, every two years we Satisfaction innovative products they need to stay at the forefront of an conduct a customer survey. always-evolving industry. Our engineers assist in the design and Our ​Rating was up +0.4 pts execution of new mediumto long-term projects. Aperam also helps ■■■ ​In Aperam South America’s last from 2017​. This is based on optimise our customers’ manufacturing process, evaluate how they can reduce survey, which was conducted in 2017, we a survey conducted by costs, enhance the skills of their personnel, and provide their team with the noted that although overall satisfaction Aperam South America that technical training needed to succeed. remained quite high, the level of evaluated us based on satisfaction was decreasing from one Força Inox & Atelier Inox Training: survey to another(-0.6 pts on average). To logistics, commercial and Atelier Inox 2.5-day introduction to stainless steel programme reverse this trend, the Brazil team technical support, customer focused on the versatility of our wide range of grades, with the aim implemented a global action plan aimed at service and product quality. of helping customers identify the best possible solution for their enhancing the trust our customers have in needs. Brazil’s Força Inox training offers different options, from a our products and services. Specific PDCA the results already showing one-week technical training to spot seminars. Both programmes (plan-do-check-act is a repetitive improvement (+0.4 pts on average). include opportunities to get hands-on experience with the grades, along with four-stage model for continuous The impact that further actions taken workshop visits. Topics covered include corrosion resistance, welding, forming improvement) have been made based on in 2018 had, if any, will be seen and stamping. The targeted audience ranges from design offices up to five critical factors: Quality, Technical following a new survey to be production technicians. Support, Commercial Support, Customer conducted in 2019. Service and Logistics. After one year, a Based on these findings, we will act new survey was conducted with accordingly ​(GRI 102-43). 57 Connecting Aperam Customers through a Comprehensive Portfolio of Digital Services with the Project Manager’s Voice Very Best Customer Experience “Aperam aims to provide the most integrated and automated supply ■■■ ​With the market’s most competitive, comprehensive product offering in terms of service, quality and chain to all its customers, with a full innovation, Aperam is repeatedly recognized as the preferred supplier by important customers in the industry. For range of solutions focused on instance, noting a demand for enhanced supply-chain support, we developed a comprehensive portfolio of digital services geared specifically towards meeting our customer’s supply chain needs. On the customer side, this maximizing user experience. Industry 4.0 approach includes: They are developed according to the best practices, enriched by the constant feedback of > ​e-Aperam.com:​ web platform offering 24/7 e-Commerce features and e-Services to get real-time updates on our clients and adapted by our teams to each Aperam order books and deliveries. customer, in a real tailor-made approach.” > ​Electronic Data Interchange (EDI)​: an efficient way for customers and suppliers to build a fully automated and integrated supply chain from ​forecasts/orders to automatic material reception in customer warehouse​ with all Olivier Raynal related commercial documentations. Head of Aperam e-Business Programme > ​Automatic Inventory Replenishment:​ to optimize inventory level by our customers and avoid unnecessary administrative workload related to order process. Customer’s Voices “ E-Aperam is a very good system, easy to use, makes “As a family-owned company, Viessmann attaches Many Viessmann developments are regarded as particular importance to responsible and long-term action milestones in heating technology. the consultation of the products, delivery dates, prices and order's entrance more agile. and sustainability is already firmly anchored in the As part of digitization, we also want to expand our An excellent tool that facilitates considerably the corporate principles. For Viessmann, living sustainability supplier connection. One way we achieve this is purchase process of Rodriaço.” means reconciling the economy, ecology and social through the e-aperam portal connection and also via responsibility so that today's needs are met without the electronic exchange via EDI standard.” Sales representative of affecting the livelihoods of future generations. Sales representative of As an environmental pioneer and technological pacesetter in the heating industry, Viessmann has for decades been supplying low-emission and energy-efficient heating systems for oil and gas as well as solar systems, wood firing systems and heat pumps. Visit: https://www.viessmann-newsroom.de/nachhaltigkeit 58 About this Report This report is based on Aperam figures and is inspired by the following initiatives: United Nations Global Compact; Carbon Disclosure Project; ISSF Sustainable Charter; WorldSteel Sustainable Charter; and the Global Reporting Initiative, for which an Index is found below. For other GRI-related reference documents, please see the Online Supplements at aperam.com/sustainability. GRI Index Disclosure code and label and reference Reference Economics Economic Performance GRI 103 Management Approa​ch: Online Supplement C page 1. GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed: Present report page 4-5 ; Annual report 2018. Procurement Practices GRI 103 Management Approach: Online Supplement C page 2. GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at main sites: Present report page 40. Environmental Materials GRI 103 Management Approach: Online Supplement C page 2-3. GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used: Present report page 26, 27 and 35. Energy GRI 103 Management Approach: Online Supplement C page 3. GRI 302-3 Energy intensity: Present report page 26, 28. GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption page 28. Water and Effluents GRI 103 Management Approach: Online Supplement C page 4. GRI 303-3 Water withdrawal by source: Present report page 26. GRI 306-2 Weight of waste by disposal method: Present report page 26 and 35. Emissions GRI 103 Management Approach: Online Supplement C page 3. GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity (together to 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 scope 1 to 3): Present report page 3, 25-26. GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emission: Present report page 25-27. GRI 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions: Present report page 26, 32. Labour Occupational Health & GRI 103 Management Approach: Online Supplement C page 4. Safety GRI 403-9 Work-related injuries: Present report page 10-12. Training & Education GRI 103 Management Approach: Online Supplement C page 5. GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee: Present report page 11 and 21. GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development review: Present report page 11 and 23. Supplier Assessment for GRI 103 Management Approach: Online Supplement C page 6. Labour Practices GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken: Present report page 37, 41 and 45. Society Local Communities GRI 103 Management Approach: Online Supplement C page 6. GRI 413-1 Operation with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs: Present report page 41 and 50-52. Product and Service Labelling Customer Satisfaction GRI 103 Management Approach: Online Supplement C page 6-7. GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Customer satisfaction, (mayors requirements, neighborhood/ foundation): Present report page 39, 49, 50 and 52-53. 59 General Standard Disclosure Information or comment (Reference) Organizational profile GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Opening Words. Current report, p.3. GRI 102-1 Name of organisation Aperam Cover. GRI 102-2 Primary brands, products, and services Aperam Annual report 2017, p. 8. Current report, p.5-6. GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 12c rue Guillaume J. Kroll, L-1882 Luxembourg. Back Cover GRI 102-4 Location of operation Production facilities are listed by geography in Aperam Annual Report 2018, p.11. GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form Public limited company in Luxembourg GRI 102-6 Markets served Key markets and sales by destination in Aperam Annual Report 2018, p.127. GRI 102-7 Scale of the organisation Aperam Annual report 2018, p.10. GRI 102-8 Information on Employees and workforce Employees: ​Figures based on FTE as of December 2018, Full time own employees at year-end including Aperam Drosbach Headquarters, Alloys ICS (starting 2015 reporting) and excluding Haven Genk. The small workforce at BioEnergia in Brazil is subject to variations due to seasonal factors (growing cycle of the trees: planting, harvesting etc.). GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 100% of the Aperam employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. GRI 102-9 Supply chain Description of supply chain available within our Online Supplement C – p.1. GRI 102-10 Significant changes to que organization and its supply chain None GRI 102-11 Precautionary approach See our risk management Current report, p.47 and in Aperam Annual Report 2018, p.62. GRI 102-12 External initiatives We also operate in partnership with various organisations. Current report, p.49-50. GRI 102-13 Membership of associations Mainly: EUROFER, Brazil Steel Institute, ISSF and WorldSteel. Annual Report, p. 44. Strategy GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Annual Report, p.177. GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries In line with the GRI framework. Current report, p.8-9, Online Supplement B. GRI 102-47 List of material topics Description of our Stakeholders groups, reporting process and materiality analysis is in our Online Supplement C – p.1-3. Current report, p.9 Online Supplement B – p.1 GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries within/ and Online Supplement B – p 2-3. GRI 102-46 without/ the organisation GRI 102-48 Restatements of information Restatements may result from: Mergers or acquisitions, change of scope or segments, change of base years, measurement method. Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting No significant changes on scope and boundaries GRI 102-40 Stakeholder groups GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Description of our Stakeholders groups as well as our reporting process and materiality analysis is to be found within our Online Supplement C. GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Current report, p.8, and Online Supplement B. GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised GRI 102-50 Reporting period Calendar year 2018 (Annual) is reported into Made for life Report 2018. GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Previous issue reported on calendar year 2017. GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report GRI 102-53 Contact point regarding the report sustainability@aperam.com​ or c​ ontact@aperam.com GRI 102-55 GRI Content Index Reporting to GRI in accordance at Core level. Current report, p.1. GRI 102-56 External assurance Main report, and online supplement bundle. Current report, p.1. Governance GRI 102-18 Governance structure Current report, p.8, Supplement D – p.1, Annual Report, p.65. GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Aperam Code of Conduct – available on the web in multiple languages Current report, p.47-48. GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Training on Ethics & Compliance, assessment of supply chain on Ethics & Compliance, present report, p.21, 45, and 47-48. 60
