COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 The United Nations Global Compact Contents 3 Message from the CEO 4 Why choose AV-HUSET A/S 5 Human Rights UN Global Compact Principles 7 Labour UN Global Compact Principles 9 Environment UN Global Compact Principles 13 Anti-Corruption UN Global Compact Principles 14 Commitment for the next COP 16 Company Profile REPAIR OF WATER DAMAGE AfDB, Nairobi, Kenya BEFORE REPAIR AFTER REPAIR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 2 Message from the CEO It has been a very exciting year for us with new milestones and achievements. AV-Huset is now a certified installer of Fire safety equipment (AVA) after being officially approved by The Danish Institute of Fire and Security Technology, DBI. A DBI certification as an installer of a fire protection system ensures that the company is competent to design, install service and maintain fire protection systems for which the company is approved. AV-Huset A/S is still committed to participating in social responsibility endeavors and to this end still actively supports social and aid organizations such as the Red Cross, The Cancer Society of Denmark and the WWF. The company has recently started supporting the Copenhagen Zoo. The Zoo’s mission of active participation in the international efforts to the preservation of animal species and thereby contributing to the preservation of the diversity of nature is something the company is happy to support. Since joining the United Nations Global Compact, our continued support is a testimony of our commitment to the values, which we strive to practice as a company. We see the membership of the UN Global Compact as compatible with our sentiments toward ethical and responsibility in doing business. Jens Ole Ravn CEO AV-HUSET A/S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 3 Why choose AV-HUSET A/S Here are some of the reasons why we believe AVinto its surroundings with minimal intervention or Huset can be your best alternative; reinforces the room’s modern expression in an elegant design, we can customize the perfect AV solution for Provision of AV solutions, a class above the rest your needs. With more than 28 years’ experience, we are specialists in consultation, development and Our solutions speak for themselves installation of audio-visual solutions where sound and As a professional AV supplier since 1990, we have image integrate seamlessly. Regardless of whether it over the years, accumulated a long reference list of is a standard meeting room or a customized special exciting solutions for among others, hotels, schools, solution in historic surroundings. educational institutions, town halls, churches, museums and private companies in Denmark and We are with you throughout the project abroad. See some of our many cases. Do you need new inspiration for current AV possibilities? Do you have specific projects that require Find out more about us in our short company profile innovative AV solutions? Our in-house consultants, about AV-Huset. installers, workshop technicians, IT specialists and own rental department, will find the optimal solution AV-Huset is member of AVIXA for your project – regardless of size. We are with you AVIXA (former InfoComm International) is the trade all the way from concept development to the finished association representing the professional audiovisual solution. We also offer maintenance service as part of and information communications industries our aftersales service. worldwide. Established in 1939, AVIXA has more than 5,000 members from more than 80 countries. We think outside the box We think outside the box and provide innovative Learn more about AVIXA. quality solutions with respect for aesthetics and design. Whether the technique merges naturally STEEL HOUSE Copenhagen, Denmark COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 4 Human Rights – UN Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. AV-HUSET – A RESPONSIBLE COMPANY AV-HUSET A/S supports and respects the protection and internationally proclaimed human rights, as put forward by the United Nations and the company expects its partners to do the same. Furthermore, AV-Huset expects its partners to ensure that they are not complicit in the violation of these rights. HARBOE BREWERIES Skaelskoer, Denmark COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 5 Human Rights – UN Global Compact Principles AV-Huset is also fully aware of its role and importance in contributing to the community at large by supporting social causes, organisations and making donations to improve human life. To this end, the company makes annual contributions to organisations such as the WWF, The Cancer Society of Denmark, SOS Children’s Villages. Direct contributions have been made by the company to worthy causes like the Human Needs Project and International Child Development Programme in the form of AV equipment donations. The AV equipment is used for improving the training and learning experience for children at the Golden Treasure Primary School in Uganda and for informing the inhabitants in Kibera, Kenya. International Child Development Programme ICDP is a competence-building organization in the field of psycho-social and educational care of children at high risk. Their work is directed towards vulnerable children, their caregivers and families, and is based on the principles that are laid down in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. International Child Development Programme began developing in 1985 and was registered as an international foundation in 1992 in Norway. The Human Needs Project The objective of the Human Needs Project is to provide clean drinking water, sanitation and energy and, subsequently, social and financial empowerment services to slums around the world. The Human Needs Project was founded by the Danish actress Connie Nielsen (probably best known for her role in Gladiator) in 2010. DONATIONS OF AV EQUIPMENT Human Needs Project Dansk Center for ICDP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 6 Labour – UN Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. AV–Huset recognizes and respects the fundamental right of all employees to freely associate, organize and bargain collectively in accordance to all applicable laws. Employees of their membership in trade unions. AV-Huset encourages its partners to support open communication and foster direct engagement between employees and management in order to have positive mutual relationships. Within the framework of respective legal regulations, in so far as these are in harmony with the ILO Convention no. 98, we respect the right to collective bargaining for the settlement of disputes pertaining to working conditions, and endeavor together with our partners to work together in collective negotiations and in a constructive manner marked by mutual confidence and respect. AV-Huset is committed to promoting the employees’ well-being and has towards this end, implemented different measures. All the office staff have now been provided with height adjustable desks as these types of workstations promote flexibility and well-being for people working at their desk stations for long periods of time. The provision of fresh fruits daily to all employees has been a big success with positive feedback from the employees. The Administration has expanded on the service by serving fresh edible vegetable such as carrots, cauliflower cucumber platter on a daily basis. This too has been a success, judging from the empty platters at the end of each working day. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 7 Labour – UN Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Our remuneration and social benefits conform at the very least to national and/or local statutory standards, provisions, or respective agreements. We observe the provisions of ILO Convention no. 100 with respect to the principle of equal remuneration for work of equal value. We comply with national provisions regarding working hours and vacation. Any employee may complain to their respective line manager or the company’s leadership if they believe they have been subject to unfair treatment or have suffered disadvantages with respect to working conditions. Employees will not suffer any disadvantage because of lodging such complaints. PRINCIPLE 5: Effective abolition of child labor. AV-Huset condemns child labor and respects rights of children. All enterprises in AV-Huset adhere to the stipulations of ILO Convention no. 138 and no. 182. AV-Huset supports the use of legitimate workplace apprenticeship programs, but only if they comply with all applicable laws and regulations. PRINCIPLE 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We uphold and affirm that there is and must be equal opportunity among our employees, regardless of the color of their skin, race, gender, age, nationality, social origin, handicap, or sexual preference. We respect the political and religious convictions of our employees and collaborates as long as they are based on democratic principles and tolerate those of different persuasions. THE DANISH AGRICULTURE AND FOOD COUNCIL Copenhagen, Denmark COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 8 Environment – UN Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. ENERGY SAVING AT THE HEAD OFFICE At AV-Huset headquarter, the company has, in the last couple of years started to systematically change the lighting system to the more energy efficient LED technology. It is our expectation to continue on this trend as it has a positive effect on the environment as well as saving energy costs. PERFORMANCE INDICATOR Power Consumption achieved (KWH) * AV-HUSET A/S head office in Denmark COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 9 Environment – UN Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Our basic principles of environmental protection reflect our duty toward the environment and the basis for many initiatives that are implemented throughout the company. ZERO WASTE PACKAGING POLICY AV-Huset has an environmental friendly packaging policy integrated in daily business routines. Consignments are packed responsibly to reduce weight and unnecessary volume. We recycle all the packaging we receive from suppliers and partners. All packaging sent from our warehouse is done by recycled cardboard boxes and pallets. We see these measures as a helpful in reducing our use of resources as well as having a positive impact on our operational costs. WORKSHOP AV-Huset, Denmark COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 10 Environment – UN Global Compact Principles AV-Huset has included the Copenhagen Zoo to its growing list of organizations and causes the company supports. The company is pleased to be among one of the many contributors whose donations have enabled the Zoo to invest in an effective surveillance plane in Pilanesberg National Park in South Africa. As we all know, the Rhino is an endangered species due to the poaching activities that threatens the survival of these animals. This lightweight plane (Bat Hawk), not only effectively inspects the park to identify poaching activities but also monitors other animal activities in the park. Furthermore, part of AV-Huset sponsorship goes to nature preservation efforts the Zoo is involved with around the world. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 11 Environment – UN Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. AV-HUSET A/S observes all requirements in relation to current legislation about disposal of electronic waste. AVHuset has continually focused on the environment and works continuously to prevent dangerous products that constitute a threat to health and to the environment. We use, wherever possible, products made by environmentally conscious suppliers. AV-Huset complies with environmental stipulation as described in the WEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) Directive 2012/19/EU. AV-HUSET A/S WASTE MANAGEMENT STRATEGY Organic waste Collected and treated by the municipality’s waste treatment. Cardboards and cartons All are reused by the company’s warehouse to send goods to customers. The warehouse does not buy any packaging material. Paper Used paper is collected and waste is separated for recycling. Pallets All pallets in good condition are recycled for packaging and safe transportation of goods to our customers. The warehouse does not purchase pallets as they reuse all the pallets the company receives with its products. Electrical waste Recycled in the local recycling centre. IT equipment Recycled in the local recycling centre. Batteries Recycled in the local recycling centre. ENGESTOFTE MANOR Maribo, Denmark COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 12 Anti-Corruption – UN Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. AV-HUSET A/S understands the importance of anti-bribery laws. We ensure that our employees and business partners understand and comply with all relevant anti-bribery laws. There is a zero tolerance policy against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. All the customer-facing employees are well versed in our anti-corruption policy and we can proudly report that since AV-Huset’s inception, there has never been any reported incidents. Performance indicators Achieved in 2015 Achieved in 2016 Achieved in 2017 Achieved in 2018 Number of employees who 0 9* 9* 7* have taken the Anti-Corruption course Number of corruption related 0 0 0 0 cases *This number indicates the total sales staff at the company. AALBORG UNIVERSITY Copenhagen, Denmark COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 13 Commitment for the next COP Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a plan reached by all the 193 members states of the United Nations to lay a path of ending extreme poverty, fight inequality and injustice as well as protecting our planet. The plan is made up of 17 Sustainable Development Goals which clearly highlight the world we want without leaving out any Nation. You can read more about these goals by clicking on this link. AV-Huset will back the agenda of the SDGs by focusing on efforts already initiated in the areas of supporting quality education (goal no. 4) and partnerships for the goals (goal no. 17). COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 14 Commitment for the next COP AV-Huset has donated equipment (projectors) to the Human Needs Project in Nairobi, Kenya to be used in their classrooms. AV-Huset has also presented a projector to the ICPD, International Child Development Program for further donation to Golden Treasure Primary School in Uganda. The school hopes that the projector will contribute to the enhancement of the teaching experience for the teachers and students. The company also supports annually, the SOS Children’s Villages with direct donations for upkeep and education of disadvantaged children. AV-Huset donates projector to the Human Needs Project. The ICPD delivers our projector to school in Uganda.. In 2015, AV-Huset donated a public address and mixer system to the Human Needs Project in Nairobi, Kenya. AV-Huset collaborated with DSV, a logistics company to share the transportation costs. DSV shouldered all the transportation costs. This collaboration was a testament of what can be achieved when people partner up, pool resources for a common cause. AV-Huset also commits to exploring ways of partnering together with other companies or initiatives to further contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The company continues to support The Human Needs Project in Nairobi with AV equipment such as projectors and know-how (repairs and maintenance) to help the organization advance its goals. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 15 Company Profile AV-HUSET A/S is an international Audio-Visual What we offer; integration company with more than 25 years’ experience delivering customized solutions to public, • The latest audiovisual technology for among corporate and non-governmental organizations. others simultaneous translations equipment, AV-Huset specializes in consultancy, development conferencing, projection and control, public and installation of specialized solutions combining address systems, displays and digital signage. audio and video together. We create interesting opportunities and unique experiences by incorporating • A committed staff of project managers and technology into new contexts. technicians to make sure that the project and services are delivered according to plan. Since its inception, the company has been working based on a philosophy of delivering user-friendly and • Aftersales support services including cost-effective quality solutions that take aesthetics training, remote monitoring, help and design into account. This has been instrumental desk service and maintenance. in ensuring the long-term business partnership the company has maintained with our clients. What • Audio Visual industry’s highest standards of matters most is not the technology in itself, but the service and expertise. value we can bring to you through our solutions. Our objective is simply to deliver the industry’s best value In collaboration with leading product manufacturers, for money. we are constantly striving to provide fully integrated systems. We have years of experience working with international organizations in many parts of the world and we have a very good understanding of delivering solutions to remote locations. AV-HUSET A/S is a proud signatory of the United Nations Global Compact IT’S ABOUT COMMUNICATION and a member of the Global Compact Network Denmark. AV-Huset has the principle that our actions must accord with the interests of society. We place our products and services in the interests of the safety of people, the economic use of resources and environmental sustainability. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 16 Company Profile We are conscious of the social responsibility we bear and therefore, we are pleased to be able to actively support various sporting and cultural initiatives as well as humanitarian purposes. WWF SOME OF THE PROJECTS WE HAVE SPONSERED IN 2018 Local theater in Naestved, Denmark The Human Needs Project Danish Basket Ball Team FOG Naestved Danish Red Cross COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 17 AV-HUSET A/S Jernbuen 1 4700 Naestved Denmark Phone: +45 5577 4030 E-mail: info@av-huset.dk Website: www.av-huset.com Editor: Irene Christensen Layout: Tina Skov Hansen UN GLOBAL COMPACT Membership date: 26 March 2015 Number of employees: 25 Sector: Audio Visual Integrator Distribution: www.av-huset.com UN Global Compact AV-Huset Board of Directors AV-Huset Office
