Sustainability Report 2018 Our goal is to create good and sustainable conditions for companies and individuals while preserving responsible enterprise and creating lasting commercial and social benefit. Integrating responsible enterprise throughout the value chain In its role as a commercial law adviser, Vinge occupies Vinge’s sustainability work is grounded in our business a weighty position both in the business community and providing the best legal advice to our clients. Accorsociety at large. Our goal is to create good and sustainable dingly, it is critical that we train and promote the developconditions for companies and individuals while preserment of our colleagues in relation to sustainability issues ving responsible enterprise and creating lasting commerand thereby integrate a sustainability perspective into cial and social benefit. all of the advice Vinge provides. This also allows Vinge to address a broader spectrum of risks and, furthermore, For Vinge, pursuing responsible and sustainable entermanage risks associated with our suppliers. prise means acting ethically, encouraging good stakeholder relations, acting as a responsible employer and contributing to a well-functioning society. We believe that this provides long-term business and social benefit that affects both the organisation and individuals. Sustainability Report © Advokatf irman Vinge KB 2019 Vinge’s sustainability work in practice Our sustainability work is based on internationally When providing advice, we integrate issues linked to accepted standards for responsible enterprise. Since 2018, human rights, working conditions, the environment and we have been members of the UN Global Compact and anti-corruption. In this way we can offer a broader perotherwise comply with the OECD Guidelines for Multispective to our clients and mitigate the risks entailed in national Enterprises, the UN Guiding Principles on Busitheir businesses. We also strive to ensure that our advice ness and Human Rights and the European Convention on does not negatively affect people or the environment. Human Rights. Internally, we focus our sustainability work on employOur Code of Conduct summarises the ethical principles ees, business ethics and regulatory compliance, as well applicable to all of our employees. In order to clarify as on the environment. In order to be a long-term partner certain aspects of the Code of Conduct, we have adopfor our clients, in addition to a leading business law firm, ted specific policies and procedures in various business we must assume responsibility for our employees by crefunctions. ating conditions for a sound working environment where our employees can develop based on their individual The board of directors and management group bear circumstances. We also need to take into account the ultimate responsibility for ensuring compliance with our environmental impact of our offices, travel and procuCode of Conduct. Management of the day-to-day work rement. Vinge does so while maintaining the highest is the responsibility of various functions and groups standards of business ethics. which are responsible for implementation. As a part of the advancement of our sustainability work, an internal Our social commitment involves cooperative efforts in sustainability group was formed in 2018 consisting of which we can contribute our skills and expertise to the representatives from management and various business growth and development of society, organisations and areas and support functions. The group is responsible for individuals. coordinating our internal sustainability work. In order to form a better understanding the sustainability Our sustainability work is divided into three focus areas priorities of our stakeholders and clients, we maintain a which reflect our principal impacts. continuous dialogue regarding the issues they consider most important to sustainable businesses. These three focus areas are (1) advising clients; (2) internal sustainability work; and (3) social responsibility. ” We seek to inspire greater trust in us as advisers and partners and ensure that our advice does not negatively affect people or the environment. Sustainability Report © Advokatf irman Vinge KB 2019 “ At Vinge, we regard responsible enterprise as a prerequisite to achieving long-term success and continued profitability. We want to be the best partner for our clients in their business. Sustainability Report © Advokatf irman Vinge KB 2019 A word from the Managing Partner At Vinge, we regard responsible enterprise as a prerequisite to achieving long-term success and continued profitability. We want to be the best possible partner for our clients in their business. Our strategy for responsible enterprise thus focuses on those areas in which we have the greatest impact. Accordingly, for us at Vinge, acting responsibly involves taking a holistic approach giving the best advice to our clients, affording our employees the opportunity to grow, ensuring that both Vinge and our business partners live up to high standards of business ethics, and minimising our impact on the environment and climate. As a member of the UN Global Compact, I wish to reiterate Vinge’s continued commitment to these principles. This Sustainability Report is our Communication on Progress. Maria-Pia Hope Managing Partner Sustainability Report © Advokatf irman Vinge KB 2019 Advising clients Our advice is based on both regulatory and international Steering documents regimes such as the UN Guiding Principles on Business Vinge’s Code of Conduct for employees is the main steand Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for Multinaering document that addresses our responsibilities and tional Enterprises. We assist clients by providing regular, working methods. In addition to the Code of Conduct, tailor-made advice on matters of sustainability, identificawe also work on the basis of the IBA Practical Guide on tion of sustainability risks in transactions and investigaBusiness and Human Rights for Business Lawyers and the tions and crisis management. Swedish Bar Association’s recommendations on implementing the UN Guiding Principles on Business and For Vinge, it is essential that we integrate the sustainabiHuman Rights which are founded on the IBA’s guidelines. lity perspective into all of our advice in every business area. Identified risks We help clients manage risks linked to sustainability. As a The risks associated with providing advice can involve part of this trend, Vinge has also strengthened the expert the full spectrum of sustainability issues. It is accordingly group, Forensic, Risk & Compliance, consisting of experts essential to integrate the risk perspective into our advice. from a broad spectrum of legal areas specialised in susRisks look very different depending on the industry, tainability and corporate social responsibility. country of operation and the complexity of the clients’ operations. ”When our clients come to us, it is because they have a major challenge, something that they often first tried to tackle themselves. Most of the challenges we encounter are also completely new. That is why it is so stimulating to work here.” — Employee, Vinge Sustainability Report © Advokatf irman Vinge KB 2019 “ For Vinge, it is essential that we integrate the sustainability perspective into all of our advice in every business area. We have a responsibility to ensure that the client is aware We have also updated our lists of questions used in transof the potential risks and to propose solutions for counactions with in-depth questions regarding human rights, teracting any negative impact on people or the environworking conditions and anti-corruption. Questions relament. ting to the environment have long been included on these lists and they are continuously evolving. In this way, we ensure that the risk aspect from a sustainability perspecMeasures implemented during the year tive is always included in the transactions in which we and results are involved. In 2018, we further strengthened the Forensic, Risk & Compliance team to meet the growing need for services in these areas. This team works with enterprise and Goals for future years human rights, anti-corruption and internal investigations. In 2019, we will follow up the contents of the Code in As a part of integrating the sustainability perspective into various ways and ensure that it becomes a living guide every business area, this practice group works in close for our colleagues. By these means, we can ensure that cooperation with the other practice groups at the firm. the sustainability perspective permeates every business area and that we thereby provide the best advice. Sustainability Report © Advokatf irman Vinge KB 2019 Internal sustainability Our employees goes without saying that we treat each other with respect, A high level of expertise and genuine commitment on the a notion clearly emphasised in our Code of Conduct. We part of our roughly 450 employees are essential to our have zero tolerance for any form of discrimination or success in providing advice of the highest quality to our harassment. clients. We work actively to attract talent and to develop and engage our employees. This is why we continuously The issue of sexual harassment drew more attention strive to create a good working environment with equal in the latter part of 2017 after the attorney call to arms, opportunities for everyone who works with us. It is #medvilkenrätt. As does the industry in general, we have important to Vinge that everyone can reach their full zero tolerance for discrimination or abusive treatment potential. of any type. Since the aforementioned call to arms, the issue has been on the agenda in various ways. In 2018, in addition to communicating our existing policy against An equal-opportunities workplace free harassment, sexual harassment and abusive treatment, from discrimination we engaged in discussions in various contexts in order As a workplace characterised by diversity, we enjoy a to obtain greater insight into how our employees and broad knowledge and experience base and the opportunity managers view their day-to-day experience and Vinge as to attract additional skilled employees. In this way, we a workplace. In 2019, we will also introduce a new form of benefit from more dynamic groups and innovative strength frequent, anonymous employee survey which will address in our business. Accordingly, we strive to maintain an these issues, among others. organisation represented by people of various ages and with diverse backgrounds, experience and personalities. We have long had collaborative teams consisting of Our employees are encouraged to be themselves, and it employees from various parts of the organisation. In ”Early on, you get the feeling that you’re somebody Vinge is investing in. Everything is so smooth, and you feel taken care of, so that you can focus on your job – the law.” — Employee, Vinge Sustainability Report © Advokatf irman Vinge KB 2019 this context, we regularly raise issues linked to gender equality and equal treatment, identify and discuss risks in our operations, and agree on measures to reduce risks and promote diversity and equal treatment. “ We have a clear goal of increasing All things being equal, we strive for gender balance in each practice group. This is also reflected in our management the percentage of women partners positions and executive bodies. The breakdown on our board of directors is three women and six men. In the management group, the distribution is the opposite, with six women and three men. Of our three local managing partners, two are women and one is a man. and have establisWhile we note that we have an even gender distribution at hed that 50 per cent of the new every level among our associate lawyers, the majority at the partner level consists of men. Accordingly, we have a specific goal of increasing the percentage of women partners, and our target is that 50 per cent of the newly elected partners during the period from 2015 to 2020 will be partners in the women. To date, the figure for the period is 41 per cent women and 59 per cent men. period 2015-2020 In our effort to maintain an organisation characterised by diversity and gender equality, we always take into account will be women. the demography of the group when recruiting. In those cases in which we have an uneven distribution in terms of age, background, experience, personality or gender, we university studies in general and law studies in particular. strive to identify candidates who can contribute greater The project began in 2002 and continues today. At present, diversity to the organisation. If we have several candidates we collaborate with upper-secondary schools in Stockfor a position, we will choose the candidate who contribuholm, Gothenburg and Malmo. tes to our diversity, all other qualifications being equal. Health and balance at work A more long-term initiative to increase diversity in the The health and well-being of our employees is of the industry is our Diversity Project. The project is based on utmost importance to Vinge as their employer. To meet meeting young people at upper-secondary schools with a the various needs relating to recovery and activities high ratio of students with foreign backgrounds in order to which promote health, we offer a number of exercise introduce them to the breadth of the legal profession. The alternatives in connection with work such as running goal of the DiversityProject is to motivate and inspire groups and team sports, and also provide a fitness allowance. One of our offices is equipped with its own Sustainability Report © Advokatf irman Vinge KB 2019 Gender distribution, women and men: Women Men Women Men 60% 40% All 50% Lawyer organisation 50% Vinge Women 58% Men Women Men 42% 58% 42% Junior Senior associate associate Lawyers* Lawyers** Men 15% Women 25% Partners Business support 75% Men 85% Women * new employees, junior associate, associate ** senior associate, manager, senior manager Sustainability Report © Advokatf irman Vinge KB 2019 gym. In 2018, inspirational lectures were held on the topic proactively for a sustainable workplace and picking up of health and training in mindfulness. We maintain a any signs of imbalances and ill health. We see this as a close cooperation with occupational health services, and useful tool in our systematic work environment efforts the employees are offered regular health check-ups. and, by these means, we will be able to identify risks in our working environment and monitor the development Periods of project-intensive work constitute a risk in our of steps taken in consultation with our safety representabusiness. From a health perspective, it is of the utmost tives at each office. importance that workloads and working hours are monitored and that steps are taken when necessary. AccorGood opportunities for skills dingly, we monitor the workload on a weekly basis, and development someone is designated in each practice group who bears It is essential that our employees possess a high level responsibility for allocating work and establishing work of expertise and conditions for providing services and teams on the basis staff availability. This prevents uneven advice of the highest quality. All Vinge employees are workloads in that we can fully follow up to ensure that accordingly afforded opportunities for skills development, colleagues have the resources required in the form of not least through our own Vinge Academy with training support, time and expertise. Flexible working hours and programmes in English, business administration, lawyer modern, high-quality technology and tools that enable ethics, project management, personal brands, presentaflexible work allow our employees to exercise greater tion technology and more. Vinge Academy is also suppinfluence over their own work situation. It is equally lemented with niched courses. In 2019, we are allocating important that our managers serve as good role models more funding and resources to develop Vinge Academy, and support the employees in creating a sustainable e.g. we have retained a Learning and Development working life. Manager whose sole focus will be to work strategically with our skills development. More specific, individual We have had increasing attendance rates for several skills requirements are identified during the annual years and, in 2018, absences due to illness were 1.7 per employee-development discussions. cent, which we believe indicates that we have succeeded in our initiatives to promote employee health. However, In addition to traditional courses, our employees are this is not an adequate indicator of a sound and healthy offered various internal rotation programmes, foreign working environment, which is why we are introducing internship programmes and secondments as in-house a new form of employee survey in 2019 in which we will counsel with our clients, which leads to valuable expeask about the working environment, health, leadership, riences that broaden perspectives and provide new commitment and motivation each quarter. By frequently knowledge. measuring the employees’ perception of their work and their motivation, we will improve the chances of working 2016 98% Year 2017 98.2% 2018 98.3% 0 20 40 60 80 100 Attendance % Sustainability Report © Advokatf irman Vinge KB 2019 Access to our colleagues’ expertise and the possibility In 2018, we launched a new tactic to attract current of learning from each other remains the greatest source and potential employees. Our goal was to highlight of knowledge. Noteworthy among the opportunities for our employer brand, our identity, our culture and what knowledge exchange are mentorships, internal semidistinguishes us as an employer. For example, in order nars, workshops, inter-office practice groups and expert to shed light on the opportunity to influence and realise groups or new collaborations. Our employees also have ideas and initiatives, we introduced the practice that our the possibility to grow by assuming extensive responsinewest employee will have a seat at a management group bility early on for both client work and the supervision of meeting. In order to strengthen our culture and our offemore junior colleagues. ring, Vinge managers have an important responsibility in serving as role models and enablers. To this end, our managers have undergone training to understand how, by Attractive employer means of their leadership, they can enhance and support Attracting talent and retaining the best employees is the the employee offering. highest priority in our business plan for long-term profitability and sustainable operations that meet our establisOn 31 December 2018, Vinge had a total of 453 employees hed, high quality standards. Today’s struggle to acquire (this figure does not include hourly employees, interns, talent is palpable. We can proudly confirm that, in 2018, short-term employees or consultants). Employee turnover we were successful in our efforts to cultivate relationships during the year was 17.4 per cent, somewhat higher than with students at the universities with which we coopein 2016 and 2017, which is a figure that is naturally influrate. We also succeeded in being ranked first in Prospeenced by the prolonged, robust economy in which migrara’s annual survey among law students. We actively strive tion on the labour market is to be largely expected. In our to establish contacts with law students early on and to business, the majority of the new employees are recent display our practice and our employees. Through our university graduates and, for Vinge, a degree of employee recruiting efforts, Vingeveckan, student networks, lectures turnover is natural light of the fact that some will choose and various cooperative arrangements with student to start careers at Vinge only to move on, while others unions, we create many opportunities for contacts with will elect to have a long career with us or even spend students. In addition, we offer extra work in our talent their entire career at Vinge. We are just as proud of those pool, student thesis clerkships and summer associate who are trained by us but nonetheless choose a different programme. During the summer months of 2018, we had career path as we are of those who choose to stay on. a total of 31 summer associates at our various offices, Starting one’s career at Vinge is regarded as a valuable several of whom subsequently joined Vinge. business qualification, and we maintain contact with our Year / Number of employees 2016 / 411 15.7% 2017 / 435 14.2% 2018 / 453 17.4% 0 5 10 15 20 Employee turnover % Sustainability Report © Advokatf irman Vinge KB 2019 former employees as they become Vinge clients in their The primary sustainability risks in our supply chain connew roles. cern both human rights and working conditions, as well as the environment and corruption. In terms of human In recent years, the business has expanded and the rights and working conditions, the risks are the greatest number of employees has steadily increased. In 2018, we in the supply chain of goods such as IT equipment, food, employed 91 new employees, while a total of 77 employees office furniture and office supplies, as well as in the provileft Vinge. sion of services such as maintenance of the premises and dry cleaning. The greatest environmental impact is from As we strive to be an attractive employer, it is important suppliers of the aforementioned goods, as well as travel to remain sensitive to how our employees perceive their and transport service providers. lives and work situation. In the reference groups that meet regularly, current operating issues are discussed. RepreDuring the year, as a part of the implementation of the sentatives from Vinge management also participate in new Code of Conduct for suppliers, we will begin to interthis context. With our new employee metrics, we will be nally map our supply chains to identify where we should able to monitor commitment, motivation, leadership, worfocus our attention in terms of follow-up and dialogue. In king environment, health and workload in real time and addition, we will develop procedures and processes for thereby work even more proactively with these issues. the evaluation and risk classification of suppliers. Suppliers During the year we will be introducing a new Code of Conduct for suppliers which will clarify our established sustainability requirements. “ Our employee metrics will monitor commitment, motivation, leadership, work environment, health and workload in real time. We will thereby be able to work even more proactively with these issues. Sustainability Report © Advokatf irman Vinge KB 2019 Environment and climate Steering documents “ We focus our environmental and climate work on the areas in which we have the greatest impact, i.e. the supply At the beginning chain of the goods and services we buy, transportation of these goods, employee business travel, and how we use our offices. This is described in more detail in our Environmental Policy. of the year, we will Identified risks There is a risk that transportation and couriers and goods introduce electric and services will have a negative impact if we do not continuously strive to choose suppliers with an express and scooters and electric demonstrated focus on environmental issues. bicycles to reduce travel by taxi. In the design and management of our offices, there are risks related to the purchase of furniture and equipment, choice of energy sources and the control/operation of the premises. In addition, it is essential that we plan and manage our recycling and waste, and ensure that we reduce the latter. Prior to the upcoming project involving me-print and double-sided printouts that save a great deal our future office in Stockholm, a thoroughly studied of paper. process is needed to avoid the risk of choosing materials that do not satisfy the highest possible environmental In the design of our new temporary offices in Stockholm, certification. we ensured that, to the greatest possible extent, we re-used workplace furniture and other furnishings from earlier offices and, in addition, leased used furniture. We report Measures implemented during the year everything we have recycled and the impact it has had on and results the environment. We also signed green electricity agreAt the beginning of the year, we will introduce the ements that secure energy sources with as little climate possibility to travel locally by means of electric scooters impact as possible. and electric bicycles in order to reduce travel by taxi. We have long had company bicycles. We also retain courier In dialogue with our landlord in Stockholm, we have companies which, to the greatest extent possible, provide ensured that the property we will occupy in 2021 meets their services by bicycle courier. The results will be mea“Breem In-Use , which is an international environmental sured later in 2019. method for certifying a building’s operational performance. The standard makes it possible to pursue sustainaWe have improved sorting of waste by providing recepble improvements through operational efficiency. The protacles for various types of waste in open areas, and have perty is assessed in nine environmental categories: energy, refrained from using individual waste bins in order to water, transport, management, waste, pollution, health and avoid unsorted waste. We have also introduced followwell-being, land use and ecology and materials. Sustainability Report © Advokatf irman Vinge KB 2019 Goals for future years standards. Our goals for energy consumption in the new In the selection of transportation and courier services office with occupancy in 2021 is a reduction of 25 per cent to and from the offices, we shall, to the extent possible, and to consume energy from renewable sources. choose the best alternative based on environmental considerations. Our goal is that 30 per cent of the Following the return to new environmentally optimised deliveries will be made by means of electric-powered or offices, our goal is to further reduce our total impact on fuel-free alternatives, electric-powered taxis, bicycle couthe environment and climate. Through modern techriers, etc. When booking business travel, environmental nology which saves resources and by modifying our considerations shall be factored into the selection of the behaviour, we will become even more aware of how we most suitable means of travel on each occasion and our manage food waste. goal is to carbon offset all air travel. Future goals for the Gothenburg office include reviewing A continued and increased emphasis on sorting and purchases and consumption of raw goods from a climate recycling of waste will result in alternative choices in resperspective in our staff canteen and examining what we pect of waste receptacles, purchases of recyclable articles can do with leftover food. or biodegradable single-use items. Prior to impending procurement/purchases of furnishings and equipment for our office in Stockholm, our goal is that 100 per cent of all workplace furniture and 50 per cent of the remaining furnishings will meet eco-label “ When booking business travel, environmental considerations shall be factored into the selection of the most suitable means of travel on each occasion and our goal is to carbon offset all air travel. Sustainability Report © Advokatf irman Vinge KB 2019 Business ethics We are careful to always act in a way that accords with Shortcomings in our behaviour could also contribute to generally accepted practices for attorneys and other money laundering, financing of terrorism or the circumregulations which are applicable to Vinge. This mean that vention of international sanctions. These regulations we take steps to: have strong links to other sustainability areas, primarily human rights, and our failure to act properly could there• combat corruption, money laundering, the financing of fore have an impact on these rights. terrorism and violations of international sanctions; • avoid conflicts of interest and insider trading; and Measures implemented and goals • protect the information and the personal data we Business ethics are principally concerned with regulaprocess. tory compliance. Accordingly, we have systematically worked for many years to ensure that we adhere to rules applicable to Vinge. This primarily involves continuously Steering documents informing and training employees and implementing proOur business ethics steering documents consist of both cedures and processes to limit the risks of participating in external regulations such as the Swedish Bar Associaundesirable actions, operations or transactions. tion’s Code of Conduct and the Swedish Anti-Corruption Institute’s Code regarding gifts, rewards and other beneWe encourage our employees to report violations or fits in business as well as multiple internal policies and suspected violations. Such violations can be reported guidelines. Examples of internal policies and guidelines. through our whistle-blower system, which allows the Include our Code of Conduct, ethical guidelines, rules person who is submitting the report to remain anonyfor trading in shares and other financial instruments, mous. No incidents have been reported via the system guidelines for combating money laundering, financing of since it was introduced in 2017. terrorism and corruption, the information security policy and guidelines for handling personal data. From a sustainability perspective, it is especially important to be highly familiar with the rules designed to Identified risks prevent money laundering, financing of terrorism and The failure to act in a commercially ethical manner corruption, and to maintain processes intended to prewould also entail running afoul of laws and other regulavent us from participating in such activities. When entetions. This is not an option from a business perspective or ring into business relationships, we conduct background a societal perspective. In addition to damaging our brand, checks of our clients and do so again not later than every Vinge as a company and its individual employees would three years. The goal is to have sufficient knowledge of face the risk of incurring both criminal and disciplinary our clients that we have solid reasons for assuming that liability. It would also exclude us from business opportuour activities on their behalf do not conflict with internanities. tional sanctions or entail participation in money laundeSustainability Report © Advokatf irman Vinge KB 2019 ring or the financing of terrorism. In 2018, the procedures regarding these background checks were revised, in part in light of the new General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). “ The failure to act in a commercially ethical As regards the General Data Protection Regulation, we have determined during the year what personal data we manner would also process and how we process it, and we have also updated our guidelines. We also adopted an external and an interentail running afoul nal integrity policy. Our ambition for 2019 is to evaluate whether an electronic tool can help us ensure that we of laws and other regulations. This is comply with the General Data Protection Regulation at all times and, if the evaluation is positive, to implement such a tool. Vinge’s employees are continuously educated by means not an option from a of traditional training and e-courses. The e-courses we offer are compulsory and address subjects such as risk business perspective or a societal perspecmanagement and attorney ethics, money laundering and financing of terrorism, information security and cyber security. In 2018, we also introduced so-called “nano training”. Nano training is a learning process consisting of a series of short web-based lessons. So far, our compulsory tive. nano courses have been provided regarding the subjects, GDPR the EU’s new General Data Protection Regulation and information security. In 2019, the goal is to update, among others, the e-course on how money laundering and financing of terrorism should be combated. Sustainability Report © Advokatf irman Vinge KB 2019 Social responsibility Vinge advises clients in achieving successful transactions. As far as society is concerned, we invest in long-term proWe also assist socially beneficial organisations achieve jects to disseminate knowledge, work for greater diversity their goals. Our desire to contribute to a better society in the Swedish legal system, and elevate inclusion on the explains why we have contributed our knowledge to a Swedish labour market. number of different initiatives in order to support and develop organisations that steer society in a positive Our involvement with enterprise aims to support entredirection. preneurship, innovation and growth at home and in global contexts. We have chosen to divide our social involvement into three main areas: society as a whole, enterprises and indiIt is our view that people grow through commitment, viduals. We are involved in social issues such as education education, knowledge exchange and relationships. Where and knowledge exchange, inclusion and individual deveindividuals are concerned, we want to create and dissemilopment, and the promotion of the conditions in which nate new knowledge and thereby enhance the conditions people can grow. in which people can grow in the academia, business, sports and other areas, both in Sweden and around the world. ”The Olympic brand may be the world’s strongest. The SOC is responsible for matters in Sweden concerning the Olympics and it is our task to safeguard these rights in the Swedish market. We do this together with Vinge’s experts.” — Anna Lundin, Marketing and Sales Director, Swedish Olympic Committee Sustainability Report © Advokatf irman Vinge KB 2019 “ Our desire to contribute to a better society explains why we have contributed our knowledge to a number of different initiatives in order to support and develop organisations that steer society in a positive direction. Examples of projects Vinge cooperates with the Swedish Olympic Committee Vinge’s Diversity Project has awarded 175 scholarships in (SOC). The cooperation concerns areas in which our the past 16 years. The goal is to contribute to greater diverknowledge, expertise and experience benefit growing sity in the legal profession. We strive to broadly reach out Swedish Olympic activities. These comprise rights and in schools to disseminate knowledge about what it means brand issues, contract law and company issues, among to work as a lawyer and support the ambition to study, and others. The SOC’s ambitions and values match our own to study law in particular. We also support law students activities well, as the SOC and Vinge both strive to by offering mentors and preference for summer associate contribute to individuals being able to develop and grow positions at Vinge. through knowledge, competence and expertise. We support local entrepreneurs and start-ups, as well as Based on the results and our stakeholders’ expectations, global organisations. In our cooperation with Ashoka, we we will further focus on our social benefit involvement assist social entrepreneurs who drive change in the global with the aim of contributing to taking long-term responcommunity. SSE Business Lab is an initiative in entrepresibility. neurship and innovation and fully in line with Vinge’s ambitions to support our domestic labour market. Our own initiative, Vinge Growth, is an endeavour that offers companies with a strong growth ambition guidance in every area of business law. Sustainability Report © Advokatf irman Vinge KB 2019
