ANNUAL REPORT 2018 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Content Patria’s Annual Report consists of the Business Units’ Review, the Corporate Responsibility Progress Report and the Financial Statements Report. Patria’s Annual Report is published only on the company’s website at www.patria.fi. Annual review Responsibility 3 Patria in brief 44 Corporate responsibility in Patria 7 Key figures 52 Patria and society 9 Review by the President and CEO 59 Ethical operation 12 Operating environment 62 Responsible employer 15 Strategy review 68 Environmental responsibility 75 GRI Index Business 18 Aviation Financials 22 Systems 78 Board of Directors’ report 26 International Support 81 Consolidated Financial Partnerships Statements (IFRS) 30 Land 104 Financial Statements of the 33 Aerostructures Parent Company (FAS) 36 Millog 40 Nammo Governance 113 Corporate governance 116 Industrial participation 117 Risk management 120 Board of Directors 121 Consultative Committee 122 Board of Management A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 2 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Patria in brief International Patria is an international provider of defence, security and aviation life-cycle support services and technology solutions. Patria provides its aerospace and military customers with equipment availability, continuous performance 5% Support Partnerships offers international life-cycle support services, which include maintenance, development as well as selected intelligence, surveillance and management modifications, repairs, spare part supply and technical support. system products and services. Patria’s mission is to give its customers Patria main locations confidence in all conditions, and the vision is to be the #1 partner for critical operations. Patria has several locations including Finland, Sweden, Norway and 16% Land Finland Sweden Estonia. Patria employs 2,800 professionals. Patria is owned by the State of offers cutting-edge armoured wheeled vehicles, mortar systems and Norway Finland (50.1%) and Norwegian Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace AS (49.9%). related life-cycle support services. Patria AMV product family and Patria Estonia Patria owns 50% of Norwegian Nammo, and together these three companies Nemo mortar system are the highest-profile products in this range. form a leading Nordic defence partnership. Further information about More information: www.patria.fi 5% Aerostructures locations available at www.patria.fi Business units and net sales as share of group net sales designs and manufactures demanding aerospace composite structures and is actively involved in the development programmes of the new 18% Aviation composite technologies. The core competences are the design of composite structures and efficient manufacturing processes. offers life-cycle support services for aircraft and helicopters, primarily to the authorities and military clients in Northern Europe. Life-cycle support services cover fuselage, engine, and equipment repair; maintenance and 42% Millog modification; and pilot training. provides defence materiel life-cycle support services to military customers and to its strategic partner, the Finnish Defence Forces. 14% Systems Patria owns 61.8% of Millog. makes comprehensive system and equipment deliveries to defence forces and security authorities. Areas of expertise are intelligence, surveillance Nammo and command and control systems, as well as their integration, software focuses on developing and producing ammunition and missile products, and life-cycle support. as well as environmentally sound demilitarization services. Nammo is equally owned by Patria and the State of Norway. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 3 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E OUR VALUES WE WANT OUR TOGETHER TO SUCCEED OPERATIONS WE CREATE ARE CUSTOMER SUCCESS ORIENTED We are proud of our Co-operation We give constructive work, and we want guarantees feedback. We enjoy to show it. the success of all succeeding together. parties. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 4 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Mission: Vision: WE GIVE OUR THE #1 CUSTOMERS PARTNER FOR CONFIDENCE IN CRITICAL ALL CONDITIONS. OPERATIONS. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 5 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Customer promise: WHEN IF IS NOT AN OPTION. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 6 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Net sales 476.1 EUR million Key figures Operating profit Patria Group’s sales and profitability for the financial year 2018 increased from the previous year. 35.9 EUR million Personnel average 2,791 A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 7 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E NET SALES, EUR MILLION OPERATING PROFIT, EUR MILLION GROSS INVESTMENTS IN FIXED ASSETS, EUR MILLION Patria is on a firm financial footing and 489.9 74.6 23.9 462.0 467.2 476.1 is looking forward to 427.7 56.0 growth. 46.8 15.1 12.6 34.6 35.9 8.1 7.3 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 PERSONNEL AVERAGE ORDER STOCK, EUR MILLION EQUITY RATIO, % NET SALES OUTSIDE FINLAND, % 2,806 2,765 2,792 2,791 1,201.7 58.3 2,546 53.7 54.4 1,056.4 49.8 45.3 857.7 691.9 687.1 50 41 31 33 27 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 8 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E REVIEW BY THE PRESIDENT AND CEO: International growth and internal development 2018 was a year of international growth and internal development. We took major steps forward with internationalisation of our core competence of providing first-class maintenance for critical operations. We also significantly boosted the efficiency of the entire Group’s operations and cost structure. One of our key objectives for 2018 was achieved when we signed in December the agreement to acquire the Norwegian company AIM Norway in cooperation with Kongsberg. Patria has lengthy and profound expertise in the maintenance of fighters and helicopters and their engines, both in Finland and in other Nordic countries, and this business will now expand significantly through our holding in AIM Norway. I’m glad that our expertise is recognised internationally, as growth in international maintenance lies at the heart of our strategy. During the year, we also made preparations for many other projects that will have major significance for our future. In early 2018, we signed an agreement with the Finnish Defence Forces for the life-cycle upgrade and basic refitting of Hamina Class fast attack craft. The base value of this contract is at around EUR 170 million. Patria will hold overall responsibility for the project and be the prime contractor, designer and lead system integrator. Our Estonian subsidiary Milrem LCM renewed its life-cycle management agreement with Estonia’s defence procurement authority (Kaitseinvesteeringute Keskus) for the maintenance and repair of Patria XA vehicles. Milrem and BAE Systems also signed a A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 9 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E maintenance and support agreement for Estonia’s fleet of infantry fighting vehicles. by-wire control system that enables vehicles to be driven remotely while enabling both Milrem will maintain and repair these vehicles at its premises in Estonia. autonomous functions and traditional use as a manned vehicle. Finland’s first 3D-printed jet engine part made its maiden flight in January, in a F/A-18 In October, we took part in the Helitech International 2018 trade fair in Amsterdam, Hornet fighter. Over the past two years, Patria has engaged in important R&D on where we exhibited our life-cycle support services for helicopters including, the manufacturing process for 3D-printable parts, and has been actively involved in maintenance, repairs, upkeep and warehouse services, components and devices, and exploring new methods of manufacturing and repairing various parts. helicopter modernisations and alterations. In the spring, we signed an agreement to supply the Finnish Defence Forces with an armoured bridge laying system. The Defence Forces will be acquiring four new CONTINUOUS RESPONSIBILITY WORK armoured bridge layers that can be used to handle Leguan bridges of various lengths. During the review period, we focused further on responsibility. In February, Patria The total value of the acquisition is EUR 28.6 million and, including provisions for was in the news when it came to light that our company had connections to a Finnish further acquisitions, will create about 55 person-work-years of employment in Finland, businessman deceased in Uganda. This led to immediate corrective measures and of which about 35 person-work-years will go to Patria. Deliveries are scheduled for changes in management in our Land business unit. 2019–2021. Export permits have been in the spotlight on several occasions during the review Patria received an extension to its contract for HKP16 (Black Hawk) helicopters in period. Patria operates in full compliance with Finnish and EU legislation and export Linköping, as the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration (FMV) decided to make use licence regulations, and in accordance with the instructions issued by the Board of of the option contained in the original contract signed in 2014. The agreement covered Directors elected by our shareholders. The export, import and transfer of defence originally the years 2015–2017, with an option to extend the agreement to 2020. The industry products is wholly and without exception subject to a licence. In Finland, the total value of the agreement, including the option, is approximately EUR 25 million. Ministry of Defence, Ministry for Foreign Affairs and, if necessary, the Government VISIBILITY AT INTERNATIONAL EVENTS During the year in review, we participated in several different events both in Finland and abroad. In May, we were at the Bratislava IDEB trade fair exhibiting the Patria Armoured Modular Vehicle (AMV). In June, we introduced two new passive sensor products at Paris Eurosatory: MUSCL (Multi-Static Coherent Location) for battle-proof During the review period, air surveillance, and ARIS-E ESM (Electronic support measures) system for tactical we focused further on situational awareness. We also launched the new Patria 6x6 vehicle, whose modularity responsibility, as our sector and multifunctional transport capacity enable it to be easily adapted to customers’ is highly sensitive. needs. In September, the Patria AMV 8x8 participated in the European Land Robot Trial (ELROB) in Belgium. One of the most important areas for development in military vehicles is unmanned functionality. To this end we have developed an integrated driveA N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 10 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E EVENTS AFTER THE REVIEW PERIOD At the beginning of the year, Olli Isotalo left his position as Patria’s President & CEO, which he had held since 2016. His position in the company’s operative management then ended with immediate effect. Patria’s Board of Directors has launched a search for a new CEO. During the transitional period, I will be handling the CEO’s tasks as well as those of the CFO. We expect our new CEO to put a great deal of effort into developing Patria’s service business, as we are seeking to expand into various defence sectors with our maintenance and life-cycle services and our system and integration business. On behalf of the company, I would like to thank Olli Isotalo for his efforts. He systematically developed Patria’s internal efficiency and cost structure, and also significantly increased transparency. LOOKING AHEAD Patria is on a firm financial footing and is looking forward to growth. This sector rarely produces quick profits, as projects tend to last a long time. Tendering processes alone can last several years before even the procurement stage is reached. The global political situation and a variety of uncertainty factors have increased decide on whether to grant the required export licences. A permit will not be granted defence budgets. This trend can be seen in our operations with a delay of several years, if the proposed export project would present a risk to Finnish security or be in conflict and we believe that it will have a favourable impact on our sales and profitability over with Finland’s foreign policy. the long term. We have adhered to the principle of transparency in export permits and engaged in Patria’s biggest Finnish customer (the Finnish Defence Forces) has currently a public debate, such as on SuomiAreena during the summer and by inviting NGOs to visit number of record-breakingly large projects on the go (HX, Squadron 2020). Industrial us during the autumn. cooperation is an extremely important and major opportunity for Patria. Our goal is to act responsibly and be active in sharing factual information with our I would like to thank all our customers, owners, partners and other stakeholders – as stakeholders – and with the media and NGOs in particular. We have further expanded well as all of our employees – for 2018. We will continue to operate as a responsible and deepened our internal ethical training. Our practices are based on the principles partner in accordance with our vision: we want to be the #1 trusted partner to our of integrity, transparency, accountability and sustainable development. We have zero customers in critical conditions. tolerance for all forms of unethical activity, including bribery and corruption. We do not accept any form of unethical or corrupt conduct from our employees or business Ville Jaakonsalo associates, and actively seek to prevent it. President and CEO, act. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 11 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E OPERATING ENVIRONMENT Forging closer military and civilian collaboration Finland is engaging in more international cooperation, particularly with the EU and other Nordic countries. This stems from a number of factors, including changes in the security environment and growing hybrid threats. The Finnish Defence Forces currently have several largescale projects in the pipeline, and Patria will play a major role in two of the most important ones: HX and Squadron 2020. Patria will be paying particular attention to technical competence, responsible operations and strengthening partnerships. Finland’s international networking further expanded into the Nordic countries and EU during 2018. An increased military presence in the immediate vicinity of the EU combined with rapid technological advancements requires cooperation between both nations and the European defence industry. Changes in world politics and the global security environment are driving joint exercises and R&D projects at both Nordic and EU level. Patria is strengthening its competitive position in tenders in the international defence sector through networking with industry partners and by actively seeking participation in projects initiated by the European Defence Fund. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 12 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E INCREASED STRATEGIC IMPORTANCE FOR THE In order to strengthen its position in future European Defence Fund tenders, ARCTIC REGION AND BALTIC SEA Patria’s minority shareholder KONGSBERG has established an office in Brussels. Patria There is lively debate on the common defence of the EU as a result of increased military has likewise developed its own organisation and is also preparing for Finland’s third presence in both the Arctic region and Baltic Sea. This has increased both the EU and presidency of the EU in 2019. NATO’s need to organise joint exercises in the area, and to develop new innovations to A new position has been established within the Group , Chief Business Development combat cyber and hybrid threats. The Finnish Defence Forces have actively participated Officer, who will engage in proactive dialogue with the EU and spread the word about in both NATO’s crisis management operations and international joint military exercises Patria’s technical product competence and expertise to both decisionmakers and with other EU countries. partners. This dialogue will also be strengthened in early 2019 by the Chief Business Bilateral cooperation between Finland and Sweden has also intensified. Through Development Officer’s appointment to the AeroSpace and Defence Industries networking, the Nordic Defence Cooperation (NORDEFCO) is seeking to promote new Association of Europe (ASD)/Defence Business Unit (DBU). openings in defence materials and industrial collaboration. PREPARING FOR CYBER AND HYBRID THREATS EU DEFENCE FUND PROMOTES COOPERATION The rapid pace of digitalisation is creating both opportunities and challenges for the Due to changes in the security environment, the EU will also be making considerable defence industry. Increased international military intelligence and hybrid threats are investments in defence research during 2019 via the European Defence Fund. One of challenging both software developers and patent and IP holders to protect their data the EU’s areas of interest is mobility in extreme conditions, such as in the Arctic region. and systems more effectively from a variety of cyber threats. The European Centre of Patria is involved not only in this area but also in two other EDIDP projects with different Excellence for Countering Hybrid Threats, which is based in Helsinki, plays an important countries. roles in identifying and preventing these threats. Digitalisation is providing Patria with new business opportunities, for example, by utilising its business units’ maintenance data in the development and packaging of services. Patria’s success is based on premium-quality products, expert personnel, and a flexible, customer-oriented approach. International networking, service commercialisation and marketing are of the upmost importance when competing for The rapid pace of new clients. Competition in the international defence market is tough, and new civilian digitalisation is creating operators are also entering the market. both opportunities and Patria’s market is both growing and becoming more international, and new challenges for the defence competitors are entering the sector. Patria must therefore be able to respond to industry. changes in its operating environment by strengthening its own expertise through networking in a variety of partnerships. Patria can bolster its areas of specialist expertise and thereby improve its competitiveness in tenders. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 13 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E solution based on a new multipurpose fighter. Patria will have a major role in the life-cycle support services provided to the Air Force, and the HX project is extremely important for the company. Requests for tenders were launched in 2018, and Patria has invested heavily in industrial collaboration by negotiating with all other operators. Patria has also been actively negotiating with several combat system suppliers in Patria provides top-notch 2018, as the procurement process for the Finnish Defence Forces’ Squadron 2020 expert maintenance, and combat vessel project progressed. investments in exports are Squadron 2020 is a project that will replace the Finnish Navy’s Rauma Class Fast vital for successful business Attack Craft and Hämeenmaa Class Minelayers before they become obsolete. growth. CONSOLIDATION AND CLOSER PARTNERSHIPS International competition in defence markets is getting even tougher. This has led to consolidation, with larger operators forming in the market. Patria’s ownership structure constitutes significant consolidation: Patria is owned by the Finnish State (50.1%) and Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace AS (49.9%). This structure is supported by the Nammo Group, which is owned 50-50 by Patria and the Norwegian State. EXPORT PERMITS SPARK OFF DEBATE Patria’s growth areas are strategic partnerships in life-cycle support services for Patria provides top-notch expert maintenance, and investments in exports are vital for defence forces (particularly in Northern Europe); international helicopter maintenance successful business growth. Export practices for Patria’s defence materials became a topic services; and selected intelligence, surveillance and management system products of public debate in 2018, and Patria responded by ensuring that the Group’s operations and services. In recent years, Patria has expended internationally via corporate comply with both Finnish and EU export legislation. acquisitions, that is, by acquiring a majority holding in the Estonian company Milrem LCM Operating responsibly is vital for the success of companies in the defence sector, and and a minority holding in the Norwegian company Aim Norway. responsibility is very evident in Patria’s operations. The number of companies who engage Project-specific partnerships between operators from different sectors are the key in social and corporate responsibility reporting is increasing, both in Finland and abroad. to success, particularly in large-scale projects. Reporting is also making increased use of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. In 2018, Patria and Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace agreed on opportunities to collaborate on the development of missile systems. The agreement covers the FIGHTER PROJECTS PROGRESS TO THE TENDER STAGE establishment of a centre of excellence in missile technologies in Finland, the use of From Patria’s perspective, one of the Finnish Defence Forces’ most significant future projects Open Tactical Framework (OFT) technology and system software in Finnish missile is the HX fighter project. Starting in 2025, this project will replace Finland’s Hornet fleet with a projects, and their associated international opportunities. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 14 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Strategy review In line with its updated strategy, Patria focuses on providing aerospace and military customers with equipment availability, continuous performance development as well as intelligence, surveillance and management system products and services. Patria’s mission is to give its customers confidence in all conditions, and its vision is to be the #1 partner for critical operations. The implementation of this strategy is supported by Patria’s overhauled, flexible operating method, which emphasises productisation, marketing and international networking. Patria started implementing the strategy last year. Growth in international maintenance operations is at the core of Patria’s strategy. Growth areas include strategic partnerships with the armed forces in life-cycle support services, particularly in northern Europe, and international helicopter maintenance services. In 2018, Patria founded a new subsidiary, Patria ISP Oy, which focuses on expanding international maintenance and life-cycle support business in line with the strategy. A practical example of international networking was carried out at the end of the year: Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace (KDA) made an agreement with the Norwegian Ministry of Defence to acquire Aerospace Industrial Maintenance Norway AS (AIM Norway). AIM Norway is a Norwegian Armed Forces business that is responsible for the maintenance, upkeep and modernisation of the Norwegian Air Force’s helicopters and other aircraft. In order to bolster the deliveries, capabilities and expertise of AIM Norway, KDA and Patria have agreed on sharing ownership such that KDA owns 50.1 per cent and Patria 49.9 per cent. Another strategic growing trend is the system and integration business and its internationalisation. The international growth areas are selected intelligence, A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 15 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E surveillance and management system products. The Finnish Defence Forces currently have strategically important and exceptionally large projects underway. These projects will be decisive for the future of Finland’s defence industry. Last year, Patria made outlays not only on large Finnish projects, but also on implementing R&D plans for export products. Last year, the company decided to designate the long-term development of the Land business as a third priority alongside maintenance and system products in the new strategy period. Patria’s subsidiary Millog, which specialises in maintenance and life-cycle management and materiel services, also updated its strategy in 2018. Its three focuses are even deeper strategic partnership with the Finnish Defence Forces, providing services for new customers and boosting efficiency to a new level through smart use of digital tools. Nammo, owned 50-50 by Patria and the state of Norway, overhauled its organisation last year to adapt more agilely to challenges in the operating environment. Nammo develops and produces high-tech ammunition for both military and civilian use. During the year, it focused on strengthening its position in its core markets in Europe and North America. Growth in international maintenance operations is at the core of Patria’s strategy. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 16 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E BUSINESS 18 Aviation 22 Systems 26 International Support Partnerships 30 Land 33 Aerostructures 36 Millog 40 Nammo A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 17 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E 737 Personnel Aviation The Aviation business unit provides aircraft life-cycle support services and pilot training for its military and civilian aviation customers. Maintenance and repair 18% Net sales as a share of group services for industrial gas turbines and diesel engines net sales are another key business sector for Aviation. The main customers are the Finnish Navy, European nuclear power 26% plants and other energy industry companies. Personnel as a share of group personnel A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 18 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E AVIATION Operating model revised to better serve customers The Aviation business continued with the revisions to its operating model that began in 2017. It is the biggest change in the entire history of this business area. During 2018, Aviation implemented the change programme for the AviUp! operating model, which standardised core processes in 15 operative units. The revised operating model will provide customers with a customer care organisation that can take end-toend responsibility for handling each customer’s individual needs. Service production reporting was transferred to a single operative director who will be responsible for mobilising the new operating model at all locations. This includes standardising production planning, clarifying work supervision roles and responsibilities, and making more effective use of the ERP system in operations. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 19 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E There has been more work than expected, and Aviation has therefore been operating under capacity for most of the year. There is a clear labour shortage throughout the sector and particularly with regard to sheet metal workers, installation technicians and structural analysts. Patria wants to be involved in training new experts for the sector. The University of Tampere has established a professorship in aircraft engineering education and Patria committed a considerable sum to funding this teaching for a period of ten years. In 2017, Patria established the International Support Partnerships business unit. Patria transferred Aviation’s international operations to this unit and continued to hive off operations during 2018. NEW ELEMENTARY TRAINING AIRCRAFT The project to renew the Finnish Air Force’s elementary training fleet progressed to the implementation phase in 2018. The modernisation of Grob 115E elementary training aircraft, including cockpit modification, was launched. The first modernised training aircraft to replace L-70 Vinkas was also delivered to the Finnish Defence Forces in September 2018. Aviation will continue to provide Defence Force pilots with elementary training as a service that covers both flight instructors and aircraft maintenance and upkeep. The first elementary training course to use Grob aircraft will be held in early 2020. Avionic modifications to the Finnish Border Guard’s Agusta Bell 412EP fleet have Structural repairs to Hornets have generated a lot more work for Aviation than originally expected. A created significant potential for new business. They are the first modifications to large Hawk development project was implemented, so Aviation also spent more time working on these civilian aircraft that have received a Supplementary Type Certificate (STC) from the aircraft than in previous years. There have been some delays in these deliveries, but Aviation took European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). This has opened up significant new business corrective measures during 2018 and has managed to get back on schedule. opportunities for Patria in the maintenance and upkeep of civilian aircraft. It also constitutes an important industrial reference, and demonstrates that Patria has FIGHTER PROCUREMENT OPENS UP NEW OPPORTUNITIES become a major European provider of life-cycle services for aircraft. The HX project will acquire fighters to replace Finland’s fleet of Hornets over the next decade, and it The retrofit programmes for NH90 helicopters that began in 2017 have progressed provided significantly more work for the Aviation business in 2018 than in previous years. Patria is a as expected in both Finland and Sweden. All Finnish helicopters will have been modified neutral strategic partner to the Finnish Defence Forces in this project. by early 2019. Patria’s work with the Swedish Air Force will continue for several years, All manufacturers have been informed of the expertise and cooperation that Patria can offer during which all 13 helicopters will be modified. with regard to new types of aircraft. The most important task will involve cooperation to meet the A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 20 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E requirements of industrial collaboration and to ensure domestic security of supply and The business unit continued to implement REACH regulations for chemical handling in fleet maintenance in line with the tender. Cooperation within the HX project is expected 2018. Aviation has sought alternatives for chemicals that can be replaced and has applied to increase considerably during 2019 and again in the following years. for a special permit to use chemicals that cannot be replaced. Monitoring changes in REACH regulations and complying with changing norms have been an essential aspect of business FLIGHT TRAINING IN PIRKKALA continuity management. Civilian flight training has now been operating out of Pirkkala for the first full year. During the year, Patria almost attained the maximum training volume possible at this PERSONNEL AND FINANCES capacity level (120 students). The global need for commercial flight training is growing, The number of employees remained largely unchanged during 2018, that is, about 750 which means increasing demand for Patria’s services. employees in five municipalities. Aviation hired about 100 new employees to compensate Patria’s main strength in pilot training is the Airbus Multi-Crew Pilot Licence. Pilots for natural turnover. The business unit has been actively recruiting, and will manage to receive training in both this aircraft type and the requirements of cockpit work for resolve its undercapacity issues during 2019. the airline in question. It is an intensive course: pilots graduate in 18 months. The first The financial position improved significantly on 2017, and is now satisfactory. Aviation Finnair and Norra pilots graduated from Pirkkala in 2018. In December 2018, a pilot successfully boosted its production efficiency during 2018 and the outlook for 2019 is training agreement was signed with Air Astana. It will run until 2022. favourable. Civil aviation is growing all across the world, airlines are increasing their capacity, Aviation’s success in 2019 requires the business area to effectively complete the change and there is increasing demand for pilot training. This demand is creating significant programme launched in 2018, to ensure that operations meet growing demand, and to fully business growth potential for Aviation. harness the unique opportunities afforded by the HX project. THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMME IN EVERYDAY LIFE Aviation adopted the ISO 14001 environmental standard in 2018. The business unit has revised its environmental policy and made considerable outlays on communicating the updates. Compliance, sustainability and responsibility are the cornerstones of the The HX project will acquire fighters environmental policy. Aviation is aware of the environmental impacts of its services to replace Finland’s fleet of Hornets and keeps them under control throughout a service’s entire life-cycle. Risks can be over the next decade, and it provided predicted and Aviation has operating methods in place to prevent their realisation. significantly more work for the The business unit renewed its environmental permit for its Halli location, and carried Aviation business. Patria is a neutral out the required measures for this during 2018. They included groundwater protection, stormwater treatment, and building basins around areas used for emptying fuel tanks strategic partner to the Finnish and tankers. Defence Forces in this project. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 21 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Systems 309 Personnel The Systems business unit provides demanding deliveries of systems and devices to both security authorities and the 14% defence forces of various countries. Areas of special expertise include reconnaissance, surveillance and command systems, as well as their integration, software and life-cycle support. Systems is an expert in system integration. Its strength lies in Net sales as a share of group its decades of experience in both national and international net sales projects and technologies. 11% Personnel as a share of group personnel A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 22 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E SYSTEMS Controlled growth During the year, the Systems business was able to put both domestic and international projects into practice. The brisk recruitment of new talent also continued. Product development and negotiations in previous years began to bear fruit for Systems in 2018. MLU refits to extend the lifespan of Hamina-class vessels were launched after an agreement was signed with the Finnish Defence Forces in January. A strategic partnership with the Finnish Air Force, which covers the maintenance, overhaul and improvement of avionics systems, brought in considerable additional business. Avionics updates to Hawk Mk51 aircraft also progressed as planned. Systems launched the update and design of avionics and electronics for Crob elementary training aircraft, and began the delivery of new training simulators. Major product launches were made in the passive sensors product family, in signals intelligence and passive radar systems. Systems both began and completed a financially demanding software project in collaboration with a client. Overall, the Systems business unit has achieved controlled growth during 2018 and will seek to further strengthen profitability during 2019. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 23 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Progress was made in negotiations to replace the Finnish Defence Forces’ fleet of Hornet fighters. This is a strategically important project for several of Patria’s business units. Systems and Aviation will continue their input in the joint project team, which seeks to develop cooperation and promote networking with Finnish and foreign industrial partners and potential aircraft suppliers. During the year, Systems also made considerable progress in the Squadron 2020 project, which will replace the Finnish Navy’s aging combat vessels, which will become obsolete in the 2020s. The primary goals are to get Patria’s own product offering included in the overall package delivered by combat system suppliers and to obtain a significant role in the construction and maintenance phases. BRISK RECRUITMENT The environment in which Patria’s clients operate is digitalising at a rapid pace, and this generates both opportunities and challenges for a software and systems specialist such as Systems. In the Finnish market, solid cooperation with securitycritical authorities will offer more room to manoeuvre, as new solutions and addedvalue services are sought to meet the challenges arising from digitalisation and cybersecurity. Systems strengthened its own competence in 2018 by recruiting plenty of new talent: 50 new experts were recruited during the year. The number of people employed by the business unit grew by about 18% in 2018. Although there is tough competition for experts in the software industry, Systems succeeded in keeping its existing experts and hiring new talents. Systems’ strengths are meaningful work and interesting tasks for employees, and employees’ commitment to their employer. When developing personnel competence and enhancing work satisfaction, Patria takes care of its employees by ensuring proper induction and maintaining and enhancing supervisory work, leadership coaching and expert training. During 2019, Systems will continue to invest in new tools that will help to monitor progress in personnel competence development more effectively. When it comes to enhancing working capacity and wellbeing, open internal communication and constructive feedback promote work contentment. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 24 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E NEW PRODUCT MANAGEMENT ORGANISATION BRINGS AGILITY The Systems business unit was structurally reorganised in 2018 with the creation of a new product management organisation and by investing more strongly in commercialisation, sales and marketing. Systems’ internal process change – shifting from expert work towards Patria’s own products and exports – aims towards greater agility in internationalisation, promotes the market entry of Patria’s IPR and export products, and also enhances operational profitability, project management, operational reliability, and continual improvements in quality. Overall, the Systems business has achieved controlled growth RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND SAFETY during 2018 and will seek to Systems complies with the Patria Group’s environmental objectives and monitors further strengthen profitability the achievement of its targets in a responsible manner, in everything from everyday during 2019. office recycling to property energy efficiency. An indoor air improvement contract was completed in the autumn at Systems’ location in Halli. Ergonomics have also been improved by acquiring electrical tables for clerical employees. Expansion work has also begun in Espoo to meet increases in the number of personnel there. In a data-intensive business, occupational safety means not only carrying out your tasks safely, but also paying attention to information security when you are working on strategically confidential collaborative projects. Issues relating to data security are regularly monitored and any deviations in security are reported on a quarterly basis. Corrective measures are also taken as necessary. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 25 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E International Support 167 Partnerships Personnel International Support Partnerships offers international life-cycle support services. The core functions of the new business unit are maintenance and repairs, modifications, 5% Net sales as a share of group spare parts supply and technical support. net sales 6% Personnel as a share of group personnel A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 26 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT PARTNERSHIPS International Support Partnerships as an international spearhead In 2018, the International Support Partnerships (ISP) business unit was defined by three things: organising itself as an independent profit centre, boosting the efficiency of operations in Sweden, and the December acquisition of AIM Norway. Hiving ISP off from Aviation as a separate company progressed according to plan during 2018. ISP completely restructured its operating model and organisation to create a service provider that can successfully supply the international defence solutions industry. ISP will therefore be the vanguard for the internationalisation of the Patria Group as a whole. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 27 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E The targets set for the company have been achieved almost in accordance with forecasts. Delays with the AIM acquisition and a weaker-than-expected financial result for the business in Sweden have lowered the result to some extent. However, the Swedish operations have shown a clear improvement on the previous year and ISP will work to keep things moving in this positive direction during 2019. No significant changes occurred in the operating environment during the past year. After getting off to a good start, ISP will continue to provide comprehensive partnerships to both defence and civilian authorities. There is growing interest in ISP’s services in the market. This means both the potential for business growth in the existing core business and opportunities to develop new services. SPEARHEADING INTERNATIONALISATION Patria and Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace (KDA) acquired AIM Norway, which is responsible for the maintenance and modernisation of the Norwegian Air Force’s helicopters and other aircraft. The deal includes the Belgium Engine Center (BEC), a company that operates out of Belgium and specialises in engine maintenance, repair and overhaul. The acquisition also marks the creation of a new international operating method for Patria. It is based on profound technical expertise coupled with a strategic partnership concept that Patria has been honing for decades and local, customer-centric maintenance and upkeep services in each country. The acquisition of AIM Norway means a threefold increase in terms of both net sales and personnel when compared to the size of the ISP business unit. The broadened range of expertise in, for example, fighters and fighter engine maintenance will also enable Patria to provide more comprehensive services to demanding international customers. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 28 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E A THIRD CORNERSTONE FOR MAINTENANCE Patria has extended its agreement on Black Hawk helicopters with the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration, and the maintenance contract for NH90 helicopters in Norway will also continue. In Estonia, a maintenance contract was signed for XA and Patria’s objective is to create CV90 vehicles. a brand-new approach to its These agreements will strengthen Patria’s ability to provide maintenance and international business, and upkeep services for both army vehicles and helicopters. Thanks to the AIM acquisition, the service offering has also significantly expanded into both engine and overall to build up a network of units maintenance and upkeep for F16 and F35 fighters in addition to domestic F18 operating in various countries. maintenance. PERSONNEL ENCOURAGED TO JOB ROTATION ISP’s new organisation has drawn attention to the fact that personnel have the opportunity to transfer between locations and develop in their work. This applies equally to those in managerial and maintenance positions. For example, someone has transferred from Finland to Estonia as a technical manager and Finnish helicopter maintenance experts have worked extensively in the Norwegian unit. Patria intends to continue promoting operational flexibility and competence mobility in line with customers’ changing requirements. The most important task in 2019 will be to take full advantage of the AIM acquisition and hone a shared operating model for the ISP business unit. The operating method should suit both the current situation and future growth. Growth is being sought both organically and by seeking suitable acquisitions – and also by creating partnerships and joint ventures with others in the sector. Patria’s objective is to create a brand-new approach to its international business, and to build up a network of units operating in various countries. ISP is already well on the way to this goal and there is great confidence in future growth for the Group as a whole. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 29 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E 273 Personnel Land Land’s core competence lies in high-quality armoured wheeled vehicles and mortar turrets, and their 16% Net sales as a share of group life-cycle support services. Its best-known products net sales are the Patria AMV and 6x6 vehicles, and the Patria Nemo and AMOS mortar systems. Land sells products 10% globally to both armies and navies. Personnel as a share of group personnel A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 30 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E LAND Major product launch and multilevel collaboration In the Land business unit, 2018 saw the launch of a new vehicle at Eurosatory event in Paris and participation in research and development projects run by the Slovak and Finnish Ministries of Defence. The Land business unit added a new product to its offering: the Patria 6x6, which is an armoured, multipurpose personnel carrier. It was launched in June at the Eurosatory event in Paris. The first prototype of this new vehicle has been manufactured and tested in Finland’s demanding conditions, and testing will continue during 2019. Good cooperation with the Finnish Defence Forces on the modernisation of XA-180 personnel carriers continued as agreed and in accordance with targets. In May, Land signed an agreement to deliver a fleet of armoured bridge-layers to the Finnish Defence Forces. Land also delivered a new prototype of the AMV XP vehicle platform for a joint R&D project between the Finnish and Slovak Ministries of Defence. On the basis of the A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 31 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E results of this R&D programme, Slovakia is planning to order 81 IFV vehicles as part of its military fleet modernisation programme (2018–2024). In spite of its good achievements, the Land business unit fell short of its targets due to delayed projects and March’s lost Land business unit is aiming to tender to supply Australia with personnel carriers. further develop its multilevel collaboration, for example SERVICE BUSINESS GROWING IN IMPORTANCE within the framework of the Land made considerable investments in its service business and sales development, Finnish Defence Forces’ Arctic which resulted in organisational restructuring to meet their demands. Growth is being sought from Land’s expanded product offering, and also from maintenance and lifemobility concept. cycle support services. The business unit is also aiming to further develop its multilevel collaboration, for example within the framework of the Finnish Defence Forces’ Arctic mobility concept. The market situation continues to be challenging. Land is aware that the complexity of political processes poses a challenge for business. The success of future projects will require even greater specialist expertise. in sickness absence. According to averages calculated from monthly figures, the sickness After the Uganda incident, Land systematically revised its sales process. The Gate absence rate was 1.2 for clerical employees and 4.8 for other employees. model for projects was also updated. The Management Team will approve both new New measures to improve working conditions and occupational safety were also sales projects and project phases on the basis of process-compliant presentations. launched during 2018. In the spring, Land achieved a world-class ranking (level II classification) in the Institute of Occupational Health’s Zero Accident Forum. TRAINING PROGRAMMES AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY PROGRESS AS PLANNED In the spring, Land engaged in cooperation negotiations that covered all personnel in PERSONNEL MOTIVATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL Hämeenlinna and Tampere. The negotiations were launched for financial and productionPROTECTION AT A GOOD LEVEL related reasons: order volumes had fallen due to some projects coming to an end, Land’s response rate in November’s Patria People personnel satisfaction survey was and there was some work reorganisation. The focus was on reorganising tasks and excellent (92.8 per cent). On the basis of the survey results, the business area’s strengths reallocating people to new positions. The negotiations resulted in ten employees being lie in its committed and motivated personnel, and supervisors’ trust in their subordinates. made redundant and a change of position for another 25 employees. Land’s direct environmental impacts are relatively minor. During 2018, the business In May 2018, Land established its own service business function with the aim of area achieved its internal environmental targets. Land’s environmental issues mainly increasing the volume of business accounted for by the service business. Land continued revolve around managing the environmental impacts of test shooting, which is to run its existing training programmes in performance management and leadership based on statutory obligations and official requirements. Land also drew up its own coaching. environmental policy. This process included identifying and assessing the life-cycle In occupational safety, both the number of accidents and sickness absences remained environmental impacts of products, services and subcontractors’ operations, and their at a good level. A total of seven accidents occurred during 2018, three of which resulted associated risks. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 32 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E 130 Aerostructures Personnel The Aerostructures business unit designs and manufactures advanced composite structures for aircraft and defence industry applications. It is also 5% Net sales as a share of group actively involved in development programmes for net sales new composite technologies. Aerostructures’ core competencies are expertise in the manufacture 5% of composite structures and efficient production processes. Its main customers are Airbus, Saab and other aerospace companies. Personnel as a share of group personnel A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 33 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E AEROSTRUCTURES Efficient production visible in delivery volumes In the Aerostructures business unit, 2018 was crowned by the delivery of carbon-fibre structures for over six hundred Airbus A320 aircraft and the adoption of paperless production. Operational adjustments were also required in the face of continuing tough global competition. Aerostructures’ successes in 2018 included getting the production of carbon-fibre tail-fin structures for Airbus A320s up to full speed and implementing Airborne Early Warning radar structures and antennas for Saab surveillance aircraft to a recordbreakingly fast schedule. Deliveries for Airbus A320 aircraft progressed to phase one in collaboration with a Turkish partner. The launch of production in Turkey will strengthen Aerostructures’ presence in one of the main market areas for aircraft manufacturers. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 34 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E In June, Aerostructures acquired the entire share capital of Patricomp from Aernova and waste management focused on recycling and minimising waste volumes. Aerospace SAU’s subsidiary. Patricomp manufactures thin steel sheet structures Aerostructures worked continuously to minimise consumption and maximise material for aircraft, and also carries out associated surface treatments and assembly. The efficiency. acquisition was confirmed in October 2018, and the integration of Patricomp’s operations will continue during 2019. Competition in Aerostructures’ global operating field remained tough, which made it challenging to increase sales volumes. Aerostructures has responded to the market situation by enhancing automation and adopting paperless production. The introduction of new digital operating methods got off to a flying start in 2018 with training for all personnel. The focal points for Aerostructures in 2019 will be improving trends in profitability and ensuring and achieving growth. One of the year’s major challenges will be participating in the tender phase of the Finnish Air Force’s HX fighter project. Aerostructures will also be seeking to improve and boost the efficiency of its operations by promoting competence development and responding to changes in production and workloads. The key measures in achieving this will be updating and revising HR and training plans. SUPPORT AND WORKING ABILITY, WITHOUT FORGETTING THE ENVIRONMENT Aerostructures engaged in cooperation negotiations during 2018. The negotiations were launched for financial and production-related reasons: project delivery volumes had fallen and some work reorganisation was carried out. The negotiations resulted in five employees being made redundant and eight employees being laid-off for either a fixed period or until further notice. The average duration of the lay-offs was 2–3 weeks. All of the measures were carried out in 2018. The occupational health action plan for the reporting period sought to prevent and reduce musculoskeletal disorders with the aid of shared measures; conduct workplace visits; and adopt an early intervention model. Occupational healthcare negotiations and any resulting support programmes will be carried out as necessary. On the environmental front, Aerostructures continued to operate, monitor and report in accordance with the ISO14001 standard. No environmental damage occurred, A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 35 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Millog 1,096 Personnel 42% Millog specialises in maintenance, material and lifecycle management services. As a strategic partner to the Finnish Defence Forces, Millog has developed into an expert organisation with more than a Net sales as a share of group thousand employees at over twenty locations. The net sales company is owned by Patria Oyj, Insta Group Oy and the Finnish State. Millog’s wholly owned subsidiary Senop Oy provides optoelectronic systems and system integration 39% Personnel as a share of group services. personnel A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 36 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E MILLOG Millog’s roadmap for the future According to Millog’s new strategy the company wants to engage in even closer cooperation with the Finnish Defence Forces, and competence must be ensured at every turn. Occupational safety was the theme for 2018. Millog achieved the targets set for both its net sales and operating result in 2018. Agreed work was implemented as planned and customer satisfaction remained at a high level throughout the year. The drafting of Millog’s new strategy was one of the major events of 2018. Millog wanted its strategy to reflect the operations and requirements of the entire organisation. Personnel throughout the entire organisation were involved in the process. The new strategy was successfully internalised, and its mobilisation will continue during 2019. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 37 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E The strategy was published in the summer and has three focal areas. The most In summer 2018, Millog opened a new, modern maintenance facility in Kajaani. The important one is the desire to forge an even closer partnership with the Finnish next investment in premises will be made in Upinniemi, with the aim of launching the Defence Forces. Millog wants to create growth potential by expanding into new areas. construction of a new repair shop in 2019. The second objective is to produce services for new customers who value operating Millog has joined the Government Secure Network (TUVE), which will forge an methods and partnerships that meet high security standards and ensure security of even closer strategic partnership and lead to greater efficiency in the use of shared supply. information systems. The TUVE project is scheduled for completion in 2019. The third spearhead of Millog’s strategy is to raise efficiency to a new level. This will Millog currently has eight environmental permits, the last of which was issued in be achieved through the use of smart digital tools, by developing competence and December 2018. The area around the Pansio surface treatment building was made more resources, and by breaking in new operating models, such as the routine management environmentally friendly with asphalt surfacing and the installation of a stormwater model for supervisors and the introduction of Lean 6S. management system. During the year, Millog also enhanced waste reporting processes and improved energy efficiency by replacing doors and windows. OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY UNDER THE MAGNIFYING GLASS Millog’s main development theme for 2018 was occupational safety. An increased level SUBSIDIARY SENOP FOCUSED ON R&D of awareness led to a tenfold increase in the number of safety observations that were Millog’s wholly owned subsidiary Senop Oy develops and manufactures products for made. Awareness and paying due attention to occupational safety when planning security and defence. The company specialises in high-tech night vision systems, implementation will have a positive impact on future accident statistics. MIL-compliant platforms for technical and management systems, and demanding system integrations. Although Senop is currently investing in internationalisation, progress has been slower than expected. This can be seen in the lower-than-expected order level and The most important focus area result for Senop’s operations. In 2019, Senop will focus on developing its sales networks is Millog’s desire to forge an in particular. even closer partnership with During 2018, Senop developed and began the manufacture of a next-generation hyperspectral camera, which received excellent feedback from trial customers. The the Finnish Defence Forces. In new hyperspectral camera will be launched at industry trade fairs in February 2019. addition to this, Millog wants The hyperspectral camera market is expected to grow substantially over the coming to create growth potential by years through the development of usage applications. expanding into new areas. Senop has also developed future lens technology (Free Form) that will be harnessed in a new generation of night vision systems, which are scheduled for launch during 2019. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 38 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E In 2018, Senop engaged in cooperation negotiations that resulted in the redundancy of two employees. A FAIR SUPERVISOR AND A FAIR COLLEAGUE Millog continued to invest in leadership development. Almost all supervisors completed the Fair Management training programme last year, and this has led to a significant improvement in management. Alongside this Fair Management training, Millog also introduced Fair Colleague training aimed at improving social skills in the workplace. Two pilots have currently been carried out, and more will follow in 2019. HR management achieved its main objectives in 2018. These were developing Talent Management, improving Millog’s employer image, and ensuring GDPR compliance. Millog reached the final in Ilmarinen’s Work Ability competition, as one of the five best companies in Finland. Due to the high average age of Millog’s personnel, the company also invests in systematic plans to replace employees who will retire over the coming years. This will also enable Millog to change its competence profile to meet future needs. 89 people were hired during 2018. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 39 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Nammo Nammo is an international aerospace and defence 2,400 Personnel company headquartered in Norway. With 2,400 staff spread across more than 30 sites and offices 512.4 in 13 countries, Nammo is one of the world’s leading providers of ammunition, rocket motors and demilitarization services for both military and civilian EUR million customers. Nammo is owned in equal shares by Net sales Patria (50%) and the state of Norway (50%). Nammo Group was redefined at the beginning of 2013 as a joint venture and was consolidated using the equity method instead of the previously used proportionate method. Nammo AS publishes its own annual report and corporate responsibility report, available on the company’s website at www.nammo.com. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 40 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E NAMMO Nammo celebrating its twentieth anniversary Owned 50% by Patria, the Norwegian aerospace and defence innovator keeps pushing the boundaries of hi-tech In 2018, Nammo celebrated its twentieth anniversary. Since Nammo was founded in 1998 as a conglomeration of Nordic ammunition businesses, the company has quadrupled its revenues and expanded its operations from four to 13 countries. In the process, Nammo has become a truly international company, which now counts US citizens as the second largest nationality among its 2,400 employees. Nammo currently operates through five business units: Commercial Ammunition, Small and Medium Calibre Ammunition, Large Calibre Ammunition, Shoulder Fired Systems, and Aerospace Propulsion. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 41 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E INNOVATION RULES Nammo is driven by precision engineering and the development of innovative, global solutions. The company seeks growth in its current markets, both organically and through acquisitions. At the same time, the company is strengthening its presence in its European and North American core markets. All key markets, except for the Demil market, had a positive underlying trend in 2018. To rectify that particular situation, the Demil business unit was merged with the Small and Medium Calibre Ammunition business unit in 2018. The merger reflected Nammo’s commitment to continuously developing its organisation and to adapting to the business environment, which features its share of challenges. The key issues for Nammo in 2018 were maintaining profitability and seeking growth. At the same time, the company was concentrating on delivering products with top-level performance to its customers. CLEARED FOR LAUNCH In 2018, Nammo continued to push the boundaries in technology and innovation. In September, Nammo successfully completed the first launch of Nucleus, a sounding rocket powered by its new hybrid rocket motor. Launched from Andøya Space Centre in Northern Norway, Nucleus reached an altitude of 107.4 km. Another notable breakthrough for the year was Nammo’s 30 mm Swimmer (APFSDS-T MK 258 M ­ od 1), which started full-scale production. While traditional ammunition is either stopped or deflected when it hits water, Nammo’s 30 mm Swimmer swims straight through water. In 2018, deliveries for Swimmer were made to both the US Navy and Army. LEAN ATTITUDE With regards to productivity, Nammo continues to invest in automated production. Together with a Lean 6 Sigma programme, the goal is to create processes and a production environment that are state-of-the-art. Looking into 2019, Nammo continues on its growth path, seeking to continue improving its profitability. Gains on long-term profitability can be achieved by means of, for example, structural, legal, and operational venues. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 42 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E RESPONSIBILITY 44 Corporate responsibility in Patria 52 Patria and society 59 Ethical operation 62 Responsible employer 68 Environmental responsibility 75 GRI Index A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 43 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Corporate responsibility in Patria Corporate responsibility is a part and a solid basis of all business, but especially of the defence industry. Good corporate citizenship is a prerequisite for the operations of the company, which is majority-owned by the Finnish state. Patria has an important role in the security of supply in Finnish society as a strategic partner of the Finnish Defence Forces. Internationalisation of the operations as well as export practices are linked to the strategic role of Patria. In 2018, Patria faced some negative media coverage related to its export business and therefore re-evaluated certain processes. Patria’s corporate responsibility is strongly connected to its area of industry and its role as a strategic partner of the Finnish Defence Forces. Security of supply is basically a guarantee of supply of goods and services sufficient for a state to discharge its defence and security commitments in accordance with its foreign and security policy requirements. Patria seeks to maintain the Group’s reputation as a good corporate citizen. Patria bears responsibility for its financial performance, the well-being of its employees and stakeholders, and the environment. Patria emphasises open interaction with its stakeholders. Responsible activities are continuously developed, and investments are made in related training. Patria aims is to maintain the awareness of personnel and their ability to have an impact on responsible conduct within the work community. MAJOR EVENTS IN 2018 In 2018, Patria was in the news when it came to light that its Land business unit had connections to a Finnish businessman deceased in Uganda. In connection to this case, the Land business unit’s marketing procedure and business partner selection A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 44 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E were reviewed. In its communication to media and other stakeholders Patria was to evaluate the end user reliability and other export prerequisites when assessing the transparent and honest, as is its practice. Due to this case, Patria clarified internally its possibility of export in complex situations and circumstances. decision-making processes, made changes in its personnel, and immediately started business partner selection training in every business unit, with 120 people attending DEVELOPMENT OF REPORTING the training sessions. Also, an internal audit was conducted following this incident. The In 2018, a project related to the development of corporate responsibility reporting was audit concluded that nothing could be found which would require new, major corrective conducted with an external expert organisation. The objective is to improve compliance measures in addition to those already conducted by the company. Nevertheless, in with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards and thus produce clearer and more 2019 Patria will continue to develop the ethical training even further. comparable reports for stakeholders. A GRI Gap Analysis created a better view of the report Another topic in a vivid discussion was export licences. There was some footage in the as a whole, with practical steps for proceeding with this work. media of what appeared to be a Patria vehicle in the Yemen war. As the photo experts were not able to confirm the origin of the footage i.e. where and when the photos were FOCUS AREAS IN 2019 taken Patria was able only confirm that the vehicle was Patria AMV but not the origin. In 2019, the focus areas in Patria’s corporate responsibility are: continuous improvement in reporting, supplier chain management, the business partner selection process, and an EXPORT PRACTICES internal environment campaign in order to raise awareness of the climate change among The basic principles in export business are issues such as Patria employees. • All defence related products need an export license • All technology export related to them need an export license GENERAL PRINCIPLES • All integrations, partly or entirely, need an export license. Patria is committed to complying with the laws and regulations of the countries in which it operates. Patria respects the international rules such as the United Nations (UN) Patria complies with the national legislation and international commitments. A decision Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO conventions. made by government officials to grant an export license is made on a case by case basis Patria actively participates in the work of the Association of Finnish Defence and with the overall situation and one of the prerequisites is a reliable end user of the Aerospace Industries (AFDA) and its umbrella organisation, the Aerospace and Defence materiel. Also, possibilities of a misuse of the materiel are considered. Granting a license Association of Europe (ASD), as well as in the work of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and is based on EU criteria and in consultation with other EU countries. its Nordic network. In 2018, the Finnish UNGC Network was established, and Patria has its In addition to the evaluation of the end user reliability, the product properties are representative as a member of the board. assessed. Defence material has categories, which in connection with the licenses, Patria has a solid Ethical Code of Conduct updated in 2017, available publicly at as well as may mean that one category products may be exported but at the same time another a Corporate Responsibility Policy to determine the framework, outlines and responsibilities category is off the list. In certain situations, one may for example export vehicles but of corporate responsibility. not weapons or ammunition. In 2018, the Finnish Government decided on restricted export authorisations to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. Patria relies on the government officials’ capability A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 45 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING Annual General Meeting Patria has a Corporate Responsibility Team that includes the Chief Communications • The Annual General Meeting is the highest organ of the company. It confirms Officer (leading the team and responsible for corporate responsibility, except for ethics Patria’s corporate responsibility activities. and compliance), the General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer, and the Human Resources Officer. Together with the Group’s financial, HR, and environmental experts, Board of Directors and representatives of the business units, these persons form the entire Corporate • The Board of Directors is responsible for making sure that corporate responsibility Responsibility Team. is organised and integrated into the company’s strategy. The General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for matters involving • The Board of Directors confirms the Group’s ethical practices and monitors their implementation. ethics and compliance (including anti-corruption). Matters related to ethics and • The Audit Committee oversees compliance and issues related to corporate ethics. compliance are reviewed by Patria´s Board of Management, and the General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer reports regularly to the Board of Directors and the Audit Board of Management Committee on these topics. Approval of the ethics and compliance programme at Patria • Under the leadership of the President and CEO, the Board of Management prepares is the responsibility of the Patria Oyj Board of Directors. Specific responsibility for the Patria’s strategy and the integration of corporate responsibility within the supervision of matters related to ethics and compliance rests with the Audit Committee strategy. appointed by the Board, and as per the Audit Committee Charter approved by the Patria • The Board of Management approves the themes and goals of corporate responsibility and monitors the achievement of the related objectives. Board of Directors. • A member nominated by the Board of Management acts as the Director of The responsibility of financial management lies with the business units and their Corporate Responsibility, who leads the Corporate Responsibility Team. appointed organisations, Group-wide operations and reporting is lead by the Chief Financial Officer and related Group-level organisation. Corporate Responsibility Team The responsibility of social management is shared by the Chief HR Officer together • The Corporate Responsibility Team consists of experts from Patria’s businesses with the Group-wide HR team and Chief Communications Officer, responsible for and corporate management. • The team prepares and is responsible for the achievement of objectives within the stakeholder collaboration. group. The responsibility of environmental management lies with business units and their • The team is also responsible for the annual corporate responsibility report. appointed organisations, reporting to the respective Management Groups. A GroupBusiness units wide environmental work group aims to enhance further collaboration and the sharing of information between various business units and developing and reporting on the • Businesses are responsible for their activities and act in accordance with the group’s environmental responsibility. corporate responsibility policy in order to achieve their goals. Corporate responsibility forms part of the work and duties of each Patria employee. Guidelines related to corporate responsibility are available in Patria’s Integrated Management System and they are reviewed annually. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 46 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E ESSENTIAL THEMES DETERMINED IN 2017 and the company’s role as a strategic partner of the Defence Forces, 2. Responsible The essential themes of Patria’s responsibility have been updated in 2017 on the basis defence materiel export practices, 3. Ethical operations and good governance, 4. of a stakeholder survey among customers, suppliers, authorities, subcontractors and Financial performance, and 5. Occupational well-being. non-governmental organisations. The key themes of Patria’s corporate responsibility were then boiled down to five areas by the Board of Management: 1. Security of supply MAIN LONG-TERM OBJECTIVE TO BE RECOGNISED AS A COMPANY WITH HIGH ETHICAL STANDARDS The long-term goals have not changed: Patria Group’s objective is to be recognised as an ethical operator in the industry. • Patria’s principles regarding ethical practices and anti-corruption measures it takes have permeated the company’s stakeholders, with Patria being viewed as a company with a high standard for ethical practices. • Patria’s most important partners operate on a level corresponding to, at a minimum, Role as a that specified in Patria’s ethical guidelines. partner of the Defence Forces and security • Patria’s personnel are aware of the ethical principles and the right conduct that of supply governs various aspects of their work. Ethical operations Responsible Patria’s corporate responsibility short-term goals and their indicators were defined in and good defence materiel 2017 and were not changed in 2018. governance export practices Patria has an important role in the security of supply in the Finnish society Occupational Financial as a strategic partner of the Finnish well-being performance Defence Forces. Internationalisation of the operations as well as export practices are linked to the strategic role of Patria. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 47 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Essential area of corporate Role as a partner of the Finnish Defence Ethical operations and responsibility Forces and security of supply Responsible defence export practices good governance Financial performance Occupational well-being Long-term objectives To be a sought-after and trusted partner To be a trusted exporter of defence material To be recognised as an ethical operator in Financial profitability To offer a safe and inspiring the industry working environment for all empoyees Indicators A corporate image survey: a) Level B based on the external results of a) Annual training for the entire staff each Achieving the profit targets a) Sick leave indicator: goal of less a) Patria operates on a customer-oriented basis (3.76 in 2017), Transparency International Defence Companies year, with 100% coverage of staff. budgeted for each year than 3.5% (3.5% in 2018) goal of 4 in 2020. Anti-Corruption Index. b) Development of corporate image b) Job satisfaction as an indicator: b) Patria operates in a networked manner and in good b) 100% of employees whose work is exportamong Finnish customers and a new goal will be set in Q1 2019, cooperation with partners (3.81), goal of 4 in 2020. related, has got specific ethics and compliance stakeholders as an indicator: (3.24 in based on survey conducted training. 2015, 3.73 in 2017), goal of a minimum of 12/2018 the 2017 level in the 2020 survey Realisation 2018 Patria continued its close cooperation with the Finnish Transparency International UK’s Defence The annual ethical training offered for all Patria Group’s sales and The rate of absence due to illness Defence Forces as planned and for its part participated in the Companies Anti-corruption Index 2019 related Patria personnel was conducted in Q4 in profitability for the financial declined from 4% to the target preparations for the Defence Forces big projects such as (HX, draft questionnaire was evaluated and all locations in all related languages. The year 2018 increased from the level 3.5%. SQ 2020). feedback was provided. rate of attendance was good; 98.4% but previous year but did not met In international market, Patria continued co-operation in the Patria examined its anti-corruption policies and did not met the objective of 100%. the objectives mainly due to the certain large Land export projects Patria Personnel Survey was ongoing projects, eg. Slovakia, Poland, UEA. processes, updated the related information at conducted in 2018. Clear www.patria.fi. not realising. strengths include commitment, In-depth class-room ethics and compliance motivation in work, interesting training for top/middle management, marketing tasks, team spirit and and sales, procurement, offset and finance occupational safety. Personnel teams was prepared, and Patria Board of feel that their work is important, Management was trained. interesting and sufficiently Business Partner Selection related training was challenging. Employees are proud offered to 120 persons in different business of their work, and employment unit. relationships are long. The areas in need of development include the operational and management culture, the recent business developments as well as employee wellbeing. Actions 2019 The implementation of the strategy will be continued. Patria TI survey to take place in 2019. General Data Protection Regulation Strategy update and A new goal for the employee focuses on providing aerospace and military customers with Specific ethics and compliance training offered (GDPR) related project was run in 2018 to incorporating CSR into strategy satisfaction will be set in Q1 2019. equipment availability, continuous performance development for top/middle management, marketing and ensure compliance with the regulations. and BU level targets. At the corporate level strategy as well as intelligence, surveillance and management system sales, procurement, offset and finance teams The GDPR processes and practices will communications is a special focus products and services. during 2019. be further developed during 2019 and area. Growth in international maintenance operations is at the core Follow up internal audit on sales and marketing further training will be provided. Business units have their own of the strategy. Growth areas include strategic partnerships activities (incl. business partners). Supplier Code of Conduct to be created. specific focus areas. with the armed forces in life-cycle support services, particularly in northern Europe, and international helicopter maintenance Carbon footprint to be analysed and services. targets to be defined. Corporate image survey, action and lobbying plan. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 48 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES RESPONSIBILITY REPORTING AND CALCULATION PRINCIPLES Business operations spanning several countries and jurisdictions, along with the The report covers the parent company, Patria Oyj, its majority-owned subsidiaries complex regulations that govern the industry, mean that there is always a risk of in Finland in 2018, namely Patria Aviation Oy, Patria Land Systems Oy, and Millog Oy, infringement, regardless of Patria’s good intentions and investments in ensuring as well as their majority-owned subsidiaries. No figures for outsourced functions are ethical operations. Violations may result in financial losses and damage to Patria’s included in Patria’s report. Nammo AS, which is jointly and equally owned by Patria and reputation. the state of Norway, reports independently on sustainability. The personnel statistics On the other hand, the development of ethical conduct is seen as an opportunity to cover all functions based in Finland, with the exception of the average number of be recognised as an ethical operator and to increase Patria’s attraction as a partner. employees, which includes the figures from all subsidiaries in which Patria is the In addition, environmental awareness with regard to defence materiel may present a majority owner. The Group’s reporting will be improved so that the statistics later on will future opportunity for Patria. include the figures of Patria’s overseas subsidiaries. The report data has been gathered from Patria Group’s internal data systems. With respect to measurement and calculation methods, recommendations in accordance with the GRI guidelines have been followed whenever possible and appropriate. The statistics always include a note on the measurement and/or calculation method used. Personnel data is obtained from the Patria HR system. Accident statistics are obtained from an insurance company. Financial statistics are available in full at www.patria.fi. Patria reports environmental indicators for nine sites (Tampere, Espoo, Helsinki, Hämeenlinna, Halli, Linnavuori, Pirkkala, Tikkakoski and Utti). The environmental indicators are collated using figures from the following business units: Aviation, Land, Systems and Aerostructures. As Aerostructures completed the acquisition of Patricomp in October 2018, only the last three months of Patricomp figures are included. These figures have been determined by calculating their share from the entire year’s figures and therefore they do not reflect the actual figures of those months. Figures for energy and water consumption are not available for Pirkkala. However, Pirkkala has only a minor impact on total consumption volumes (<1.7%). No indicators (other than for waste) have been reported for Millog Oy, as its data collection system is still under development. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 49 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E POLICIES Patria has a corporate responsibility policy that determines the framework, outlines, PATRIA’S ETHICAL CODE OF CONDUCT and responsibilities of corporate responsibility, and which is based on the basic ethical Although ethical conduct and its continuous development are important in all guidelines defined in the Code of Conduct. In addition to these, there are several more national and international business activities, their significance is particularly detailed policies such as emphasised in the defence industry. • Business Partner Selection Patria’s mission is to give confidence to its customers in all conditions, • Related Parties’ Transactions and its vision is to be the #1 partner for critical operations. This mission also • Risk Management Process guides our efforts in ethical conduct. • Sponsorship and Donations Patria Group’s most important long-term objective is to be recognised as • Public Relations (Hospitality and Gifts) an operator with high ethical standards in the industry. This is achieved with • HR Policy and Equality Plan unyielding work in putting into practice Patria’s principles regarding ethical • Communications practices and the anti-corruption measures, and also by expecting the most • Lobbying and Opinion Forming important partners to operate on a level corresponding, at minimum, to that • Patria in social media specified in Patria’s ethical guidelines. We at Patria have zero tolerance for any unethical activity. We do not accept unethical or corrupt conduct by our employees or business associates, and actively seek to prevent it. Through continuous training, we make sure Patria’s personnel are aware of the ethical principles and the right conduct in the various aspects of their work. Our responsible operation in certain fields was questioned in 2018. We answered with total transparency and clarity related to the actions taken internally. Time will tell if the good reputation of the company was restored. We do understand that the global unsettled climate will affect our ethical Patria has an important role in the security operations even more in the future. Also, discussion around export licences of supply in the Finnish society as a will continue. strategic partner of the Finnish Defence We will continue the work to maintain and develop our ethical conduct, Forces. Internationalisation of the and will keep on communicating with our stakeholders with the utmost operations as well as export practices are transparency and accuracy. linked to the strategic role of Patria. Ville Jaakonsalo, President and CEO, act. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 50 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E MISSION, VISION, VALUES, INPUT OPERATION MODEL OFFERING IMPACTS VALUE CREATION FINANCE MISSION • Innovative solutions and FINANCIAL SOCIETY • Total Shareholders’ equity We give our customers confidence in products as well as their • Stakeholder-specific capital flows • Security by giving the 251.4 MEUR all conditions. life-cycle services to the governments possibility to • Interest bearing liabilities authorities and defence 2018 2017 safeguard the society 56.3 MEUR forces in the Baltics and VISION Northern Europe. Customers 494.2 488.5 • Cash and cash equivalents CUSTOMERS 8.1 MEUR We want to be the #1 partner for Suppliers 274.3 266.1 critical operations. • Strategic partnership Personnel 171.1 171.2 • Confidence as trustworthy partner offering reliable products PERSONNEL Public sector 7.3 9.5 VALUES • 2,800 Non-profit foundations 0.2 0.2 • We want to succeed. PERSONNEL • Turnover 6.6% Shareholders 16.7 31.2 • Our operations are customer • Safety as a reliable employer oriented. committed to create safe working • Responsible defence materiel export and development of environment INFRASTRUCTURE • Together we create successes. international co-operation. • Locations in Finland (over 30), Sweden, Estonia and Norway, OTHER STAKEHOLDERS 50% ownership in Nammo PATRIA’S OPERATION IS SOCIAL DEFINED BY • Long-term reliability as a good • 3,200 suppliers in 40 countries • Expert jobs partner • State of Finland as a majority owner • 65% of purchases from Finnish • Unique competences companies • Demanding field in defence • Unique technologies industry • Strict regulations INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL ENVIRONMENTAL • Strategic partnerships • Product rights • Recycling • Security of supply • Product range • Environmental impacts during the entire life-cycle of the • Strategic partnerships products • References • Special competences NATURAL RESOURCES • Energy consumption • Water consumption OTHER RELATIONSHIPS • Open dialogue with stakeholders A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 51 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Patria and society Patria’s role in society is defined by its owners as the majority is owned by the Finnish state and a slight minority by a Norwegian company, Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace, both expecting profitable and ethical business operations. The role of a strategic partner to the Finnish Defence Forces requires high ethical standards and also sets limits to the corporate security of operations and data. The growth strategy and further internationalisation are setting new demands for CSR. Patria’s goal is to act in an open and transparent manner in order to maintain the trust of its stakeholders. In 2018, Patria continued its close cooperation with the Finnish Defence Forces as planned and participated in the preparations of large programmes for the Defence Forces, such as the HX programme, set up to replace the current Hornet fleet with new fighters. Internationalisation is one of Patria’s strategic focus areas. The integration of Estonian Milrem LCM continued in 2018. Also, Patria together with KONGSBERG published that they will acquire AIM Norway and take over the maintenance, overhaul and upgrade of aircraft and helicopters for the Norwegian Air Force. These new businesses will set further demands on responsible business abroad. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 52 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E SECURITY OF OPERATIONS SUPPLIERS AND SUBCONTRACTORS In Patria, corporate security plays a central role in ensuring undisrupted operations. The Patria shall make every effort to only deal with suppliers, subcontractors, consultants task of corporate security at Patria is and agents who are prepared to work in accordance with the principles presented in • to enable its business operations in the industry within its area of responsibility and Patria’s Code of Conduct. Patria requires that suppliers, subcontractors, consultants • to promote and ensure the achievement of business targets by maintaining and and agents comply with local legislation in all countries in which they operate. Risk improving security; evaluation, including ethical risks, is performed regularly. • to safeguard business continuity during various disturbances and emergency Patria has some 3,300 suppliers in 42 countries. Almost 70% of them are Finnish situations by ensuring that the company is prepared for these in advance; companies. Other notable counties are Sweden, Great Britain, Germany and France. • to ensure Patria’s reliability as a partner for its customers, authorities and other stakeholders; and FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • to maintain a level of security sufficient for guaranteeing the protection of the data Patria grows and develops its business activities in a long-term and responsible manner. and materials of Patria and its customers and stakeholders. This requires investment in the development of customer relationships, services and expertise, in order to provide customers with reliable products and services. It Primary responsibility for corporate security lies with Patria’s business units and Group is important to optimise the use of financial resources in order to ensure long-term, functions in matters related to their operations. profitable growth. Patria’s corporate security provides business units and support functions with Shareholders are paid dividends, determined by the Annual General Meeting, from services in corporate security. Corporate security also steers, develops and monitors profitable operations. Funds paid to charitable activities are directed at organisations the comprehensive management of corporate security and maintains and develops the selected on a centralised and transparent basis. related competencies within Patria. More information on financial performance is available in the financial statements The areas of corporate security consist of security of production and operations, section. emergency preparedness, contingency and crisis management, facility security, management of misuses and non-conformities, information security and personnel ACTIONS AGAINST MONEY LAUNDERING AND BRIBERY security. The ethical Code of Conduct updated in 2017 outlined clear policies of zero tolerance Patria received a national Facility Security Clearance in 2016. The designated national towards both money laundering and bribery. Patria works actively to combat such security authorities (DSA and NCSA) regularly audit Patria’s level of corporate security. practices by training its personnel to recognise and report unethical activities. National Security Authority (NSA) has granted Facility Security Clearance (up to level More about the measures how Patria develops its ethical operation, including actions secret) to Patria Aviation Oy, Patria Land Systems Oy and Patria Land Services Oy in 2018. against money laundering and bribery, in section Ethical operation. More information on anti-corruption activities at https://www.patria.fi/en/ corporate-responsibility/management-organisation-and-objectives/active-anticorruption A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 53 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E COMMITMENT TO FAIR COMPETITION Tax footprint Patria is committed to safeguarding the fairness of competition in its markets and Besides Finland, the Group has operations in Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Poland, the compliance with applicable antitrust and competition legislation. Patria does not United Arab Emirates, and South Africa. Patria’s principle is to pay the indirect and direct approve of official or unofficial agreements between competitors that could weaken taxes it is subject to in each country according to local laws and regulations. Patria competition, restrict the operations of companies in dominant positions or require does not have operative companies in low taxation countries. Patria’s tax strategy is advance reporting on or permissions for mergers, corporate acquisitions and other to support business solutions and ensure that they are implemented properly and in arrangements with a potentially restrictive effect on competition. a compliant manner also from a taxation perspective. The starting point is compliance with applicable local legislation and handling reporting obligations. ACCURATE FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AN OPEN TAXATION STRATEGY Patria complies with all applicable rules on accounting and financial reporting. Patria’s 2018 Finland Sweden Poland Total Direct taxes payable for the financial year, EUR financial reporting is based on IFRS standards. million (taxes and tax-like charges paid directly by the company) All financial transactions must be approved in accordance with Patria’s decisionIncome taxes (business income taxes) 3.4 3.4 making practices and entered in the books. Entry and reporting obligations are Employer contributions (employer’s pension and binding, and they are monitored through annual auditing and internal control. Under no social security contributions, etc.) 1.1 1.7 2.8 Property taxes 0.3 0.3 circumstances will Patria falsify or forge financial or other documents or give misleading information. Indirect taxes payable for the financial year, EUR million (taxes paid by the company as part of the Patria Group complies with the tax laws and regulations of each country in which price of the service/product and recognised as it operates. If the applicable tax legislation does not provide clear instructions on a expenses.) Other taxes 0.1 0.1 particular issue, the guiding principles are prudence, a conservative approach and transparency. Taxes to be remitted for the financial year, EUR million (taxes that the company collects from its customers or employees which it remits to the tax authorities) Wage taxes (withholding, employee social security contributions, etc.) 34.2 1.8 36,0 VAT, sales 98.5 5.9 10.9 115.3 VAT, procurements -63.6 -4.5 -5.2 -73.3 The figures include the most essential international operations. In addition, the group companies have paid taxes to Estonia and Norway. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 54 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E HUMAN RIGHTS Patria works in close, long-term cooperation with these stakeholders and Patria respects and promotes universal human rights as defined by the United Nations understands good partnership to be professional, reliable, responsible, open, and Universal Declaration of Human Rights in its operations. Among the rights that Patria transparent collaboration that all parties involved can accept without reservation. considers fundamental and universal are: freedom of thought, opinion, expression, Patria manages its stakeholder relations honestly, ethically, fairly, and confidentially. religion and peaceful assembly as well as freedom from any discrimination based on Patria does not tolerate any deviation from high ethical standards of integrity, race, age, nationality, gender or sexual orientation. Furthermore, Patria does not transparency, ethical conduct, and compliance. tolerate any use of forced or child labour. The human rights of employees are compliant Excellent examples of partnership can be found in various partnership agreements, with ILO Conventions. such as the strategic partnership agreement signed between the Finnish Defence Patria does not consider its operations to have direct negative effects on human Forces and Patria regarding life-cycle support services for military aviation systems, rights. Any indirect impact is related to the use of products manufactured by Patria. and the extended strategic partnership agreement between Millog and the Finnish Sale of defence material is highly regulated and Patria complies with the national Defence Forces. legislation and international commitments. Correspondingly, its products can be used to defend human rights in certain situations. Patria considers its long-term opportunities to influence the use of its products to be negligible. STAKEHOLDER COLLABORATION Patria collaborates with national and international stakeholders, such as private operators, state owned enterprises, governments and government officials, and agencies, on a variety of levels and in numerous ways (e.g. as a corporate citizen, taxpayer, supplier, business partner, and employer). Collaborating and conducting business with any and all these stakeholders requires high ethical standards, integrity, and transparency. This collaboration is subject to strict requirements concerning anti-corruption and anti-bribery, as well as requirements concerning procurement practices, lobbying, sponsorship, representation, conflict of interest situations, gifts, and benefits. Patria directors, officers, employees, and business partners are required to conduct business with high integrity and ethical standards and in a transparent manner when collaborating and interacting with any and all of the aforementioned stakeholders, and to comply strictly with the Patria Ethical Code of Conduct and related guidelines and policies, as well as with any and all applicable laws and regulations. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 55 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Key stakeholders Patria’s key stakeholders include owners, personnel, customers, suppliers, authorities, and various industry and business organisations, as well as non-governmental organisations, certain educational establishments, and their students and media. Stakeholder Interaction Assessment Owners Board work, Annual General Meetings, management meetings and interaction with the owners, Feedback from the Board of Directors and the owner, feedback from the Audit the Patria Magazine, briefings, press releases, Annual Reports, financial reviews, web sites Committee of the Board of Directors Personnel Open and continuous communication, Group meetings, annual development conversations, PR info Personnel satisfaction questionnaires, satisfaction and follow-up questionnaires and internal communication, intranet, Strategy Day, staff magazine, training, occupational safety, of different business units, intranet questionnaires, internal feedback channels initiatives and continuous improvement Customers Regular customer contact, life-cycle customer support for products, customer events and Customer questionnaires, feedback, QA system, audits seminars, customer magazines, the internet, conferences and fairs, product documentation, customer feedback system, customer satisfaction surveys Suppliers Open and active interaction between the purchasing organisation and the suppliers, the ERP Suppliers evaluations, audits system, supplier days Authorities Cooperation and reporting with the authorities regarding, e.g. the environment, occupational Stakeholder questionnaires, feedback safety and security, CSR reports, company presentations, communication and the internet Industry and business Membership in and active involvement with industry organisations (such as PIA, NORDEFCO, ADS, Interaction, meetings, stakeholder feedback, visibility organisations ELDIG, Federation of Finnish Technology Industries) Non-governmental Open cooperation and meetings with NGO’s, memberships, support (e.g. Transparency UK, the Stakeholder feedback, quantity of communication and meetings, visibility organisations UN Global Compact, FIBS, different NGO’s in Finland), CSR reporting, other reports, sponsorships, donations such as funding for Christmas presents to prevent the marginalisation of young people Educational Offering training and working opportunities, research and development projects, guest lectures, Employer image surveys, stakeholder feedback, number of recruitment event establishments, students recruitment events, general presentations, visits, seminars, supporting student activities, the participants and questionnaires, feedback received internet, the social media, campaigns and open door events Media National and international publications, magazines, online media, fairs and events, interviews, Sounding questionnaires, interaction, feedback, media follow-up, the reach and bulletins, the Patria Magazine, online magazine, the internet, the materials bank, the social media, correctness of messages, the tone of messages in the media, industry follow-up, meetings, visits, tours social media activity and number of clicks on posts A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 56 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E excellent or good. According to the results, Patria has comprehensive special expertise and is a reliable partner. Patria’s duties were also seen as demanding and challenging. According to the results of the The next survey will be conducted in 2020. Besides this large survey, the business units stakeholder survey, Patria has conduct project-specific surveys throughout the year. Patria also has several feedback channels for stakeholders on its web pages, comprehensive special expertise including an anonymous tool. and is a reliable partner. When the feedback is received, it is forwarded to the unit specialising in that issue, and they answer or take care of the request. In this way, Patria ensures that all the interests of stakeholders are covered and taken care of. Key topics There is a list of requirements to be used in identifying a key stakeholder: In 2018, there were two main key topics and concerns that were raised by stakeholders. • The key stakeholder has a major impact on the organisation’s performance. These were arms exports and business partner selection. Both topics were widely • Patria’s business units and/or support functions can identify what they want or discussed in public. To identify the topics and concerns, Patria has a media monitoring need from the key stakeholder. tool that analyses the issues, the content, and the source of news daily. Patria • Patria wants to maintain or develop a relationship with the key stakeholder further. communicated openly on all the topical issues, arranged several press conferences, • The key stakeholder is not easy to replace. and arranged several media background meetings, besides which it also held several discussions with other key stakeholders. Patria also organised a public arms export Each unit and project also identifies its own key stakeholders that are essential for the panel with several experts in SuomiAreena in Pori. That event was also held to highlight success of the project. They categorise stakeholders to get a more detailed analysis of their the transparency in the company’s activities. influence and importance. It is essential to have a clear overview of the nature and role of the stakeholder. After the project, the impact of the efforts of the key stakeholders and Responsible stakeholder co-operation their needs are analysed to enable further development of the relationship. Patria and Tampere University of Technology (TUT) signed a collaboration agreement in the field of aeronautical engineering in June 2018. Patria has pledged significant Stakeholder interaction financial support to TUT over a ten-year period. The purpose of the collaboration is to There are several ways of interacting with key stakeholders. Regular, transparent, and ensure the continuous availability of high-quality aeronautical engineering expertise open dialogue is a basis for interaction with stakeholders. See the table on page 56. in Finland, and to support and strengthen research in the field. TUT will be the first Every third year, Patria conducts a group-level stakeholder survey, in which university in Finland where students can major in aeronautical engineering. stakeholders can rate, for example, Patria’s way of working, expertise, reliability, Patria continued its cooperation with the Finnish Aviation Museum Society, the image, and corporate social responsibility. The last survey was done in 2017. In the Aviation Museum of Central Finland, and the Finnish Aviation Museum, as the main survey, more than 90% of stakeholders gave Patria’s corporate image a rating of sponsor for the restoration project of the VL Myrsky (‘Storm’) fighter plane. Young A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 57 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E people studying at a number of technical colleges and youth workshops, in locations MEMBERSHIP IN ORGANISATIONS such as Jyväskylä and Vantaa, are also involved in the restoration project. A key element Patria Oyj is a member of several organisations. Patria participates in the United of the project involves prevention of the marginalisation of young people. More Nations Global Compact and supports its work through annual contribution. Leading information about Myrsky project at: https://www.vlmyrsky.fi/ Finnish companies operating in international and domestic markets established the Patria also continued its long-term cooperation with the Finnish Military Sports Global Compact Finland Network to gather all the Finnish companies and organisations Federation. This involves promoting a sports-oriented lifestyle among young people, committed to the principles of the UN Global Compact. Patria has a representative including after their period of conscription. Patria has supported the Finnish national on the Global Compact Finland Network Board. Patria is also a member of the Finnish biathlon team since 2011 and continued to do so during the 2018–2019 season. Corporate Responsibility Network FIBS. In addition, Patria met representatives of non-governmental organisations at various Patria is also a member of industry-related groups. Patria is a member of the events. The company organised a morning event with commonly agreed agenda Association of Finnish Defence and Aerospace Industries (AFDA), and Patria’s of current topics for the representatives of national organisations, continuing an representative acts as Chairman of the Board. AFDA covers almost all the defenceestablished tradition of engaging in the related discussions. related industries in Finland, with about 120 member companies. AFDA has close The company also continued its dialogue on compliance issues and responsibility relations with the Finnish Ministry of Defence and Defence Forces. AFDA is the focal with Transparency International UK. In the autumn, Patria, among other major defence point for defence industries in Finland, and AFDA is a member of the Aerospace and companies, was asked to give its response to the coming Defence Companies AntiDefence Industries Association of Europe (ASD). Patria is also a member of the AmCham Corruption Index 2019 survey. in Finland and the Chamber of Commerce in the Helsinki region. With its Christmas donation funds, the company supported the Red Cross Emergency Youth Shelters, which offer support for youth and their families when they need outside help. STAKEHOLDER-SPECIFIC CAPITAL LOWS Direct economic value, EUR million 2018 2017 2016 2015 Consolidated net sales 476.1 467.2 489.9 427.7 Other operating income 17.7 21.2 23.4 20.4 Financial income 0.4 0.1 0.4 0.1 Customers Sales Income, total 494.2 488.5 513.8 448.2 Suppliers Goods, materials and services Operating costs exlcuding depreciation and personnel expenses 274.3 266.1 254.2 217.3 Personnel Wages, salaries and fees Personnel expenses 171.1 171.2 169.7 170.0 Public sector Taxes Payments to government (taxes) 7.3 9.5 4.3 4.3 Not-for-profit organisations Support and donations Donations and other charitable payments 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Payments made to shareholders and loan providers Shareholders Dividens Dividends 16.7 31.2 13.9 13.9 Investors Financial costs Interest and other financial expenses 2.6 2.7 3.3 2.5 Expenses Distributed, total 472.0 480.6 445.4 408.0 Sales-expenses= added value Economic value retained for operational development 22.2 7.9 68.4 40.2 Investments Investments in tangible and intangible assets as well as acquisitions 7.3 19.6 16.5 23.9 A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 58 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Ethical operation Patria’s ethical operation is based on a group-wide attitude of responsibility. The ethical operation is described in Patria’s Ethical Code of Conduct setting standards for ethical conduct. Patria acts responsibly and expects the same from its current and future partners and therefore clear Business Partner Selection process is a prerequisite for all operations. During the spring of 2018 Patria commissioned an internal audit targeted at Patria’s international operations and especially the key processes in sales, marketing, and selection of business partners. The audit was performed by an external party specialised in internal audits. The audit was initiated after February 2018, when it came to light that a sales person at Patria had given written permission to a party, who was not a consultant or market representative of Patria as per the Patria policy, to distribute Patria product brochures. The audit concluded that nothing could be found which would require new, major corrective measures. Patria continued to develop its ethics and compliance training further. In addition to the annual online training for all personnel there will be in-depth class training for specific groups with stakeholder relations. This new training will be implemented in 2019. In addition, in 2018 Patria arranged extensive in class training for selected groups of personnel concerning the Business Partner Selection Process. Also, the Group-level Business Partner Selection process was further developed, and the new process will be finalized and implemented during 2019. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 59 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E ETHICAL CONDUCT PROCESS ELEMENTS employees have the knowledge that is required to conduct business in an ethical Prevention – raising awareness through clear policies and training to ensure ethical and compliant manner and through that contribute to Patria’s overall goal of actively decision-making and ethical business conduct. fighting corruption. The training is available in several languages corresponding to • Through annual basic training for all personnel and more in-depth training for special Patria’s operation in different countries. Furthermore, the training informs about the groups. channels available for reporting concerns. In addition, especially for employees working closely with different stakeholders, Detection – encouraging people to report any concerns or suspected cases of unethical such as personnel in sales and marketing, procurement, finance and project conduct and offering tools to identify potential issues. management, mandatory tailored class-room training is provided. The training material • Pulse taken every other year by personnel and selected other stakeholders via cover themes such as anti-corruption, anti-bribery, gifts and hospitality, conflict of surveys, with explicit questions on possible corrupt activities or other unethical interest situations, sponsoring, lobbying, business partner selection and working with conduct third parties, money laundering, etc. • Part of the general personnel engagement surveys, the latest being in 2018 New Patria employees get acquainted with Patria’s ethical business conduct • Stakeholder feedback enabled via a channel on the website requirements and Patria’s Ethical Code of Conduct (and related guidelines and policies) • Internal and external whistleblowing channels, including the possibility for in a general introduction training soon after their employment has commenced. New anonymous reporting Patria supervisors take ethical business conduct training in connection with Superior Passport Training as one part of that overall course. Correction –investigating all reported concerns and taking appropriate corrective Strategic suppliers and business partners are introduced to the Patria Ethical Code action when a case of corruption or other unethical conduct is discovered or suspected. of Conduct and are required to commit to acting responsibly and ethically. In addition, • Process in place and available internally for personnel in the Integrated Management key business partners are trained in class on Patria’s requirements regarding ethical Systems. business conduct, with a special focus on anti-corruption and anti-bribery. • Responsibility of the General Counsel/Chief Compliance Officer In 2018, Patria continued to develop its ethical training so that in addition to the annual training for all personnel there is an in-depth training for the specific groups Interaction – collaborating with others in the industry to promote wider adoption of with stakeholder relations. 98.4% of all Patria people completed the ethics online anti-corruption and anti-bribery measures. training. Online training took place in Patria’s business units in Finland, Sweden and Norway. Milrem in Estonia and personnel of the newly acquired Patricomp took part ETHICAL TRAINING in class room trainings. Millog will implement the online ethics training independently All Patria employees complete a mandatory online training course annually on ethical in the beginning of 2019. In the 2017 figures Millog was included. In-depth class-room business conduct, which is based on the Patria Ethical Code of Conduct and related trainings will take place in April 2019. guidelines and policies. The training materials cover and include practical cases on In 2018, special emphasis was given to the Business Partner selection process, as 120 ethical decision making, ethical business conduct, working with third parties, conflict persons from various business units attended the related training. An update process of interest situations, gifts and benefits, and other topics focusing specifically on involving all related experts in the company was started. A new, more flexible process anti-corruption and anti-bribery. The goal of the training is to ensure that all Patria will be taken into use in 2019. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 60 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E ETHICAL TRAINING In all instances, the rights and privacy of both the reporting person(s) and the one(s) % OF EMPLOYEES TRAINED accused of violations are adequately protected and assured. Patria will not tolerate any adverse employment action or retaliation against a person who raises a compliance 99.0 98.6 98.4 concern. Any person who retaliates against another for raising a compliance concern in good faith will be subject to strict discipline, up to and including termination of 2018 online training took place in Patria’s business employment. units in Finland, Sweden, and Norway. Personnel from Milrem in Estonia and the newly acquired WHISTLEBLOWING REPORTS Patricomp took part in classroom trainings. Millog will implement online ethics training independently Reports on alleged misconduct show an upward trend. With in the beginning of 2019. Millog was included in the 25 no serious misconducts reported, more reports is seen as 2017 figures. an indicator for growing trust in the system. The number 2016 2017 2018 of reports in proportion to the headcount is at a standard 18 level, which, according to some sources, is around 1-1.4% of 14 the number of employees. RAISING CONCERNS No serious incidents were reported in 2018. Reports Acts in violation of Patria’s Code of Conduct, even when done with the best of concerned issues falling within the responsibility of HR and intentions, may cause significant long-term damage to Patria´s reputation and may management, such as managerial duties, recruitment, and inappropriate behaviour. lead to legal actions against the company and its personnel. Any member of Patria’s 2016 2017 2018 personnel who violates the Code is subject to strict discipline, up to and including termination of employment or contract. The Code (or materials related to the Code) cannot possibly address every specific GENERAL DATA PROTECTION REGULATION situation that Patria’s personnel will face in the complex business environment. In case General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) related project was run to ensure of uncertainty, Patria personnel are advised to discuss the matter with their nearest compliance with the regulations. Also, GDPR online training was provided to personnel. superior, the Human Resources Department, or to seek advice from Patria’s Legal The GDPR processes and practices will be further developed during 2019 and further Department. Furthermore, all personnel members are obligated to diligently report training will be provided. any compliance concerns or potential or suspected violations of this Code to their own superior or to the General Counsel. Channels for reporting are • an email address leading to the Chief Compliance Officer and • Patria’s internal channel, also enabling anonymous reporting. • External stakeholders can contact Patria via the feedback link. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 61 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E A responsible employer Patria is a significant employer of specialists, and currently employs more than 2,700 professionals both in Finland and abroad. Occupational wellbeing is one of the core themes of Patria’s corporate responsibility. The company aims to provide its personnel with a safe and motivating working environment, and uses the sickness absence rate and the results of the personnel survey as key indicators. Patria provides a safe, productive and health work environment, where each individual and team can give an excellent performance in a well-managed organisation. Sickness absences remained at last year’s level on around 3.5 per cent, mainly due to the successful measures implemented in Patria’s various business units. The main area for development identified by the job satisfaction survey (Patria People) was the company’s leadership culture. Measures to address this will be at the centre of attention in 2019. The content of Patria’s Group-level specialist training programmes focused on leadership and management competence were updated on the basis of the company’s strategy. A lot of effort was put on the employer image development, Patria created and published its employer image concept in 2018. ORGANISATIONAL CHANGES AND PERSONNEL TURNOVER As a consequence of the Group-wide cooperation negotiations that concluded in late 2017, some task reductions and reorganisations were implemented during 2018. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 62 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Significant changes were made to Patria’s organisational and operating models ENSURING WORKING CAPACITY at business unit level, and operating methods were also renewed in Group-level Ensuring working capacity was once again one of Patria’s main themes in 2018. Actions functions. As a result, the personnel turnover rate was 6.6 per cent compared to 5.5 have included the systematic introduction of an early intervention model, close per cent in the previous year. This is higher than the average turnover in the sector. cooperation with occupational healthcare and Patria’s pension company, and coaching However, this figure is expected to fall during 2019 as the situation re-stabilises. 171 for supervisors in occupational wellbeing themes. In order to control the risks involved new permanent employees were hired during 2018. in the working capacity the measures have been started in an early stage by e.g. online health questionnaires. Change support during the organisational restructuring has also ANALYSING EMPLOYEES’ OPINIONS been provided in cooperation with the occupational healthcare. In November 2018, Patria conducted a personnel survey called Patria People. The aim According to the personnel survey conducted in 2018 Patria employees consider was to analyse employees’ opinions of their own work, their local workplace community, their working environment to be safe. In Patria development of occupational safety and leadership, and overall functionality throughout the Group after organisational wellbeing of the working community is a common goal. An active occupational safety restructuring. The survey was conducted in all business units in all countries excluding and health operation promotes the wellbeing of both individuals and the community. Millog. Last survey was conducted in 2015 and the next one is planned to conduct in 2020. In addition to the other channels there is a channel for reporting unethical conduct. A response rate of 87 per cent indicates that Patria personnel are genuinely interested A significant proportion of the reports received via this channel concerned HR issues, in influencing both the company’s operations and their own working environment. The mainly suspected cases of inappropriate conduct in the workplace. All reports were survey showed clear strengths at Group-level: commitment, motivation, interesting investigated and appropriate actions were taken. tasks, a good team spirit and good occupational safety. A large proportion of respondents felt that their work is beneficial, interesting and sufficiently challenging. Paria employees SICK LEAVE TREND AT PATRIA GROUP take pride in their work and tend to remain with the company for a long time. According to the survey, the areas in need of development at Group-level include 4 operational and leadership culture and issues relating to recent business developments. 3.4 3.5 Many respondents also felt that the company should invest more in employee wellbeing. Management should also be more visible and provide more information about targets. The Board of Management has examined the survey results and discussed the most salient points, and Patria’s core strengths and areas for development have been identified. It has also reviewed the development plans made by the business units. The The average absence rate increased to planned development actions will be carried out in the business units and they will be 3.5% from the previous year’s 3.4%. regularly reviewed by the related business units’ Management Group but also by the 2016 2017 2018 Board of Management. On the Group-level special focus is put on the communication of strategy and targets to all personnel. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 63 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Patria’s accident frequency rate fell to 15 incidents per million hours worked (21 in 2017). Two programmes that began in 2017 were concluded during 2018: LEAP2 and Pro Point This is a good level for the sector. Occupational safety has been one of the main themes in 2, which focused on competence development for specialists. STEP4 – a supervisor Millog in 2018 but also in other business units systematic work has been continued. At the training programme with new content – also ran in 2018. LEAP2 programme had 26 Patria Group’s joint occupational health and safety days, participants heard about efforts participants, Pro Point 2 programme 19 and STEP4 19. to promote safety culture in the Aviation business unit and the outputs from the project Patria provides a game On Board with Patria to support the induction of new “Safety-criticalness as a success factor”. employees, and its content has also been updated. Patria’s occupational healthcare is run by Finla Työterveys Oy, which centrally Due to the popularity of online courses, in late 2018 an open call was issued for Patria coordinates healthcare for all of Patria’s locations. This operating model helps to ensure employees interested in training as e-learning professionals. The goal is to expand that all locations comply with Patria’s shared operating and reporting principles, and content production expertise at Patria, so that even higher-quality study materials can that costs are centrally managed regardless of the service provider. be produced for Kampus. A total of 14 people joined the scheme. Measures taken by business units to reduce sickness absences have borne fruit. Sickness absences remained at the same level as in the previous year, with an average FREQUENCY OF ACCIDENTS AT PATRIA GROUP, BROKEN DOWN BY THE NUMBER OF of 3.5 per cent in 2018 compared to 3.4 per cent in 2017. These figures correspond to ACCIDENTS PER MILLION WORKING HOURS the industry average and meet Patria’s target setting. 21 RENEWAL AND CONTINUAL LEARNING 15 15 Renewal and competence development lie at the heart of Patria’s strategy, at both Group and business unit level. Successful competence development requires a learning plan to be drawn up with employees and holding performance and development discussions. 67 per cent of Group personnel attended a performance and development The frequency of accidents decreased discussion in 2018 compared to 90 per cent in 2017. The low figure for 2018 was to 15 from the previous year’s 21. partially due to the fact that some discussions were not recorded in Patria’s Kampus 2016 2017 2018 e-learning system. Organisational restructuring also increased the number of change management discussions that were held, which meant that performance and development discussions played a less important role than usual in 2018. Patria’s competence development revolves around ensuring successful customer interactions and the realisation of the company’s strategy. The content of Patria’s Group-level programmes (LEAP, STEP and Pro Point) was updated on the basis of the company’s strategy. A tender was also issued to find a provider for the LEAP3 leadership programme, in order to better meet the requirements of Patria’s international business. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 64 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E COMPENSATION PERSONNEL STATISTICS Compensation for both blue-collar and white-collar employees is determined by Personnel 2018 2017 2016 collective agreements. Individual agreements are made with senior salaried employees, Personnel average 2,791 2,792 2,765 Personnel in Finland 2,626 2,664 2,646 using the International Position Evaluation (IPE) system for competence classification. Blue collar, % 41 42 43 Successes and good performance are also rewarded through the performance bonus Salaried, % 19 20 21 and profit-sharing scheme, which applies to all Patria personnel. Most staff members Senior salaried, % 40 38 36 can receive a maximum annual bonus and profit share equivalent to 1.8 times their Proportion of women, % 15 15 15 Proportion of women in Board of Directors 2/8 2/8 2/8 monthly salary. This system is described in more detail at https://www.patria.fi/en/ Proportion of women in Board of Management 3/9 3/9 2/8 corporate-responsibility/good-employer/compensation-and-remuneration. Patria has a compensation fund pursuant to the Act on Personnel Funds, and Education approximately 20 per cent of Patria personnel have invested their bonuses and profit University, % 17 16 15 shares in this fund since 2015. University of applied sciences, % 30 30 31 Vocational/upper secondary school, % 51 51 52 Patria offers flexitime to all personnel, and has been able to arrange part-time work, Basic education, % 2 2 2 job rotation and study leave opportunities. Employer support for recreational activities totalled EUR 115 per person in 2018. Employment Average age 45.7 45.6 45.4 PERSONNEL TURNOVER AT PATRIA GROUP, % Average length of service, yrs 14.7 15 15.1 Personnel turnover, % 6.6 5.5 4.5 Permanent employees, % 95.3 96.5 95 6.6 Part-time employees, % 2.2 2.5 2.1 5.5 The business units made significant Occupational health and safety 4.5 changes to their organisations, and Absenteeism attributable to sickness, % 3.5 3.4 4 Group functions also renewed their The frequency of accidents qty per million work hours 15 21 15 procedures. Mainly for these reasons, the personnel turnover rate was 6.6% compared to 5.5% in the previous year. This turnover rate is above the industry average. 2016 2017 2018 A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 65 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E EMPLOYEE INFLUENCE EMPLOYER IMAGE Patria applies the collective agreements of the Federation of Finnish Technology Patria seeks an attractive employer image that supports the company’s strategy while Industries, and about 96 per cent of personnel fall within their scope. Patria honours also providing a guideline for both internal development and external communications. the negotiation arrangements currently in force. All employment matters are primarily It is important for Patria employees to have a positive image of their employer, as it is dealt with between employees and their supervisors. This basic relationship is Patria employees and their stakeholders who play the most important roles in creating supported by the shop steward and negotiation systems contained in the collective the company’s employer image. agreements. Local agreements are also part of established cooperation, and local Patria created and published its employer image concept in 2018. The company’s HR agreements are made at different levels of the organisation depending on the issue at and communications professionals researched and encapsulated Patria’s strengths hand. At Patria, employees are involved in advisory councils, the corporate meeting, as an employer in the opinion of its employees. During spring and summer 2018, these and the management teams of business units. There are also business unit-specific results were used to create a new employer promise, its associated arguments, and the general meetings and occupational health committee meetings that regularly handle key elements of Patria’s employer image. matters required by the Act on Cooperation within Undertakings. Traditional initiative Development of the employer image is being measured from three viewpoints. management procedure has been gradually replaced with the Lean model, one business Firstly, Patria employees’ views, which have been charted in the personnel survey unit at a time. in 2018. According to the survey 70 percent of the personnel is ready to recommend Patria as an employer. Corresponding figure in 2015 was 63. Secondly, the view of the EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY professionals outside Patria. Patria ranked as 26th in the Universum survey on the most By default, every Patria employee should promote equality in their behaviour and actions. attractive employers among IT professionals (31st in 2017) and among engineering Everyone has the right and responsibility to intervene in the case of observed grievances. 25th (no corresponding figure from 2017). Thirdly, the students; Patria was ranked 41st This is an important foundation for good management and, thereby, also profitable among IT students (30th in 2017) and engineering students 32nd. Increase was mainly operations. Patria has an equality policy and unit-specific equality plans. Every second seen among the professionals. Decrease was especially among the IT students. or third year, a personnel survey is conducted to measure success in equality issues. The business units will then update their equality plans on the basis of its results. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 66 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E EMPLOYER PROMISE You make the difference Securing society: we are proud to advance national and international security. It requires a responsible attitude and excellence that guarantees reliability in all conditions. You have an impact: at Patria, you have an impact in the contents of your work, career development, your clients’ and the whole company’s success. You can be as good as you can ever be. Focus on the essential: do what you love and see the results of your work. You are crucial to us. We want you to be well and live a full life. A great bunch of people: we work in innovative and energetic teams where smiling is allowed. We believe that the best results are achieved in a good atmosphere. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 67 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Environmental responsibility Patria’s environmental responsibility is guided by the Group’s environmental policy, and the international principles for environmental responsibility to which the company is committed. According to our stakeholder survey, the key aspects of Patria’s environmental responsibility are compliance with chemicals and environmental legislation, waste recycling and energy efficiency. Patria has promised to take concrete measures to promote sustainable development in its operations. Patria seeks to make energy and water consumption more efficient, and to have a positive impact on the recycling and responsible disposal of waste. Our main focus in 2018 was on developing reporting, such as by promoting transparency. Our environmental reporting has also been developed to better meet the Global Reporting Initiative Standard (GRI). Responsibility for Patria’s environmental responsibility development lies with the Environmental Work Group. This group is tasked with furthering collaboration, sharing information between various business units, and planning and reporting on the Patria Group’s environmental responsibility. An external expert organisation (Ecobio Oy) is responsible for the development and coordination of the Environmental Work Group. Ecobio is seeking to enhance the Work Group’s reporting practices. Patria reports environmental indicators for nine sites (Tampere, Espoo, Helsinki, Hämeenlinna, Halli, Linnavuori, Pirkkala, Tikkakoski and Utti). The environmental A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 68 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E indicators are collated using figures from the following business units: Aviation, Land, ENERGY CONSUMPTION Systems and Aerostructures. As Aerostructures completed the acquisition of Patricomp Patria’s indirect energy consumption consists of electricity and thermal energy in October 2018, only the last three months of Patricomp figures are included. These consumption, with direct primary energy consumption deriving from fuel consumption figures have been determined by calculating their share from the entire year’s figures by aircraft, vehicles, gas turbines and diesel engines. and therefore they do not reflect the actual figures of those months. Figures for energy and water consumption are not available for Pirkkala. However, Pirkkala has Heat consumption only a minor impact on total consumption volumes (<1.7%). No indicators (other than As part of Society’s Commitment to Sustainable Development, coordinated by the for waste) have been reported for Millog Oy, as its data collection system is still under Ministry of the Environment, Patria (excluding Millog) sought to reduce the energy development. consumption of the key properties that it manages by three per cent by 2018 (that is, Patria’s business units have objectives that are specific to each unit and site, and take compared to 2014). This target has not completely been achieved in all Patria facilities account of the special characteristics of their operations and environmental impact. in which variation is considerable. New targets are to be set. The principles of environmental protection defined in Patria’s environmental policy The weather-normalised thermal energy consumption of properties managed emphasise the identification and management of the environmental impact of products by Patria decreased by 1.2%. Specific heat consumption, which defines energy and services, from a life-cycle perspective whenever possible. consumption in proportion to the number of heated building cubic metres, decreased by 7.3%. This figure does not include Patricomp. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Patria’s most significant production sites have ISO 14 001 certified environmental HEAT (TJ) management systems. With the aid of the environmental management system, Patria aims improving the management of our environmental impact and the level of 103 97 95 environmental protection within the Patria Group. 93 91 Patria Aviation Oy updated its environmental management system to meet requirements of the ISO 14001:2015 standard in 2018. Patria’s subsidiary Millog updated its environmental management system to ISO 14001:2015 in 2016 and Land in 2017. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Patria’s thermal energy consumption in terajoules, 2014–2018. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 69 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Electricity consumption Fuel consumption In 2018, Patria’s electricity consumption remained the same as in 2017. Specific electric In 2018, Patria’s total fuel consumption increased by 1.3% on the previous year. The energy consumption, which defines energy consumption in proportion to the number consumption of light fuel oils rose by 20%, while the consumption of diesel decreased of electrified building cubic metres, decreased by 2.9%. These figures do not include by almost 50% and that of motor gasoline by almost 20%. There were no significant Patricomp. Patria has taken measures to decrease the consumption of electricity changes in the consumption levels of other fuels. Fuel consumption rose by about 0.6 in cooperation with its property management company (Caverion Suomi Oy) by, for terajoules. example, replacing lighting systems. The Finnish Defence Forces monitor the consumption of fuels used by its aircraft in military flight training and maintenance test flights. ELECTRICITY (TJ) FUEL ENERGY (TJ) 29.9 30.5 79.5 78.5 78.4 24 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Electricity consumption in terajoules, 2016–2018. Fuel energy consumption in terajoules, 2016–2018. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 70 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E As a whole, Patria’s various operations consumed a total of about 200 terajoules TOTAL TOTAL WATER WATER CONSUMPTION CONSUMPTION (M(M) ) 3 3 of energy in 2018. Total energy consumption fell somewhat due to changes in the formulae used to calculate fuel energy consumption. 163,840 163,840 112,519 112,519 ENERGY CONSUMPTION 2018 47% 15% 61,539 61,539 Fuels Electricity 2016 2016 2017 2017 2018 2018 204.4 TJ Heat Household Household water water Lake Lake water water 38% Total water consumption, 2016–2018. Breakdown of total energy consumption, 2018. Breakdown of total energy consumption, 2018. WATER CONSUMPTION 2018 WATER CONSUMPTION 15% Total water consumption Household water Patria’s (excl. Millog) total water consumption (household water and lake water) rose by 166%. The consumption of lake water increased by 3.5 times what it was in 2017. This is Lake water due to fluctuations in the number and type of engines that are overhauled in different years. At the Linnavuori site, lake water is used to cool engines during test runs and to dry ovens and vacuum furnaces. The used cooling water is fed back into Lake Jokinen. Lake 85% water accounted for 85% of total water consumption. Patria’s total consumption of household water rose by 13% on 2017. Production volumes also affect water consumption. Breakdown of household and lake water consumption, 2018. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 71 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E WASTE Most (81%) of this waste consisted of common waste, that is, municipal The Group’s operations primarily generate common municipal waste, scrap metal, and construction waste and scrap metal (578 tonnes). The rest (19%) of the hazardous waste, and construction and industrial waste. The total volume of waste waste was hazardous (163 tonnes). Common waste includes energy waste, generated by Patria in 2018 was approximately 742 tonnes, which is about 8% less unsorted waste, paper, cardboard, sludge, waste wood, organic waste, than in 2017. Patria’s 2018 recycling ratio was 40% of its total waste volume, compared common electrical and electronics scrap, construction waste, glass, plastic, to 36% in the previous year. brick and concrete waste, steel and aluminium scrap and packaging metal. Hazardous waste principally consists of oily waste, wash water, precipitate and other waste classified as hazardous. THE TOTAL VOLUME OF WASTE AND RECYCLING THE TOTAL VOLUME OF WASTE AND RECYCLING RATIO BETWEEN 2016 AND 2018 RATIO BETWEEN 2016 AND 2018 PATRIA MILLOG 1,396 T 822 T 806 T 742 T 1,168 T 43% 36% 71% 40% 64% 2016 2017 2018 2016 2018 Utilisation of waste as energy, deposits at Utilisation of waste as energy, deposits at landfills, or other processing landfills, or other processing Recycling Recycling Waste volumes for Patria 2016–2018. Waste volumes for Millog, 2016–2018. 2017 figures for Millog are not available. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 72 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E There are no comparison figures available for Millog, which is part of the Patria Group, as The Patria Group’s waste volume totalled about 1,910 tonnes, including waste figures Millog did not report its waste figures for 2017. Millog’s total waste volume for 2018 was for Patria and Millog. about 1,168 tonnes. Most of the reported waste (732 t) is metal scrap as Millog destroys the The Group seeks to raise awareness of waste utilisation and processing methods, Defence Force’s obsolete equipment. This big amout of metal scrap affects the recycling and to promote waste recycling. In 2016, Patria began the systematic gathering of figures of both Millog, and Patria Group as a whole, which should be considered when information on the utilisation and processing of waste. Information for 2014 and 2015 studying the figures. has also been gathered retroactively. The waste usage rate (treatment methods other than landfill) was about 92% and the recycling rate was about 59% (if Millog’s waste is also included). Approximately 65% of municipal waste was recycled, constituting an increase of five percentage VOLUME OF WASTE PRODUCED BY PATRIA points on 2016). Without Millog’s figures, the municipal waste recycling percentage 2018 rose by four percentage points compared to the previous year. The total amount of municipal waste also decreased by roughly 35 tonnes. 19% 81% Approximately 34% of hazardous waste was recycled, constituting a decrease of Municipal waste, about one percentage points compared to year 2016. Without Millog’s figures, the metal scrap and hazardous waste recycling percentage stood at 17%, representing a increase of three construction and industrial waste percentage points. The amount of hazardous waste increased by about 30 tonnes 1,910 T 1,539 T compared to the previous year. Hazardous waste 371 T A breakdown of the volumes of municipal and hazardous waste generated by the Patria Group’s operations in 2018. Includes waste figures for Patria and Millog. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 73 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E MUNICIPAL WASTE, METAL SCRAP AND MUNICIPAL WASTE, METAL SCRAP AND CONSTRUCTION AND INDUSTRIAL WASTE CONSTRUCTION AND INDUSTRIAL WASTE PATRIA MILLOG 1,194 T 663 T 613 T 578 T 960 T 70% 76% Municipal waste recycling percentages 49% 43% 47% Municipal waste recycling for Millog, 2016–2018. 2017 figures for percentages for Patria 2016–2018. Millog are not available. 2016 2017 2018 2016 2018 Utilisation of waste as energy, deposits at Utilisation of waste as energy, deposits at landfills, or other processing landfills, or other processing Recycling Recycling HAZARDOUS WASTE HAZARDOUS WASTE PATRIA MILLOG 202 T 208 T 193 T 159 T 163 T 50% 47% Hazardous waste recycling percentages Hazardous waste recycling for Millog, 2016–2018. 2017 figures for 16% 14% 17% percentages for Patria 2016–2018. Millog are not available. 2016 2017 2018 2016 2018 Utilisation of waste as energy, deposits at Utilisation of waste as energy, deposits at landfills, or other processing landfills, or other processing Recycling Recycling A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 74 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E GRI Index Patria uses the Standards as a general guideline for good reporting principles. In the future, Patria aims to report in accordance with the GRI standards at Core level. GRI Standard numbers GRI Disclosure (based on new GRI Standards) Page number Additional information General disclosures 102-1 102-7 Basic information about the company 3, 85 www.patria.fi 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 65 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 9-10 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 80 102-12 External initiatives 45 102-13 Membership of associations 45, 55-58 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 9-11 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 12-14, 49, 117-119 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 4, 50, 80, 119 102-19 Delegating authority 107-109, 114-116 102-20; 102-32 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics, 46, 80 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 113-115 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 114 102-40 102-43 Stakeholder engagement 55-58 102-46 102-47 Defining report content and topic Boundaries, List of material topics 44-48 102-48 102-49 Restatements of information, Changes in reporting 46-47, 89 Restatements regarding financial information. 102-50 102-53 Reporting period, cycle, contact point 47-48 102-56 External assurance The report has not been externally assured A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 75 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E GRI Standard numbers GRI Disclosure (based on new GRI Standards) Page number Additional information Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 8, 78 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 95 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 117-119 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 50, 54, 55, 60 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 10, 32, 44-45, 80 Environmental 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 69-71 Energy source or types not reported. 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Not reported 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 71 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 71 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 72-74 Social 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 62-63, 65 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 62, 65 and number of work-related fatalities 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 63-64 Occupational health management. Scope of formal agreements not reported. 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 62, 64 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 64 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 64-65 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 60, 61 Process of ethical conduct defined. 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 50, 59-60 415-1 Political contributions See Code of Conduct. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 76 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 78 Board of Directors’ Report 81 Consolidated Financial Statements 81 Consolidated Statement of Financial position 82 Consolidated Statement of Income 83 Consolidated Statement of Cash flows 84 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 85 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 104 Financial Statements of the Parent company 104 Balance Sheet, Parent company 105 Income Statement, Parent company 105 Cash Flow Statement, Parent company 106 Notes to the Financial Statements, Parent company 111 Board of Directors’ proposal for profit distribution 111 Auditor’s Statement A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 77 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Board of Directors’ Report NEW ORDERS AND ORDER STOCK Patria Finance Oyj was merged with Patria Oyj 31.12.2017, and During April and May, employee cooperation negotiations in Patria’s The value of new orders received during the financial period was EUR accordingly Patria Finance Oyj was dissolved on 1 January 2018. Aerostructures and Land business unit were finalized. The negotiations 474.1 million (EUR 309.5 million in 2017). Defence material and life Sinrob OÜ sold its shares of 40% in Milrem LCM OÜ to Mootor Grupp. concerned all personnel and were started due to productional and cycle support accounted for 95% (92%) and civilian products for 5% Patria continued to be the majority shareholder of Milrem LCM with an financial reasons. In Aerostructures the negotiations resulted in (8%) of the new orders. At the end of December, the Group’s order ownership of 60%. reductions that affected 13 persons as redundancies or lay-offs until stock was EUR 687.1 million (EUR 691.9 million). Patria ISP Oy was established on 3 July 2018. further notice. 14 persons were temporarily laid off part-time. In Land, In October Patria Aerostructures Oy completed the acquisition of all the need for reduction was determined as 10 persons and at most 25 NET SALES AND PROFITABILITY the shares in Patricomp Oy from Aerometallic Components SAU. Patricomp persons had their duties adjusted. The Group’s net sales for the financial period totalled EUR 476.1 operates in aircraft sheet metal part manufacturing, surface treatments million (EUR 467.2 million in 2017 and EUR 489.9 million in 2016). and assemblies. Patricomp net sales totalled EUR 6.6 million in 2017. KEY EVENTS DURING YEAR 2018 Defence material and maintenance accounted for 92% (94%) and Patricomp is located in Halli, Jämsä and employs some 50 employees. In January Patria signed an agreement with the Finnish Defence Forces on civilian products for 8% (6%) of the net sales. Sales outside Finland the mid-life upgrade and overhaul of the Finnish Defence Forces’ Hamina for the financial period accounted for 27% (33%) of the net sales. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Class fast attack craft. The total value of the delivery contract, excluding The Group’s operating profit for the financial period was EUR 35.9 The Group’s expenditure on research and development for the financial options, is around EUR 170 million. The estimated employment effect of million, representing 7.5% of net sales (2017: EUR 34.6 million, 7.4%; period amounted to EUR 9.1 million (EUR 9.4 million), representing 1.9% the programme in Finland will be around 300 person-years. Patria will act 2016: EUR 74.6 million, 15.2%). The consolidated income before taxes (2.0%) of the net sales. The most significant research and development as the prime contractor, designer and lead system integrator having the for the financial period amounted to EUR 33.7 million (2017: EUR 32.1 areas included armoured wheeled vehicles, turret systems, composite overall responsibility for the project. million; 2016: EUR 71.7 million). The Group’s return on equity for the structures for aircraft and their manufacturing processes, aeronautical In January Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace and Patria entered into an financial period was 11.8% (2017: 10.7%; 2016: 26.2%). research, data links, fire control systems, electronic intelligence, agreement to develop opportunities for cooperation on Missile Systems. Patria Group’s net sales and profitability for the financial period simulators, optronics and digitalization. The agreement comprises the establishment of a Missile Competence increased from the previous year mainly due to the large projects Center in Finland, Open Tactical Framework (OTF) core technologies causing annual fluctuation. The Squadron 2000 project started, and PERSONNEL and system architecture software for missile programs in Finland and Patria had an active role as strategic partner of the Finnish Defence During the financial period the Group employed an average of 2,791 international opportunities linked to these capabilities. Forces and in assisting in the HX Fighter Program. (2017: 2,792; 2016: 2,765) persons. At the end of December, the In January the Estonian Centre for Defence Investment renewed the personnel totalled 2,816 (2017: 2,762; 2016: 2,750). public contract with Milrem LCM, provider of defence vehicle lifecycle FINANCING AND OWNERSHIP The salaries and wages of Patria Group’s employees are determined management, for repair and maintenance of the Patria XA-180 and The Group’s equity ratio at the end of December was 54.4% (2017: on the basis of collective and individual agreements as well as XA-188 armoured vehicles. 53.7%; 2016: 58.3%) and net gearing 26.8% (2017: 27.7%; 2016: 8.9%). employee performance and job evaluations. Basic salaries and wages In March Patria’s subsidiary Senop Oy signed a contract with the Consolidated liquid funds at the end of December amounted to EUR are complemented by performance-based compensation systems. Norwegian Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace AS for the supply of the 8.1 million (EUR 5.9 million). The Group’s interest-bearing liabilities All Patria employees are part of a yearly bonus plan. In 2018, the total integrated command post shelters. The contract is a continuation for a totalled EUR 75.5 million (EUR 73.8 million) at the end of December. amount of salaries and wages paid was EUR 140.1 million (2017: EUR long-term cooperation between Kongsberg and Senop. The deliveries The interest-bearing liabilities included finance lease liabilities of EUR 138.9 million; 2016: EUR 136.9 million). will take place in 2019. 19.2 million (EUR 20.6 million). The objective of the personnel strategy is to help the Business Units In April Patria signed an agreement on bridge-laying equipment systems, The shareholders of Patria Oyj are the State of Finland with 50.1% to meet their business targets and to ensure future competitiveness by providing the Finnish Defence Forces with four new Leopard 2L bridge tanks stake and Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace AS with 49.9% stake. developing personnel and their competences. In Patria, special emphasis with ability to handle Leguan bridges of different lengths. The purchase’s The company has one series of shares comprising of a total of is given to employee well-being as well as safe and healthy working total value is EUR 28.6 million and its employment effect with options in 27,841,889 shares. environment. Employee well-being is measured against e.g. sickness Finland is some 55 person-years of which Patria’s employment effect is some absence rates and frequency of work-related accidents. 35 person-years. The deliveries will take place in 2019-2021. CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND ACQUISITIONS Patria has a long-term programme to identify talents and develop future In April Patria’s subsidiary Milrem LCM and BAE Systems signed a The Group’s capital expenditure for the financial period totalled EUR management resources for leading positions in the Business Units as well as contract to support Estonia’s fleet of CV9035 Infantry Fighting Vehicles 7.3 million (EUR 15.1 million). Capital expenditure was mainly related on Group level. Participants are offered career development opportunities (IFVs). Milrem LCM will provide maintenance and repair services for to facilities and equipment, IT and production. In addition, a total of through strategy work. In addition, business units’ managers have been CV9035 vehicles from its facilities in Estonia. EUR 0.0 million (EUR 4.5 million) was spent on acquisitions. coached to improve the quality of performance management. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 78 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E In June Patria launched new products at Eurosatory event in Paris: CEO from liability for the financial period of 2017. Furthermore, the Sinuhe Wallinheimo, Member of Parliament, continued as the two new passive RF sensor products, MUSCL (Multi-Static Coherent Annual General Meeting decided, according to the Board of Directors’ Chairman of Patria Oyj’s Consultative Committee and Markus Mustajärvi, Location) for battle-proof air surveillance, ARIS-E ESM (Electronic proposal, to distribute a dividend of EUR 0.60 per share, totally EUR Member of Parliament was appointed as the Vice Chairman. Mika Support Measures) system for tactical situational awareness and a 16 705 133.40. Kari, Member of Parliament; Lieutenant General Timo Kivinen, Chief new Patria 6x6 vehicle with its multifunctional transport capacity and Christer Granskog, MSc (Eng.) continued as the Chairman of of Defence Command, Mikko Savola, Member of Parliament; Petri modularity that adapts easily to the customer’s needs. the Board of Directors of Patria Oyj, and Päivi Marttila, CEO, Sievi Peltonen, Under-Secretary of State at Ministry of Economic Affairs and In September, Patria AMV 8x8 vehicle took part in the European Capital plc; Ari Puheloinen, General (ret.); Harald Aarø, Executive Employment; Raimo Vistbacka, Master of Laws; Jussi Karimäki, Equipment Land Robot Trial (ELROB) in Belgium. One of the R&D focus area within Vice President Business Development and Strategy, Kongsberg and Assembler, Patria; Juha Kuusi, System Specialist, Patria; Petri Pitkänen, users of military vehicles is unmanned feature and to this end Patria Eirik Lie, Executive Vice President, Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace Logistics Manager Patria; and Tomi Virtanen, Production Planner, Patria has developed integrated drive-by-wire control system. This system continued as members of the Board of Directors. Kimmo Viertola, were appointed as members of the Consultative Committee. enables use of remote and autonomous functions while keeping Senior Financial Counsellor, the Ownership Steering Department in PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, Authorised Public Accountants, was standard driver operated operation possibility in the same vehicle. the Prime Minister’s Office; Gyrid Skalleberg Ingerø, Chief Financial appointed as Auditor with Mr Jouko Malinen, APA, as the partner in charge. In October Patria Helicopters AB received an order for Hkp16 (Black Officer and Executive Vice President, Kongsberg and Jarle Næss, Internal audit in Patria Group was carried out by KPMG Oy, Hawk) maintenance as the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration Senior Vice President Business Development, Kongsberg Defence Authorised Public Accountants. (FMV) exercised its option included in the agreement from 2014 on the & Aerospace were elected as the new members of the Board of Olli Isotalo continued as President and CEO of Patria Oyj. support of the Swedish Armed Forces Hkp16 Black Hawk helicopters’ Directors. maintenance. Estimated value of the agreement, including options, The Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on 30 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES was approximately EUR 25 million. November 2018 appointed the new Board of Directors to Patria Oyj. Esa Patria complies with a risk management and internal control policy In November Patria Helicopters AS received an order for NH90 Rautalinko, Master of Economic Sciences, was appointed as Chairman approved by the Board of Directors that defines, in addition to the helicopters heavy maintenance taking place in Bardufoss, Norway as of the Board of Directors and Petri Vihervuori, Senior Financial Adviser, objectives and general practices, the tasks and responsibilities related the Norwegian Defence Logistics Organisation (NDLO) released the the Ownership Steering Department in the Prime Minister’s Office was to risk management and internal control. Risk management activities first one-year option from April 2019 onwards. The estimated value of appointed as a member of the Board as of 30th of November 2018. Päivi cover strategic, operational, and compliance risks as well as financial the agreement, including options, is approximately EUR 10 million. Marttila, Ari Puheloinen, Harald Aarø, Eirik Lie, Jarle Næss and Gyrid risks and safety, security and hazard risks. In December Patria Pilot Training made an agreement with the Kazakh Skalleberg Ingerø continued as members of the Board of Directors. Patria develops, offers and delivers technically advanced products, airline Air Astana to train their new pilots until 2022. The first students Patria Oyj’s Board elected a Nomination and Compensation solutions and services to its customers. Main part of the Group’s chosen by Air Astana will start their training in February 2019. Committee and an Audit Committee to assist the Board. sales is to defence sector, armed forces, ministries, state-owned Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace (KDA), entered into agreement The Nomination and Compensation Committee consisted, companies and major companies in the defence industry. The with the Norwegian Ministry of Defence for the purchase of Aerospace during the financial period, of Christer Granskog, chairman (until 30 operating environment has remained challenging and this may result Industrial Maintenance Norway AS (AIM Norway), which is the November 2018), Esa Rautalinko, chairman (as of 30 November 2018), in some customers reducing, postponing or abandoning their planned Norwegian armed force’s business for maintenance, overhaul and Harald Aarø, Jarle Næss replacing Geir Håøy as of 23 March 2018 procurements or requesting changes to existing contracts. In addition, upgrade of the Air Force’s aircraft and helicopters. In order to further and Ari Puheloinen. The Nomination and Compensation Committee a prerequisite for exporting defense materiel is an export or transfer strengthen AIM Norways’s deliveries, capability and competence, prepares the compensation structures of the company management license, which in Finland is granted by the Ministry of Defence. The KDA and Patria entered into agreement for a shared ownership where and compensation and benefits programs as well as decides on the conditions in the potential export target country may hinder the KDA’s ownership is 50.1% and Patria’s 49.9%. AIM Norway has 440 most important management nominations. granting of an export license, or the conditions in the country to which employees and revenues of EUR 113 million (in 2017). The Audit Committee consisted, during financial period, of Kimmo exports have been approved may change in such a way that the license Viertola, chairman replacing Marko Hyvärinen as of 23 March 2018 will be cancelled totally or temporarily. ADMINISTRATION (until 30 November 2018), Petri Vihervuori, chairman replacing Kimmo Owing to the nature of Patria’s business, individual sales contracts In the beginning of the financial period Christer Granskog, MSc (Eng.) Viertola as of 30 November 2018, Eirik Lie, Päivi Marttila and Gyrid may be large in relation to the annual net sales of the Group. These continued as the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Patria Oyj, Skalleberg Ingerø replacing Janne Sølvi Weseth as of 23 March 2018. The sales contracts may entail product development, require extensive and Harald Aarø, Geir Håøy, Marko Hyvärinen, Eirik Lie, Päivi Marttila, Audit Committee supervises and monitors execution and organization subcontracting and partnering and result in deliveries taking place Ari Puheloinen and Janne Sølvi Weseth as members of the Board of of internal controls within the Patria Group, risk management and over a period of several years. In addition, the delivery content and Directors. financial reporting as well as preparation of the financial statements. In the industrial set-up with the collaborative partners may be complex. Patria Oyj’s Annual General Meeting held in Helsinki on 23 March addition to this the Audit Committee is responsible for supervising and Risks and uncertainties related to such contracts and projects, 2018 adopted the Consolidated Financial Statements for the financial monitoring of Compliance and Ethics issues and related activities within throughout their lifetime, are typically versatile and material, which period that ended on 31st December 2017. It was also decided to Patria. Regarding other duties of the Board, no specific sharing of such requires careful assessment and management. Methods and resources discharge the members of the Board of Directors and the President and duties has been agreed upon by the Board. to identify, assess, follow-up and manage risks and uncertainties A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 79 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E related to ongoing and new projects have been and are being further compliance related issues as well as best practices between Patria developed, and the new process will be finalized and implemented in strengthened and developed. Considerable effort is contributed and Kongsberg continued. the beginning of 2019. on risks related to ensuring ethical and compliant operations and Ethical conduct is an implicit foundation for Patria’s operations Patria continued to support third-sector work to prevent social prevention of risks in these areas. and decision making. It ensures our stakeholders’ confidence in the exclusion of young. The group supports the restoration of the VL During the financial period 2018 the arbitration proceedings started company’s operations. During the financial period ethical conduct Myrsky, the only Finnish fighter aircraft having entered into serial in 2012 continued against the Polish State concerning a dispute continued to be developed according to the 18-month rolling plan. production. related to an offset obligations related to agreements signed in 2003 In 2018 Patria continued with the annual ethical online training for concerning supply of armoured vehicles and manufacturing license in the personnel and introduced also Global Data Protection Regulation EVENTS AFTER THE FINANCIAL PERIOD Poland. Patria received the Tribunal’s award on 5 February 2018. The (GDPR) related online training to its personnel. In January 2019 the President and CEO Olli Isotalo left Patria and CFO Ville Tribunal agreed with Patria’s arguments, but only in part. As a result, it Patria offers internal and external whistle-blowing channels Jaakonsalo was named interim CEO for the transition period. The new found that Patria must pay contractual penalty of EUR 2.9 million (40% enabling also anonymous reporting. All the reports from those CEO is expected to have a strong emphasis on Patria’s service offering. of the amount claimed) with interest from 13 October 2013. channels have been investigated according to the updated processes. In January 2019 Patria and the Finnish Defence Forces signed The Helsinki Court of Appeal rendered its ruling on 25 June 2018 Statistics and nature of issues concerning the reports received an agreement on preliminary and basic pilot training services. The concerning a case in which Patria Land Services Oy’s former contract via these reporting channels were regularly reported to the Audit contract with Patria Aviation Oy covers in addition to pilot training, party has demanded compensation from Patria for sales commissions Committee. maintenance of aircraft necessary during training. The contract is that the contract party allegedly had a right to. The court proceedings In Patria environmental aspects, impacts and risks are considered related to the development program concerning air defence and to relate to the Patria AMV vehicle deals. The cases had been pending since in all business planning, operations and management. All Patria’s the development of pilot training. The training will focus on the Vinka 2009. In 2016 the Helsinki District Court dismissed RHG’s claims and major operational locations are ISO14001 certified. and Grob aircraft used in basic pilot training. obliged RHG to cover Patria’s legal expenses. RHG appealed to the Helsinki Export license practices were a topic of a vivid discussion during Court of Appeal. The Court of Appeal dismissed both claims of RHG. 2018. Patria complies with the national legislation and international OUTLOOK The Court of Appeal stated in its ruling that RHG’s performance commitments. A decision made by the government officials to grant Patria’s domestic customer, the Finnish Defence Forces, has has been essentially insufficient and in breach of the contract terms an export license is made on a case by case basis with the big picture in significant projects (HX and SQ 2020) in progress. Industrial and the law. The Court of Appeal stated that Patria has not had a mind and one of the prerequisites is a reliable end user of the materiel. participation is extremely important and a great opportunity to Patria. contractual obligation to issue the payments to RHG and RHG is Granting a license is based on the EU criteria and in consultation with General development and changes in the security environment have not justified to any compensation for its performance. The Court of other EU countries. Patria leans on the government officials’ capability also increased defence budgets and readiness requirements. These Appeal obliged RGH to compensate Patria’s legal expenses for both to evaluate the end user reliability and other export prerequisites are likely to have an effect for Patria’s sales and profitability in the the District Court and the Court of Appeal proceedings. RHG had a when assessing the possibility of export in complex situations and long run. right to apply for an appeal from the Supreme Court by 24 August circumstances. The development of the order stock depends to large extent on 2018. As this was not done by RHG, the ruling of the Court of Appeal is During spring 2018, in relation to public attention in connection whether certain large Land export projects, now at the tendering final and binding. with a Finnish businessman tragically deceased in Uganda, Patria stage, are launched on international markets. commissioned an internal audit targeted at Patria’s international CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY operations and especially the key processes in sales, marketing, and BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ PROPOSAL FOR PROFIT DISTRIBUTION Corporate Social Responsibility is the foundation of Patria’s selection of business partners. The audit was performed by an external The parent company’s non-restricted equity on December 31, 2018 is profitable and sustainable business and continuance thereof. party specialised in internal audits. The audit was initiated after in EUR 242,666,546.63 of which the net profit for the financial period is Patria’s operations are based on and governed by laws, regulations, February 2018 it turned out that a sales person at Patria had given EUR 14,356,598.82. international agreements and Patria’s own policies. The corporate a written permission to a party, who was not a consultant or market The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting social responsibility report (CSR) is an integral part of Patria’s Annual representative of Patria, to distribute Patria product brochures. The that a dividend of EUR 0.50 per share be paid on the shares owned Report 2018. audit concluded that nothing could be found which would require new, by the State of Finland and Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace AS. In Patria, Board of Management is responsible for steering of major corrective measures. Under the proposal, the total amount of dividends will be EUR the activities concerning Company Social Responsibility, and this Patria continued to develop its ethics and compliance training 13,920,944.50. The Board of Directors further proposes that the increases transparency and dialogue within the group. Steering further. In addition to the annual online training for all personnel there remaining non-restricted equity, EUR 228,745,602.13 be retained and and monitoring of ethics and compliance related matters is clearly will be in-depth class training for specific groups with stakeholder carried forward. specified in the Board of Director’s Audit Committee’s charter. In relations. This new training will be implemented in 2019. In addition, 2018 the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee and the Board of in 2018 Patria arranged extensive in class training for selected groups ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2019 Management received regular reports on activities and issues relating of personnel concerning the Business Partner Selection Process. The Annual General Meeting of Patria Oyj will be held on 27 March to Corporate Social Responsibility. Cooperation concerning ethics and Also, the group level Business Partner Selection process was further 2019 in Helsinki, Finland. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 80 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Consolidated Financial Statements (IFRS) Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Restated Restated EUR million Note 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 EUR million Note 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Assets Shareholders' equity and liabilities Non-current assets Shareholders' equity 18 Intangible assets 11 Share capital 38.0 38.0 Intangible rights 1.6 1.8 Fair value reserve 17 0.1 0.5 Goodwill 8, 11 28.0 27.5 Invested non-restricted equity fund 164.1 164.1 Advance payments 0.2 0.0 Translation differences -2.2 -1.3 Retained earnings 1.1 -4.4 Tangible assets 11 Net income for the period 29.3 27.0 Land and water 2.2 2.2 Equity attributable to shareholders of parent company 230.4 223.9 Buildings and constructions 50.7 54.1 Non-controlling interests 21.0 21.1 Machinery and equipment 20.5 22.4 Total Shareholders' equity 251.4 245.0 Other tangible assets 0.3 0.3 Advance payments and construction in progress 0.8 1.5 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liability 10 1.4 1.2 Investments in joint ventures 12 164.5 158.6 Pension provisions 7 4.1 4.3 Other shares 13, 16 0.2 0.2 Provisions 20 18.0 26.0 Deferred tax assets 10 2.9 3.8 Interest-bearing liabilities 2, 19 24.5 26.4 Other receivables 6.0 6.8 Total Non-current liabilities 48.0 57.8 Long-term receivables from joint ventures 12 0.4 0.4 Total Non-current assets 278.2 279.4 Current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 2, 19 51.0 47.4 Current assets Advance payments 4 53.8 47.1 Inventories 14 Accounts payable 39.2 25.3 Raw materials and supplies 38.0 40.2 Liabilities to joint ventures 12 0.0 0.0 Work in progress 23.3 19.0 Other current liabilities 16.5 17.5 Finished goods 1.9 3.5 Accruals and deferred income 15 41.7 46.3 Advance payments 3.2 2.8 Derivative financial instruments 22 0.1 0.3 Current tax liability 0.0 0.5 Receivables Total Current liabilities 202.3 184.5 Accounts receivable 2 106.0 111.9 Receivables from joint ventures 12 0.0 0.0 Total Shareholders' equity and liabilities 501.7 487.3 Other receivables 1.5 1.1 The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Prepaid expenses and accrued income 14 36.4 21.8 Derivative financial instruments 22 0.1 0.4 Current tax asset 4.9 1.4 Cash and cash equivalents 8.1 5.9 Total Current assets 223.4 207.9 Total Assets 501.7 487.3 A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 81 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Restated Restated EUR million Note 1‒12/2018 % 1‒12/2017 % EUR million Note 1‒12/2018 % 1‒12/2017 % Net sales 4 476.1 467.2 Profit for the period 29.3 27.0 Other comprehensive income Other operating income 5 4.8 7.2 Items that may be reclassied to profit or loss Share of joint ventures result 12.9 13.9 in subsequent periods Change in inventories of finished goods and Cash flow hedges -0.4 1.6 work in progress -0.2 -0.2 Change of translation difference -0.8 -0.3 Production for own use 0.2 3.2 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or Raw materials and supplies -127.1 -139.9 loss in subsequent periods Change in inventories of raw materials -2.4 -0.2 Actuarial gains/losses on defined benefit plans 0.6 0.6 Services purchased -71.0 -54.7 Share of comprehensive income in joint Employee benefit expenses 7 -171.1 -171.2 ventures -1.6 -1.5 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 8 -12.5 -16.5 Total comprehensive income 27.1 5.7% 27.4 5.9% Other operating expenses 5 -73.8 -74.4 Total comprehensive income attributable to Operating profit 35.9 7.5% 34.6 7.4% non-controlling interests 4.4 5.7 Total comprehensive income attributable to equity shareholders 22.7 21.7 Financial income and expenses 9 Total comprehensive income 27.1 5.7% 27.4 5.9% Interest and other financial income 0.2 0.1 Interest and other financial expenses -2.6 -2.7 The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Exchange gains and losses 0.1 0.0 Income before taxes 33.7 7.1% 32.1 6.9% Income taxes 10 -4.3 -5.0 Profit for the period 29.3 6.2% 27.0 5.8% Net income attributable to non-controlling interests 4.1 5.4 Net income attributable to equity shareholders 25.2 21.6 Profit for the period 29.3 6.2% 27.0 5.8% A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 82 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Restated EUR million Note 1‒12/2018 1‒12/2017 Net income for the period 29.3 27.0 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 8 12.5 16.5 Capital gains/losses -1.2 -0.3 Other adjustments Share of result in joint ventures -12.9 -13.9 Dividends received from joint ventures 4.7 7.3 Other adjustments 0.1 0.1 Financing items 2.4 2.6 Taxes 10 4.3 5.0 Change in receivables -7.7 8.7 Change in payables 5.3 -26.4 Change in inventories -0.3 -0.7 Cash flow from operations 36.7 26.0 Interest received 0.3 0.1 Interest paid -1.7 -1.8 Dividends received 0.0 0.0 Other financial items -0.8 -0.6 Income taxes paid -7.3 -9.5 Cash flow from operating activities 27.1 14.1 Aqcuisitions, net of cash 0.2 -4.5 Other capital expenditures -7.3 -15.1 Sale of other shares 0.0 0.0 Sale of other fixed assets and other changes 2.2 0.4 Cash flow from investing activities -5.0 -19.2 Repayments of long-term loans -1.5 -3.9 Borrowings of long-term loans 20.0 0.0 Change in short-term financing -16.9 42.0 Dividends paid to equity shareholders -16.7 -31.2 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests -4.3 -2.2 Other changes -0.6 -0.3 Cash flow from financing activities -20.0 4.4 Change in liquid funds 2 2.2 -0.7 Change 2.2 -0.7 Liquid funds at the beginning of the period 5.9 6.6 Liquid funds at the end of the period 8.1 5.9 Exchange rate difference 0.0 0.0 The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 83 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Equity Non-controlling Invested Total Share capital ­attributable to non-restricted Fair value Translation ­Shareholders’ Retained interests shareholders of Note equity fund reserve differences earnings parent company equity EUR million Opening balance 38.0 164.1 0.5 -1.3 22.6 223.9 21.1 245.0 Dividends paid -16.7 -16.7 -16.7 Other comprehensive income 10 Cash flow hedges -0.4 -0.4 -0.4 Change of translation difference -0.8 -0.8 -0.8 Actuarial gains/losses on defined benefit plans 0.6 0.6 0.6 Share of comprehensive income in joint ventures -1.6 -1.6 -1.6 Non-controlling interests -4.1 -4.1 -0.2 -4.3 Exchange rate difference -1.5 -1.5 -1.5 Corrections to previous year's bookings* 1.8 1.8 1.8 Net income for the period 29.3 29.3 29.3 31 Dec 2018 38.0 164.1 0.1 -2.2 30.4 230.4 21.0 251.4 Opening balance 38.0 164.1 -1.1 9.4 34.9 245.2 17.6 262.8 Restatement due to IFRS 15 -1.5 -1.5 -1.5 1 Jan 2017 38.0 164.1 -1.1 9.4 33.4 243.7 17.6 261.3 Dividends paid -31.2 -31.2 -31.2 Other comprehensive income 10 Cash flow hedges 1.6 1.6 1.6 Change of translation difference -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 Actuarial gains/losses on defined benefit plans 0.6 0.6 0.6 Share of comprehensive income in joint ventures -1.5 -1.5 -1.5 Non-controlling interests -5.4 -5.4 3.5 -1.9 Exchange rate difference -10.1 -10.1 -10.1 Corrections to previous year's bookings* -10.3 9.8 -0.5 -0.5 Net income for the period (Restated due to IFRS 15) 27.0 27.0 27.0 31 Dec 2017 38.0 164.1 0.5 -1.3 22.6 223.9 21.1 245.0 * IAS8 corrections for previous periods. The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial st atements. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 84 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1. Accounting principles for the PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION statement of financial position, non-controlling interests are shown as a Subsidiaries separate item under equity. consolidated financial statements The consolidated financial statements include the parent company DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESSES Patria Oyj and all subsidiaries in which the parent company directly or Associated companies and joint ventures Patria is a defence and aerospace group with international operations indirectly holds more than 50% of the voting rights or in which Patria is Companies, in which the Group has a significant influence are delivering its customers competitive solutions based on own specialist otherwise in control on the reporting date. Being in control means the consolidated as associated companies. Significant influence is the know-how and partnerships. Patria is owned by the State of Finland power to govern the financial and operating policies of the company to power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of 50.1% and Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace AS 49.9%. obtain benefits from its activities. the investee, but it is not control or joint control over those policies. The operations of Patria Oyj and its subsidiaries (together “Patria” Acquired and established companies are accounted for using the A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have or the “Group”) are organised into three business segments: Land purchase method of accounting. Accordingly, the purchase price and joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net asset of the joint Solutions, Systems and Services and Other Operations. the acquired company’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent venture. Joint control is established by contractual agreement. Patria Oyj (“the Company”) is a Finnish public limited company liabilities are measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. In the Associated companies and joint ventures are included in the organised under the laws of the Republic of Finland and with its acquisition of additional interest, where the Group already has control, consolidated financial statements using the equity method from the registered address at Kaivokatu 10 A, 00100 Helsinki. Copies of the the non-controlling interest is measured either at fair value or at the date the Group’s significant influence or joint control commences until financial statements are available from Patria Group’s headquarters, non-controlling interests’ proportionate share of the identifiable net the date it ceases. The Group’s share of the associated company’s or Kaivokatu 10 A, FI-00100 Helsinki and www.patria.fi. assets. The difference between the purchase price, possible equity joint venture’s profit for the financial period are shown as a separate belonging to the non-controlling interests and the acquired company’s item before the Group’s operating profit, on the line Share of joint BASIS OF PREPARATION net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities measured at ventures result. The Group’s share of the associated company’s or joint The Consolidated Financial Statements of Patria have been prepared in fair value is goodwill. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. venture’s changes recorded in other comprehensive income is recorded accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), The purchase price includes the consideration paid, measured at fair in the Group’s other comprehensive income. Patria’s proportion of the as adopted by the European Union including International Accounting value. The consideration does not include transaction costs, which associated company’s or joint venture’s post-acquisition accumulated Standards (“IAS”) and Interpretations issued by the International are recognised in the statement of income. The transaction costs are equity is included in the Group’s equity. If the Group’s share of the Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (“IFRIC”). expensed in the same financial period in which they occur, except the associated company’s or joint venture’s losses exceeds its interest in costs resulting from issued debt or equity instruments. the company, the carrying amount is written down to zero. After this, USE OF ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS Any contingent consideration (additional purchase price) related losses are only recognised if the Group has incurred obligations from the The preparation of the financial statements in accordance with to the combination of businesses is measured at fair value on the date associated company or joint venture. IFRS requires management to make estimates and judgements that of acquisition. It is classified either as a liability or equity. Contingent affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, as well as the consideration classified as a liability is measured at fair value on the last FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial day of each financial period, and the resulting loss or gain is recognised Foreign currency transactions are translated into Euros using the statements, and the reported amounts of income and expenses during through profit or loss. Contingent consideration classified as equity is exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Receivables, the reporting period. not remeasured. liabilities and derivative instruments in foreign currencies are translated Accounting estimates and judgements are employed in the For the acquisitions which occurred before 1 January 2010, the into Euros at the exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. financial statements to determine reported amounts, including the accounting principles valid at the time of the acquisition have been Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from translating are realizability of certain assets, the useful lives of tangible and intangible applied. recognised in the income statement. Foreign exchange gains and losses assets, income taxes, inventories, provisions, pension obligations and The acquired subsidiaries are included in the consolidated related to business operations are included in the corresponding items impairment of goodwill and other items. The basis for the estimates financial statements from the day the Group has control, and disposed above the operating profit line. Foreign exchange gains and losses and judgements are described in more detail in these accounting subsidiaries until the control ends. All intragroup transactions, related to loans and receivables in foreign currencies are included in principles and in connection with the relevant disclosure to the financial dividend distributions, receivables and liabilities as well as unrealized financial income and expenses. statements. margins are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. In The income statements of the Group companies domiciled outside Although these estimates and judgements are based on the consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, the Euro area are converted into Euro using the average exchange rate management’s best knowledge of current events and actions, actual non-controlling interests have been separated from the profit and the of the reporting period while the balance sheets are converted using results may differ from the estimates. total comprehensive income for the financial period. In the consolidated the exchange rate quoted on the date of the Financial Statements. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 85 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E The exchange rate differences resulting from the conversion of the changes are released from equity to income statement in the period the control of the products has transferred to the customer, in general Financial Statements into Euro are recognised in translation differences when the hedged cash flow affects income. The main reason for the upon delivery of the goods. Product sales also consist of project delivery under consolidated equity. The translation differences resulting from hedge inefficiency is the timing difference between the derivative (armoured wheeled vehicles and mortar systems as well as systems and the movements in exchange rates used to translate equity are likewise maturity date and the expected date of hedged foreign exchange system integration) for which, depending on the contract terms and the recognised directly in translation differences under consolidated equity. future cash flows. Hedge accounting is not applied to derivatives duration of the project, the revenue is recognised at a point in time or The accumulated translation differences related to divested hedging balance sheet items. over time. Group companies, recorded under equity, are recognised in the Income All recognised fair value changes to other comprehensive income Sales of services consist of maintenance, repair, modification and Statement as part of the gain or loss on the sale. are net of tax. hourly based services. The revenue is recognised over time based on hours performed or costs incurred depending on the contract terms and FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS the duration of the project, or at a point in time, if the duration of the Financial assets are classified into three main categories: to be The Group assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there project is short-term and result impact is insignificant. measured at amortised cost, at fair value through income statement is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets Revenue recognised over time is measured in accordance with the and at fair value through other comprehensive income. Earlier, under IAS is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired percentage of completion method based on hours performed or costs 39 standard, financial instruments were classified as loans and other and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence incurred when the outcome of the contract can be estimated reliably. receivables, held-to-maturity investments, available-for-sale financial of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after When the outcome cannot be reliably determined, the costs arising are assets, financial liabilities at amortised cost and financial assets and the initial recognition of the asset (a ‘loss event’) and that loss event expensed in the same financial period in which they occur, but the revenue liabilities at fair value through income statement. (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the is recognized only to the extent that the company will receive an amount Unless separately stated in the Notes the carrying value is financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated. corresponding to actual costs. Any losses are expensed immediately. considered to be equal to the fair value. Evidence of impairment may include indications that the debtors or Patria provides its customers standard payment terms. If extended Category to be measured at amortised cost includes non-current a group of debtors is experiencing significant financial difficulty, default payment terms exceeding one year are offered to customers, the receivables from joint ventures, other receivables, commercial papers, or delinquency in interest or principal payments, the probability that invoiced amount is discounted to its present value and interest income trade receivables, cash and cash equivalents, interest-bearing financial they will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganization, and where is recognized over the credit term. liabilities and trade payables. Financial liabilities are recognised at the observable data indicate that there is a measurable decrease in the Patria does not have significant customer arrangements that settlement date and measured at amortised cost using the effective estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or economic do not meet the criteria set out in the IFRS 15 for a contract. Patria interest rate method. conditions that correlate with defaults. typically issues contractual product warranties under which it generally Other investments (securities), interest-bearing investments and If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment guarantees the functioning of equipment delivered during the agreed derivatives (not under hedge accounting) are measured at fair values loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an warranty period. through income statement. event occurring after the impairment was recognized (such as an Patria receives payments from customers based on invoicing Derivatives under hedge accounting are measured at fair value improvement in the debtor’s credit rating), the reversal of the previously schedules as agreed in the customer contracts. Changes in contract through other comprehensive income. recognized impairment loss is recognized in the consolidated income assets and liabilities are due to Patria’s performance under the All derivatives, including embedded derivatives, are initially statement. If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument contracts. Amounts due from customers under revenue contracts recognised at fair value. Determination of fair values is based on quoted classified as available for sale increases and the increase can be primarily relate to Patria’s right to consideration for work completed market prices and rates, discounting of cash flows and option valuation objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was but not yet invoiced at the reporting date. These assets are transferred models. recognized in profit or loss, the impairment loss is reversed through the to account receivables when Patria has contractual right to issue an The Group applies hedge accounting under IFRS 9 while hedging consolidated income statement. invoice. Significant part of amounts due to customers relate to advance estimated future cash flows with foreign currency derivatives and the consideration received from customer in long-term contracts for which loan portfolio with interest rate derivatives (cash flow hedging). Foreign NET SALES AND REVENUE RECOGNITION revenue is recognized over time. These amounts are recognized as exchange spots are defined as derivatives when those consider cash Revenue is presented net of indirect sales taxes, penalties and revenue as Patria performs under the contracts. flow hedging. Interest component of the foreign exchange forward discounts. Revenue is recognised when control of the goods or To identify the performance obligations in the contract requires contract is recognised in financial income or expense in the income services is transferred to the customer at an amount that reflects the management to make estimates and judgements that may affect the statement. Fair value changes of derivatives, which are assigned to consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for reported revenue amount and timing. hedge forecast transactions (cash flow hedging), are recognised in those goods and services. The transaction price may include variable Products and services contracts generally include one performance other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedge is effective. considerations, such as penalties or compensations for damages. obligation. Long-term contracts include maintenance contracts for The ineffective portion of the hedging instrument is recognised Product sales consist of sales of spare parts and standard which revenue is in general recognized over time and the contracts immediately in the income statement. Such accumulated fair value equipment for which the revenue is recognised at a point in time when generally include one performance obligation per delivery. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 86 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Contract assets are included in Prepaid expenses and accrued Land areas are not subject to depreciation. Repair and maintenance LEASES income in the Balance sheet and Contract liabilities in Advance costs are recognised as expenses for the financial year in question. Leases, on the basis of which the Group takes over a material part of the payments in the Balance sheet (Note 14). Improvement investments are capitalised if they will generate future risks and benefits related to the ownership of such assets, are classified At the end of 2018, Patria had no costs to obtain or fulfil contracts economic benefits. Capital gains and losses resulting from the sale of as finance leases. Finance leases are recorded in the Balance Sheet capitalized under IFRS 15. tangible assets are recognised in the income statement. under assets and liabilities, mainly at the time when the lease period starts, either at the fair value of the assets or the lower present value of RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS the minimum lease payments. Research and development costs are expensed as they are incurred. Goodwill is measured at historical cost, less impairment. The Group The assets acquired through finance lease agreements will be Capitalised unaccomplished development costs are subject to regular assesses the carrying value of goodwill annually or, more frequently, if depreciated as any non-current assets, either over the economic life impairment assessments of recoverability based on anticipated future events or changes in circumstances indicate that such carrying value of the assets or over a shorter lease term. Finance lease liabilities are revenues. Unamortised capitalised development costs determined to be may not be recoverable. Impairment losses are recognised immediately recorded under the non-current and current interest-bearing liabilities in excess of their recoverable amounts are expensed immediately. in the profit and loss account. in the Balance Sheet. Intangible assets include, capitalised development cost, If the lessor maintains the ownership risks and benefits, the lease INCOME TAXES trademarks, patents, software licences as well as product and agreement is treated as an operating lease, and the lease paid on the The Group income tax expense includes taxes of the Group companies marketing rights. Intangible assets originating through development basis of such agreement is recognised as an expense, allocated over the based on taxable profit for the period, together with tax adjustments are recognised in the Balance Sheet only if the criteria of the IAS 38 entire lease term. for previous periods and the change in deferred income taxes. The standard are met. income tax effects of items recognised in other comprehensive income Acquired intangible assets are measured at their historical cost, less EMPLOYEE BENEFITS are similarly recognised. The share of results in joint ventures is depreciation. With the exception of goodwill, the assets are depreciated Group companies in different countries have various pension plans in reported in the income statement as calculated from net profit and thus over their economic life, normally three to twenty years, using the accordance with local conditions and practices. The plans are classified including the income tax charge. straight-line depreciation method. as either defined contribution plans or defined benefit plans. The Deferred income taxes are stated using the balance sheet liability contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to the income method, as measured with enacted tax rates, to reflect the net tax GRANTS RECEIVED statement in the year to which they relate. The present value of the effects of all temporary differences between the financial reporting and Government or other grants are recognised as income on a systematic obligation under defined benefit plans is recorded in the balance sheet tax bases of assets and liabilities. The main temporary differences arise basis over the periods necessary to match them with the related on the balance sheet date. Disability and retirement components of from the depreciation difference on property, plant and equipment, fair costs, which they are intended to compensate. Grants related to the the Finnish Statutory Employment Pension Scheme (TyEL) have been valuation of net assets in acquired companies, fair valuation of financial acquisition of tangible or intangible assets are recognised as decreases accounted for as a defined contribution plans and unemployment assets and derivatives, intra-group inventory profits, pension and other of their acquisition costs. component as a defined benefit plans. provisions, untaxed reserves and tax losses and credits carried forward. Deductible temporary differences are recognised as a deferred tax IMPAIRMENTS INVENTORIES asset to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will Property, plant and equipment and other non-current assets, including Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is be available, against which the deductible temporary difference can be goodwill and intangible assets, are reviewed for potential impairment determined by the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method or weighted average utilised. whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying cost that is sufficiently close to the factual cost calculated on FIFO basis. amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Goodwill is in all cases The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw PROPERTY, PLANTS AND EQUIPMENT tested annually. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production Property, plants and equipment are measured at their historical grouped at the lowest cash generating unit level. An impairment loss overheads. cost, less depreciation and impairment. The assets are depreciated is the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the over their economic life using the straight-line depreciation method. recoverable amount. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE The economic life of assets is reviewed if necessary, adjusting it to A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there Accounts receivable are carried at their anticipated realizable value, correspond to possible changes in the expected economic use. has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable which is the original invoice amount less an estimated impairment of amount. However, the reversal must not cause that the adjusted value these receivables. An impairment of accounts receivable is made when The assessed economic lives are as follows: is higher than the carrying amount that would have been determined there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all • Buildings 10 to 30 years if no impairment loss had been recognised in prior years. Impairment amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. • Machinery and equipment 3 to 15 years losses recognised for goodwill are not reversed. • Other tangible assets 3 to 20 years A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 87 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Category to be measured at amortised cost includes long-term Listed and unlisted securities, interest-bearing investments and Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, bank deposits. Bank receivables from joint ventures, other receivables, commercial derivatives (not under hedge accounting) are measured at fair values overdrafts are included within borrowings in current liabilities in the papers, trade receivables, cash and cash equivalents, interest-bearing through income statement. balance sheet. financial liabilities and trade payables. The standard did not change the Derivatives under hedge accounting are measured at fair value classification of financial liabilities. Financial liabilities are recognised at through other comprehensive income. PROVISIONS the settlement date and measured at amortised cost using the effective Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a interest rate method. present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to RECLASSIFICATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS DUE TO THE APPLICATION OF IFRS 9 AS OF 1 JANUARY 2018, EUR MILLION settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount Carrying amount of the obligation. Provisions arise from restructuring plans, onerous Balance sheet item Classification under IAS 39 Classification under IFRS 9 IAS 39 IFRS 9 Difference contracts, guarantee and claim works. Non-current financial assets Non-current loan receivables DIVIDENDS from joint ventures Loans and other receivables Amortised cost 0.4 0.4 The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is not deducted from Fair value through income distributable equity until approved by the Annual General Meeting of Other investments (securities) Available-for sale investments statement 0.2 0.2 Shareholders. Fair value through income Interest-bearing investments Loans and other receivables statement 0.0 0.0 SEGMENT REPORTING Other receivables Loans and other receivables Amortised cost 0.7 0.7 The Group has decided not to apply the voluntary IFRS 8 standard and will not disclose financial information by segment in the financial Current financial assets statements. Trade receivables Loans and other receivables Amortised cost 111.9 111.9 APPLICATION OF NEW AND AMENDED IFRS Commercial papers Loans and other receivables Amortised cost 0.0 0.0 STANDARDS AND IFRIC INTERPRETATIONS Other receivables Loans and other receivables Amortised cost 0.0 0.0 The International Accounting Standards Board has issued three new Derivatives (under hedge Fair value through other Fair value through other standards, IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, IFRS 9, accounting) comprehensive income comprehensive income 0.2 0.2 Financial Instruments and IFRS 16, Leases which are relevant to the Derivatives (not under hedge Fair value through income Fair value through income accounting) statement statement 0.2 0.2 Group. IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 are effective starting on January 1, 2018 and IFRS 16 on January 1, 2019. Available-for-sale trade Fair value through income receivables Loans and other receivables statement 0.0 0.0 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Cash and cash equivalentes Loans and other receivables Amortised cost 5.9 5.9 The Group has adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments standard from 1 January 2018. The standard replaced IAS 39 Financial instruments: Non-current financial liabilities Recognition and Measurement. IFRS 9 includes guidance for Interest-bearing financial classification, recognition and measurement of financial assets liabilities (non-current) Amortised cost Amortised cost 26.4 26.4 and liabilities. It also includes new regulations regarding the hedge accounting and new impairment model for financial assets. Comparative Current financial liabilities information is presented in accordance with IAS 39 and it is comparable. Derivatives (under hedge Fair value through other Fair value through other Financial assets are classified into three main categories: to be accounting) comprehensive income comprehensive income 0.1 0.1 measured at amortised cost, at fair values through income statement Derivatives (not under hedge Fair value through income Fair value through income and at fair value through other comprehensive income. accounting) statement statement 0.2 0.2 Current interest-bearing financial liabilities Amortised cost Amortised cost 47.4 47.4 Trade payables Amortised cost Amortised cost 25.3 25.3 A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 88 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E IFRS 9 did not materially change the Group’s hedge accounting. CONDENSED INCOME STATEMENT IFRS 16 requires lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset Due to the change, the hedge accounting documentation Reported Restated Change representing its right to use the underlying asset and a lease was updated to reflect the new requirements. In addition, the EUR million 1/1–31/12/2017 liability representing its obligation to make lease payments. Patria interest component of the foreign exchange forward contract is has decided to apply IFRS 16 using the modified retrospective, thus Net sales 467.7 467.2 -0.5 recognised in financial income or expense in the income statement. comparative information will not be restated. Other operating income 21.2 21.2 0.0 Due to this change, also the previous accounting periods retained Patria has elected to apply optional exemptions for short-term Materials, supplies and services -193.0 -191.7 1.3 earnings have been corrected. and low-value leases. The lease expense will be recognized on a Other expenses -262.0 -262.0 0.0 Trade receivables do not have significant risk for credit losses straight-line basis over the lease term. due to the customer base. Mitigation against credit risk is done by Operating profit 33.9 34.6 0.7 Patria has identified contracts where it acts as a lessor. These including risk reducing terms to sales agreements and requesting contracts do not have a material impact on group’s financial guarantees when needed. The group has not recognised material Financial income and expenses -2.6 -2.6 0.0 statements. credit losses in the past and no loss allowance provision has been Non-cancellable operating lease commitments at the end of recognised in the adoption of IFRS 9. The group is continuously Income before taxes 31.3 32.1 0.8 financial year 2018 are disclosed in note 21. evaluating the credit loss risk and the possible changes e.g. in the Based on the preliminary assessment the Group expects to customer base may result to recognition of the loss allowance Income taxes -4.9 -5.0 -0.1 recognize right-of-use assets and respective lease liabilities of provision. approximately in range of EUR 58 million to EUR 71 million as of Profit for the period 26.4 27.0 0.6 January 1, 2019. The adoption of IFRS 16 is expected to improve IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and related operating profit approximately EUR 12 million in the consolidated amendments to the standard. The Group has adopted IFRS 15 statement of income since interest cost of leases will be presented standard from 1 January 2018. IFRS 15 establishes a new fivein financial expenses. The adoption of new standard will also CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET step model that will apply to revenue arising from contracts with impact on the presentation of the consolidated statement of cash Reported Restated Change Reported Restated Change customers. Revenue is recognized when, or as, the customer flows. It is expected that cash flow from operating activities will EUR million 31/12/2017 01/01/2017 obtains control of the goods or services in an amount that reflects be increased and cash flow from financing activities decreased, the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in Assets since most of the lease payments are shown in financing cash flow. exchange for those goods or services. In accordance with the Intangible assets 29.3 29.3 0.0 27.5 27.5 0.0 The impact assessment will be completed during the first quarter standard, revenue is recognized as control is passed either over Tangible assets 80.4 80.4 0.0 74.0 74.0 0.0 of 2019. time or at a point in time. Patria has adopted the new standard on Other non-current the required effective date using the full retrospective method. The assets 169.4 169.7 0.3 176.3 176.7 0.4 disclosures related to revenue are presented according to the new Inventories 67.6 65.4 -2.2 67.8 64.4 -3.4 standard. Receivables 133.6 136.6 3.0 139.5 143.3 3.8 Adoption of IFRS 15 led to changes in revenue recognition of Cash and cash some long-term service and maintenance contracts. The revenue equivalents 5.9 5.9 0.0 6.6 6.6 0.0 recognition will occur over time measured based on percentage of Total Assets 486.3 487.3 1.0 491.7 492.5 0.8 completion method based on cost incurred. As a result of the restatement retained earnings as of January Shareholders' 1, 2017 was decreased by EUR 1.5 million. equity and liabilities As IFRS 15 was adopted using the full retrospective method, Shareholders' the impact of the restatement is presented in the below table also equity 245.9 245.0 -0.9 262.8 261.3 -1.5 for the opening balance of the financial period 2017: Non-current liabilities 57.8 57.8 0.0 59.3 59.3 0.0 Current liabilities 182.6 184.5 1.9 169.6 171.9 2.3 Total Shareholders' equity and liabilities 486.3 487.3 1.0 491.7 492.5 0.8 A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 89 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E 2. Financial risk management changes in fair value or cash flows from the hedged item. The same Consolidating the Group’s subsidiaries and joint venture companies currency is used for the hedging instrument as the hedged item has, domiciled in non-euro-countries results in translation differences, MAIN PRINCIPALS OF FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT therefore they have an economic relationship. which are recorded in shareholders’ equity (translation risk). Patria’s The Board of Directors of Patria has approved the Treasury A sensitivity analysis, in accordance with IFRS 7 shown later, aims policy is not to hedge translation risks. Management Policy, according to which treasury management to demonstrate the sensitivity of the consolidated income before taxes Effects of hedge accounting on the Group’s financial position and management of financial risks of the parent company and the and equity to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Net exposures include concerning the most significant currencies is presented in the following subsidiaries are conducted. foreign currency denominated financial assets and liabilities in the balance table. The key tasks of the Group Treasury Function are the following: sheets of the companies and the derivatives used to hedge these as well securing sufficient funding at all times for the parent company and the as derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied. The change in fair EFFECTS OF HEDGE ACCOUNTING ON subsidiaries, arranging funding and credit lines, liquidity management, value of these items is recognised in the income statement. THE FINANCIAL POSITION 2018 optimising net financial costs, organising and implementing The change in fair value of derivatives to which hedge accounting EUR million management of financial risks, offering and providing subsidiaries with is applied is recorded directly in the fair value reserve in equity. The Forward foreign exchange contracts EURUSD 31/12/2018 financial services and informing the Group management about the change in fair value is expected to be offset by time as the opposite Fair Value 0.1 Group’s financial position and risks. changes in the values of highly probable future forecasted cash flows Nominal Value 17.7 Financial risks are later divided into currency risk, interest rate materialise. January 2019 risk, liquidity and refinancing risk, credit and counterparty risk and The next table presents the net exposures as well as the effects Expected time for the impact on P&L December 2023 operational risk. Subsidiaries and business units are responsible based on the sensitivity analysis on result before the taxes and Hedge Ratio 1:1 for hedging their financial risks according to Group guidelines and shareholders’ equity, assuming that euro would have strengthened or Change in spot value of outstanding hedging instructions given by Group Treasury. weakened against the currency in question on the balance sheet date. instruments 0.1 The sensitivity is calculated for a five percent exchange rate change. Change in value of hedged item used to CURRENCY RISKS The most significant currency exposures (net sales, purchases determine hedge effectiveness -0.1 The objective of currency risk management is to hedge against and loans) on 31 December 2018 were in the Swedish krona (SEK), and Weighted average hedged rate exchange rate fluctuations affecting the future cash flow, result and United States dollar (USD). (including forward points) 1.1729 balance sheet. Foreign currency exposures, which include binding sales, purchase and finance contracts (transaction position), are fully IFRS 7 SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS SENSITIVITY TO Forward foreign exchange contracts EURSEK 31/12/2018 hedged by project or transaction by using foreign exchange derivatives. EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS 2018 Fair Value 0.0 The subsidiaries are responsible for determining and hedging their 1,000 EUR SEK USD Nominal Value 0.2 exposures against Patria Oyj, which makes the necessary hedging Net exposure Balance sheet items 374 1,694 Expected time for the impact on P&L January 2019 transactions with banks. Euro strengthens / weakens 5 % Hedge Ratio 1:1 Patria applies hedge accounting according to IFRS 9 while hedging Effect on income before taxes -18 / 20 -81 / 89 estimated future cash flows with foreign currency derivatives (cash Change in spot value of outstanding hedging Net exposure Derivatives under instruments -0.0 flow hedging). Fair value changes of derivatives, which are assigned to hedge accounting 168 -12,684 hedge forecast transactions, are recognised in other comprehensive Change in value of hedged item used to Euro strengthens / weakens 5 % determine hedge effectiveness -0.0 income (fair value reserve) to the extent that the hedge is effective. Effect on equity -8 / 9 605 / -668 Weighted average hedged rate The ineffective portion of the hedging instrument is recognised (including forward points) 10.2688 immediately into financial items in the income statement. Such IFRS 7 SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS SENSITIVITY TO accumulated fair value changes are released into income statement in EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS 2017 Forward foreign exchange contracts designated as the period when the hedged cash flow affects income. The main source 1,000 EUR SEK USD cash flow hedges 31/12/2018 of ineffectiveness is the difference in the maturities of the hedged Net exposure Balance sheet items -9 -282 Derivative financial assets 0.1 item and the hedging instrument. Hedge accounting is not applied to Euro strengthens / weakens 5 % Derivative financial liabilities -0.0 derivatives hedging balance sheet items. Effect on income before taxes 0/0 13 / -15 Hedged item and hedging instrument are considered to have Net exposure Derivatives under economic relationship if critical terms of hedging instrument and hedge accounting 405 -16,376 hedged item match. If economic relationship exists it is expected that Euro strengthens / weakens 5 % changes in fair value or cash flows of the hedging instrument offset Effect on equity -19 / 21 745 / -822 A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 90 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E EFFECTS OF HEDGE ACCOUNTING ON INTEREST FIXING PERIODS THE FINANCIAL POSITION 2017 EUR million 0-6 mths 6-12 mths 12-24 mths 24-36 mths Later Total EUR million Finance lease liablilities 1.7 0.4 0.8 16.3 19.2 Forward foreign exchange contracts EURUSD 31/12/2017 Loans from financial institutions 20.6 20.6 Fair Value 0.1 Other interest-bearing liabilities 29.0 6.7 35.7 Nominal Value 24.2 Interest-bearing receivables -8.1 -8.1 January 2018 Total 2018 43.2 7.1 0.0 0.8 16.3 67.5 Expected time for the impact on P&L December 2023 Hedge Ratio 1:1 Finance lease liablilities 1.8 0.2 0.7 17.9 20.6 Change in spot value of outstanding hedging instruments 0.1 Loans from financial institutions 3.4 0.3 0.7 4.4 Change in value of hedged item used to Other interest-bearing liabilities 42.0 6.8 48.8 determine hedge effectiveness -0.4 Interest-bearing receivables -5.9 -5.9 Weighted average hedged rate Total 2017 41.3 0.5 8.2 0.0 17.9 67.9 (including forward points) 1.1649 On 31 December 2018, Group’s interest-bearing liabilities totalled EUR 75.3 LIQUIDITY AND REFINANCING RISKS Forward foreign exchange contracts EURSEK 31/12/2017 million (73.8) out of which EUR 52.9 million (67.4) was fixed rate and EUR Liquidity risk is minimised by maintaining sufficient liquidity reserves, so Fair Value 0.0 22.4 million (6.3) was floating rate. Interest-bearing receivables were EUR as to secure the operational liquidity requirements at all times. 8.1 million (5.9) out of which EUR 8.1 million (5.9) was floating rate. Refinancing risk is defined as a risk of a high proportion of loans or Nominal Value 0.4 A sensitivity analysis in accordance with IFRS 7 and assuming a one credit facilities maturing at a time when refinancing may be difficult February 2018 percentage point increase in interest rates and the interest-bearing or its terms are unattractive. The risk is minimised by balancing the Expected time for the impact on P&L March 2018 liabilities and receivables in the balance sheet as of 31 December 2018, maturities of loans and credit facilities. Hedge Ratio 1:1 would lead to an increase in annual net interest expenses of EUR 143 On 31 December 2018 the average maturity of the Group’s interestChange in spot value of outstanding hedging thousand (4). A corresponding decrease in interest rates would result in bearing liabilities was 1.7 years (2.3). The values on the following instruments 0.0 an equal effect of opposite sign. The Group didn’t have any open interest maturity distribution table are undiscounted. Change in value of hedged item used to derivatives (0.3) on 31 December 2018. determine hedge effectiveness 0.0 Weighted average hedged rate MATURITY DISTRIBUTION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (including forward points) 9.4879 EUR million 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Total Finance lease liablilities 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.5 1.5 12.0 19.2 Forward foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges 31/12/2017 Loans from financial institutions 20.5 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 20.6 Derivative financial assets 0.2 Other interest-bearing liabilities 35.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 35.7 Derivative financial liabilities -0.1 Derivative financial liabilities 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Derivative financial assets -0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.1 INTEREST RATE RISK Interest payments 0.4 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.8 Fluctuations in interest rates have an effect on Group’s interest Total 2018 58.1 1.9 1.5 1.5 1.5 12.0 76.4 expenses and income as well as fair value of interest-bearing liabilities and receivables and derivatives. The objective of interest rate risk Finance lease liablilities 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.5 13.5 20.6 management is to hedge against interest rate fluctuations affecting the Loans from financial institutions 3.9 0.3 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 4.4 future cash flow, result and balance sheet. Interest rate risk is managed Other interest-bearing liabilities 42.1 6.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 48.8 by monitoring the average interest fixing term (duration) of receivables Derivative financial liabilities 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.3 and liabilities as well as by using derivatives, if needed. Derivative financial assets -0.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.4 On 31 December 2018, the average interest fixing term of the Interest payments 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.1 liabilities was 1.9 years (2.4) and that of the receivables one day. Total 2017 47.7 8.8 1.9 1.5 1.5 13.5 74.8 A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 91 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E As a part of its liquidity reserves on 31 December 2018, Patria had the CHANGE IN NET DEBT following unused financial reserves: committed credit and overdraft Other interest Finance lease Cash and cash Other interestFinance lease Cash and cash facilities totalling EUR 50.5 million (40.5) and commercial paper program Commercial Loans from Commercial totalling EUR 71.0 million (58.0). Loans from bearing loans bearing loans financial financial institutions papers liabilities equivalents Total institutions papers liabilities equivalents Total NET DEBT EUR million EUR million EUR million 2018 2017 Carrying value, at 1 Carrying value, at 1 January 2018 -4.4 -42.0 -6.8 -20.6 5.9 -67.8 January 2017 -1.6 -6.9 -21.4 6.6 -23.2 Loans from financial institutions 0.1 0.4 Change in net debt, Change in net debt, Other interest-bearing loans 6.6 6.7 cash: cash: Finance lease liabilities 17.8 19.2 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 24.5 26.4 Borrowings of Repayments of Loans from financial institutions 20.5 3.9 non-current loans -20.0 -20.0 non-current loans 2.5 0.1 2.6 Issued commercial papers 29.0 42.0 Repayments of Repayments of leasing non-current loans 0.1 0.1 0.2 liabilities 5.5 5.5 Other interest-bearing loans 0.1 0.1 Change in current Change in current Finance lease liabilities 1.4 1.4 liabilities 3.9 13.0 16.9 liabilities 0.0 -42.0 -42.0 Current interest-bearing liabilities 51.0 47.4 Change in cash and Change in cash and Interest-bearing liabilities total 75.5 73.8 cash equivalents 2.2 2.2 cash equivalents -0.7 -0.7 Cash and cash equivalents 8.1 5.9 Cash flows total -16.1 13.0 0.1 0.0 2.2 -0.8 Cash flows total 2.5 -42.0 0.1 5.5 -0.7 -34.6 Net debt 67.5 67.8 Change in net debt, Change in net debt, non-cash: non-cash: Repayments of leasing Increases of finance liabilities 1.4 1.4 lease liabilities -4.8 -4.8 Business combinations -0.2 -0.2 Business combinations -5.3 -5.3 Foreign exchange Foreign exchange adjustments 0.0 0.0 adjustments 0.0 0.0 Non-cash movements, Non-cash movements, total -0.2 0.0 0.0 1.4 0.0 1.2 total -5.3 0.0 0.0 -4.8 0.0 -10.1 Carrying value, at 31 Carrying value, at 31 December 2018 -20.6 -29.0 -6.7 -19.2 8.1 -67.5 December 2017 -4.4 -42.0 -6.8 -20.6 5.9 -67.8 CREDIT AND COUNTERPARTY RISKS ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE BY AGE Patria is not exposed to significant credit risk due to the structure of EUR million 2018 2017 customer base. Credit risks are mainly managed by agreeing in sales Undue accounts receivables 73.0 75.2 contracts on terms and conditions, which reduce these risks. Credit Accounts receivables 1–30 days overdue 7.5 10.0 insurance may be used on a case-by-case basis. Accounts receivables 31–60 days overdue 1.9 2.7 Credit risk related to investing liquid funds is managed by defining Accounts receivables more than 60 days the acceptable counterparties with good credit rating as well as the overdue 23.6 23.9 maximum allowed exposure by counterparty. The Group does not have Total 106.0 111.9 material loan receivables. The maximum risk of sales receivables and investments is the full nominal value of those contracts. OPERATIONAL RISKS OF THE TREASURY FUNCTIONS Credit risks related to derivative contracts are managed by using The management of operational risks aims to eliminate losses or multiple counterparties that are well-defined and have a good credit increased risk levels due to errors in procedures or insufficient rating. There are netting agreements valid with the counterparties. monitoring. The risks are minimised by implementing efficient processes A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 92 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E and other procedures with related controls, maintaining a high level of 3. Acquisitions and divestments 4. Disaggregation of revenue proficiency, defining and documenting routine procedures and properly organising the work. Risks relating to transactions are minimised by In October Patria Aerostructures Oy completed the acquisition of EUR million 2018 2017 monitoring trading limits and trade confirmations and conducting all the shares in Patricomp Oy from Aerometallic Components SAU. Products 171.7 150.1 regular general assessments. Patricomp operates in aircraft sheet metal part manufacturing, surface Services 304.5 317.1 treatments and assemblies. Patricomp net sales totalled EUR 6.6 million in 2017. Patricomp is located in Halli, Jämsä and employs some 50 Total 476.1 467.2 OTHER MARKET RISKS In addition to financial risks, Patria is exposed to price risks related to employees. raw materials and components. The Business Units are responsible for In January 2017 Patria acquired 100% of the shares of Kiinteistö Performance obligation satisfied Oy Hämeenlinnan Vanajanportti. In October 2017 Patria acquired 60% at a point in time 383.2 391.7 identifying and hedging of these risks. Hedging takes primarily place by applying relevant terms and conditions to sales and purchase contracts. of the shares of Milrem LCM OÜ. Milrem LCM OÜ is the largest defence Performance obligation satisfied over time 92.9 75.5 Patria does not use derivatives to hedge these risks. maintenance contractor in Estonia. Total 476.1 467.2 The following table summarise the amounts for the acquisition cost CAPITAL MANAGEMENT paid, the cash flow from the acquisition and the amounts of the acquired The Group’s capital management objectives are to secure the ability to assets and liabilities recognised at the acquisition date. 5. Other operating income and expenses continue as going concern, maintain a healthy balance sheet structure, maintain adequate financial reserves at all times, manage the maturity ASSETS AND LIABILITIES OTHER OPERATING INCOME structure and other terms of interest-bearing debt and credit lines and, EUR million 2018 2017 EUR million 2018 2017 at the same time, to optimize the cost of capital in order to enhance Acquisition cost transferred 0.0 4.5 Rental income 1.7 1.7 value to shareholders. The exact target for the capital structure of Capital gain on sale of fixed assets 1.2 0.4 Acquisition cost paid in cash 0.0 4.5 Patria has not been specifically defined, but the target is to ensure good Service revenues 0.0 0.0 credit rating and thus adequate financing possibilities to support the Cash flow from the acquisitions Other operating income 1.8 5.0 growth strategy of the Group. Some of the Group’s financial contracts Acquisition cost paid in cash 0.0 4.5 Grants received 0.2 0.1 include an equity ratio covenant. Cash and cash equivalents of the acquired Total 4.8 7.2 INSURANCES companies -0.2 0.0 Patria has sought to prepare for the materialisation of risks by Cash flow from the acquisitions -0.2 4.5 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES continuously improving its preparedness to deal with various potential EUR million 2018 2017 crisis situations and through various insurance programs. Property Assets and liabilities of the acquired Research and development -0.1 -0.2 damage, business interruption and aviation liability are the most businesses Rents -11.8 -10.9 important insurance lines, which account for a major part of the Intangible assets 0.0 0.1 Losses on sale of fixed assets 0.0 0.0 insurance premiums for all non-statutory insurances. Tangible assets 0.2 5.4 Travel expenses -8.0 -8.6 Inventories 1.0 0.6 Real estate expenses -16.7 -18.4 Accounts receivables and other assets 0.8 0.5 Other operating expenses* -37.2 -36.3 Cash and cash equivalents 0.2 0.0 Total -73.8 -74.4 Total assets 2.2 6.6 PRINCIPAL INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S FEES AND SERVICES Interest-bearing loans 1.6 5.3 EUR million 2018 2017 Other liabilities 1.2 0.5 Audit fees -0.2 -0.2 Total liabilities 2.8 5.8 Other audit related fees 0.0 0.0 Other services -0.2 -0.2 Net assets -0.5 0.8 Total -0.4 -0.4 Patria's share of net assets -0.5 0.5 * Includes other costs related to marketing and sales, external services as well as IT and other miscellaneous costs Goodwill 0.5 4.0 A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 93 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E 6. Research and development expenses 7. Employee benefit expenses COMPENSATION TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS EUR million 2018 2017 EUR million 2018 2017 Attendance at meetings Research and development expenses, Salaries and fees paid to Members of total -9.1 -9.4 Board, Consultative Committee and Nomination and President and CEO -0.7 -0.7 Audit Compensation Research and development costs expensed during financial period -6.6 -8.3 Other wages and salaries -139.4 -138.2 Pension and pension insurance expenses -23.9 -24.4 2017 Board Committee Committee 1,000 EUR Other employer costs -7.1 -7.9 Board members 31 Total -171.1 -171.2 December 2017 Christer Granskog, COMPENSATION TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS Chairman 43 14/14 3/3 AND ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS Marko Hyvärinen 29 14/14 5/5 Ari Puheloinen 28 14/14 3/3 Attendance at meetings Päivi Marttila 29 14/14 5/5 Nomination and Harald Aarø 0 14/14 3/3 Audit Compensation Geir Håøy 0 14/14 3/3 Committee Committee Janne Sølvi Weseth 29 14/14 5/5 2018 Board 1,000 EUR Eirik Lie 0 13/14 5/5 Board members 31 Total 160 December 2018 Esa Rautalinko, Chairman 1) 6 3/3 1/1 Compensation to the Board of Directors includes a monthly Christer Granskog, remuneration to Chairman EUR 2,750 and members EUR 1,500 each, as Chairman 2) 39 9/9 1/1 well as meeting fees of EUR 600 paid to each member of the board for Harald Aarø 0 11/12 2/2 each meeting attended as well as for meetings of the Board committees Marko Hyvärinen 4) 8 3/3 1/1 attended. As per the minority shareholders’ policy, Executive Directors Geir Håøy 4) 0 2/3 1/1 are not entitled to compensation for attending board meetings. Eirik Lie 0 12/12 5/5 Päivi Marttila 28 11/12 5/5 COMPENSATION TO CONSULTATIVE COMMITTEE AND ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS Jarle Næss 3) 17 9/9 1/1 Attendance Ari Puheloinen 26 12/12 2/2 1,000 EUR 2018 at meetings Gyrid Skalleberg Ingerø 3) 0 9/9 4/4 Consultative Committee members 1 Kimmo Viertola 5) 16 3/3 3/3 January 31 December 2018 Petri Vihervuori 1) 5 3/3 1/1 Sinuhe Wallinheimo, Chairman 3 4/4 Janne Sølvi Weseth 4) 10 3/3 1/1 Markus Mustajärvi, Vice Chairman 1) 1 1/2 Kalle Hyötynen, Vice Chairman 2) 1 2/2 Total 155 Mika Kari 2 3/4 1) Starting 30 November 2018 Timo Kivinen 2 3/4 2) Until 30 November 2018 Petri Peltonen 2 4/4 3) Starting 23 March 2018 Mikko Savola 2 4/4 4) Until 23 March 2018 Raimo Vistbacka 2 4/4 5) Starting 23 March 2018 until 30 November 2018 Total 14 1) Starting 23 March 2018 2) Until 22 March 2018 A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 94 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Personnel representatives attendance at meetings: Jussi Karimäki (4/4), bonus pay out, which is 50% of base salary of year 2017. The yearly Directors in accordance with the respective Finnish State ownership Juha Kuusi (4/4), Petri Pitkänen (4/4), Ossi Ritala (1/1) and Tomi Virtanen bonus earning period 2016 was EUR 77,630.00. The yearly bonus policy. (3/3). Separate meeting fees were not paid for their participation. represents 48.6% of the CEO’s base salary and reflects a payout The on-going Long-term Incentive Plans consist of a number of ratio of 81.0% of the maximum bonus of 60% available for the CEO strategic targets set and the financial performance of the Company *) Starting 23 March 2018 Tomi Virtanen replaced Ossi Ritala as a for 2016 and over the programme period. The highest theoretical remuneration in member of the Consultative Committee • EUR 45,558.45 (EUR 32,999.40) was paid based on long-term each program depending on the participant’s organisational standing is incentive plans. EUR 19,799.64 (EUR 32,999.40) based on years 40%, 50% or in case of exceptional performance 60% of a participant’s COMPENSATION TO CONSULTATIVE COMMITTEE 2014-2016 long-term incentive plan and EUR 25,758.81 based on annual base salary per year during the whole three-year period of each AND ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS years 2015-2017 long-term incentive plan. program. The outcome of the plan is subject to the Board of Directors’ Attendance approval. 1,000 EUR 2017 at meetings After the financial period in January 2019 the President and CEO Olli The remunerations will be paid to the participants during three Consultative Committee members 1 Isotalo left Patria. Termination expenses, the salary for the 6 months’ financial periods after each program has ended. The outcome of the January 31 December 2017 notice period and an additional compensation corresponding to the 2015-2017 plan was 38.9% of the highest potential remuneration Sinuhe Wallinheimo, Chairman 4 5/5 amount of 6 month’s salary, totalling EUR 0.5 million are included in the and will be paid to the participants in three instalments during the Kalle Hyötynen, Vice Chairman 2 4/5 personnel expenses in 2018. years 2018, 2019 and 2020 subject to the terms of the plan. The Group Mika Kari 2 3/5 The yearly bonus to be paid to the CEO Olli Isotalo in 2019 for the has made a relating cost provision in the balance sheet totalling EUR Timo Kivinen 1) 1 2/4 earning period 2018 is EUR 54,380 (12.4% of base salary of year 2018 581,071 (EUR 841,309). Petri Peltonen 1 2/5 and 24.7% of the maximum bonus payout, which is 50% of base salary All Patria employees are part of a yearly bonus plan. The plan can Mikko Savola 3 5/5 of year 2018). provide at maximum a bonus corresponding to between 1.8 to 3 months’ The retirement age for the President and CEO of the parent salary depending on the employee’s organisational standing. Kari Takanen 2) 1 1/1 company follows the statutory pension rules. The CEO has no additional Raimo Vistbacka 3 5/5 retirement arrangement. The CEO’s contract of employment may be PENSION OBLIGATIONS Total 15 terminated with 6 months’ notice by either the CEO or the Company. The contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to the In case the Company gives notice to the CEO, the company shall pay, income statement in the year to which they relate. The present value 1) Starting 5 June 2017 in addition to the 6 months’ salary for the notice period, an additional of the obligation under defined benefit plans is recorded in the balance compensation corresponding to the amount of 6 months’ salary. sheet at their fair value on the balance sheet date. Disability and 2) Until 4 June 2017 The President and CEO is assisted in Group management by the retirement components of the Finnish Statutory Employment Pension Board of Management, which included as of 17, September 2018 10 (10) Scheme (TyEL) have been accounted for as defined contribution plans Personnel representatives attendance at meetings: Eero Järvinen (1/1),*) members. The salaries, fees and benefits paid to the members of the and unemployment component as defined benefit plans (termination Jussi Karimäki (5/5), Juha Kuusi (5/5), Petri Pitkänen (5/5) and Ossi Ritala Board of Management totalled EUR 2,212,656.02 (EUR 2,588,536.43). benefit). In addition, Millog Oy’s additional retirement arrangement (3/4). Separate meeting fees were not paid for their participation. The remuneration of the President and CEO and the other relating to unemployment component has been accounted as a defined members of the Board of Management for 2018 were based on a fixed benefit plan. *) Starting 8 May 2017 Ossi Ritala replaced Eero Järvinen as a member of monthly salary (including fringe benefits) and a performance-based Defined benefit contribution plans expose the Group to various the Consultative Committee compensation. Annual performance-based compensation plan can risks which may have influence on the amount of defined benefit provide a bonus corresponding to a maximum of 50% annual salary, obligations. Such risks are changes in corporate bond yields, inflation Compensation to the Consultative Committee includes following except for the CEO where the maximum is 60% of annual salary in case and life expectancy. If corporate bond yields used as a reference to the meeting fees: Chairman EUR 800, Vice Chairman EUR 600 and members of exceptionally good performance. The remunerations are agreed discount rate change, the Group may have to change the discount rates EUR 500 paid for each meeting attended. using the ‘one above’ principle, and the remuneration of the CEO is used. This will have an effect both on the defined benefit obligation agreed by the Board of Directors. and the recognized remeasurement in other comprehensive income. COMPENSATION TO CEO AND MANAGEMENT During the financial period the members of the Board of Some of the Group’s defined benefit obligations are linked to general Salaries, fees and benefits paid to the President and CEO Olli Isotalo Management of Patria as well as eight other key personnel have inflation and higher general inflation will increase the present value of during 2018 totalled EUR 535,173.45 (EUR 540,429.40) consisting of been participants in at least one of the three separate three-year the defined benefit obligation. The defined benefit obligations of the • base salary of EUR 436,800.00 (EUR 429,800.00) (including salary performance-based Long-term Incentive Plans i.e. for the years 2016Group are related to producing benefits to both employed and retired of EUR 416,340.00 (409,340.00) and benefits of EUR 20,460.00 2018, 2017-2019 and 2018-2020. In addition, bonuses were paid based personnel. Increase in life expectancy may increase the defined benefit (20,460.00)), on the 2013-2015, 2014-2016 and 2015-2017 incentive plans during obligation of the Group. • yearly bonus for the earning period 2017 was EUR 52,815.00 the financial period. Incentive plans have been set up by the Board of (12.3% of base salary of year 2017 and 24.6% of the maximum A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 95 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E EXPENSES OF EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CHANGES IN THE FAIR VALUE OF PLAN ASSETS ARE SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS EUR million 2018 2017 AS FOLLOWS: FAIR VALUE OF PLAN ASSETS This analysis explains which actuarial assumptions are key assumptions. EUR million 2018 2017 The figures in the sensitivity analysis have been calculated by changing Pension expenses Defined contribution plans -23.8 -24.2 Opening fair value of plan assets 8.8 10.0 one assumption and keeping the other assumptions constant and by Pension expenses using the same method and the same census data which is applied when Interest income 0.2 0.2 Defined benefit plans -0.2 -0.2 calculating defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets. Contribution paid -0.3 -0.3 Total -23.9 -24.4 Benefits paid -0.3 -0.2 SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF ACTUARIAL Actuarial gain(+) / loss (-) 0.8 -0.9 ASSUMPTIONS AS OF 31.12.2018 EXPENSE RECOGNISED IN PROFIT OR LOSS Closing fair value of plan assets 9.1 8.8 EUR million 2018 2017 Change in Change in Service cost -0.1 -0.1 Change in plan defined benefit Change in defined benefit EXPECTED CONTRIBUTION PAID IN THE NEXT FISCAL PERIOD: assets, % Net interest -0.1 -0.1 EXPECTED CONTRIBUTION Expense recognised in profit or loss -0.2 -0.2 obligation plan assets obligation, % Estimate EUR million EUR million 2019 2018 2017 Change in discount rate, +0.5 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Expected contribution 0.1 0.1 0.1 percent point -1.1 -0.7 -8% -7% EUR million 2018 2017 Change in salary increase, +0.5 Defined benefit obligation 13.2 13.0 CHANGES IN OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME percent point 0.0 0.0 0% 0% EUR million 2018 2017 Change in mortality, + 1 year in life Fair value of plan assets -9.1 -8.8 expectancy 0.4 0.2 3% 3% Funded status 4.1 4.3 Recognised remeasurements in other Change in benefit increase, +0.5 comprehensive income 1.1. 0.9 0.2 percent point 1.3 0.0 10% 0% Actuarial gain(+) or loss(-) on obligation -0.2 1.5 Liability in the balance sheet 4.1 4.3 Change in Insurance Company's Actuarial gain(+) or loss(-) on plan assets 0.8 -0.9 bonus index, +0.5 percent point 0.0 0.8 0% 8% Recognised remeasurements in other comprehensive income 31.12. 1.5 0.9 CENSUS DATA USED IN THIS VALUATION IS AS FOLLOWS: CHANGES IN THE PRESENT VALUE OF THE DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATION ARE AS FOLLOWS: 2018 2017 DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATION (DBO) PLAN ASSETS Number of actives 93 108 EUR million 2018 2017 2018 2017 Number of pensioners 212 159 Opening defined benefit obligation 13.0 14.4 Qualifying insurance policies 100% 100% Number of deferred 811 888 Current service cost 0.1 0.1 Average age actives (years) 51 51 Qualifying insurance policies have not a quoted market price in an active Interest cost 0.2 0.2 Average remaining service time 8 9 market and they do not include employer’s own transferable financial Benefits paid -0.3 -0.2 instruments. Average serving time 8 7 Actuarial gain(-) / loss (+) 0.2 -1.5 Closing defined benefit obligation 13.2 13.0 A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 96 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E 8. Depreciation, amortization and In 2017, owing to weak financial performance, the impairment AGGREGATE FOREIGN EXCHANGE GAINS AND LOSSES testing result showed that the “value in use” in the ISP Sweden cash impairments generating unit was less than the book value of the tested assets, and INCLUDED IN CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT EUR million 2018 2017 DEPRECIATION ACCORDING TO PLAN AND IMPAIRMENTS thus an impairment of goodwill (valued at fair value) EUR 2.0 million was Net sales 0.0 -0.6 recognized in December 2017. EUR million 2018 2017 Expenses 0.2 0.2 Intangible rights -0.7 -0.8 Financial income and expenses 0.1 0.0 GOODWILL BY BUSINESS UNIT Buildings and constructions -5.1 -6.6 Total 0.3 -0.4 EUR million 2018 2017 Machinery and equipment -6.7 -7.0 Land 8.9 8.9 Other tangible assets 0.0 0.0 Net gains/losses include realized and unrealized gains and losses on Aviation 4.8 4.8 derivative financial instruments. Impairment losses, non current assets 0.0 -2.0 ISP, Baltics 4.0 4.0 Total -12.5 -16.5 ISP, Norway 0.8 0.8 NET GAINS/LOSSES ON DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL Aerostructures 0.5 0.0 INSTRUMENTS INCLUDED IN OPERATING PROFIT IMPAIRMENT TESTS The recoverable amount of a cash generating unit is determined based Systems 1.7 1.7 EUR million 2018 2017 on value-in-use calculations. The tested cash generating units were Millog 7.2 7.2 Foreign exchange rate derivative contracts under hedge accounting 0.0 -0.7 Land, Aviation, Aerostructures, Systems, Millog and International Total 28.0 27.5 Support Partnerships -business units geographical segments. The Total 0.0 -0.7 calculations are based on the cash flow projections in the strategic 1 Jan 27.5 25.6 plans approved by the management covering a three-year period. The assumptions related to the price and cost level development used in Additions 0.5 4.0 10. Income taxes the strategic plans and cash flow estimates of the business units are Impairment 0.0 -2.0 based on the management’s estimates of the development of markets. Translation differences 0.0 -0.1 EUR million 2018 2017 Previous actual development has been taken into consideration while 31 Dec 28.0 27.5 Income taxes -3.4 -4.4 evaluating the assumptions used in the calculations. The cash flow Income taxes previous period 0.0 0.0 estimates are based on existing fixed assets. Cash flows beyond the Change in deferred tax receivable -0.7 -0.6 period approved by management are calculated using terminal value 9. Financial income and expenses Change in deferred tax liability -0.2 0.0 method, where the figures for the final planning period are calculated FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES Total -4.3 -5.0 with 0% eternal growth and discounted using the WACC described below. EUR million 2018 2017 TAXES RELATED TO OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Discount rate is the weighted average pre-tax cost of capital (WACC) Interest income 2018 as defined for Patria. The components of WACC are risk-free yield rate, Deposits and investments 0.1 0.1 Before-tax Net-of-tax market risk premium, industry specific beta, cost of debt, average EUR million amount Tax amount Other 0.1 0.0 capital structure of the industry and a premium for asset specific risk. Other financial income 0.0 0.0 Cash flow hedges -0.6 0.1 -0.4 The WACC used in the calculations was 10.8% p.a. in 2018 (9.75%). Interest expenses Change of translation difference -0.8 -0.8 In connection with the impairment testing a sensitivity analysis Interest-bearing liabilities -0.5 -0.6 Actuarial gains/losses on was performed in which the cash flows of the cash generating units defined benefit plans 0.6 0.0 0.6 were decreased and the discount rates were increased. Based on the Financial lease -1.2 -1.3 Share of comprehensive income performed sensitivity analysis it seems unlikely that a reasonably Other financial expense -0.9 -0.9 in joint ventures -2.0 0.5 -1.6 possible change in cash flows (10%-20%) or in the discount rate (1-3 Exchange rate difference Total -2.8 0.6 -2.3 percent point) while other assumptions remain constant would lead to Foreign exchange derivatives, impairment. non-hedge accounted -0.4 0.8 Other 0.6 -0.8 Total -2.2 -2.6 A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 97 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E 2017 RECONCILIATION OF DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES Before-tax Net-of-tax EUR million 2018 2017 Development Intangible Advance Goodwill EUR million amount Tax amount expenses Fixed assets depreciation differences 1.4 1.1 Cash flow hedges 2.0 -0.4 1.6 EUR million rights payments Total Fair value of derivative financial instruments 0.0 0.1 Change of translation difference -0.3 -0.3 1.4 1.2 Acquisition cost 1 Jan 2017 29.5 12.3 18.1 0.1 60.0 Actuarial gains/losses on Translation differences -0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.1 defined benefit plans 0.6 0.0 0.6 1 Jan 1.2 0.9 Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 Share of comprehensive income in joint ventures -2.0 0.4 -1.5 Income statement 0.2 0.0 Companies acquired 4.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 4.0 Total 0.4 0.0 0.4 Fair value of derivative financial Additions 0.0 0.0 0.9 0.0 0.9 instruments -0.1 0.1 Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2017 33.5 12.3 19.0 0.0 64.8 DIFFERENCES BETWEEN INCOME TAX EXPENSE CALCULATED Acquisition and others 0.0 0.2 AT STATUTORY RATES COMPARED TO THE INCOME STATEMENT 31 Dec 1.4 1.2 Accumulated amortization and (TAX RATE IN FINLAND 2018: 20%, 2017: 20%) impairment losses 1 Jan 2017 -3.9 -12.3 -16.4 0.0 -32.5 EUR million 2018 2017 The tax losses, for which no deferred tax assets are recognized due to Translation differences 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Income tax expense at statutory rate -6.5 -6.4 the uncertainty of the utilization of the losses, amounted to EUR 27.6 Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Effect of statutory tax rates of foreign million in the year of 2018 (EUR 24.3 million). These losses do not expire. Amortization for the period companies 0.1 0.1 incl. exchange rate diff. in P&L 0.0 0.0 -0.8 0.0 -0.8 Untaxed income 0.3 0.0 Impairment -2.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 -2.1 Non-deductible expenses -0.3 -0.4 11. Intangible assets and tangible assets Accumulated amortization and Fiscal losses of the period -0.6 -1.2 impairment losses 31 Dec 2017 -6.0 -12.3 -17.2 0.0 -35.4 Effect of associated company result 2.6 2.8 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Net book value at 31 Dec 2017 27.5 0.0 1.8 0.0 29.3 Development Returns from previous tax years 0.0 0.0 Intangible Advance Goodwill Other items 0.1 0.0 Income taxes -4.3 -5.0 expenses rights payments Total EUR million Acquisition cost 1 Jan 2018 33.5 12.3 19.0 0.0 64.8 RECONCILIATION OF DEFERRED TAX RECEIVABLES EUR million 2018 2017 Translation differences -0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.1 Fixed assets depreciation differences 0.7 0.8 Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 Untaxed reserves 2.0 2.8 Companies acquired 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.5 Tax losses carried forward 0.2 0.0 Additions 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.9 1.3 Other temporary differences 0.0 0.2 Disposals 0.0 0.0 -0.1 -0.7 -0.8 2.9 3.8 Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2018 33.9 12.3 19.4 0.2 65.8 Accumulated amortization and 1 Jan 3.8 4.6 impairment losses 1 Jan 2018 -6.0 -12.3 -17.2 0.0 -35.4 Translation difference 0.0 0.0 Translation differences 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Income statement -0.7 -0.6 Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Fair value of derivative financial instruments 0.0 -0.3 Disposals 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 Amortization for the period Equity -0.2 0.0 incl. exchange rate diff. in P&L 0.0 0.0 -0.7 0.0 -0.7 31 Dec 2.9 3.8 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses 31 Dec 2018 -5.9 -12.3 -17.8 0.0 -35.9 Net book value at 31 Dec 2018 28.0 0.0 1.6 0.2 29.8 A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 98 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E TANGIBLE ASSETS TANGIBLE ASSETS INCLUDE CAPITALIZED Advance FINANCE LEASES AS FOLLOWS Buildings and Machinery payments and Land and Buildings and Machinery and Other constructions and tangible construction water equipment assets in progress Total equipment EUR million Acquisition cost 1 Jan 2018 2.2 124.4 92.0 1.8 2.7 223.0 constructions Total EUR million Translation differences 0.0 -0.4 -0.2 0.0 0.0 -0.5 Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2018 36.6 6.8 43.2 Reclassifications 0.0 0.4 4.8 0.0 -1.5 3.7 Accumulated depreciation -18.4 -6.8 -25.1 Scrapping 0.0 0.0 -2.9 0.0 0.0 -2.9 Additions 0.0 1.5 4.4 0.0 1.0 7.0 Net book value at 31 Dec 2018 18.2 0.0 18.2 Disposals 0.0 0.0 -2.1 0.0 -0.2 -2.3 Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2018 2.2 125.9 96.1 1.8 2.0 228.0 Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2017 38.9 6.8 45.8 Additions 4.9 0.0 4.9 Accumulated depreciation and Disposals -7.3 0.0 -7.3 impairment losses 1 Jan 2018 0.0 -70.4 -69.5 -1.4 -1.2 -142.6 Accumulated depreciation -16.9 -6.8 -23.7 Translation differences 0.0 0.3 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.4 Net book value at 31 Dec 2017 19.6 0.0 19.6 Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 -3.5 0.0 0.0 -3.5 Scrapping 0.0 -0.9 2.9 0.0 0.0 2.0 Disposals 0.0 0.0 1.0 0.0 0.0 1.0 Depreciation for the period incl. 12. Investments in joint ventures exchange rate diff. in P&L 0.0 -4.3 -6.7 0.0 0.0 -11.0 Impairment 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Domicile Ownership % Accumulated depreciation and Nammo AS Raufoss, Norway 50.0 impairment losses 31 Dec 2018 0.0 -75.2 -75.7 -1.5 -1.2 -153.6 Stockholm, Net book value at 31 Dec 2018 2.2 50.7 20.5 0.3 0.8 74.4 Svensk Försvarslogistik AB Sweden 50.0 Silverskin Information Security Oy Helsinki, Finland 25.0 Acquisition cost 1 Jan 2017 2.0 120.2 82.3 1.8 4.3 210.7 Translation differences 0.0 -0.3 -0.1 0.0 0.0 -0.4 2017 Reclassifications 0.0 -4.3 2.9 0.0 -6.0 -7.3 EUR million Domicile Ownership % Assets Liabilities Net sales Profit/Loss Companies acquired 0.0 5.4 0.1 0.0 0.0 5.5 Nammo AS Raufoss, Norway 50.0 567.9 314.3 478.3 19.4 Scrapping 0.0 -1.8 -2.4 0.0 0.0 -4.2 Additions 0.1 6.5 9.7 0.0 8.9 25.3 SHARES IN JOINT VENTURES Disposals 0.0 -1.3 -0.6 0.0 -4.6 -6.5 EUR million 2018 2017 Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2017 2.2 124.4 92.0 1.8 2.7 223.0 1 Jan 158.6 164.4 Accumulated depreciation and Share of results in joint ventures 12.9 13.9 impairment losses 1 Jan 2017 0.0 -69.7 -65.5 -1.4 0.0 -136.7 Share of comprehensive income in joint Translation differences 0.0 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.3 ventures -1.6 -1.5 Reclassifications 0.0 2.7 0.0 0.0 -1.2 1.5 Dividend income -4.7 -7.3 Scrapping 0.0 1.8 2.4 0.0 0.0 4.2 Exchange rate differences and other Disposals 0.0 1.2 0.5 0.0 0.0 1.7 changes -0.6 -10.9 Depreciation for the period incl. 31 Dec 164.5 158.6 exchange rate diff. in P&L 0.0 -6.6 -7.0 0.0 0.0 -13.6 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 31 Dec 2017 0.0 -70.4 -69.5 -1.4 -1.2 -142.6 Net book value at 31 Dec 2017 2.2 54.1 22.4 0.3 1.5 80.4 A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 99 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E BUSINESS OPERATIONS WITH JOINT VENTURES CONTRACT BALANCES 16. Financial assets valued as fair value EUR million 2018 2017 EUR million 2018 2017 Sales to joint ventures 0.0 0.5 Trade receivables 106.0 113.7 EUR million Shares Total Contract assets 17.2 15.8 1 Jan 2018 0.2 0.2 RECEIVABLES AND LIABILITIES, JOINT VENTURES Contract liabilities Exchange rate differences and other EUR million 2018 2017 changes 0.0 0.0 Advances received, other 16.2 15.0 Subordinated loan receivable 0.4 0.4 31 Dec 2018 0.2 0.2 Advances received, over time 37.6 32.1 Accounts receivables 0.0 0.0 Accounts payable 0.0 0.0 1 Jan 2017 0.2 0.2 Revenue recognised in the financial period that was included in the contract liability Deductions and other changes 0.0 0.0 on 1 January 4.9 31.1 31 Dec 2017 0.2 0.2 13. Other shares Remaining performance obligations from projects and contracts under execution 318.2 161.9 EUR million 2018 2017 17. Financial instruments Book value 0.2 0.2 15. Accruals and deferred income FAIR VALUE RESERVE INCLUDING FORWARD CONTRACTS EUR million 2018 2017 EUR million 2018 2017 14. Current assets Accrued wages, salaries and social Fair value 0.1 0.6 security costs 23.1 21.6 Deferred taxes 0.0 -0.1 INVENTORIES Other items 18.6 24.7 Fair value reserve 31 Dec 0.1 0.5 No significant impairment of inventories has been booked during the financial periods. Total 41.7 46.3 Fair value changes recognized in equity -0.5 2.6 RECEIVABLES Other items of accruals and deferred income consists of interest Fair value changes recognized in income and other accrued expense, but no amounts which are individually statement 0.0 -0.5 Group does not have material interest-bearing receivables. Fair values of receivables do not differ materially from the book value. No major significant. Deferred taxes 0.1 -0.4 credit losses were booked during the financial periods. Change -0.4 1.6 PREPAID EXPENSES AND ACCRUED INCOME Fair value 0.6 -1.4 EUR million 2018 2017 Deferred taxes -0.1 0.3 Contract assets 17.2 15.8 Fair value reserve 1 Jan 0.5 -1.1 Other items 19.2 6.0 Total 36.4 21.8 Other items of prepaid expenses and accrued income consists of accrued interest income and other accrued income, but no amounts which are individually significant. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 1 0 0 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E CARRYING AMOUNTS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES BY MEASUREMENT CATEGORIES AND FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY Financial assets/ Financial assets/ Measured Available for sale Loans and other At fair value At fair value liabilities at fair liabilities at fair through other through income financial assets value under hedge value through Book value Book value comprehensive at amortised cost Other receivables income statement accounting income statement Level 2 2018 2017 financial EUR million Level 2 Level 2 Note EUR million Level 2 Level 2 liabilities Note Non-current financial assets Non-current financial assets Long-term receivables from joint Long-term receivables from joint ventures 0.4 0.4 12 ventures 0.4 0.4 12 Other shares 0.0 0.2 0.2 13 Other shares 0.2 0.0 0.2 13 Other receivables 0.7 0.7 Current financial assets Current financial assets Accounts receivable 106.0 106.0 2 Accounts receivable 111.9 111.9 2 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.0 0.1 22 Derivative financial instruments 0.2 0.2 0.4 22 Cash and bank balances 8.1 8.1 16 Cash and bank balances 5.9 5.9 16 Carrying amount by category 0.1 0.2 114.4 114.8 Carrying amount by category 0.2 0.2 118.9 0.2 0.0 119.4 Non-current financial liabilities Non-current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 24.5 24.5 19 Interest-bearing liabilities 26.4 26.4 19 Current financial liabilities Current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 51.0 51.0 19 Interest-bearing liabilities 47.4 47.4 19 Accounts payable 39.2 39.2 Accounts payable 25.3 25.3 Derivative financial instruments 0.0 0.0 0.1 22 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.2 0.3 22 Carrying amount by category 0.0 0.0 114.7 114.8 Carrying amount by category 0.1 0.2 0.0 0.0 99.1 99.4 Financial instruments that are measured in the balance sheet at fair value are presented according to the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Level 1) quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities, Level 2) inputs other than quoted price included within Level 1 are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices) A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 1 0 1 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E 18. Shareholders’ equity 19. Liabilities 21. Commitments and contingent liabilities Share Capital: Patria Oyj share capital on 31 December 2018 stood at FINANCE LEASE LIABILITIES CONTINGENT LIABILITIES EUR 38,024,848.00. All issued shares have been paid up in full. Patria has finance leasing agreements relating mainly to buildings. EUR million 2018 2017 Agreements mature between 2019 and 2037 and capital costs of EUR Guarantees given on behalf of others 3.1 2.5 Fair value reserve: The fair value reserve includes the effective portion 18.2 million (19.6) are included in Buildings and constructions; the Other own contingent liabilities 7.1 7.5 of the change in fair value of derivative financial instruments that are depreciation thereon was EUR 1.5 million (1.4). The aggregate leasing Total 10.2 10.0 designated as and qualify for cash flow hedges. payments amounted to EUR 2.6 million (2.5), the interest element being EUR 1.2 million (1.3). OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS OTHER FUNDS EUR million 2018 2017 Invested unrestricted equity reserve: Patria Oyj was established FINANCE LEASE LIABILITIES MINIMUM LEASE PAYMENTS in 2010 and the assets were credited to the reserve of invested Payments due next year 11.1 11.8 EUR million 2018 2017 unrestricted equity. There were no changes in invested unrestricted 1 5 years 16.6 21.7 Not later than 1 year 2.6 2.5 equity reserve in 2018, and the fund stood at EUR 164,1 million on 31 Payments due in thereafter 10.2 18.9 1–5 years 10.2 9.9 December 2018. Total 37.9 52.4 Later than 5 years 19.7 23.1 Translation differences: Translation differences include translation Total 32.5 35.5 Operating lease commitments of joint ventures are not included. differences arisen from the subsidiaries’ equity translation during the Future finance charges -13.2 -14.8 consolidation, change of the fair values of the net investment in the Present value of minimum lease payments 19.2 20.6 foreign subsidiary, and foreign exchange rate differences arisen from the conversion of the foreign subsidiaries’ income statement using PRESENT VALUE OF MINIMUM LEASE PAYMENTS 22. Derivative contracts the average exchange rate of the reporting period and the conversion EUR million 2018 2017 DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS of their balance sheet using the exchange rate quoted on the balance Positive fair Not later than 1 year 1.4 1.4 sheet date. Negative 1–5 years 5.8 5.7 Nominal Net fair values fair values The company has a total of 27,841,889 shares and one series of 2018 Later than 5 years 12.0 13.5 EUR million value value shares. Present value of minimum lease payments 19.2 20.6 Derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges DISTRIBUTABLE FUNDS Forward foreign exchange contracts 18.2 0.1 0.0 0.1 The parent company’s non-restricted equity on December 31, 2018 is EUR 242,666,546.63 of which the net profit for the financial period is 20. Provisions Buy 3.4 0.1 0.0 0.0 Sell 14.8 0.1 0.0 0.1 EUR 14,356,598.82. EUR million 2018 2017 Interest rate swap 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Warranty provision 9.5 11.8 Cash flow hedge 18.2 0.1 0.0 0.1 DIVIDEND PER SHARE The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a Other provision 8.5 14.1 Non-hedge accounting derivative dividend of EUR 0.50 (2017: EUR 0.60) per share be paid on the shares Total 18.0 26.0 financial instruments owned by the State of Finland and Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace Forward foreign exchange contracts 31.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 AS. Under the proposal, the total amount of dividends will be EUR During the warranty period the claimed faults will be corrected at Buy 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 13,920,944.50 (2017: EUR 16,705,133.40). The Board of Directors Patria’s expense. The warranty provisions amounted to EUR 9.5 million Sell 30.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 further proposes that the remaining non-restricted equity, EUR (11.8) at the end of 2018. Provisions are based on best estimates on the Non-hedging 31.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 228,745,602.13 (2017: EUR 228,309,947.81) be retained and carried balance sheet date. The provision for warranties covers the expenses Total 49.3 0.1 -0.1 0.1 forward. due to the repair or replacement of products during their warranty The dividends paid for 2018 will be decided at the Annual General period. The warranty liability is based on historical realised warranty EUR million 2019 2020 2021 2022 Meeting on 27 March 2019. This dividend payable is not reflected in costs and best estimates on the balance sheet date. The usual warranty Derivative financial assets 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 these financial statements. period is two to four years. Other provisions include various items, such Derivative financial liabilities -0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 as those related to defects in quality, litigations and offset obligations. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 1 0 2 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS 23. Related party transactions 24. Disputes and litigations Positive fair Negative PATRIA OYJ’S SUBSIDIARIES ARE AS FOLLOWS: An Austrian company which has been acting as Patria’s consultant in Nominal Net fair values fair values 2017 Subsidiaries Domicile Ownership % certain countries has in 2009 initiated two cases against Patria claiming, EUR million value value Patria Aviation Oy Jämsä, Finland 100.0 inter alia, payment of certain commissions and/or damages. In 2016 the Derivative financial instruments Helsinki District Court dismissed RHG’s claims and obliged RHG to cover Patria Aerostructures Oy Jämsä, Finland 100.0 designated as cash flow hedges Patricomp Oy Jämsä, Finland 100.0 Patria’s legal expenses. RHG appealed to the Helsinki Court of Appeal. Forward foreign exchange contracts 25.3 0.2 -0.1 0.1 Patria Helicopters AS Bardufoss, Norway 100.0 The Court of Appeal dismissed both claims of RHG. RHG had a right to Buy 4.9 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 Patria Pilot Training Oy Helsinki, Finland 100.0 apply for an appeal from the Supreme Court by 24 August 2018. As Sell 20.4 0.2 0.0 0.2 Patria Svenska AB Sigtuna, Sweden 100.0 this was not done by RHG, the ruling of the Court of Appeal is final and Interest rate swap 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 Patria Helicopters AB Sigtuna, Sweden 100.0 binding. Cash flow hedge 25.6 0.2 -0.1 0.1 Patria Estonia Oü Tallinn, Estonia 100.0 Patria ISP Oy Helsinki, Finland 100.0 Non-hedge accounting derivative financial instruments Patria Land Services Oy Helsinki, Finland 100.0 25. Events after the balance sheet date Forward foreign exchange contracts 35.5 0.2 -0.2 0.0 Patria Land Systems Oy Helsinki, Finland 100.0 Patria Land Middle Abu Dhabi, Patria management does not have knowledge of any significant events Buy 3.4 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 East Limited United Arab Emirates 100.0 after the balance sheet date, which would have had an impact on the Sell 32.1 0.2 -0.1 0.1 Patria Land Sverige AB Stockholm, Sweden 100.0 financial statements. Non-hedging 35.5 0.2 -0.2 0.0 Patria Land Systems SA Total 61.0 0.4 -0.3 0.1 (Pty) Ltd Pretoria, South Africa 100.0 Kiinteistö Oy Hämeenlinnan EUR million 2019 2020 2021 2022 Vanajanportti Hämeenlinna, Finland 100.0 Patria Polska Sp. z o.o. Warsaw, Poland 100.0 Derivative financial assets 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 Millog Oy Tampere, Finland 61.8 Derivative financial liabilities -0.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 Oricopa Kiinteistöt Oy Orivesi, Finland 100.0 Senop Oy Kangasala, Finland 100.0 OFFSETTING OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Milrem LCM OÜ Tallinn, Estonia 60.0 Financial instruments Net amount NET SALES AND PURCHASES BETWEEN THE GROUP COMPANIES Gross Related amounts amounts EUR million 2018 2017 not setoff in the 2018 in balance EUR million sheet balance sheet Total 48.2 66.2 Derivative financial assets 0.1 0.0 0.1 The policy of internal transfer pricing is to use market prices. Derivative financial liabilities 0.1 0.0 0.0 Information concerning business operations between the Group and its associated companies is included in Note 12. Management’s 2017 EUR million employment benefits are included in Note 7. Key management consists of the members of the Board of Derivative financial assets 0.4 -0.3 0.1 Directors, CEO and other members of the Board of Management. Derivative financial liabilities 0.3 -0.3 0.1 There was no outstanding loans receivable from key management For the financial assets and liabilities subject to enforceable master on 31 December 2018. Members of the Group management and their netting arrangements or similar arrangements above, each agreement immediate circle have not had any essential business relations with the between the Group and the counterparty allows each party to have the Group companies. option to settle the relevant financial assets and liabilities on a net basis in the event of default of the other party. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 1 0 3 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Financial Statements of the Parent company (FAS) Balance Sheet, Parent company ASSETS SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EUR million Note 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 EUR million Note 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Non-current asstes Shareholders' equity 12 Share capital 38.0 38.0 Intangible assets 9 Other funds Intangible rights 0.6 0.8 Reserve for invested unrestricted equity 164.1 164.1 Other long-term expenditures 0.1 0.1 Retained earnings 64.2 63.0 Net income for the period 14.4 18.0 Tangible assets 9 Total Shareholders' equity 280.7 283.0 Machinery and equipment 1.3 1.4 Other tangible assets 0.0 0.0 Non-current liabilities Loans from financial institutions 0.0 0.2 Investments Total Non-current liabilities 0.0 0.2 Shares in group companies 10 123.3 123.3 Shares in associated and joint venture companies 10 191.7 191.7 Current liabilities Receivables from associated and joint venture companies 11 0.4 0.4 Other loans 13 29.0 0.0 Total Non-current assets 317.4 317.7 Loans from financial institutions 13 20.2 42.5 Accounts payable 2.5 1.4 Current assets Liabilities to group companies 13 73.4 79.6 Inventories Other current liabilities 1.3 2.0 Raw materials and supplies 0.1 0.3 Accruals and deferred income 13 3.1 4.3 Total Current liabilities 129.7 129.7 Receivables Accounts receivable 0.0 0.1 Total Shareholders' equity and liabilities 410.3 413.0 Receivables from group companies 11 83.3 90.3 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 11 5.8 2.8 Cash and bank balances 3.7 1.8 Total Current Assets 93.0 95.3 Total Assets 410.3 413.0 A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 1 0 4 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Income Statement, Parent company Cash Flow Statement, Parent company EUR million Note 1‒12/2018 % 1‒12/2017 % EUR million 1‒12/2018 1‒12/2017 Net sales 2 21.0 4.3 Income before appropriations and taxes 6.2 6.3 Depreciation 1.1 0.0 Other operating income 3 1.6 2.2 Financing items -12.2 -9.4 Other changes 0.0 -1.9 Materials and services Change in receivables 2.3 -0.6 Raw materials and supplies Change in inventories 0.2 0.0 Purchases during the financial period -0.9 0.0 Change in liabilities -1.0 -1.1 Change in inventories -0.2 0.0 Cash flow from operations before financial items and taxes -3.3 -6.6 Personnel expenses 4 -7.4 -2.6 Depreciation and value adjustments 5 -1.1 0.0 Interests paid -1.6 -1.3 Other operating expenses 3 -19.0 -7.0 Other financial items -0.6 -0.2 Dividends received 11.7 10.9 Operating profit -6.0 -28.3% -3.1 -71.1% Interests received 2.6 0.0 Paid taxes -4.1 -5.1 Financial income and expenses 6 Cash flow from operating activities 4.7 -2.3 Dividend income from group companies 11.7 10.9 Interest and other financial income 2.6 0.0 Acquired group companies 0.0 -4.5 Interest and other financial expenses -2.1 -1.5 Capital expenditures -0.9 0.0 Exchange gains and losses 0.0 0.0 Gains on sales of non-current assets 0.1 0.0 Cash flow from investing activities -0.8 -4.5 Income before appropriations and taxes 6.2 29.5% 6.3 146.0% Change in short-term loans 7.0 0.0 Appropriations 7 8.7 12.9 Repayment of long-term loans -0.5 0.0 Income taxes 8 -0.6 -1.3 Change in short-term receivables and liabilities -4.3 4.4 Dividends paid -16.7 -31.2 Net income 14.4 68.3% 18.0 413.9% Paid and received group contributions 12.6 33.6 Cash flow from financing activities -1.9 6.8 Change in liquid funds 2.0 0.0 Liquid funds 1 Jan 1.8 0.0 Liquid funds, merger 0.0 1.8 Liquid funds 31 Dec 3.7 1.8 Change in liquid funds 2.0 0.0 A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 1 0 5 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Notes to the Financial Statements, Parent company 1. Accounting principles, Parent company FINANCIAL ASSETS INCOME TAXES Financial assets are measured at the lower of cost or net realisation The income statement includes direct taxes accrued on the basis of the The financial statements of the parent company have been prepared in value. Derivative instruments are measured at fair value. Accounts results for the financial period as well as taxes payable or refunded for accordance with Finnish accounting procedures and regulations. receivable are carried at their anticipated realizable value, which is previous financial periods. Deferred taxes are not included. the original invoice amount less an estimated impairment of these COMPARABILITY OF YEAR 2017 INFORMATION receivables. An impairment of accounts receivable is made when there INVENTORIES In 2018 the short term liabilities were reclassified. The liabilities related is objective evidence that the company will not be able to collect all Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is to unbooked accounts payable and liabilities related to received goods amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. determined by the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method or weighted average and services not invoiced have been presented in Accounts payable. cost that is sufficiently close to the factual cost calculated on FIFO basis. In 2017 the items were included in Accruals and deferred income. The FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw previous year comparative amounts have not been changed as the Foreign currency transactions are translated into Euros using the materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production change was not material. exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Receivables, overheads. liabilities and derivative instruments in foreign currencies are translated REVENUE RECOGNITION into Euros at the exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. PROVISIONS Net sales include income from the sale of goods and services, with Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from translating are Future costs in which the parent company has committed to and which adjustments for indirect taxes, discounts and conversion differences recognised in the income statement. Foreign exchange gains and losses probably will not contribute in future revenues are recognised in resulting from sales in foreign currencies. Income from the sale of goods related to business operations are included in the corresponding items provisions. is recognised when the major risks and benefits from the ownership of above the operating profit line. Foreign exchange gains and losses the goods have been taken over by the buyer. Income from services is related to loans and receivables in foreign currencies are included in EMPLOYEE BENEFITS recognised when the service has been rendered. financial income and expenses. An external pension insurance company manages the parent company pension plan. Possible supplementary pension commitments are USE OF ESTIMATES DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS insured. The company has no non-funded pension obligations. The preparation of the financial statements requires management to Exchange differences from derivative agreements, which are used to make estimates and assumptions that affect the financial statements. hedge against risks in operating transactions in other currencies, are RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS Actual results may differ from the estimates. Accounting estimates are included in the corresponding items above the operating profit line. Research and development costs are expensed as they are incurred, employed in the financial statements to determine reported amounts. Exchange differences from derivative agreements, which are used with the exception of potential related other capital expenditures. to hedge foreign currency liabilities and receivables are included in Development costs are capitalised when the criteria in accordance with FIXED ASSETS AND DEPRECIATION financial income and expenses. When hedged items are not included Finnish accounting procedures and regulations are met. Property, plants and equipment are measured at their historical in the balance sheet, the exchange rate differences of the derivative cost, less depreciation and impairment. The assets are depreciated agreements have been recorded in liabilities and receivables and LEASING over their economic life using the straight-line depreciation method. the profit impact is directed to the same financial period in which the All leasing payments have been expensed in the income statement. The economic life of assets is reviewed if necessary, adjusting it to exchange rate of the hedged operative transaction is booked. correspond to possible changes in the expected economic use. APPROPRIATIONS GRANTS RECEIVED Appropriations include group contributions. The assessed economic lives are as follows: Government or other grants are recognised as income on a systematic • Machinery and equipment 3 to 15 years basis over the periods necessary to match them with the related • Other intangible assets 3 to 5 years costs, which they are intended to compensate. Grants related to the acquisition of tangible or intangible assets are recognised as decreases Other tangible assets are not subject to depreciation. of their acquisition costs. Investments in subsidiaries and other companies are measured at cost or fair value in case the fair value is less than cost. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 1 0 6 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E 2. Net sales 4. Employee benefits and average 7. Appropriations NET SALES BY MARKET AREA number of personnel EUR million 2018 2017 EUR million 2018 2017 Group contributions 8.7 12.9 EUR million 2018 2017 Finland 20.4 4.3 Salaries and fees paid to members Total 8.7 12.9 Other Europe 0.6 0.0 of Board of Directors, Consultative Committee and President and CEO -0.7 -0.7 Total 21.0 4.3 Other wages and salaries -5.5 -1.5 8. Direct taxes NET SALES BY PRODUCT SEGMENT Pension and pension insurance costs -1.0 -0.4 EUR million 2018 2017 Other indirect personnel expenses -0.2 -0.1 EUR million 2018 2017 Civilian products 21.0 4.3 Total -7.4 -2.6 Income tax from continuing operations 1.2 1.3 Total 21.0 4.3 Income tax from appropriations -1.7 -2.6 Number of personnel, average Total -0.6 -1.3 REVENUE RECOGNITION Salaried staff 79 16 EUR million 2018 2017 Total 79 16 EUR million 2018 2017 Delivery based net sales 21.0 4.3 Income taxes -0.6 -1.3 Total net sales 21.0 4.3 Income taxes previous period 0.0 0.0 5. Depreciation Total -0.6 -1.3 3. Other operating income and expenses EUR million 2018 2017 Depreciation on Intangible rights -0.5 0.0 OTHER OPERATING INCOME Depreciation on other Intangible rights 0.0 0.0 EUR million 2018 2017 Depreciation on machinery and equipment -0.5 0.0 Rental Income 1.6 0.3 Total -1.1 0.0 Gains on mergers 0.0 1.9 Other operating income 0.0 0.0 Total 1.6 2.2 6. Financial income and expenses OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES FINANCIAL INCOME EUR million 2018 2017 EUR million 2018 2017 Research and development 0.0 0.0 Dividend income, group 11.7 10.9 Rents -3.4 -0.4 Interest income, group 2.5 0.0 Real estate expenses -1.6 0.0 Interest income, other 0.1 0.0 Losses on sales of non-current assets 0.0 0.0 Total 14.3 10.9 Travel expenses -0.4 -0.2 FINANCIAL EXPENSES Sales and marketing expenses -1.1 -1.1 EUR million 2018 2017 Other operating expenses -12.5 -5.3 Interest expenses, group -1.4 -1.3 Total -19.0 -7.0 Interest expenses, other -0.1 0.0 Other financial expenses, other -0.6 -0.2 Total -2.1 -1.5 A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 1 0 7 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E 9. Intangible and tangible assets 10. Investments INTANGIBLE ASSETS TANGIBLE ASSETS SHARES IN SUBSIDIARIES Other EUR million 2018 2017 Machinery Intangible 1.1. 123.3 222.0 long-term Other and rights tangible Additions 0.0 4.5 EUR million expenditures Total equipment aseets Total EUR million Merger 0.0 -103.2 Acquisition cost 1 Jan 2018 6.1 0.2 6.3 Acquisition cost 1 Jan 2018 7.0 0.0 7.1 Total 31.12. 123.3 123.3 Additions 0.3 0.0 0.3 Scrapping -2.7 0.0 -2.7 Disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 Additions 0.6 0.0 0.6 SHARES IN JOINT VENTURES Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2018 6.5 0.2 6.6 Disposals -0.3 0.0 -0.3 EUR million 2018 2017 Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2018 4.6 0.0 4.6 1.1. 191.7 191.6 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses 1 Jan 2018 -5.3 0.0 -5.4 Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 Accumulated depreciation and Disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 impairment losses 1 Jan 2018 -5.6 0.0 -5.6 Total 31.12. 191.7 191.7 Amortization for the period incl. Scrapping 2.7 0.0 2.7 exchange rate diff. in P&L -0.5 0.0 -0.6 Disposals 0.2 0.0 0.2 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses 31 Dec 2018 -5.8 -0.1 -5.9 Depreciation for the period incl. exchange rate diff. in P&L -0.5 0.0 -0.5 11. Current receivables Net book value at 31 Dec 2018 0.6 0.1 0.7 Accumulated depreciation and CURRENT RECEIVABLES FROM GROUP COMPANIES impairment losses 31 Dec 2018 -3.3 0.0 -3.3 EUR million 2018 2017 Acquisition cost 1 Jan 2017 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net book value at 31 Dec 2018 1.3 0.0 1.3 Accounts receivable 8.5 11.6 Merger 6.1 0.2 6.3 Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2017 6.1 0.2 6.3 Acquisition cost 1 Jan 2017 0.0 0.0 0.0 Loan receivable 1.6 0.0 Merger 7.0 0.0 7.1 Other receivables 64.5 65.9 Accumulated amortization and Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2017 7.0 0.0 7.1 Derivative financial receivables 0.1 0.2 impairment losses 1 Jan 2017 0.0 0.0 0.0 Accruals and deferred income 8.8 12.6 Merger -5.3 0.0 -5.4 Accumulated depreciation and Total 83.3 90.3 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses 1 Jan 2017 0.0 0.0 0.0 impairment losses 31 Dec 2017 -5.3 0.0 -5.4 Merger -5.6 0.0 -5.6 Net book value at 31 Dec 2017 0.8 0.1 0.9 CURRENT RECEIVABLES FROM ASSOCIATED COMPANIES Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 31 Dec 2017 -5.6 0.0 -5.6 EUR million 2018 2017 Net book value at 31 Dec 2017 1.4 0.0 1.4 Subordinated loan 0.4 0.4 Total 0.4 0.4 PREPAID EXPENSES AND ACCRUED INCOME EUR million 2018 2017 Taxes 4.8 1.2 Derivative financial receivables 0.1 0.4 Other receivables 0.8 1.2 Total 5.8 2.8 A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 1 0 8 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E 12. Shareholders’ equity 13. Current liabilities 14. Financial instruments and derivative CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY MATURITY OF INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES contracts EUR million 2018 2017 EUR million 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023Total DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS Share capital 1 Jan 38.0 38.0 Loans from financial institutions 0.2 20.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 20.2 Positive fair Negative Share capital 31 Dec 38.0 38.0 Nominal Net fair values fair values Liabilities, group 2018 EUR million value value account 73.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 73.2 Invested non-restricted equity fund 1 Jan 164.1 164.1 Non-hedge accounting derivative Other interest-bearing Invested non-restricted equity fund 31 Dec 164.1 164.1 liabilities 29.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 29.0 financial instruments Total 2018 102.5 20.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 122.5 Forward foreign exchange contracts 72.8 0.2 -0.2 0.0 Buy 23.4 0.1 -0.1 0.0 Retained earnings 1 Jan 80.9 94.2 Sell 49.3 0.1 -0.1 0.1 Distribution of dividends -16.7 -31.2 EUR million 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023Total Non-hedging 72.8 0.2 -0.2 0.0 Retained earnings 31 Dec 64.2 63.0 Loans from financial institutions 0.5 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.7 Total 72.8 0.2 -0.2 0.0 Net income 14.4 18.0 Liabilities, group Total shareholders' equity 31 Dec 280.7 283.0 account 79.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 79.0 EUR million 2019 2020 2021 2022 Other interest-bearing Derivative financial assets 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 Distributable funds liabilities 42.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 42.0 Derivative financial liabilities -0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 Invested non-restricted equity fund 31 Dec 164.1 164.1 Total 2017 121.5 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 121.7 Positive fair Retained earnings 31 Dec 64.2 63.0 Negative Net income 14.4 18.0 CURRENT LIABILITIES TO GROUP COMPANIES Nominal Net fair values fair values 2017 Distributable funds 242.7 245.0 EUR million 2018 2017 EUR million value value Accounts payable 0.1 0.3 Non-hedge accounting derivative Other liabilities 73.2 79.0 financial instruments Derivative financial liabilties 0.1 0.3 Forward foreign exchange contracts 96.8 0.6 -0.6 0.0 Accruals and deferred income 0.0 0.0 Buy 35.6 0.0 -0.5 -0.5 Sell 61.2 0.6 -0.1 0.5 Total 73.4 79.6 Non-hedging 96.8 0.6 -0.6 0.0 Total 96.8 0.6 -0.6 0.0 ACCRUALS AND DEFERRED INCOME EUR million 2018 2017 EUR million 2019 2020 2021 2022 Accruals related to wages and salaries 2.5 2.7 Derivative financial assets 0.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Derivative financial liabilties 0.1 0.3 Derivative financial liabilities -0.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other liabilities 0.6 1.2 Total 3.1 4.3 OFFSETTING OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The company has not netted financial instruments in its balance sheet. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 1 0 9 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E CARRYING AMOUNTS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES * According to the Patria’s Group Policy Patria Oyj does derivative IFRS 7 SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS SENSITIVITY TO BY MEASUREMENT CATEGORIES AND FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY contracts with the banks according to requests made by group companies. EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS 2017 The derivative financial instruments presented on the table are external 1,000 EUR SEK At fair value derivative assets and liabilities. Internal derivative instruments are Net exposure Balance sheet items 28 through income Measured at presented with the receivables from group companies and liabilities Euro strengthens / weakens 5 % Effect on income before statement amortized to group companies on the column “at the fair value through income 2018 Book taxes -1 / 1 EUR million Level 2 cost value statement”. Non-current financial assets INTEREST RATE RISK Long-term receivables from joint CURRENCY RISKS Fluctuations in interest rates have an effect on company’s interest ventures 0.4 0.4 The objective of currency risk management is to hedge against exchange expenses and income as well as fair value of interest-bearing liabilities Current financial assets rate fluctuations affecting the future cash flow, result and balance sheet. and receivables and derivatives. The objective of interest rate risk Accounts receivable 0.0 0.0 Foreign currency exposures, which include binding sales, purchase management is to hedge against interest rate fluctuations affecting the Receivables from group companies* 0.1 74.5 74.6 and finance contracts (transaction position), are hedged by project or future cash flow, result and balance sheet. Interest rate risk is managed Derivative financial instruments* 0.1 0.1 transaction by using foreign exchange derivatives. Patria Oyj and the by monitoring the average interest fixing term (duration) of receivables Cash and bank balances 3.7 3.7 other group companies are responsible for determining and hedging their and liabilities as well as by using derivatives, if needed. Carrying amount by category 0.2 78.6 78.8 exposures. Patria Oyj makes all necessary hedging transactions with On 31 December 2018, the average interest fixing term of the liabilities banks. was 0.09 (0.05) years and that of the receivables one day (one day). Current financial liabilities Hedge accounting is not applied to derivatives hedging balance On 31 December 2018, company’s interest-bearing liabilities totalled Interest-bearing liabilities 49.2 49.2 sheet items. Patria Oyj’s own derivative instruments are only hedging EUR 122.5 million (121.7) out of which EUR 93.2 million (79.0) was Accounts payable 2.5 2.5 balance sheet items. floating rate and EUR 29.2 million (42.7) was fixed rate. EUR 73.2 million Liabilities to group companies* 0.1 73.3 73.4 A sensitivity analysis, in accordance with IFRS 7 shown later, (79.0) of the floating rate liabilities were from group account. InterestDerivative financial instruments* 0.1 0.1 aims to demonstrate the sensitivity of the income before taxes and bearing receivables were EUR 68.2 million which all were floating rate. Carrying amount by category 0.2 125.0 125.2 shareholders’ equity to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Net EUR 64.5 million of the interest-bearing receivables were receivables exposures include foreign currency denominated financial assets and from group account. liabilities in the balance sheets of the company and the derivatives used At fair value Other financial to hedge these as well as derivatives for which hedge accounting is through income Loans and not applied. The change in fair value of these items is recognised in the 15. Commitments and contingent liabilities statement liabilities other income statement. 2017 Book EUR million Level 2 receivables value COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The next table presents the net exposures as well as the effects EUR million 2018 2017 Non-current financial assets based on the sensitivity analysis on result before the taxes assuming Long-term receivables from joint Guarantees given on behalf of group that euro would have strengthened or weakened against the currency ventures 0.4 0.4 companies 89.6 111.3 in question on the balance sheet date. The sensitivity is calculated for a Current financial assets Guarantees given on own behalf 0.0 3.5 five percent exchange rate change. Accounts receivable 0.1 0.1 Guarantees given on behalf of others 0.6 0.0 The most significant currency exposures on 31 December 2018 Receivables from group companies* 0.2 77.5 77.7 Other own contingent liabilities 3.5 0.0 were in the Swedish krona (SEK). Derivative financial instruments* 0.4 0.4 Total 93.7 114.8 Cash and bank balances 1.8 1.8 IFRS 7 SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS SENSITIVITY TO Carrying amount by category 0.6 79.7 0.0 80.3 EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS 2018 LEASING COMMITMENTS 1,000 EUR SEK EUR million 2018 2017 Non-current financial liabilities Net exposure Balance sheet items 298 Payments due next year 3.1 3.1 Interest-bearing liabilities 0.2 0.2 Current financial liabilities Euro strengthens / weakens 5 % 1 5 years 11.2 11.3 Effect on income before taxes -14 / 16 Interest-bearing liabilities 42.5 42.5 Payments due in thereafter 11.7 13.9 Net exposure Derivatives under hedge accounting 0 Accounts payable 1.4 1.4 Total 26.0 28.3 Liabilities to group companies* 0.3 79.3 79.6 Euro strengthens / weakens 5 % Effect on equity -0.0 / 0.0 Derivative financial instruments* 0.3 0.3 Carrying amount by category 0.6 0.0 123.4 124.0 A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 1 1 0 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Board of Directors’ proposal for profit distribution The parent company’s non-restricted equity on December 31, 2018 is EUR 242,666,546.63 of which the net profit for the financial period is EUR 14,356,598.82. The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of EUR 0.50 per share be paid on the shares owned by the State of Finland and Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace AS. Under the proposal, the total amount of dividends will be EUR 13,920,944.50. The Board of Directors further proposes that the remaining non-restricted equity, EUR 228,745,602.13 be retained and carried forward. Helsinki, 4 March 2019 Esa Rautalinko Harald Aarø Chairman Eirik Lie Päivi Marttila Jarle Næss Ari Puheloinen Gyrid Skalleberg Ingerø Petri Vihervuori Ville Jaakonsalo President and CEO AUDITOR’S STATEMENT A report has been given today on the audit performed. Helsinki, 11 March 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Authorised Public Accountants Jouko Malinen Authorised Public Accountant A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 1 1 1 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E GOVERNANCE 113 Corporate governance 116 Industrial participation 117 Risk management 120 Board of Directors 121 Consultative Committee 122 Board of Management A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 1 1 2 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Corporate Governance APPLICABLE STATUTES, GUIDELINES AND RECOMMENDATIONS of the company and the appropriate organisation of its operations, consisting of Corporate Governance of Patria Oyj (a Finnish public limited liability company) is subject directors appointed by the General Meeting. to the provisions of the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act, the Auditing Act, and The Group’s operating activities are managed by the President and CEO, appointed the Accounting Act and other legislation relevant to its operations. The Limited Liability by the Board of Directors and who shall see to the daily administration of the Companies Act defines, for example, the company´s governing bodies, their roles and company in accordance with the instructions and orders given by the Board of responsibilities, as well as their relation to each other. The Limited Liability Companies Directors.The President and CEO is supported by the Board of Management. Each Act is also essential from the point of view of the shareholders´ rights by providing business unit has a management group of its own. The statutory boards of wholly provisions on the rights associated with the shares and on the exercise of the rights, owned Group companies other than the parent company are only responsible for the and it also contains the key principles of corporate law applied to corporate governance. statutory minimum duties specified in the relevant legislation. In addition, Patria follows other guidelines and recommendations concerning good corporate governance applicable to companies in which the Finnish state is the majority CONSULTATIVE COMMITTEE shareholder. While Patria is not a listed company it substantially follows the Finnish According to the Articles of Association, Patria Oyj shall have a Consultative Corporate Governance Code, where applicable and to the extent the recommendations Committee appointed by the General Meeting. The Board of Directors shall consult are suitable taking into account the company´s ownership structure and/or the special the Consultative Committee on matters that concern any major changes or expansion features of the company or its industry while maintaining a good corporate governance of operations or any other material changes to the company’s organisation or model. business operations, or which are otherwise of great importance to the industry that the company is engaged in, either in Finland or internationally. GROUP LEGAL STRUCTURE The Consultative Committee consists of a chairman, a vice-chairman, and a Patria is operationally divided into business units. Patria Group consists of the parent maximum of ten other members. During the financial period under review, the company, Patria Oyj, and its wholly owned subsidiaries. In addition to the wholly owned committee had 11 members. In 2018, the Consultative Committee convened five subsidiaries, Patria owns 61.8% of Millog Oy, 50% of Nammo AS (a Norwegian company) times. and 60% of Milrem LCM OÜ (an Estonian company). The statutory bodies of Patria Oyj – the General Meeting of Shareholders, the Board of Directors, and the President and COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS CEO – are responsible for the company’s administration and operations. AND THE ELECTION PROCEDURE According to the Articles of Association as currently in force, the Board of Directors GOVERNING BODIES of Patria Oyj consists of a chairman and a minimum of three and a maximum of The highest governing body is the General Meeting, in which the shareholders exercise seven other members. During the current financial period, the Board had eight (8) their decision-making powers. The board of directors shall see to the administration members. The General Meeting of Shareholders elects the chairman, and the other A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 1 1 3 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Board members and decides on their remuneration. The Board members are elected for THE NOMINATION AND COMPENSATION COMMITTEE one year at a time, their terms of office ending at the close of the first Annual General The Nomination and Compensation Committee consists of three (3) members, all of Meeting held subsequent to their election. In 2018 the Board held twelve regular whom are non-company and non-executive directors. The members have experience meetings and made decisions twice without convening for an actual meeting. The and skills in the areas of knowledge that fall within the scope of the Nomination and average attendance of Board members was 99%. Compensation Committee duties as the Charter of the Committee. It prepares the Group’s and the management’s payroll structures as well as any bonus and incentive PRINCIPAL DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS systems. It also approves key appointments and nominations. AND DISTRIBUTION OF DUTIES The Board of Directors is responsible for the governance of Patria and the appropriate THE AUDIT COMMITTEE organisation of Patria´s operations in accordance with applicable legislation, the The Audit Committee consists of three (3) members, all of whom are non-company Articles of Association and any instructions issued by the General Meeting of and non-executive directors. The members have experience and skills in the areas of Shareholders. In addition to its statutory duties, the Board’s principal duty is to make knowledge that fall within the scope of the Audit Committee duties as per the Charter decisions on the Group’s strategic focus and objectives as well as principles of risk of the Audit Committee. Its responsibility is to monitor e.g. implementation of the management, to monitor and steer the Group’s business operations, to ensure that the Group’s internal controls, risk management, financial reporting and it is responsible for Group complies with legal provisions applicable to its operations and conducts business supervising the Group´s ethics and compliance (including specifically anti-corruption in a commercially sustainable manner, providing added value to its shareholders. and anti-bribery related actions) program and activities. The Board also makes decisions on the Group’s key operating principles, approves annually the Group’s financial targets and operational objectives, as well as its financial THE PRESIDENT AND CEO AND THE GROUP MANAGEMENT statement and any interim reports, and decides on material investments of the Group. Patria Oyj’s President and CEO is responsible for managing the company’s and the The Board of Directors ensures that the company has established the ethical and Patria Group’s business activities and administration, in accordance with the provisions corporate values applied to its operation as well as the operational principles and of the Finnish Limibed Liability Companies Act, other applicable legislation and any monitors compliance with these values and principles. The Board also approves the instructions and guidelines issued by the Board of Directors. The President and CEO general setup of the Group’s organizational and operational structure. The duty is assisted in Group management by the Board of Management, which convenes of the Board of Directors is to promote the best interest of the company and all its monthly and which consists of Presidents of each Business Unit, Chief Financial Officer, shareholders. A director does not represent the interests of the parties who have General Counsel & Chief Compliance Officer, Chief Business Development Officer, Chief proposed his or her election as a director. Communications Officer and Chief Human resources Officer. In addition, the Group The Board of Directors has set up a Nomination and Compensation Committee as well management meets in other combinations as and when necessary for management as an Audit Committee to take charge of certain specific tasks of the Board of Directors. purposes. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 1 14 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E In Patria corporate responsibility related activities and reporting are steered by Patria has an independent, outsourced Internal Audit function, which evaluates and Patria’s Corporate Responsibility Steering Group. The Steering Group is coordinated by contributes to ensuring the efficiency and feasibility of risk management and internal Patria’s Chief Communications Officer. Patria’s Ethics Officer participates in the steering controls, the reliability of financial reporting, accounting and administration and the groups meetings and supports the work of the Steering Group. The General Counsel compliance of the operations. The Internal Auditors comply with the International and Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for the ethics and compliance program and Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing. Internal Audit reports on related issues and activities and reports regularly to the Audit Committee on these its activities and findings to the Audit Committee and Patria’s management. The Audit matters. Committee confirms the internal audit plans annually. The company’s external Auditor (elected by the general meeting) reports their COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS observations at least once a year to the Board of Directors, the Audit Commitee and Information regarding compensation and benefits of the management is available in the the Group’s management. The auditors also submit a statutory auditors’ report to the attachment of the Financial Statement, see chapter 7 (Personnel expenses). company’s shareholders. Patria Oyj´s auditor is an approved auditor within the meaning of the Auditing Act. MONITORING AND CONTROLS The Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that the monitoring and controls of accounts and funds management has been organized appropriately. The president and CEO is responsible for ensuring that the company’s accounting complies with legislation and that the funds management is reliably organized. Patria’s management is responsible for ensuring that the Group’s day-to-day operations comply with all applicable legal requirements and Board decisions, and that the Group´s risk management has been organized in an appropriate manner. The Group’s division into business units increases efficiency and focus of management thereof and facilitates organization of efficient monitoring and control thereof. An operational reporting system has been set up for the Group’s financial monitoring and control. It produces versatile information on the Group’s financial standing and development on a monthly basis. The Group also has clearly defined decision-making authorizations related to investments. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 1 1 5 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Industrial participation In defence procurement, Industrial Participation (IP) in the Mutual abatements or swaps of industrial participations are also possible, where performed under applicable regulations and with consent of relevant authorities and agreements. target country is a common condition and requirement for Patria´s industrial participation obligations are duly reported to management, board of supply contracts. In an IP agreement, the seller company shall directors and audit committee nominated by board of directors of Patria Oyj. accept compensation obligations arising from the purchase The absolute requirements for all industrial participation arrangements and activities are agreement. The purpose of such obligations is to ensure the following: industrial participation in the country in question to create value • Applicable laws, regulations and international treaties allow industrial participation add in that country. The requirements of and processes related arrangements and the arrangement is in compliance with the laws and regulations to Industrial Participation are determined by national rules of the • The arrangements are in compliance with Patria Group´s ethical and compliance policies and guidelines related to industrial participation and Patria Ethical Code of Conduct and related target country as well as contract specific requirements. policies and guidelines • The arrangement is acceptable and subject to applicable integrity due diligence on any and Patria operates in the field of defense procurement where industrial participation is a all business partners and vendors related to such industrial participation arrangements and common requirement and prerequisite in contracts. transactions, with special focus on ensuring anti-corruption and anti-bribery. In its export activities Patria is participating in direct or indirect industrial participation • Patria conducts a thorough legal analysis of the applicable industrial participation arrangements and activities where, and to the extent that, such are required by the specific regulations in the specific country in question to mitigate legal risks and to ensure government procuring defense equipment from Patria, and where such activities and compliance of Patria´s industrial participation activities arrangements create and add value directly (activities related to performance of the main • All the relevant financial and non-financial risks are assessed and mitigated agreement) or indirectly (activities unrelated to performance of the main agreement). • The industrial participation engagements are proportionate to the value of the main Furthermore, Patria also participates in industrial participation arrangements where agreement or transaction participation is in the business interest of Patria Group as a whole, where the value of industrial participation engagements is proportionate to the value of the main Performance of industrial participation obligations of Patria: agreements or transaction, and provided that such activities are steered and monitored by • Patria Group´s industrial participation obligations are conducted materially within Patria´s Land executive management with clear accountability. Participation in industrial participation business unit (estimated presently at 95% of Patria Group´s industrial participation related arrangements and activities are carried out according to the rules and policies of concerned obligations). The industrial participation obligations of the other business units are minor, if any countries. These industrial participation arrangements may also include externally created • Land business unit has specific processes and defined roles and responsibilities concerning industrial participation activities as well as actions on behalf of other entities having industrial participation activities during marketing and as well as sales activities and industrial participation liabilities when this is possible under applicable rules and policies. concerning implementation of industrial participation contracts A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 116 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Risk Management Risk management and internal control are an important The primary responsibility for risk management and internal control lies with the business units and Patria Group functions in their area of responsibility. The President & CEO of Patria part of Patria’s management and control systems. Risk is responsible for the proper functioning and monitoring of risk management and internal management and internal control also help to ensure that control. operational and profitability targets can be achieved. Patria’s Group functions provide guidelines for risk management and internal control and perform monitoring on different levels. An internal audit function and the internal Furthermore, risk management and internal control and external auditors, security and quality auditors, evaluate the effectiveness of risk contribute to ensuring appropriate reporting, compliance management and internal control. In addition, Patria customers executive different audits with laws and regulations and to protecting Patria’s and perform different control activities to ensure compliance by Patria with the customer reputation. requirements. Risk is understood as the effect of uncertainty, negative or positive, on objectives of Patria’s operations, profitability and other areas. Risk management is a process which Risk management and internal control do regular assessments to ensure appropriate ensures that the risks and opportunities are identified, assessed and treated in an reporting, risk management, integrity, ethical business conduct and compliance with appropriate way and extensively enough. Risk management helps to ensure achievement of laws and regulations as well as Patria guidelines and processes. Through integrity, the objectives and avoidance of losses to the resources. Risk management in Patria is based compliance and high ethical standards of business conduct Patria reputation and value on the COSO ERM framework, ISO 31000:2009 standard and industry specific standards and of its assets are also ensured. requirements. RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK INTERNAL AUDIT AND EXTERNAL AUDIT Patria has a risk management and internal control policy, approved by the Board of Patria has an Internal Audit function outsourced to an independent operator that evaluates Directors, which specifies the related tasks, objectives, components, responsibilities and contributes to ensuring the efficiency and feasibility of risk management and internal and authorities. The Board provides the ultimate oversight and direction for risk controls, the reliability of financial reporting, ethical and compliance business conduct, management and internal control and has allocated main responsibility for these actions and compliance with the applicable legislation, regulations and guidelines. The audit to the Audit Committee appointed by the Board. The Audit Committee consists of board function report regularly s to the Audit Committee nominated by the Board of Directors. members that have specific understanding of the various topics that are in the scope of The Audit Committee and Board issue, from time to time, instructions for the Internal Audit the Audit Committee responsibilities as per the Audit Committee Charter. Specific focus to perform specific audits or other control actions and the findings of the Internal Audit are is on ensuring ethical and compliant business practices and conduct. regularly reported to the Audit Committee as well as Patria Board of Management. Patria A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 1 1 7 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E management is responsible for implementing the corrective actions and development defence material is subject to an export or transfer license, which in Finland is granted items instructed by the Audit Committee. by the Ministry of Defence or, when certain conditions are met, the government. The Due to the risks involved in the defence industry sector, specifically, special focus is conditions in the potential destination country may prevent the granting of an export on ethical business conduct, anti-corruption and anti-bribery. license, or the conditions in a country to which an export license has been granted may Both the internal auditors as well as the external auditors comply with the change in such a way that the license will be cancelled temporarily or permanently. International Standards for the Professional Practices regarding Auditing. Internal Audit reports on its activities and findings to the Audit Committee and Patria’s STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS management. The Audit Committee confirms the internal audit plans and the external Building strategic partnerships with key customers, contractors and suppliers is audit plans annually. important for the success of Patria. Patria constantly seeks to identify new business The company’s external auditors report their observations and findings at least once opportunities and create, maintain and develop strategic partnerships. a year to the relevant business units and to the Group’s financial management, as well as to the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee. The external auditors also submit QUALITY AND COST EFFECTIVENESS OF PROCESSES a statutory auditors’ report to the company’s shareholders Effective and flexible processes and improved cost competitiveness are also required for the success of Patria. Patria works continuously and systematically to develop MAIN RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES processes and improve cost competitiveness. Key areas and issues in Patria’s businesses, operations and risk management that may cause or be exposed to risks and opportunities are described below. Financial risks are SALES AND DELIVERY PROJECTS discussed in the notes to the Financial statements. Due to the nature of certain segments of Patria’s business, individual sales and delivery projects can be very large in relation to the Group’s annual net sales. They may include CHANGE IN THE DEFENCE INDUSTRY AND EXPORT LICENCES product development, require extensive subcontracting and co-operation with third The international defence industry is going through change. Acquisitions and parties, and have durations of several years. Moreover, the contents of deliveries mergers are taking place, new operators are emerging, the complexity of customer and the forms of industrial co-operation implemented together with partners can be requirements and utilization of new technologies is increasing, and competition is complex in nature. intensifying. Patria responds to the competition by improving the anticipation and The risks involved in such projects are typically versatile and significant, requiring understanding of customer needs and their changes, along with developing and thorough assessment and management. The management of projects and project risks commercializing new competitive products, services and solutions. The export of is constantly being developed and enhanced. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 118 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E SAFEGUARDING AND DEVELOPING COMPETENCIES AND EXPERTISE INFORMATION AND CYBER SECURITY Patria’s business units require versatile competencies, often in highly specialized Management and handling of secret and confidential information of Patria and third fields in which the availability of expertise may be scarce. The timely securing and parties is a significant part of Patria’s operations, and may make Patria a target for cyber development of the required resources and competencies is vital and thus the subject attacks, among other phenomena. It would be highly detrimental to Patria and other of systematic long-term efforts. information owners if such secret or confidential information were accessed or abused by an unauthorized party. Patria maintains a high level of information security and COMPLIANCE continuously works to improve it even further. Patria is committed to ethical conduct, compliance with the laws and regulations of the countries in which it operates, and adherence to its agreements and commitments. OTHER SECURITY AND ACCIDENT RISKS Patria invests considerable effort in ensuring the ethics and compliance of operations Patria’s business units and Group services regularly assess personnel risks, through communications, guidelines and processes for ethical conduct, as well as environmental risks and other accident risks within the framework of the Group’s regular training. management systems and normal operations. Based on the assessments, annual As Patria’s operating environment is complex and Patria operates in many countries development programs are defined for ensuring the security and continuity of and under different jurisdictions and complex regulations, violations may occur despite operations. Patria’s good intentions and efforts to ensure ethical operations. Violations may result in financial losses and damage to Patria’s reputation. Patria’s ethical principles have been detailed in the guideline ”Patria Ethical Code of Conduct”. The guideline defines the ethical principles applied to Patria and all of its employees and directors. Adherence to ethical guidelines is monitored internally and non-conformities are investigated and dealt with. Patria’s business partners and critical suppliers are also subjected to a thorough advance review, and contractual obligations concerning ethical conduct are defined for such parties. A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 1 1 9 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Board of Directors 31.12.2018 Esa Rautalinko Päivi Marttila Gyrid Skalleberg Ingerø Chairman CEO Executive Vice President Master of Economic Sciences Sievi Capital plc and Chief Financial Officer Since November 2018 Since 2016 KONGSBERG Since March 2018 Harald Aarø Jarle Næss Petri Vihervuori Executive Vice President Senior Vice President Business Senior Financial Adviser Business Development Development the Ownership Steering KONGSBERG Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace Department in the Prime Since 2016 Since March 2018 Minister’s Office Since November 2018 Eirik Lie Ari Puheloinen Executive Vice President General, ret. KONGSBERG and Since 2016 President Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace Since 2017 A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 1 2 0 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Consultative Committee 31.12.2018 According to the Articles of Sinuhe Wallinheimo Timo Kivinen Mikko Savola Association, Patria Oyj must Chairman Member Member have a Consultative Committee Member of Parliament Lieutenant General, Chief of Defence Member of Parliament appointed by the General Meeting Since 2015 Command, Finland Since 2015 Since 2017 of Shareholders. The Articles of Markus Mustajärvi Tomi Virtanen Association further state that the Vice Chairman Juha Kuusi Member Board of Directors shall consult the Member of Parliament Member Production Planner, Patria Consultative Committee on matters Since March 2018 System Specialist, Patria Since March 2018 Since 2011 that concern major decrease or Mika Kari Raimo Vistbacka increase of operational activities, Member Petri Peltonen Member material changes in the company’s Member of Parliament Member Master of Laws Since 2015 Under-Secretary of State at the Ministry Since 2012 organization, and on issues which are of Employment and the Economy otherwise of material importance Jussi Karimäki Since 2012 to the industry that the company Member is engaged in, either in Finland or Equipment Assembler, Patria Petri Pitkänen Since 2009 Member internationally. Logistics Manager, Patria Since 2013 A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 1 2 1 A N N UA L R E V I E W B U S I N E SS RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIALS G OV E R N A N C E Board of Management 5.1.2019 Ville Jaakonsalo Hanna Kyrki Teemu Raitis b. 1971 b. 1962 b. 1977 President and CEO, act. Chief General Counsel, Chief President, Land Financial Officer Compliance Officer Master of Science (Economics LL.M./MBA Master of Laws, EMBA and Electrical Engineering) Since 2010 Since 2014 Since December 2018 Jonas Geust Pasi Niinikoski Birgitta Selonen b. 1970 b. 1961 b. 1964 President, Systems Chief Business Development Chief Communications Officer B.Sc. Eng. Institute of Officer Master of Science, Sociology, Technology Doctor of Science (Techn.) Sports Since September 2018 Since 2006 Since 2010 Jukka Holkeri Leena Olkkonen Martti Wallin b. 1962 b. 1962 b. 1963 President, International Chief Human Resources President, Aviation Support Partnerships Officer Master of Science (Eng.) Master of Science (Eng.) Master of Science (Economics) Since 1989 Since 1988 Since 2017 A N N UA L R E P O RT 2 018 1 2 2 Patria Oyj Kaivokatu 10 A, 00100 Helsinki, Finland www.patria.fi info@patria.fi PatriaMedia Patria Oyj @PatriaOyj Patria patria_group
