United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 About Belron® Belron is the worldwide leader in the vehicle glass repair and replacement (VGRR) market, operating in 35 countries through wholly-owned businesses and franchisees, with market leading brands including Carglass®, Autoglass® and Safelite® Autoglass. In some markets Belron also manages vehicle glass and other insurance claims on behalf of insurance customers. Belron exists to “make a difference with real care”, a clear purpose that is shared by every business wherever we operate. In 2018, the Belron group had 30,400 people, 2,674 services centres and 10,730 mobile units and includes Belron International, based in the UK, which acts as the global support centre. During 2018, Belron continued to develop its services into the automotive damage (ADRR) and home damage repair (HDRR) and replacement markets, operating across the world. 1 CEO statement of support 2018 has been another good year for Belron with positive developments on many fronts. Our purpose continues to be at the heart of everything we do. ‘Making a difference with real care’ touches every part of our business, and means delivering an outstanding service to our customers, being a great place to work for our people, being financially strong and having a positive impact on the societies in which we work. We continued to develop our new service extension businesses. In automotive damage (ADRR), we rebranded the acquired Belgium and Italian businesses using the Carglass® brand within this new business sector and tested advertising campaigns in both of these markets with encouraging results. In home damage (HDRR), we progressed in both France and Australasia with a positive integration of the acquired businesses. We made good advances in building relationships with our insurance and corporate partners in HDRR and are working on new plans to expand our services for them. Our financial results were strong with record sales of EUR 3.8 billion reflecting our continued progress in VGRR, plus the benefits of our service extension. We will continue to focus on delivering strong returns for our shareholders. To assess our progress on embedding the Ten Principles of Responsible Business we continue to use the Ecovadis sustainability measurement tool. I’m delighted that we now have 11 of our businesses ‘Gold’ rated (a score of 62 and above) as well as a further seven within four points of achieving ‘Gold’. These are fantastic results as we continue towards our goal of all our businesses being ‘Gold’ rated by the end of 2020. Above all, our reputation for being a trusted and respected company in the eyes of our people, customers and partners remains integral to our business. So I am pleased to reaffirm our continued support as signatory of the United Nations Global Compact for the ninth consecutive year. Through our continued support for the UNGC’s Ten Principles, we are committed to the adoption and embedding of the Principles across our business, to publicly report on our progress and to advance sustainable business practices through advocacy to our people, our business partners and suppliers as well as civil society. In 2018 Belron and its people contributed EUR 4.65 million to charities across the world including our continued commitment to Afrika Tikkun in South Africa, a cause close to my heart and where I see our support truly saving lives. 2 The following report is a review of our progress for reporting year 2018, across our VGRR business. The Belron businesses with acquisitions in the automotive damage and home damage services are reviewing their CSR programmes to incorporate these activities. Gary Lubner CEO, Belron® 3 Overview Belron has an active corporate responsibility approach aligned to the United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles of Responsible Business. The basis for its implementation is left to the business units with support and best practice facilitated by Belron International. Each business defines its own strategic activities and objectives based on their local context. The CSR approach consists of programmes related to the environmental, social and ethical dimensions of our business. The environmental programme focuses on minimising inefficiencies and driving more responsible use of resources, recycling where possible and reducing carbon emissions. The social dimension is aimed at supporting numerous causes through local Giving Back programmes in line with the commitment to the societies in which Belron operates. With regards to ethics, the decision was made in 2018 for each business unit to take ownership for their local country code of conduct based on the Belron Guiding Principles, and linked to the Ten Principles of Responsible Business under the UNGC. This approach enables each business unit to customise and personalise their code of ethical conduct to include local policies and legislation, to resonate with their people. In 2019, all business units will implement their version of the code through awareness and training programmes. This will ensure that all Belron people have a clear set of behavioural guidelines while providing an ethical framework for the business as a whole. Belron believes that maintaining a strong set of values and having an ethical framework in place provides a foundation from which to achieve its sustainability goals. Progress towards the goal of being a sustainable business across all operations is externally measured by Ecovadis through its sustainability assessment platform. Ecovadis has been helping organisations assess and support their sustainability ambitions for over 10 years and is used by companies such as AXA, Heineken, Dow, AVIVA and Saint Gobain. It is customised for risks associated with different industry sectors, different countries, and different sizes of business. The tool enables each of the Belron businesses to be externally assessed on how they are meeting the ​CSR strategy and objectives​. The assessment evaluates the gap between the commitments outlined in the principles of the UNGC and the current status of actions taken in each Belron business. It provides a benchmark against over 45,000 other organisations who have been assessed by Ecovadis from over 150 countries, and a scorecard which identifies specific and prioritised opportunities for improvement. The assessment also draws questions from other internationally recognised CSR frameworks; ISO:26000 and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. Each business is evaluated on the policies in place, the actions taken to implement those policies, and the overall results of those actions. The evaluation assesses the activities relating to four themes: minimising impact on the environment, labour practices and human rights, customer relations and fair business practices, and sustainable procurement. Once the analysis is completed by Ecovadis, each business receives a full scorecard and a rating 4 score between 1 and 100. If the business scores 37 or above they receive a recognition level of Bronze, Silver or Gold. The scorecard provides guidance on areas to prioritise in order to make improvements. Each business unit is then responsible for deciding the action plan for improvement, with support from Belron International. At the end of 2018 Belron had 11 businesses rated Gold and 10 rated Silver, seven of which are within five points of being Gold rated. Overall the Belron group has made good progress towards its target of having all it’s corporate businesses Gold rated by the end of 2020, with the average score increasing to 60.4 in 2018. While the average score places Belron in the top 15% of the 45,000+ companies assessed by Ecovadis, there are some outstanding performers, with Carglass® in France, Belgium and Italy being ranked in the top 1000 companies assessed. In May 2018 the annual CSR Workshop took place with Ambassadors from 10 Belron countries to review progress and share best practice. This is one of the ways Belron reinforces the importance of being a responsible and sustainable business and recognises the role the Ambassadors play in inspiring and influencing the business. Representatives from Ecovadis presented on changes and improvements to the platform, as well as answering questions from the group on the analysis of the assessments, the evidence provided and the scoring process. During the workshop the opportunity was taken to recognise the best performing countries: France, Belgium and Italy were recognised as achieving the highest assessment scores, with the USA, Portugal and Turkey being recognised as best improvers. At the end of the workshop, the Ambassadors committed to ensuring that the messages were shared with 5 their CSR Executive Sponsor and with their colleagues who support them with the benchmarking assessment progress. Labour Practices & Human Rights Belron is a service organisation and we believe that it’s our people who make our organisation what it is. Therefore we care deeply about everyone who works for us and this means ensuring that we provide a safe and equitable working environment for all. It is imperative to us that all Belron operations continue to be managed and operated to high ethical standards that protect and support the rights and interests of everyone. All of our people, our contractors and our supplier working conditions are required to be compliant with national legislation and in cases where this is deemed insufficient, with the relevant International Labour Organisation (ILO) Standards. Every Belron business unit respects the right of all their people and contractors to be involved in trade unions or collective bargaining arrangements. We engage directly with our people through well-developed communication programmes, but we ensure that we as a business and our suppliers uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. The Belron European businesses have work councils in place and also where required, the businesses have collective agreements in place. Belron centrally facilitates a Social Structure Meeting once a year where representatives from European countries meet for two days. The 2018 meeting which included representatives from 10 countries, met initially to discuss the issues they wanted to raise. They then received a business update from the Belron Group Support Services Director and were able to ask questions on different aspects of the business including technician and product safety; the recent high workloads in the UK business and the impact on its people; investments in new services; and the programmes in place regarding leadership training on Purpose and being a purpose-led organisation. An update was also presented on the ‘People Driven’ agenda as well as the social, ethical and environmental activities taking place across the Group. Belron makes it clear in our commitments, our core principles and in our day to day operations that at Belron, any form of discrimination based on race, nationality, religion, age, disability, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, pregnancy, union membership or political affiliation is unacceptable. We have policies and procedures in place everywhere we operate should such situations arise to deal with them promptly and effectively. Human rights are addressed in the Belron ethics policy and Guiding Principles as well as through the programme in place to assess suppliers. Belron people treat each other with respect and ensure that their activities do not contribute directly or indirectly to human 6 rights abuses. Everyone at Belron is encouraged to speak up if we ever appear to fall short of our commitments. The business adheres to and promotes clear ethical standards for itself, and expects similar standards from all third parties who work with Belron or on its behalf. Our Guiding Principles, ensures our commitment to promote a culture of respect and equal opportunity in which individual success depends solely on personal ability and contribution. It also commits to promoting an open and fair recruitment process, hiring and promoting people on the basis of their ability for a role and their appreciation, respect and alignment with the Belron culture. Belron outlaws the use of child labour in any form. It does not employ anyone below the age of 16 or the local legal minimum employment age should this be different in a country it operates in. It will not use suppliers who use child labour in any manner. In no instance will inhumane treatment of its people or those in its supply chain be acceptable including any form of forced labour, physical punishment or other abuse. The Ecovadis CSR assessment tool rates Belron in the top 16% of businesses in the same industry, for the area of ​Labour Practices & Human Rights​. This theme, which is 45% of the overall score weighting, looks at the policies in place, actions to implement the policies and the results in several areas including; health & safety, career development, training, social dialogue, benefits, percentage of women in top executive positions and integration of senior employees. People engagement & recognition Belron aspires to provide an environment for its people which is “the best place they will ever work”. Whilst each Belron business has its own policies and procedures for local people management, the core culture is maintained across the Group. The Spirit of Belron – which 7 is described in four dimensions: Care, Driven, Collaborative and Genuine. The Genuine attribute encompasses the business’s core principles of Integrity, Respect and Trust. With over 30,000 people across the business in different roles, Belron recognises the areas that contribute to an employee’s overall well-being: ● feeling valued ● innovation is celebrated ● excellent work is recognised ● a genuine commitment to training and development ● a strong ‘giving back’ ethos ● ethics and responsibility are fundamental to the business’s operations. For these areas to be meaningful for Belron people, the business units have many programmes in place that include: training and development; recognition programmes; flexible working; feedback and community involvement. The Belron People Measure (BPM) is an anonymous, short pulse survey which randomly selects 25% of Belron people from each business via text or email every month. The survey asks for a rating of 1 to 10 on “How was work for you last month?” and verbatim comments on “What was good about it?” and “What could have been better?” The survey continues to have a consistent response rate of over 50% which is important as the business wants to hear from as many people as possible. The average score (out of 10) across the business for 2018 was 7.5. There is no central Belron target in place, however each business agrees its own target score at the beginning of the year. Discussions take place at Senior level within the businesses on comments from the survey; response rates; and summary of monthly scores. The summary of how the feedback from the countries fit with the 12 Engagement Drivers is sent to the Belron Senior Leadership team, the General Managers and the People Directors. A highlight from 2018 is from the Belron business in Italy where they introduced a Manager Workbook in relation to the BPM. The Workbook enables ownership at all Manager levels within the organisation and is a real move forwards from being a ‘HR’ initiative to a business initiative. Belron will continue to use the measure with the primary purpose to stimulate discussion and actions aimed at improving the engagement and well-being of all Belron people. Belron believes in creating a safe working environment for its people and customers. The business is committed to providing everyone with the correct training and skills to feel confident in their role including stringent safety procedures for technicians so that they can deliver the highest technical standards. Belron developed safety standards which are embedded in the Belron Way of Fitting. This is the method, tools, training and assessments developed and implemented across the group by the technical team at Belron. This includes ‘Quality Starts with Safety’ awareness training of the importance of following the correct process when replacing a windscreen and the consequences of not doing it right; ‘1-2-3-Easy’ a training programme on the ergonomics of how technicians can avoid injury while doing their job; and the ‘STOP programme’ how technicians should look after Self, Tools, Organise the work and use the right Process. In 2018 the Institute of the Motor Industry (IMI) approved the Belron Way of 8 Fitting technical content, training processes and assessment standards as a Quality Assured Programme which met their stringent requirements for training in the automotive sector. In addition the Belron Group Trainers have been certified to train technicians to the IMI standards and this helps to continually promote and maintain high standards of fitting throughout the group. In addition, each business is responsible for implementing the necessary measures to comply with their national requirements and many businesses have dedicated Health and Safety and/or Internal Audit personnel to audit their procedures as well as highly skilled trainers to monitor and update training as needed. Each business is required to report on a monthly basis to Belron the number of registered occupational accidents according to their local legislations. As a whole, a decline in the work accidents has been observed in 2018 compared to 2017. Belron is currently exploring ways to consolidate these figures per business into one indicator. Every two years, Belron holds a technical skills and competence competition to communicate and demonstrate our technicians’ standards of safety, quality and customer service. It is a key way that we recognise and reward the best technicians in our organisations. Local and regional heats take place that roll up into national finals resulting in the top technician from each country competing at an international final where the winner is crowned the ‘Best of Belron’. In June 2018 30 technicians competed for the title in Frankfurt, Germany. Rick Beasley of the US business Safelite® won making it back-to-back wins for the USA. The event is also an opportunity for Belron to showcase all the other elements of its business including its technical innovations; its sustainability approach and the pillars of its culture the Spirit of Belron. In 2018, Belron also celebrated many of their people through the annual global recognition scheme the Belron Exceptional People Awards 63 outstanding people were celebrated across the business with individual countries recognising far more people across their operations. The Belron businesses nominate the people they truly value. Those that make a big impact; are highly regarded by colleagues or customers; and perform exceptionally time and time again. Winners receive a personalised thank you by a Belron Director and are given a bespoke gift or experience that truly means something to them. Customer Welfare The Belron customer sits at the heart of the business and the company’s purpose to ‘make a difference with real care’. To maintain its position in the market and to grow, Belron needs 9 an experienced, highly trained technician team with the right piece of quality glass at the right time and place, for every job. Not doing so would impact the customer experience, pose the risk of a breach of fitting standards which could in turn impact customer safety, and reputation of the Belron business. When a replacement is required, the work is performed by one of the company’s highly skilled technicians. The products and training are designed to deliver a service which is equivalent to the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) standards. When applicable, the technicians will also carry out the recalibration of the car’s Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS), which is paramount to ensure the safety of its customers on the roads. A new internal awareness programme was developed and began to be rolled out in the second half of 2018. The programme highlights the importance of ADAS and the need to identify and carry out calibration correctly and safely. In 2019 the programme will be extended to include a technical training element to ensure all technicians have the latest information and capability to calibrate customers’ vehicles efficiently and safely. Supplier relationships Belron seeks to procure quality products from responsible and sustainable sources to minimise the environmental and negative social impact of its value chain. Almost 40% of the Belron turnover is spent on buying products and services from other companies. The majority by value is the glass but there are many other products, such as the glue, repair resin, trims and mouldings, tools and uniforms. First and foremost, Belron needs to be sure that the suppliers’ business ethics reflect its own, as they become part of the value chain delivered to the customer. While Belron has been doing this in the past there is more and more legislation being introduced which requires more diligence and clear evidence that companies like Belron validate how the supplier manages its business and how it sources its products for example modern slavery, anti-bribery and corruption and scope 3 emissions. During 2018 Belron International and Belron® UK published their second slavery and human trafficking statements in compliance with the UK Modern Slavery Act: Belron International statement Belron UK statement Poor financially run or operationally managed suppliers also pose a risk to the continuity of the supply chain. From a brand perspective, if suppliers are using unethically sound practices or sub-suppliers this can reflect negatively on the reputation of Belron. Belron manages a number of group wide suppliers through Belron International and has a mixture of on-site audits, external assessment and contractual discussions to ensure that suppliers are fit for purpose and meet exacting standards. Every supplier undergoes an 10 assessment of their financial standing, their legal compliance, their risk management, and their CSR performance. The latter is done through the Ecovadis platform which ensures that all suppliers continue to meet the latest standards across all elements of this area. Suppliers are required to pass all parts of the process to be officially approved for use, score at least a Silver rating (score of 45) under the Ecovadis assessment, and must demonstrate ongoing improvement in order to remain a Belron approved supplier. Each Belron business unit has its own process of managing the risk and sustainability criteria of its local suppliers. This is evaluated as part of the businesses’ CSR assessment and benchmarking programme using the Ecovadis platform. In 2018 Belron implemented a new process for the approval of both new and existing centrally managed suppliers. 64% of all centrally managed suppliers have been assessed which represents ​33% of the total group spend. In 2018 the overall average external assessment score was 52 (level ‘Confirmed’) for its Sustainable Procurement approach. This places Belron in the top 19% of all companies assessed by Ecovadis. Environment As an international company with national businesses in six continents across the world, involving branches, warehouses and fleets, Belron has a direct and indirect impact on climate change. Non-renewable energy sources, which contribute to climate change and air pollution, represent a risk for Belron due to volatility in pricing of fossil fuels plus the ever increasing burden of carbon and air pollution taxes. Stakeholders are also becoming increasingly concerned about climate change and expect demonstrable action from large companies such as Belron towards the UN climate change target. Belron works hard to understand, measure and manage its environmental impacts. It monitors carbon emissions directly in its control, such as those related to the energy consumption of its branches and its fleet, as well as scope 3 emissions related to travel and subcontracted logistics. Belron has developed and shared a carbon footprint reporting tool 11 across all the corporate business units and supports them in measuring, managing and reducing their carbon footprint. Efforts to reduce climate change can also represent an opportunity as, in almost all its markets, Belron leads the VGRR market in offering a Repair First strategy, which on average reduces the carbon impact by 75% over replacement. Reducing energy consumption will also reduce costs of doing business. In 2018 Belron carried out 3.1 million repairs which saved 141,000 tonnes of CO​2​ and saved almost 45,000 tonnes of glass waste. Overall, Belron has made progress in reducing its carbon emissions per job from 27.1kg CO​2 in 2016 to 25.0kg in 2018, representing an overall reduction of 10.7%. Belron has improved the environmental score of its Ecovadis assessment from being in the top 19th percentile in 2017 to the top 14th percentile in 2018. Over the past 18 months, Belron has begun evaluating the potential for carbon offsetting. The first step is offsetting global events. The purpose is to neutralise the environmental impact caused by gathering a large group of international guests together in a single location. Through a partnership with carbon strategy consultancy EcoAct, the amount of CO​2 is calculated then offset through investing in a positive initiative in another part of the world. In 2018 the annual triathlon event (Spirit of Belron Challenge) and the biannual Best of Belron event were offset through a project which involves distributing water filters in rural Kenya a project that has a positive social as well as environmental impact. The 2018 events resulted in 5,753 being distributed which benefits over 54,000 people locally. In 2018 Belron opened its new European Distribution Centre in Bilzen, Belgium, bringing five sites into one building. Incorporating the latest environmental technology including natural light collectors, solar panels, LED lighting and sophisticated HVAC (heating, ventilation and air conditioning) building management controls it will have a significant impact on reducing carbon emissions and energy use in 2019. Belron has also focused on monitoring and evaluating the potential for alternative fuel vehicles and has implemented the eNV200 all electric van in high job density areas in France. There are major challenges with current technology development as ​commercially suitable hybrid or electric vans only have a real world autonomy of around 100km, whereas Belron vans need on average of 200km​. The other major factor is how the vans are driven. A core project team was established in 2018 including, France, Belgium, UK and the US to 12 develop some group standards around driver behaviour based on best local practice, which will deliver recommendations for implementation in 2019. Evidence from work by Safelite® in the US shows that simple actions such as reducing idling time while the technician is serving customers, and improving driver behaviour, can have a big impact. It is experiences like this that will be used to help create a best practice for the group. The biggest waste product for Belron by weight, is the glass taken from the customers’ vehicles. It is a potentially dangerous product if not disposed of responsibly and while it cannot be reused, there is an opportunity to recycle the glass into other products. Recycling the glass efficiently helps Belron significantly reduce cost associated with waste as well as minimising its environmental impact. There is only a small number of specialised laminated glass recycling centres across the world so this makes recycling windscreens more difficult than normal glass. However where possible Belron uses its extensive distribution network to return waste glass from customer service centres to its central hubs. This reduces the costs and carbon emissions from local waste hauliers and allows Belron to partner with regional recycling centres close to their Distribution Centres. In Europe glass is returned to the European hub in Belgium where it is recycled by two partners, Maltha and GRL. In the US, Safelite® has set up a partnership with Shark Solutions to establish two bespoke laminated glass recycling centres, the second of which was opened in 2018. Safelite® now has the opportunity to increase its glass recycling to around 85% of its operation. In 2018, the Belron overall average external assessment score was 61.7 in the area of ​Environment​. Within this area the assessment is looking at the policies, actions and results of each businesses’ activities from hazardous materials and waste to sustainable consumption and fuel efficient vehicles. Whilst this score places Belron in the top 14% of all companies assessed by Ecovadis, we continue to look at ways to minimise the environmental impact across all the businesses. 13 Anti-corruption The Belron Guiding Principles are explicit in that we will not tolerate any form or attempts of corruption or bribery either towards or by its people or partners regardless of local customs and business practices. The Belron approach to anti-bribery and corruption is business unit-led and market specific, and therefore the policies and procedures adopted depend on a number of factors, including the relevant risk and local rules in each business unit country. In higher-risk jurisdictions, more stringent measures are put in place to help prevent bribery and corruption. Training and awareness sessions on anti-corruption law and anti-corruption policies is provided where Belron perceives any material risk, in order to help ensure that each business continues to compete fairly and in compliance with all applicable anti-bribery laws. Training is generally carried out either through face to face sessions or e-learning modules. With the refresh of the Guiding Principles in 2018 and each business unit developing a localised approach to their ethical codes of conduct, part of this process will be ethics awareness sessions for all Belron people during 2019. As part of the refresh of the Guiding Principles in 2018, the importance of speaking up was reinforced if anyone is ever witness to or are involved in a situation not aligned to the Principles. Whilst this is encouraged to be done internally, Belron provides a Speak Up facility managed by third party provider, Expolink with a separate Ethics Hotline in the US. These services enable people to speak up in absolute confidence if they become aware of, or are concerned about; malpractice, corruption, bribery, fraud, theft or other misconduct including injustice, harassment, bullying or other inappropriate behaviour. During 2018 nine original incident reports were made to the Speak Up line and 34 reports made to the Ethics Hotline. All concerns were properly investigated and resolved with appropriate action taken where necessary. Belron commits to ensuring that no form of retaliation or reprisal for reporting suspected infringements takes place as a result of any raised concern. In the ​Fair Business Practices​ area of the Ecovadis assessment, the Belron average results from 2018 show that it is in the top 5% of all business assessed. For this area of the assessment, the businesses need to provide information about their policies, actions and results in relation to anti-bribery and corruption; conflicts of interest; fraud; money laundering; anti-competitive practices; truthfulness of marketing and advertising; and data protection and privacy. 14 Making this report available to all stakeholders: This Communication on Progress is available through the internal intranet and the Belron website: ​https://www.belron.com/aboutus/whatwestandfor/​ and will be published on the UNGC website. 15 APPENDIX United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Policies & Procedures in place against the Ten Principles Policies & Procedures in place Human Rights Belron Code of Ethics Our Way of Working (being decentralised & localised during 2019) Businesses should support and respect the protection of Belron Genuine Guiding Principles (being localised during 2019) 1 internationally proclaimed human rights; and Ethical standards awareness training sessions Supplier audit programme using the Ecovadis assessment tool International Speak Up line available in all Belron business languages & Ethics Hotline in the US Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human Supplier Code of Conduct 2 rights abuses Ecovadis CSR benchmarking assessment for all corporate businesses Compliance with UK Modern Slavery Act Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Belron Code of Ethics Our Way of Working (being decentralised & localised during 2019) 3 effective recognition of the rights to collective bargaining Belron Genuine Guiding Principles (being localised during 2019) Ethical standards awareness training sessions Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of Supplier audit programme using the Ecovadis assessment tool 4 forced and compulsory labour International Speak Up line available in all Belron business languages & Ethics Hotline in the US Supplier Code of Conduct Employee Forums and Works Councils active within business units Businesses should support the effective abolition of child European Works Council (annual meeting) 5 labour Health & Safety training for central offices employees and specific training for technician population People policies and procedures in place to ensure employee well-being Global employee recognition programmes in place Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination 6 in respect of employment and occupation Ecovadis CSR benchmarking assessment for all corporate businesses Environment Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Carbon footprint reporting tool across all our corporate business units including training and validating of information provided 7 environmental challenges Annual reporting of carbon footprint to GRI indicators within parent company shareholders report Ecovadis platform as an external measure of progress Reporting template to compare branch product carbon footprint with the mobile products Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Benchmarking tool to identify opportunities to reduce building related energy and the associated carbon footprint 8 environmental responsibility; Sharing of best practice for use of reverse logistics to centralise disposal of waste Centralised evaluation of suppliers' CSR credentials to promote great responsibility within the supply chain Template to comply with the European Energy Directive Ecovadis CSR benchmarking assessment for all corporate businesses Environmental policy blueprint to drive consistent actions across the Group Ecovadis platform as an external measure of progress Reporting template to compare branch product carbon footprint with the mobile products Benchmarking tool to identify opportunities to reduce building related energy and the associated carbon footprint Sharing of best practice for use of reverse logistics to centralise disposal of waste Centralised evaluation of suppliers' CSR credentials to promote great responsibility within the supply chain Template to comply with the European Energy Directive Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion Ecovadis CSR benchmarking assessment for all corporate businesses 9 of environmentally friendly technologies Environmental policy blueprint to drive consistent actions across the Group Anti-corruption Belron Code of Ethics Our Way of Working (being decentralised & localised during 2019) Belron Genuine Guiding Principles (being localised during 2019) Ethical standards awareness training sessions Supplier audit programme using the Ecovadis assessment tool International Speak Up line available in all Belron business languages & Ethics Hotline in the US Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 10 including extortion and bribery Supplier Code of Conduct Key principles Anti-Competitiveness Anti-Competitiveness online training module Risk Management Programme Ecovadis CSR benchmarking assessment for all corporate businesses Annual statements of compliance for all country / business unit General Managers
