LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER SITA GROUP CSR REPORT 2018 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER SITA SUPPORTS THE UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS By using a common and international framework, we’re able to map our progress against long-term targets designed to create a more sustainable world for all. In the index at the back of this document you'll ﬁnd reference to the UN SDGs and how they correspond to the information provided in SITA's CSR report. CSR REPORT 2018 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER CONTENTS The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for ABOUT THIS REPORT 2 businesses that are committed to aligning their operations CEO STATEMENT 3 and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and OUR ORGANIZATION 4 anti-corruption. By doing so, business, as a primary driver of globalization, can help ensure that markets, commerce, CSR AT SITA 8 technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies OUR PEOPLE 12 and societies everywhere. SITA AND THE ENVIRONMENT 18 HUMAN RIGHTS REDUCING OUR IMPACTS 22 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES 24 protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and THE SITA AIR TRANSPORT COMMUNITY FOUNDATION 26 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human EDUCATION AROUND THE WORLD 29 rights abuses. GRI INDEX 31 LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; FEEDBACK Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Feedback and questions on this report are welcomed and compulsory labor; encouraged. They can be directed to the Director, Corporate Social Responsibility at SITA via e-mail: csr@sita.aero, via the Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and corporate website at www.sita.aero or through our social media channels: www.sita.aero/resources/sita-social Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. CSR REPORT 2018 1 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER ABOUT THIS REPORT This report covers the corporate social responsibility activities There have been no changes to the scope or boundaries of this of the SITA Group from January to December 2018. The last report. No feedback has been received from stakeholders. report was published in May 2017 and covered the period January to December 2016. MATERIALITY It has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting During the year our most material issues were updated based Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines at the ‘core’ on feedback from a range of stakeholders and split into four level. It is not SITA’s policy to assure non-financial reports, key areas: Business, Environment, Social and Governance. and thus the report has not been externally assured. A full GRI They are mapped against the relevant United Nations index can be found on page 31-33. Prior reports can be found Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). at www.sita.aero/csr or on the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) website. Of note is the increased focus on the business to address its own environmental impact and reduce emissions. In addition a REPORT BOUNDARIES AND METHODOLOGY new area includes the presence of aviation sustainability goals and a call for more products that support these aims. Diversity SITA's CSR office requests and consolidates relevant data and inclusion and human rights have been highlighted as key and information from the respective departments, individuals areas, and are rated ahead of general labor practices. and systems within SITA, and the contents herein have been prepared and reported to the best of our knowledge for the Areas such as operational efficiency, business conduct, report ending 31 December 2018. responsible procurement, data privacy, and support for local communities remain core, while certification and assurance of The material issues (below) included in this report are best practices have emerged. considered relevant within the boundary of the SITA Group organization. This was assessed by reviewing whether the RESTATEMENTS impacts occur inside or outside the organization as per the GRI guidelines on defining boundaries. It excludes SITA’s Since the last report in 2016 we have implemented new carbon subsidiaries CHAMP Cargosystems and Aviareto except in factors (DEFRA for the UK, and IEA for all other sites). This has cases which are explicitly noted, such as reporting on premises resulted in more accurate emissions factors being reported, where SITA and its subsidiaries are co-located. therefore adjustments have been made against past recorded figures to reflect this. BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE • Operational excellence and • Environmental management • Supporting local • Business integrity customer satisfaction • Environmental compliance communities • Data protection and • Product and service • Reducing greenhouse gas • Local economic contribution information security innovation emissions • Human rights • Certification and assurance • Responsible procurement • Management of end-of-life of best practices • Employee talent, acquisition equipment and retention • Supporting sustainable • Labor and working practices aviation goals • Diversity and inclusion 2 CSR REPORT 2018 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER CEO STATEMENT We have addressed this through the introduction of an internal ‘carbon levy’ applied to the business against each ton of CO2e generated from air travel. The levy has been used to fund carbon credits through a partnership with Natural Capital Partners. This has seen positive contributions to programs that support biodiversity, reforestation, orangutan protection, clean energy and community development in Borneo and India. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Many of our employees took the opportunity during the year Welcome to SITA’s Corporate to volunteer with their local communities through our Value Social Responsibility (CSR) Report – in Volunteer Action program. They gave their time to projects ‘Let’s move the world, together’ that addressed food poverty, vulnerable groups, and the environment, and raised money for numerous good causes. I’d like to thank them for their dedication and contribution. The theme of this year’s report reflects the importance that we place on collaboration at SITA. Whether it’s in our role at the Another highlight of the year has been the positive impact of heart of air transport or in our commitment to corporate social the SITA Air Transport Community Foundation. This initiative responsibility, working in partnership effects greater change – championed by our SITA Council – continues to create and reward. Looking back on 2018, I see the positive benefits opportunities for young people in five African countries. To that working together has brought to our CSR activities. date around 83,000 students and teachers have benefited from access to IT and education, 51% of whom are female. With 70 computer labs now in use, we’re encouraging the next CLEAR PRINCIPLES AND FOCUS generation to develop essential technology skills, and during As CEO of SITA, I’d like to reaffirm our support of the United 2019 we will be offering coding classes to students in Zambia. Nations Global Compact and the principles that it represents. These principles are core to responsible business practices, and GLOBAL GOALS FOR SUSTAINABLE are threaded through our policies, processes and operations. DEVELOPMENT SITA is a global organization in a complex and fast-moving Our presence across 135 countries gives us insight into industry, and as such we recognize the need to adapt and some of the diverse challenges faced by societies and regions. change in response to different conditions. The same values SITA’s support of the UN Sustainable Development Goals apply to the focus that we put on our social and environmental helps us by providing a framework against which we can set our programs. Our overarching approach is simple and gives us the CSR programs, and you’ll see reference to these throughout opportunity to evolve over time, with commitments to: the report. • Reduce and mitigate our environmental impact • Support communities where we operate A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE • Communicate on our progress In 2019, we will continue the focus on the core areas of our CSR initiatives. Collaboration on the sustainable development goals will be key, particularly in the areas of climate change, ACTION ON THE ENVIRONMENT quality education and gender equality. We will also set out a We continue to measure and track our achievement against longer-term approach for our contribution to reducing our our environmental performance targets. We have made environmental impacts. In reading this report you’ll find more good progress in this area and you’ll find more details in the detail on our activities and progress in 2018. We encourage following pages. your feedback via csr@ sita.aero I’d like to highlight a major new initiative implemented last Barbara Dalibard year to tackle our emissions from air travel. One of our CEO, SITA contributions to climate change has been the impact of flights that we take in supporting our customers around the world. CSR REPORT 2018 3 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER OUR ORGANIZATION SITA N.V. has two main shareholders – SITA SCRL and the SITA Group Foundation – they function as one governing body for SITA is the IT provider for the air transport SITA N.V. SITA SCRL is wholly owned by its members. Shares industry. Today, we do business with nearly in SITA SCRL are reallocated to members each year based on every airline and airport in the world. their use of all SITA services in the previous year. This means that the shareholding structure of the cooperative is variable, We also provide border management rather than fixed. solutions to more than 40 governments. Detailed information on the composition and structure of our organization as it pertains to financial and other annual Headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, SITA is one of the reporting requirements is included within the SITA Group most internationally diverse companies and serves over Financial Statements and SITA Group Annual Report. These are 200 countries and territories. Our global reach is based on available on request from the SITA Board Secretariat after their local presence, with 2,800 customers in 197 countries and approval at SITA’s AGA on 19 June 2019. territories. We employ approximately 4,900 people of more than 140 nationalities, speaking over 60 different languages GOVERNANCE in more than 130 countries. With a strong local presence and offices spanning the globe, SITA’s service staff are on the SITA Board: As of 31 December 2018, the SITA Board ground at more than 1,000 airports providing support. See the comprised 13 Directors including the SITA CEO. Board 'Our People' section for further detail on our diverse global Directors are nominated by the SITA Council for appointment workforce. by the General Assembly of Members. The term of office for Board Directors, except the SITA CEO, is three years, with one-third of the Board seats being available for re-election CORPORATE STRUCTURE each year. The SITA Board supervises the activities of the SITA SITA’s corporate structure comprises SITA SCRL, a Belgian Group to ensure its effective operations. The role of the Board cooperative, and SITA N.V., a Dutch commercial company. has been modeled on best practice for both co-operative and The majority of SITA’s activities are today undertaken through commercial organizations. SITA N.V., although SITA’s network services are housed in the The SITA Board has two standing Committees which report into SITA cooperative. the SITA Board. The Audit and Risk Management Committee The SITA Trust Foundation is an Employee Share Plan Trust. advises the Board on matters relating to financial policy and SITA Group Foundation’s shareholding is fixed, with companies control, as well as risk management of SITA. On a quarterly holding certificates in the Group Foundation, which represent basis, the Audit and Risk Management Committee review the economic interest in the N.V. shares. There is a very large all risks recorded in the corporate risk register, including overlap between the members of SITA SCRL and the certificate any related to economic, environmental and social impacts. holders of the SITA Group Foundation. In practice, although The Remuneration Committee advises the Board on matters relating to SITA-wide remuneration policies. Composition of governing bodies Audit & Risk Remuneration Nomination Membership SITA Board SITA Council Management Committee Committee Committee Committee Average Tenure 3.8 2.6 2.9 1.6 2 2 Men 9 22 4 4 8 5 Women 4 7 1 2 2 1 TOTAL 13 29 5 6 10 6 4 CSR REPORT 2018 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER SITA Council: The SITA Council, with its membership The SITA Council has three standing committees. The representing over 90% of the world's airline businesses, Nomination Committee recommends SITA Board Directors and is just about the most representative body there is for air SITA Council President and Deputy President for appointment transport. The Council represents and safeguards the interests by the Annual General Assembly. The Membership Committee of our membership with the right of final approval over specific addresses membership policy and rules. and important matters relating to the high-level direction of the organization. The SITA Council is also consulted on any SITA EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM other matter having a material impact on services provided to SITA members. The Council also serves as the governing body SITA’s CEO leads our Executive Leadership Team (ELT), for the SITA Air Transport Community Foundation (see later in which takes responsibility for defining and setting SITA’s this report). Finally, and very importantly, the SITA Council is corporate strategy (including economic, environmental and tasked with gathering community opinions and reporting back social aspects), policies, and organizational structure. The on their actions. ELT comprises our most senior executives from across the business areas, functions, geographies and the CEO Office. The SITA Council is composed of up to 34 member The team comprises three women and eight men, with three representatives, and during the year stood at 29. The Council members in the 30-50 years age group and eight in the President, who is a representative of a member organization, 50+ age group. chairs the SITA Council. SITA IS AN OCEAN OF LEARNING AND HELPS YOU DEVELOP NOT ONLY PROFESSIONALLY BUT ON THE PERSONAL FRONT AS WELL. IT IS ONE OF THE MOST INTERNATIONALLY DIVERSE COMPANIES AND PROVIDES OPPORTUNITIES TO WORK WITH PEOPLE ACROSS THE GLOBE. NEARLY EVERY PASSENGER FLIGHT RELIES ON SITA TECHNOLOGY, AND IT’S A REASON TO FEEL PROUD WORKING HERE. Nishant Sharma – Digitization and Automation Project Manager, Delhi HIGHLIGHTS 100% 42% 36.5% INDUSTRY OWNED SERVICE-FOCUSED NET PROMOTER AND DRIVEN BY 400 EMPLOYEES SCORE IN 2018 SITA MEMBERS 7% 300 20 ANNUAL REVENUE PATENTS FILED INDUSTRY BODIES SPEND ON R&D FOR AIR TRANSPORT SITA WORKS WITH TO TECHNOLOGY SET STANDARDS FOR SOLUTIONS THE INDUSTRY CSR REPORT 2018 5 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER OUR SOLUTIONS AND SERVICES STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Globally, almost every airport and airline does business with SITA is 100% owned by the industry and driven by its needs. SITA, and it’s our job to support their operations. Airlines, Working with all the stakeholders, SITA drives collaborative airports, aircraft, ground handlers, governments, air cargo, development and innovation across the air transport aerospace, air navigation service providers and international community. It helps the industry achieve operational organizations all use our information and communication efficiencies and deliver a seamless passenger journey. technology (ICT) solutions, relying on SITA's expertise to enable 'easy air travel every step of the way'. Our approach centers We collaborate closely with all our stakeholders – members, on addressing key trends and tackling the pain points that the customers, and industry bodies, as well as employees and local industry faces, while our portfolio is built with industry knowcommunities worldwide. how, obtained through constant collaboration across the industry, Members: As an industry-owned organization, SITA with members, customers, partners and industry bodies – to understands the importance of delivering products determine and satisfy requirements. Today, we provide the and services that are highly valued by the air transport broadest portfolio for the air transport industry, including: industry. SITA’s members benefit from SITA’s neutrality and • Managed global communications, infrastructure, the ATI independence and can plan and operate their services in Cloud and outsourcing services the knowledge that we offer services everywhere, including remote and challenging locations. In turn our members • Services for airline commercial management, passenger guide our direction and strategy through the SITA Council, operations, flight operations, aircraft operations, air-towhich has reserved seats for both airport and ICT provider ground communications, airport management and operations, representatives. Our Annual General Assembly provides baggage operations, transportation security and border an opportunity for SITA’s members to hear about the management, cargo operations and more organization’s’ performance and priorities. During the year We introduced three new portfolios in 2018: Platform, Data we welcomed 27 new members to SITA from the airline and and Business Intelligence services. They will include next travel sectors, while 30 members celebrated milestones of generation platforms specifically for airports, airlines, aircraft 20 years or more. and governments. A full breakdown of our solutions and Industry associations: SITA works closely with over 50 air services can be found online: www.sita.aero/solutions-andtransport industry associations in global, regional and national services/solutions forums. Our relationships with associations enable us to advance industry interests and help solve community issues. AWARD WINNING SERVICES SITA is also a member of the Air Transport Action Group (ATAG), In 2018 SITA was named Service Provider of the Year in the contributing to and sharing a keen interest in ATAG’s mission to annual Air Transport Industry Awards in Dubai, by Air Transport promote and support environmentally responsible practice and News readers and a jury of international aviation experts. SITA sustainable development in the Air Transport Industry. also won the Aviation Technology Achievement at Air Transport World’s 2018 Annual Airline Industry Achievement Awards, for Customers: We engage with our customers regularly pioneering work with JetBlue and the US Customs & Border through SITA events such as the annual Innovation Forum, Protection to deliver a secure, paperless and deviceless selfCybersecurity Symposium and the Customer Innovation Forum. boarding process using biometric technology. Our Customer Advisory Board and many user groups enable us to involve the community in determining strategies and directions. Annually conducted, our Community Value Index ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE (CVI) helps us understand and measure what our members Economic performance is reported in the SITA Group Financial and customers value most from SITA. Their views and opinions Statements for the period January 1 to December 31, 2018. shape the future of SITA and ensure that we continue to deliver The statements include revenues, operating costs, employee the right solutions to the community. compensation, retained earnings, payments to capital Local communities: All our employees are encouraged and providers and governments, and coverage of the organization’s empowered to take part in community and charitable projects defined benefit plan obligations. These are available on request and events through our Value in Volunteer Action (VIVA) from the Board Secretariat at SITA after their approval at SITA’s program. An overview of 2018 VIVA activities is included on AGA on 19 June 2019. pages 24 and 25 in this report. 6 CSR REPORT 2018 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER Employees: We engage with our employees as talented partners contributing to our success and growth as a business. Individual development plans and performance rewards help our employees stretch their capabilities and those of the organization. Formal feedback channels include an annual employee survey conducted by an independent third party, while 25 of our larger offices benefit from on-site leadership to engage with local priorities and concerns through a Locations Leader program. We also hold regular staff calls and encourage our people to ask questions. And, our ‘BRAVO’ award program provides opportunities for individuals or teams to be recognized for their contributions to the business. OPEN DAY In September 2018 SITA held its very first Open Day, a co-ordinated time for employees around the world to join in activities, share experiences and have fun. 32 of our locations took part. Activities included inter-site competitive quizzes, team-building games, and learning modules covering SITA history, our strategy and operating model, and deep dives into some of our key portfolio solutions. Many locations included charitable collections and fundraising, as well as lunch and end-of-day social events. There was even a virtual coffee machine – a live-stream video connection between different offices where employees could meet and mingle virtually with colleagues many miles away. Our inaugural Open Day was a huge success, with employees surveyed rating it 5.3 out of 6, and 90% in favour of making it an annual fixture. GATHERING FEEDBACK Every year SITA undertakes a global employee survey, giving our people an opportunity to give their views across a range of subjects. Participation is voluntary, and 82% of employees responded to the survey run at the start of 2019, with 70% of those providing additional comments. Feedback is confidential, and we take care that no identifiable information is conveyed in the summaries provided to managers. As with previous years, areas where there are opportunities for continual improvement are addressed by teams at the leadership, management or location level, while we continue to build on reinforcing the positive aspects of what we do well. CSR REPORT 2018 7 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER CSR AT SITA conduct reviews of the register on a quarterly basis, and the reports are shared with our ELT as well as the Audit and Risk SITA’s Corporate Social Responsibility Management Committee (see 'Our Organization'). The economic Office is managed by dedicated and operational aspects of the business are reviewed monthly resource and reports into the Executive at a minimum by SITA’s ELT. Issues related to environmental and social factors, and materiality, are assessed throughout Leadership Team (ELT). It reflects an the year by SITA’s CSR Office. overall commitment by the organization to focus on responsible business practices, We conduct annual standalone compliance risk assessments to identify business operations which have a higher risk of a and the team engage with other groups compliance breach, often due to the type and location of the across the business on a variety of activities carried out. These areas receive additional focus and programs and topics. support including further training and guidance. Compliance and ethics risks are also reviewed as part of our ongoing corporate risk management process. MANAGEMENT APPROACH OUR CULTURE AND VALUES We make reference throughout this report to the management Step up for the customer. Keep it simple. Do it together. Be our approach to addressing SITA’s material issues – shown in best. These four statements guide the culture and behaviours the 'About this Report' section. Many of the aspects are we need and value at SITA. Our Bravo Award Program is incorporated into standard business practice such as corporate based on these four values, and they underpin a framework of policies and established processes. These ensure that we indicative behaviours expected at all levels of our organization. always act responsibly and in compliance with all national and local laws in areas such as labor, health and safety, anti-bribery We deliver at pace and with energy, always focused on our and corruption, ethics and the environment. In addition, local customers’ needs, our colleagues and the big picture. This country policies are implemented where required. takes mutual trust, respect and appreciation. SITA is a place of change and constant improvement, where we're always pushing SITA adopts a precautionary approach with regards to Principle ourselves to find better ways of doing things: smarter, quicker, 15 of the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. easier, for us and our customers and for their customers too. Through alignment to the UNGC, certification to ISO14001, ongoing management and a corporate risk register, the It's not just about getting it done, and done right, but also about company addresses aspects related to corporate social doing the right thing, for our business and our customers. Each responsibility. SITA’s Internal Audit and Risk Management team of us owns what we do – proud of our work and the impact each of us has on the community around us. Our CSR targets for 2018 Indicator 2018 target 2018 status at year end Water usage across three key sites (ATL/SIN/PRG) 1.5% decrease on 2017 4.9% Track paper consumption in major sites 5% decrease on 2017 15.2% Electricity consumption in offices where the ability is 3% decrease on 2017 5.6% present for measurement Energy intensity per square meter 3% decrease on 2017 7.6% Emissions (from office operations) 3% decrease on 2017 17.3% Emissions intensity (from office operations) per square metre 3% decrease on 2017 19% Emissions from air travel 11% reduction on 2017 23.7% Emissions offset from air travel 3,000 tons 10,000 tons VIVA days 200 days 168 days 8 CSR REPORT 2018 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER I SPEND SOME OF MY FREE TIME AS A MENTOR AND TRAINER WITH AIDHA, AN ORGANIZATION THAT PROVIDES TRAINING AND SUPPORT FOR FOREIGN DOMESTIC WORKERS AND LOWER INCOME SINGAPOREAN WOMEN. I TEACH FINANCE AND THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE. I THINK THE CSR PROGRAM AT SITA, ESPECIALLY THE VIVA VOLUNTEER PROGRAM, IS EXCELLENT AND A GREAT REMINDER TO PEOPLE THAT DOING GOOD THINGS DESERVES SUPPORT – AND GREAT COMPANIES ALWAYS HELP WITH THAT! Aparajita Rao – Associate Project Manager, Singapore CSR TARGETS ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE SITA defines a set of targets for corporate social responsibility at Wherever we are in the world, we are committed to doing an organizational level at the start of each reporting period. The business the right way by acting honestly and fairly, complying environmental targets are a key measure to assess performance with laws and regulations and adhering to policies and against our commitment to reduce SITA’s environmental impact. procedures. Our Integrity, Compliance and Ethics (ICE) Program They are available to all employees through our intranet and is endorsed by our CEO and the SITA Board, and acts as an Environmental Management System. umbrella program bringing together compliance activities on anti-bribery and corruption, trade controls, data protection Reduction targets are set for base consumption of water in and competition. three sites, paper (27 sites) and electricity (22 sites) against the previous year. An intensity target is also set which allows for the Raising awareness of and educating employees on compliance, introduction of additional sites and changes in site capacity or ethics and the applicable laws and regulations is a fundamental relocation throughout the year. part of our compliance governance. At the beginning of each year a training and communication plan is produced to provide Overall performance against our targets was good, with a clear view of the year ahead. As part of the program, all reductions across all consumption metrics. 2018 saw the employees are required to complete mandatory e-learning on introduction of two new targets around emissions from air travel; our Code of Conduct, anti-bribery and corruption and trade the first an absolute reduction of emissions and the second a sanctions every year. carbon offset goal. Both were reached. The call to action for the Targeted in-person training is conducted whenever possible company to consider alternatives to travel such as technology and we have introduced bi-annual compliance risk assessments helped reach the goal, while the introduction of a new carbon across the globe to identify key risks to enable the prioritisation credit program to offset emissions has had a resulted in carbon of resources more effectively. neutral air travel for the year. See the ‘Carbon Reduction’ section for more information. Our employees can raise questions and report concerns using our internal confidential reporting system known as RADAR. An area where the target was not met was for the number Reports can be made anonymously either through the web of volunteer days recorded in our people management tool. platform or via live operators (fully trained with access to over Many employees participated in activities that supported the 50 languages) and all submissions are investigated promptly communities local to their office, however we have only reported and thoroughly with feedback provided as appropriate and in a on the days recorded in the system. timely manner. HIGHLIGHTS 5,000+ 30% RADAR THE NUMBER OF OUR PEOPLE OUR OF SUPPLIERS HAVE RECEIVED A CONFIDENTIAL WE WORK WITH BRAVO AWARD FOR HOTLINE ACROSS THE GLOBE DEMONSTRATING FOR RAISING SITA VALUES CONCERNS CSR REPORT 2018 9 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER SITA has a robust non-retaliation policy in place and will not We fully recognize the issue of modern slavery and human tolerate retaliation against anyone making reports in good trafficking and the emotional and physical impacts of this faith. Any retaliation will be treated as a violation of our Code problem for individuals and communities. SITA takes its of Conduct. responsibilities in relation to these issues seriously and we are committed to doing business the right way – acting honestly, Where appropriate, disciplinary action up to and including fairly and with high standards of integrity. dismissal may be taken, and/or additional guidance and training will be provided. We know that responsibility goes beyond what we can do alone as a business, and that our supply chain has an important part For 2019 we are making a number of substantial changes to the to play. We need our employees, suppliers and third parties compliance program, including: to ensure they act in an ethical and sustainable manner when • Refresh of the Code of Conduct; carrying out business on behalf of SITA, and to reinforce positive labor standards across supply chains. • Revised Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy; In 2018 we moved to a third-party provided supply chain • Enhanced Gifts, Hospitality & Entertainment Policy; evaluation platform to better understand the level of risk in • Enhanced Conflicts of Interest Policy; and the countries where SITA and our suppliers operate. Key suppliers are required to complete a self-assessment that • Implementation of a Disclosures register. enables us to assess their performance, and which provides a calculated risk assessment for the likelihood modern slavery RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT in the supply chain. SITA is a global provider of IT and communications solutions to the air transport industry, and as such our supply chain is SUPPLYING SITA complex. We work with many suppliers around the world, with 95% of spend with suppliers that represent 10% (around 500 Our Terms and Conditions set out the requirement for suppliers vendors) of our total supply chain. when supplying SITA, and refer to our Supplier Code of Conduct and the expected behaviors and compliance. In addition, our Purchasing Policy governs the purchase of all goods and services, providing details on both the selection criteria and the due diligence requirements on new and existing suppliers. 10 CSR REPORT 2018 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER As a purchaser of goods and services we are commited to DATA PROTECTION AND paying our suppliers in a timely fashion, and during the year we INFORMATION SECURITY signed the Prompt Payment Code in the UK, and participate in providing information on our payment schedules. At SITA we respect and protect the privacy of our people, customers, third parties, business partners and others, only using personal data when needed to operate effectively or to TRAINING AND AWARENESS comply with the law. As such, SITA implemented a program We provide online mandatory training on Responsible to drive compliance to the body of requirements laid out in Procurement, Slavery and Human Trafficking for all employees the EU Global Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The year as part of our global compliance program. It is required for all saw a program of awareness training delivered to ensure our new joiners and on a rolling two year refresh for all current employees understood the GDPR requirements across the employees. Reports of completion are provided to the Ethics business, and their activities. The Data Privacy Officer oversees a and Compliance Office. team that drives the compliance program. A confidential and anonymous whistleblowing process is The Corporate Information Security Office manages our policies available to all employees to raise any concerns they may and processes related to data protection, monitors and supports have on issues related to human trafficking or slavery in the security of our infrastructure, and keeps employees upour supply chain or our business. SITA will not tolerate any to-date on threat awareness through regular training and form of retaliation against anyone who has raised a concern communication. Their activities are complemented by the and/or assisted in an investigation in good faith, as outlined SITA Information Systems team, and the related policies and in our 'Non-retaliation Policy'. standards applicable to all employees. HUMAN RIGHTS SUSTAINABLE AVIATION SITA’s Code of Conduct clearly states the expected behaviors The aviation industry has set robust goals for a more efficient of those who work with us. Harassment in the workplace is and sustainable future. As an organization at the heart of air strictly prohibited. This includes any behavior toward another transport we recognize the need to provide solutions that help person based on that person’s race, color, gender, age, our customers meet these goals. disability, religion, nationality, or sexual orientation, which is Thanks to SITA, airports and airlines can benefit from technology unacceptable and personally offensive to the recipient. that improves operational efficiency, leading to reductions in both Our SITA office in India has a sexual harassment policy and cost and environmental impact. For example, our Pre-Departure complaints committee to deal with any concerns, with all Sequencer Module controls the rate at which aircraft arrive at local employees notified of the policy, the committee, and the the runway, thereby avoiding queuing. It enables operations requirements on behavior. They have the company’s assurance to minimize fuel burn, reduce carbon emissions, reduce noise that any complaints will be handled promptly and thoroughly. pollution, and minimize impact on air quality. Our De-Icing Planner optimizes de-icing processes by efficiently allocating Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets out expectations on fixed resources and taking into consideration variable needs, like our suppliers in areas including Human Rights. Work on weather conditions. And our self-service kiosks have a range responsible procurement practices (see previous section) is of sustainability features, from passive cooling to low power helping us to further evaluate the risk of human rights in our consumption, and easy upgrade options. supply chain. Employees who are concerned about any human rights issues affecting SITA can use the company’s RADAR system for confidential reporting to the Ethics and Compliance Office, with no risk of retaliation. External concerns can be raised through the SITA website, and will be treated confidentially and directed to the Ethics and Compliance Office. CSR REPORT 2018 11 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER OUR PEOPLE We do not discriminate based on trade union membership or non-membership. We have collective bargaining agreements SITA provides skilled, productive, decent in place in 16 countries representing 6.4% of SITA’s directly work directly to more than 4,800 people in employed workforce. All these agreements contain guidelines 125 countries around the world. We also on rules of engagement for negotiations. Roles at SITA are generally full-time. provide the information technology and networking solutions that sustain the air As a global principle, there is no distinction made between transport industry, which in turn employs benefits provided to full-time employees and to part-time employees. 1.9% of SITA employees work part-time, almost more than 10 million people globally in entirely through personal choice and in line with local a high value, economically productive statutory rights. Employee entitlement to parental leave also sector of the economy. meets or exceeds statutory requirements in all countries where we operate. 92% of men and 89% of women who took parental leave in 2018 had returned to work by year end. 8% of employees who took parental leave in the year requested and WORKING AT SITA received approved extensions to their leave. At SITA we maintain high standards of labor conditions for The charts and visualizations in this section provide detailed all our personnel, whether directly employed, temporarily disclosures of aggregated employee data we collect and contracted, or engaged through our offshore partners. maintain in our human resources information management We meet and exceed the requirements of local laws and systems for the year ending 31 December 2018. regulations where we operate, as well as International Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions. We keep our employees informed of strategic and organizational changes and work HEALTH AND SAFETY through local HR contacts to advise and support on countryWe are committed to providing a safe and professional work specific requirements. All our major locations and most of our environment to protect the health and wellbeing of our medium and small locations engage outplacement services to people. Our workforce operates primarily from local office support continued employability following severance. environments, meaning risks of accident and injury at work and of occupation related diseases are relatively low. SITA strategically engages offshore resources through partner organizations in India, Europe and Central America. Our standards and processes are documented in a Master This resourcing complements our expertise in service, Health, Safety and Security Policy which serves as a basis for support, testing and development functions and extends site policies and procedures that comply with local regulations. our geographical coverage. In tandem with a location strategy Where we have employees present at customer sites they that seeks to improve synergies and foster innovation and follow all applicable health and safety requirements. career development within SITA, we have reduced our 34 offshoring engagement by 7% since 2017. All new hires at SITA are requested to take health and safety training. Formal joint management-worker health and safety Parental leave committees are in place in major locations including in the UK, France, Canada, South Africa, and Australia. 93 38 Employee entitlement to sick leave meets or exceeds statutory requirements in all countries where we operate. Employees are Took parental leave in 2018 also entitled to take time off for medical appointments without penalty. SITA offers a comprehensive employee benefits 86 34 program that includes both statutory and /or enhanced SITAsponsored benefit plans. The scope of these benefit plans vary Returned to work in 2018 according to country but typically include support for medical, Male Female dental, eye-care, and longer term disability needs and related leave requirements. WOMEN 12 CSR REPORT 2018 EMPLOYEE 11.6 Took parental leave in 2018 86 34 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER Returned to work in 2018 Male Female Employee turnover Training hours by gender and employee category TOTAL JOINERS LEAVERS WOMEN EMPLOYEE 11.6 614 478 WOMEN BY GENDER JOINERS LEAVERS STUDENT 11.4 WOMEN 183 131 WOMEN MEN 431 347 FIXED TERM 5 CONTRACTOR BY AGE GROUP JOINERS LEAVERS MEN EMPLOYEE 13.8 50+ 50 124 30-49 375 296 MEN STUDENT 6.2 UNDER 30 189 58 MEN BY LOCATION JOINERS LEAVERS FIXED TERM 19.6 CONTRACTOR MEIA 201 68 EUROPE 180 229 ASIA PACIFIC 78 68 AMERICAS 155 113 WELL AT WORK SKILLS AND DEVELOPMENT Under a “Well at Work” umbrella program launched in 2017, In 2018 each of our employees recorded, on average, 13.3 hours employees can access free, confidential 24/7 support from of training. As part of SITA’s Evolve program, we updated our our global Employee Assistance Provider (EAP) on matters key values within the company. The values were delivered related to physical, mental, social and financial wellbeing. through a program called Living the SITA Way 5.0, where we “Well at Work” also promotes employee health and well-being provided 132 face-to-face sessions in 25 central locations through local interest groups, events and workshops. In 2018 and 97 webinars over a period of 6 months. A total of 3,243 these included free fresh fruit, social and sporting events, staff members joined one of our training sessions, and we local interest meetups, reusable water bottles and lunch kits, incorporated this program as part of our employees’ onboarding. seminars on resiliency, financial wellness, retirement planning, Formal recording of individual development plans, goals for the emotional intelligence, medical and mental health issues, selfyear, and performance reviews is standard for all our employees esteem and eating well, and courses in tai chi, quigong, yoga and all employees receive a year end review. Exceptions include and mindfulness. employees who may not have completed performance reviews due to parental leave, medical leave or time of joining. HIGHLIGHTS 2,000+ 28% GLOBAL SERVICE OF ROLES OVERALL VOLUNTARY TEAM MEMBERS WERE FILLED BY TURNOVER RATE INTERNAL CANDIDATES 2018 47% 200+ 6.7% OF LEADERSHIP EMPLOYEES ROLES WERE RECEIVED LONG FILLED BY INTERNAL SERVICE AWARDS CANDIDATES CSR REPORT 2018 13 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER Notes on these charts: These figures include SITA contracted resources only and exclude our subisidiary Champ Cargosystems. Contingent workers are contracted to SITA as required for an indefinite term. Offshore FTE refers to full time equivalent hours provided by our offshore providers. These are not included in the breakdown by region. Our HR systems allow us to report a gender breakdown of permanent employees and fixed term contractors only, not contingent workers or offshore FTE. People by full/part time People by contract type 64 53 1011 1022 1,000 Female part time Female fixed term contractor Female full time 27 90 Female permanent Male part time employee Male full time Male fixed term contractor Male permanent employee 3801 3738 Total employees by region and employment contract AMERICAS ASIA PACIFIC EUROPE MEIA 31 81 104 1557 70 1459 16 69 1079 78 15 665 Permanent employee Permanent employee Permanent employee Permanent employee Fixed term contract Fixed term contract Fixed term contract Fixed term contract Contingent worker Contingent worker Contingent worker Contingent worker Total Employees 1,795 Offshore FTE 4,760 Employees by location Permanent 321 Contingent Employees 91 Students / Workers Graduates 52 Fixed Term Contractors 0 United Arab Emirates 118 Australia 88 Pakistan 20 Costa Rica 12 United States 821 Russian Federation 36 Belgium 27 Saudi Arabia 20 Chile 18 Poland 11 Peru 9 Bulgaria 7 Israel 5 United Kingdom 471 South Africa 71 Taiwan 19 Malta 18 Czech Republic 221 Mexico 74 Lebanon 70 China 69 Italy 47 Denmark 29 Spain 29 Hong Kong 23 Bangladesh 22 Japan 21 Argentina 19 Oman 19 Thailand 19 Korea, Republic of 16 Morocco 14 Singapore 286 Turkey 15 Jamiaca 9 Ghana 8 Nigeria 7 France 158 Jordan 102 Brazil 74 Ecuador 6 Malaysia 31 Curaçao 8 Qatar 7 India 506 Ukraine 5 Austria 4 Ireland 129 Egypt 40 Colombia 19 Vietnam 15 Nepal 10 Romaina 9 Trinidad and Tobago 5 Canada 368 Germany 79 Indonesia 33 Philippines 17 Azerbaijan 5 Hungary 4 Switzerland 235 Netherlands 44 14 CSR REPORT 2018 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER WHAT I LIKE ABOUT SITA IS IT'S QUITE FOCUSED ON WELLBEING. YOU'RE FREE AS LONG AS YOU GET THE JOB DONE. IT'S VERY GOOD. YOU ALSO HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY WITHIN SITA TO GO TO DIFFERENT AIRPORTS AND BE PART OF DIFFERENT PROJECTS, WHICH IS AMAZING. THINGS CHANGE ALL THE TIME. THEY'RE NOT THE SAME. CHANGE IS HAPPENING, AND WE KEEP UP WITH IT. THAT IS GOOD. David Cordun, Apprentice, London Heathrow GRADUATE PROGRAM AND APPRENTICESHIPS SITA Accelerate is the name of our graduate program. Its aim is to give new graduates the opportunity to work in the exciting world of the aviation industry and build skills in their chosen profession. It’s also an opportunity for SITA to build an important talent pipeline for future skills and provide valuable industry experience and opportunities for new graduates. The Accelerate program is well established in Atlanta, with 32 graduates employed in 2018, Letterkenny with 20, and our London locations with six. There are plans to expand the program globally in SITA in the near future. A very special thank you from the CSR team to Atlanta Accelerate graduate Denisha Benjamin who contributed to the data visualizations in this section for us. Our London team based at Heathrow Airport took the First year graduates in Letterkenny meeting their new team leads as they rotate to opportunity to recruit two network “Infrastructure Technician” new teams in Baggage, Smart PathTM and Airport Technologies for year two. apprentices in 2018 on a 24-month program of blended work and study. Oversight of the program is provided by the Women represent 21.2% of our permanent workforce, an UK Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education. increase of 0.6% on the prior year. Several of our larger sites Apprentices are hired on a two-year full-time contract reported a higher percentage, including the US, Singapore, during which they carry out day-to-day network maintenance Ireland, Switzerland, France and the Czech Republic. Those duties onsite, shadow more experienced colleagues, and falling below the average include Canada, UK, UAE and India. undertake coursework and certiﬁcations culminating in entry onto the register of IT technicians – and a future in air At SITA women are proportionally as likely to be in transport industry IT. management and leadership roles as their men peers, which is a signiﬁcant equity measure. However, like many technology organizations, we see a low proportion of women in our DIVERSITY business and technology professions, 18%, while women SITA is by nature a very diverse organization. Working represent 59% of our support functions. with colleagues from all over the globe and from different There has been positive progress in three key areas: backgrounds is an integral part of our culture. While we value and celebrate the diversity of our teams, local legislation in the • 6% year-on-year increase in our Technology profession many countries where we operate limits our ability to collect • 6% year-on-year increase in our Leadership team profession and report on speciﬁc categories. • A doubling of female representation at Board level Myanmar 4 Maldives 2 Algeria 4 Sri Lanka 2 Kuwait 4 Norway 1 El Salvador 2 Zimbabwe 1 Paraguay 2 French Polynesia 4 Burkina Faso 1 Burundi 1 Chad 1 Croatia 1 Cyprus 1 Fiji 1 Lao People's Democratic Republic 1 Mali 1 Mongolia 1 Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 1 Syrian Arab Republic 1 Sint Maarten 4 Greece 4 Cabo Verde 2 Cameroon 2 Kazakhstan 2 Kenya 2 Bahrain 1 Eritrea 1 Guyana 1 Libya 1 Zambia 4 Aruba 2 Ethiopia 4 Portugal 2 Slovakia 2 Sudan 2 Sweden 2 Tunisia 2 Uganda 2 Venezuela 2 Angola 1 Brunei Darussalam 1 Congo 1 Gabon 1 Grenada 1 Guinea 1 Mauritius 1 Panama 1 Reunion 1 Turkmenistan 1 Uzbekistan 1 Iran, Islamic Republic of 4 New Zealand 4 Cambodia 4 Papua New Guinea 2 Senegal 1 Serbia 1 Congo, The Democratic Republic of the 2 Suriname 1 Yemen 1 Mozambique 2 Tanzania, United Republic of 1 Antigua and Barbuda 1 CSR REPORT 2018 15 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER DRIVING CHANGE TARGETED EFFORT IN INDIA At SITA, we are sitting at the crossroads of the aviation and The representation of women in India has doubled over the technology industries and we take a broad view of both. last two years and rose from none to 25% of Technology We strive to promote diversity in general, not just gender management roles. We achieved this thanks to our Products diversity, throughout our company culture. and Solutions Engineering (PSE) and HR teams working hand in hand as part of a strategic initiative to build diverse teams at We are taking a holistic view and are changing many of our SITA’s Global Competency Center in Delhi. processes to ensure that diversity and inclusion are embedded in the culture of our organization. PAY EQUITY For recruitment, we train both our recruiters and people managers in the value and importance of having diverse teams. During the year we continued our data analyses to understand This drives diversity in the pool of talent from which we recruit. the pay equity status of our workforce, while complying with We foster a culture that allows people to progress in the local country legislative requirements for reporting. Our organization, including mentoring, networking and showcasing approach to pay review was reinforced with training for people the achievement of women and other minorities to everyone. managers, based on three key concepts: • Equity for similar roles and performance level We also use data to analyze our actions – from recruitment to promotions and pay rises. We look across seniority levels, • Differentiation between contributors generations and gender to spot issues or biases and to track • Collaboration on decisions if our processes are working well. By using data, we can be objective and, if necessary, re-engineer our processes. Managers were also provided with guidance from HR professionals throughout the process to inform their Attraction and retention: women decision making. 28% 27% 2018 Women Men 26% Ratio of salary for all employees 106.8% 98.2% 25% 24% Ratio of salary for 20 largest locations (representing 85.5% of 100.2% 85.5% 23% the total workforce) 22% Percentage of all employees 100% 95% 21% receiving a bonus in 2018 20% 2016 2017 2018 RESOURCE GROUPS Voluntary leavers New joiners Employee resource groups (ERGs) at SITA provide networking, In the workplace we help individual managers to build diverse development and participation opportunities based on shared teams, and through training, role modelling, mentoring and employee interests and experiences. Typically formed with HR networking to reinforce a positive company culture. And ﬁnally, support and a formal charter and leadership structure, our we use data to objectively analyze progress and make changes ERGs help our people ﬁnd a mutually supporting purpose and to deliver results. voice in the organization in a variety of ways. In 2018 we saw a sharp rise in the number of women joining the One of our strongest ERGs is SITA WE (Women Empowered). company: 22% of hires were in the technology profession and The ﬁrst local chapter of SITA WE formed in Atlanta in 2016, 27% in leadership. The number of women voluntary leavers has and since then two further allied SITA WE groups have decreased from 25% in 2016 to 16% in 2018 for management launched, one based in Canada and another serving our and senior levels, but remains high in the professional category ofﬁces in the UK. SITA WE provides a local support system at 30%. for women to inﬂuence the work environment and to SITA WE MEMBER TAQIYYAH ELLIS WAS AWARDED A SCHOLARSHIP FROM EMPOWERMENT ORGANIZATION WOMEN IN TECHNOLOGY (WIT) TO ATTEND A TWO-DAY DEVNEXUS PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPERS CONFERENCE IN ATLANTA. WIT IS AN ORGANIZATION THAT EMPOWERS WOMEN AT ALL CAREER STAGES TO EXCEL IN STEAM CAREERS. Taqiyyah Ellis 16 CSR REPORT 2018 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER promote equal opportunities to professional and leadership INTERNATIONAL WOMEN'S DAY (IWD) development. The groups meet regularly to network and plan activities including workshops, speaker events, mentoring, International Women’s Day has grown over the years to coaching, and charitable fundraising. The SITA WE groups become one of the most popular global calendar events we have been instrumental in making International Women’s support and encourage at SITA. The IWD 2018 campaign Day a widely celebrated event throughout the organization, theme was #pressforprogress, and our CEO Barbara Dalibard thereby raising awareness of gender equality issues and steps set the tone for the day with a post on our employee social towards progress. media. Noting that women represented no more than two or three percent of the, mostly business, passengers on an early SITA UK Young Professionals (UYP) formed in 2018 as a morning ﬂight to our Geneva HQ, she observed that “things hub of diversity, inclusion, empowerment, development and move too slowly”. Strong support like this from the top of our career shaping for students and recent graduates, including organization, active co-ordination by our Women Empowered Accelerate program members and apprentices. Supported by employee resource groups and HR teams, and enthusiastic a director-level executive sponsor, UYP seeks opportunities to local participation combined to make IWD 2018 our biggest and develop and raise the proﬁle of members through mentoring, most diverse IWD celebration to date. coaching, and visible projects. IWD 2018 activities included speaker events, discussions, In 2018 these included an information booth at our global and #pressforprogress pledges in Amman, Beirut, Bohemia, employee Open Day and a collaborative video project with Dubai, Geneva, Paris, Prague, Sydney, and many more SITA young SITA professionals around the world. UYP members also locations. Atlanta’s WE group hosted three days of IWD events work on ideas and strategies to attract and retain students, to including career coaching, professional proﬁle photography, ensure smooth onboarding of newly hired young professionals, and charitable support for the Dress for Success organization. and to build networks by organizing social meetings both in and out of the ofﬁce. UK WE treated our two main London ofﬁces to a networking lunch, followed by professional photography, inspirational talks, The Atlanta-based SITA Military Support ERG continues to games and development workshops. In Johannesburg the IWD thrive as resource for veterans and for employees with family team organized a volunteer visit to local Strathyre Girls’ Home. members who have served or are serving in the armed forces. IWD in Montreal featured a visit from female McGill University Social and fundraising events throughout 2018 included “Wear students studying STEM subjects, an introduction to the “Man RED Day” (RED stands for “Remember Everyone Deployed”), Enough” movement, and a screening of the ﬁlm “Ocean’s 8”. volunteer days at the Hartsﬁeld-Jackson Airport USO chapter, SITA Singapore also hosted a ﬁlm event with a screening of and a toy collection for local charity Toys for Tots. “Hidden Figures”, while our ﬁve locations in India celebrated with talks, ﬁlms, quizzes, games, and catered celebrations. CSR REPORT 2018 17 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER SITA AND THE ENVIRONMENT This represents a reduction of 7.6% over the previous year and 31% since 2011. Energy intensity is calculated by dividing the SITA is committed to understanding, heating, cooling and electricity energy consumed at each site managing, reducing and reporting its by the occupied floor space. Due to the diversity of suppliers environmental impacts. Throughout the and intermediaries (e.g. landlords) at our locations, we have not yet been able to report on how our energy consumption splits business we have implemented programs between renewable and non-renewable, but we are taking steps and activities that support our aim for to do so in future. improved environmental performance. EMISSIONS We measure emissions from two sources: operational energy OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE consumption at our offices (scope 2) and employee business We track and share environmental performance at 22 of our travel (scope 3). The total emissions for the organization for offices, representing 75% of our employees in 20 countries. the year was 19,090 tons CO2e, a reduction of 20.7% over the The data we collect and share includes energy consumption previous year. A breakdown of these figures is in the table below. and intensity, greenhouse gas emissions, and paper and Ongoing space optimization efforts at our premises contributed water use where available. Overall, SITA reported a decrease significantly to this large drop in emissions over the course of the in energy and emissions intensity from operations around year. Our approach to space planning uses features such as open the world, as well as a drop in water and paper consumption. plan offices, natural light and motion sensitive light systems. All environmental targets were met for the year. A program to decommission local shared server infrastructure In 2018 we invested in a new environmental management and move to a cloud solution at 19 sites resulted in an estimated system (EMS) platform with improved data collection usability 450,733 KwH reduction in annual energy consumption, and workflow and better reporting capabilities. This enables representing 2% of the consumption in the locations where we us to improve the quality and timeliness of environmental measure data. And while business travel is a necessary part data reported and extend monitoring to further sites. SITA of doing business due to our globally distributed organization successfully transitioned to the updated ISO14001:2015 and customer base, we have robust controls in place to deter standard at all six certified sites during the course of the year. unnecessary travel and provide effective alternatives in the form Our EMS has enhanced our ability to communicate progress of video conferencing and desktop collaboration tools. against targets to our employees. We do this via environmental statements published on our intranet with real-time metrics, Source of emissions and local information on recycling and other relevant 2017 2018 environmental matters. Emissions from energy 11,120 9,198 Our environment policy was reviewed and updated in 2017 consumption (tons CO2e) to refresh and reflect changes to the ISO14001 standard and Emissions from aviation our continued goal of improved environmental performance. (tons CO2e) 12,970 9,892 The policy is readily available to all employees online and sets out the behaviours and actions expected of employees to Total emissions 24,090 19,090 ensure that, in every location where SITA operates, we do all that we can to adopt sustainable practices and mitigate our Emissions reduction environmental impact. ENERGY Across the 22 SITA sites where we are able to capture data, 20.7% emissions energy consumption in 2018 was 22,491,637 KwH, a reduction of reduction 5.6% over the previous year. This includes electricity, heating and 23.7% decrease in air overall since 2017 cooling energy at primarily office locations. Energy intensity within travel emissions the organization for the year was recorded at 479 KwH/SqM. since 2017 18 CSR REPORT 2018 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER We have also updated and realigned emissions factors used in Emissions from operations the calculations, adopting International Energy Agency (2018) and business travel factors for the calculation of emissions from our operations from energy consumption except, for the United Kingdom where we used DEFRA (2018) GHG factors. The emissions intensity of our operations is calculated by normalizing the tons of CO2e emitted by the number of square meters occupied. In 2018 the intensity ratio of our office operations was 153 tons CO2e /SqM, down 4.26% from the previous year. 19,090 CO2e TOTAL EMISSIONS PAPER (Tons) Through our global purchasing system we are able to track paper usage at 27 sites. Since we began reporting paper consumption in 2011 we have achieved a dramatic drop of 45% from 13,090 9,159 (Tons) to 7,230 reams globally. Investment in collaborative working practices contributed to this reduction, further reinforced by PIN-coded printer functionality, default two-sided printing on our standard multifunction printers, and a standard email footer reminder to consider the environment before printing. CO2* 0.67 (Carbon Dioxide) (Tons) Prior to 2017, SITA customer billing processes generated 1,128 reams of paper per year in monthly legal invoices. To reduce CH4 the volume of paper and associated impacts of printing, mailing (Methane) and delivery, we launched an e-billing campaign to encourage AIR TRAVEL 32.4 our customers to make the switch to electronic invoicing. As an incentive, SITA offered to donate US$1 per switched account to 9,892 (Tons) (Tons CO2e) International Tree Foundation (ITF) to support community-led forestry projects in Africa and beyond. At the end of 2017 this had N2O (Nitrous Oxide) resulted in 550 trees being planted by the ITF. As of the end of 2018, 23% of SITA customers had made the move to e-billing. CO2e** (Carbon Dioxide equivalent) *Sites where SITA measures energy consumption (75% of offices) **Represents 99% of all global air travel HIGHLIGHTS 30% 48% 17.3% REDUCTION IN REDUCTION IN DECREASE IN ENERGY INTENSITY REAMS OF PAPER OPERATIONAL SINCE 2011 USED SINCE 2011 EMISSIONS FROM 2017 39.5% 17% 34% REDUCTION IN REDUCTION REDUCTION IN EMISSIONS INTENSITY IN WATER EMISSIONS FROM OF OUR OFFICE CONSUMPTION OPERATIONS OPERATIONS SINCE 2015 SINCE 2011 SINCE 2011 CSR REPORT 2018 19 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER WATER GREEN OFFICE In 2015 we began measuring water consumption at three of We support recycling and environmental good practice at our our locations, Atlanta, Prague and Singapore. The table below offices through ISO 14001:2015 continual improvement activities, provides a breakdown of consumption per site along with annual environmental targets, and our Environment Policy. In location baseline water stress as determined by the Aqueduct 2018 we launched an employee campaign called “#greenoffice” Water Risk Atlas. to connect like-minded people working locally on initiatives to improve recycling, move away from single-use and disposable Baseline Consumption Reduction supplies, reduce water consumption, promote green transport, Location water stress in megaliters since 2015 and tackle litter problems. Atlanta Medium to High 30.4 16% (20-40%) In London and Amsterdam, for example, employee-driven Prague Low (<10%) 0.4 67% initiatives led us to switch from disposables to reusable cups, cutlery and shared supplies. Employees have also led the push Singapore Extremely High 1.3 76% for coffee capsule recycling and reducing disposables in Montreal (>80%) and Geneva, while in the UK we’re using bean-to-cup coffee machines to eliminate single-use coffee packaging entirely. Water consumption at these sites in 2018 was recorded as 36.1 megaliters overall, down 4.9% on the previous year and down Recycling of paper, cans, glass bottles, PET plastic containers, 16.6% since 2015. We are looking to increase our efforts to batteries, and printer cartridges is widely available in our larger monitor and reduce water consumption at further sites from offices. Secure, environmentally sound mobile phone recycling this year onward, with particular focus on locations in water is also offered at many of our locations, often in support of local stressed areas. charities. As part of the #greenoffice campaign we’ve posted consistent recycling signage everywhere to help clarify waste MANAGING IT EQUIPMENT RESPONSIBLY separation facilities for locals and visitors alike. We recognize that management of end-of-life IT equipment is one of our most significant environmental aspects, and we work with a small number of selected specialist providers to ensure that decommissioning and disposal of these items is managed to the highest standards. IT equipment comes both from our own operations and through customer projects. 14,478 pieces of IT equipment, including computers, servers, monitors, networking equipment and peripherals, were securely recycled in 2018 in 48 countries in full compliance with local and international regulations. Around two-thirds of this end-of-life hardware was recycled on behalf of our customers, and the remainder directly from SITA operations. 20 CSR REPORT 2018 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER EARTH DAY While many SITA offices have honoured Earth Day in meaningful ways through the years, in 2018 we sought to promote and share the experience more widely throughout LONDON the organization with a focused Earth Day employee GENEVA MONTREAL communication campaign. London-based staff responded ATLANTA ROME by hosting a full Earth Week complete with a dedicated “Green Room” with posters and literature on local waste SINGAPORE management options, video screenings and Earth Day pledges, plus a visit from the local council Cycling and Road Safety team to inspire and advise on cycle routes. A team of volunteers from SITA Montreal helped tidy Jardin Versailles, a downtown community garden, and make it ready for growing vegetables and flowers through the summer. SITA 6 ISO14001: 2015 CERTIFIED SITES CERTIFIED Amman celebrated Earth Day by planting greenery and flowers TO ISO14001 LOCATIONS COVER around the office compound and visited a forest in the north of Jordan. SITA Madrid spent an earth-conscious volunteer day 57% OF SITA'S at a nearby migratory bird reserve and took part in routine bird WORKFORCE banding and site management. HIGHLIGHTS 14,478+ 18 22 PIECES OF IT THE NUMBER OF LOCATIONS EQUIPMENT WERE LOCATIONS WITH WITH ONLINE RECYCLED IN 2018 IN VIDEOCONFERENCING ENVIRONMENTAL 48 COUNTRIES SUITES STATEMENTS CSR REPORT 2018 21 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER REDUCING OUR IMPACTS TAKING STEPS TO REDUCE CARBON In the air transport industry, flying is a EMISSIONS given. And when you're owned and operated First; we implemented reporting that allows us to measure our by that industry it presents an interesting environmental impact from air travel. We know what our annual air mileage and emissions are, enabling us to benchmark year series of challenges Unsurprisingly, we on year and track our progress. recognize that emissions from air travel Second; we’ve put in place technologies that have helped us to is a key environmental impact for us. reduce own carbon footprint, such as collaboration software and videoconferencing that allows us to communicate with our colleagues and partners. But a degree of travel is still inevitable, CARBON NEUTRAL AIR TRAVEL which leaves us with an impact that we need to mitigate. We track the mileage and emissions from all our business Third; we adopted a bold approach and implemented an internal travel so that we can understand exactly what that looks like. 'carbon levy' on the different areas of our business, based on the We’ve implemented collaborative technology for every member tons of CO2e emitted from their travel. The levy is funding carbon of staff, but we wanted to do more. credits to offset our emissions while investing into social and environmental programs. In 2018 SITA started a program to reduce the impact of our travel, while supporting programs around biodiversity, habitat preservation, reforestation, education, clean power and INDONESIA FOCUS ON HABITAT community development. PRESERVATION By the end of the year, our air travel was carbon neutral, In Borneo, our carbon credits are helping to preserve carbonwhile investments in programs with our partner Natural dense tropical peat forests in the Rimba Raya biodiversity Capital Partners had reaped benefits for the environment and reserve and support community development. One particular communities in Borneo and Tamil Nadu. technology that has made a real difference is the use of drones to understand the landscape in difficult to reach areas. Tree planting in Muara Dua has provided hardwood trees that local villagers can use as a sustainable source to build their homes and boats. 22 CSR REPORT 2018 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER We are also supporting the work of Orangutan Foundation SUPPORTING THE UNITED NATIONS International who focus on the habitat preservation of the SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS endangered Borneo orangutan in an area heavily impacted by the increase in palm oil plantations. Their program also supports We’re keen that the carbon offset programs we choose reflect the treatment, release and tracking of rescued or orphaned greater societal and environmental aims and provide positive and orangutans back into the wild. long-lasting impacts. 25,000 mangrove seedlings have been grown, some of which Each of these programs supports several of the UN SDG areas, will help to protect against coastal erosion on the Java sea. The in particular: planting will also aid restoration of essential natural habitats at disused fish farms, leading to better biodiversity and restoring natural balances. It’s an activity which will encourage local groups to get hands on with the planting activity while providing additional income for villagers. EDUCATION AND SOLAR POWER FOR INDIA In Tamil Nadu 37 schools received digital classrooms. The digital classroom makes use of solar power to drive a low voltage monitor, while educational content is projected from a 64gb education hub – a block about the size of a pencil case. It’s easy to update and follows the local curriculum and makes lessons more engaging for students and teachers. Schools weren’t the only ones to benefit. Our support has helped Selco Solar to implement 7,500 lights, 500 heaters, and 300 photo voltaic systems to communities. Access to solar can have far reaching benefits; a sustainable power source, a safer environment and light for homes enabling children to study at home. The program also supports power for health clinics and small businesses. HIGHLIGHTS 25,000 37 23.7% MANGROVE SCHOOLS RECEIVED DECREASE IN AIR SEEDLINGS DIGITAL CLASSROOMS TRAVEL EMISSIONS FROM 2017 7,500 300 7,054 SOLAR LIGHTS SOLAR POWER STUDENTS SYSTEMS POSITIVELY IMPACTED IN 37 SCHOOLS CSR REPORT 2018 23 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES OUR PEOPLE RECORDED MORE THAN 4,000 HOURS OF VOLUNTEERING IN 2018. SITA’S VIVA ‘VALUE IN VOLUNTEER ACTION’ PROGRAM GIVES EMPLOYEES A FULLY PAID DAY EACH YEAR FOR CHARITABLE AND VOLUNTARY ACTIVITIES IN THEIR COMMUNITIES. HERE ARE SOME OF THE ACTIVITIES AND EVENTS THEY SUPPORTED THROUGH THE YEAR. LONDON 11 volunteers from London locations delivered food and essentials to the Hillingdon Foodbank warehouse, then stayed for an afternoon of sorting and packing. LETTERKENNY 20 SITA Letterkenny volunteers gave their time to an eight-hour supermarket bag pack and raised US$1,210 for two local autism charities, iCARE and the Autism Family Support Group. MONTREAL In Montreal our intern team made sure children had the back-to-school supplies they needed. ATLANTA A team of girl scouts earned their cyber security badges on a learning visit to SITA Atlanta – and then presented us with a Christmas card written in three different encryption codes! ROME In Rome we raced for the cure for breast cancer. 24 CSR REPORT 2018 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER 1,256 PARIS volunteer hours Two SITA teams kept up the pace by running in this year's Paris Ekiden relay marathon. US$83,526 BRUSSELS donated to 21 good causes throughout the year A Brussels VIVA volunteer team ran the bar and kitchen at a family day event for Villa Clementina, a facility providing day-care, training, and programs for kids with disabilities and kids without. US$706,155 BEIRUT donated over the last SITA Beirut organized a visit to a local children's 10 years to community cancer centre and raised US$500 to sponsor projects across educational birthday gifts for all the patients 20 countries born in June. Dubai SITA Dubai volunteers spent an evening at the end of Ramadan distributing iftar meals to 250+ expatriate workers at the Sonapur camp with local NGO Open Arms UAE. DELHI 10 from Delhi joined Pinkathon 2018 to promote women’s health awareness. SYDNEY A SITA Sydney volunteer crew spent a hardworking day at the Foodbank Australia warehouse helping the organization in its work distributing meals to 2,400 charities and 1,750 schools. CSR REPORT 2018 25 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER THE SITA AIR TRANSPORT COMMUNITY FOUNDATION The initiative has also established the Bureau of Education The SITA Air Transport Community as the only active ICDL training centre in the country and the first in the region of Amhara. By doing so, it has unlocked the Foundation has helped 83,000+ students potential for the Bureau to train teachers and schools they to date in Africa by providing access to oversee against consistent and internationally recognized IT and education. standards. The investment has raised the regional training capacity in a sustainable way, meaning that the impacts will be felt long-term. OUR FOUNDATION SOUTH AFRICA SUCCESS In Africa today 50% of the population is aged 19 or under, and the continent is facing a growing demand for access to In 2018, SITA ran a competition – the SITA Air Transport education and skills development for this generation. However, Community Innovation Award – with the question: access to technology and ICT can often be difficult, and “What information, tools or technology will first-time education is not always prioritized in rural areas. In parallel air travellers in Africa need to make their journey easy, there is more opportunity and desire for people to travel as successful and enjoyable?” Teams of Wits students and demographic change sees air travel become more affordable. entrepreneurs could apply, and out of 23 applicants, ten This leads to an increase in requirements for infrastructure eams qualified as finalists. A winning team was awarded and technology to support airports and aviation. However the prize of US$10,000, and two runner-up teams were there is a skills gap, and the intent of the Foundation is to help recognized and rewarded with US$1,000 per team. address it. During the year we funded a further 18 seats in the The SITA Air Transport Community Foundation initiative was Tshimologong digital hub – looking for a space for established in 2014, with the aim to provide access to ICT and entrepreneurs to learn new skills, access technology and education to young people in Africa. Since then it has positively hone their expertise to develop new business ideas. Since impacted over 83,000 young people in Ethiopia, Uganda, South 2015 we have funded 39 seats in total, with the entrepreneurs Africa, Zambia and Zimbabwe through projects delivered with starting 26 projects, 19 of which were still active at the end our charity partners. Primary, secondary and tertiary level of 2018. Of the projects, 15 have registered private limited students, young entrepreneurs and teachers have all benefited companies, and of these 15, six are turning a profit. from programs that include the provision of IT labs, teacher In the last four years, SITA has funded 27 students to do training and access to funding for education. 30 degrees (three students are completing second degrees). Our programs are designed to be sustainable locally and longOf the students, 14 had graduated by year end, five of which term. For example, by ensuring teachers have received training were completed in 2018. To date we have funded the following: specific to technology through the International Computer one student doing a degree of Bachelor, seven studying for Driving Licence program, they not only learn essential an Honours-level degree, 15 doing the degree of Master, and new skills but also earn a qualification that’s recognized seven to study at the Doctoral level. Of these, 17 students are internationally. still studying, while at least six are already working. All are in the disciplines of computer sciences, information technology, engineering or aeronautical engineering. AN ETHIOPIAN FIRST During the year our Ethiopia eClasses project saw positive results as eight members of the Amhara Bureau of Education (BoE) trained in six technology modules of the International THANK YOU SITA FOR Driving Licence Certificate (ICDL). The expertise gained has REKINDLING AN AFRICAN improved ICT skills among these BoE employees as they DREAM. WORDS WILL NEVER ADEQUATELY EXPRESS HOW become qualified ICT learning leaders. Their role will be key GRATEFUL I AM. to the success of the eClasses program as we roll out the Jules Ntumba, BSc Aeronautical next phase of the project with Computer Aid that will see Engineering 75 teachers at 25 schools across Amhara receive accredited ICDL training. 26 CSR REPORT 2018 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER COMPLEX TOPICS SUCH AS EARTH GEOMETRY CAN BE TAUGHT EASILY USING COMPUTERS AS THE LEARNERS MAY VIEW DOWNLOADED VIDEOS. COMPUTERS MAKE IT EASIER TO DESIGN WORK SHEETS THAT CAN EASILY BE FOLLOWED BY LEARNERS. Petronella Matanda Mutale, Ndeke Secondary School EXTENDING EDUCATION ACCESS NEW PROJECTS IN ZAMBIA IN UGANDA The start of the year saw a Zambia eClasses project We continued to support projects in Uganda with PEAS established across 10 secondary schools in Lusaka, in (Promoting Equality in African Schools). Throughout the year partnership with Computer Aid, SchoolNet Zambia, and three classrooms at secondary schools were converted to ICT ICDL (International Computer Driving Licence). By year-end suites and fitted out with brand new computing equipment. all the schools were equipped with computer labs, providing One of these will enable the school to launch as an A Level teachers and students access to computers and a host of Center, providing a much-needed opportunity for students e-learning resources. to further their education locally. Teacher training for modules in ICDL began at the We collaborated with the Costa Foundation to progress the University of Zambia in July with the Computer Essentials building work at one of the schools, through a shared goal of module, followed by Word Processing, Online Essentials, access to education. Spreadsheets and finally ICT in Education. The skills gained A further ICT suite was created thanks to a brand-new build at will help teachers to feel more confident using the equipment, a fourth school. It will enable the school to relaunch the A Level preparing and delivering lessons, and sharing knowledge center and will provide valuable access to computing skills for with their colleagues. students and teachers alike. The building of a brand-new PEAS school took place in 2018 in Throughout the year, 11 ICT suites already created by SITA Northern Zambia. It will provide education facilities for around across Uganda received equip ‘top-ups’ with brand new 500 students, with the SITA Foundation funded ICT lab being equipment. It has increased the number of workstations at a highlight, in addition to classrooms, science labs, kitchen, each school to 20 – meaning increased opportunities for sanitary blocks and a boarding facility for girls. Local workers students to participate in hands-on learning. are employed at all stages, from building to making the distinctive orange school uniforms. The learning continued with an initiative for teachers – a threeday workshop on ICT training provided to teachers from several The traditional ground-breaking ceremony took place in schools. The sessions included: troubleshooting ICT issues September, bringing together officials from the Zambian and maintenance of equipment, turning the ICT curriculum government, representatives from PEAS, traditional leaders into engaging lessons and delved into complex topics to which and hundreds of members of the local community. It was a day the teachers had limited exposure, such as programming, to celebrate the new opportunities that a PEAS school brings databases and website design. and feel the excitement in the Mungwi community. Our programs support the goals related to: CSR REPORT 2018 27 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER WE COLLABORATE WITH OUR CHARITY PARTNERS TO SHARE IDEAS AND OPPORTUNITIES AS WELL AS BEST PRACTICES. TOGETHER WE MONITOR AND EVALUATE THE IMPACTS OF OUR PROJECTS SO THAT WE CAN ADAPT AND IMPROVE FUTURE INITIATIVES – IMPROVING THE OUTCOMES FOR EVERYONE. Amber Harrison, Director, CSR, SITA ZIMBABWE SCHOOLS FEEL THE BENEFIT We also funded an E-Learner teaching resource to the 10 primary schools under a years’ licence. The E-Learner In Zimbabwe, an eClasses project has established computer platform enables teachers to provide pre-prepared interactive laboratories across nine primary schools, one secondary lesson courses in science, maths and literacy, (among other school, and one special-needs school in Harare through a subjects), in a way that also teaches ICT skills. Content is program with Computer Aid, World Links and the Computer developed in Africa, for African countries and uses imagery, Society of Zimbabwe. Following a refurbishment of the space, heritage and history familiar to the countries it is available and the installation of IT equipment, these eClasses are in. For teachers who have only just begun exploring how to currently providing technology access to over 17,000 students leverage ICT for the benefit of the wider curriculum, E-Learner across the 11 schools. The project is helping to improve ICT offers valuable examples and ideas, which teachers can either literacy skills which are critical to students’ next stage of their use as they are or adapt to create their own content. education and securing higher-skilled jobs, leading to more prosperous futures. See more at www.sita.aero/csr As well as providing the technology, three teachers from each school were given ICDL (International Computer Driving Licence) training in five modules covering computer essentials, online essentials, word processing and spreadsheets, as well as ICT in education. It’s worth noting that two of the teachers have since left their schools for new positions, however they both have roles where they are assisting with ICT at their new schools. At St. Giles special school, students with physical and mental disabilities have been using the computers to benefit their learning experience. Specialist software is now assisting those with visual impairments, and visually-impaired students have also been utilising the text-speech function. HIGHLIGHTS: THE SITA AIR TRANSPORT COMMUNITY FOUNDATION IN NUMBERS 5 44 83,000 COUNTRIES RASPBERRYPI STUDENTS WHERE PROJECTS CONNECT DEVICES BENEFITTING ARE ACTIVE INSTALLED FROM ACCESS TO IT AND EDUCATION 1,361 70 51.4% GIRL STUDENTS PCS ICT LABS INSTALLED EQUIPPED WITH ACCESS TO IT EDUCATION 28 CSR REPORT 2018 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER EDUCATION AROUND THE WORLD SOUTH AFRICA At SITA we believe education is an In 2018 SITA Johannesburg built the seventh in a series of investment in the future. We demonstrate computer labs for deprived local schools, this one at Academia this by supporting a variety of education Primary in Khayelitsha Cape Town. Our investment in ICT programs around the world that build education in South Africa to date totals over 5 million rand (US$385,000), representing 300 computers and benefiting skills in information technology and the over 8,000 pupils. Additionally, each year SITA provides fully air transport industry. paid one-year learnership contracts to enable young people to complete technical IT-related accredited programs and gain experience in technical operations at SITA and the airports. IRELAND We’ve granted 84 learnerships so far, representing a financial investment of just under 8 million rand (US$530,000). The University of Ulster (Magee) intern program at SITA Letterkenny has been running since 2010 and includes AROUND THE WORLD both recent graduates and undergraduates on third year placements. Our intake in 2018 included one undergraduate A SITA scholarship program at the Civil Aviation University of and six graduates. In 2018 SITA Letterkenny won the Placement China has been ongoing since 2014 with the goal to help talented Employer Award in the Ulster University Impact Excellence young civil aviation students to focus their study and research on Awards. We also partner with Skills@Work at Finn Valley science and technology related to the air transport industry. College to help local students develop employment skills such as CV writing and interview preparation. Through our Montreal office we worked through the year with local education providers including Université Polytechnique / HEC and others on activities encouraging young women to JORDAN pursue STEM careers. Volunteers from our Atlanta office In early 2018 SITA signed a memorandum of understanding regularly support Junior Achievement (JA) activities at the JA with Al Hussein Technical University (HTU) in Amman, Jordan Discovery Center Finance Park, helping prepare students for to develop the information communication technology pathways the realities and opportunities of modern life and work. for its students. Under the agreement, SITA and the university Read more about how SITA invests in the future through collaborate to develop and review curricula to ensure alignment education at: www.sita.aero/about-us/corporate -socialbetween technical education outputs and the requirements of responsibility/education the local and international technology markets. RUSSIA Our cooperative education program with Moscow State University of Civil Aviation (MSTU CA) continues to develop and attract students from Russia and beyond. Starting with 20 students in 2014, the program now caters to around 50 students and includes regular lectures on our products by SITA subject matter experts, SITA learning collateral, and participation in university science events. CSR REPORT 2018 29 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER SITA joined the Akshaya Patra Foundation in celebrating 3 billion mid-day meals in a ceremony attended by Indian prime minister Narendra Modi. INDIA Through our presence in India we are committed to meet our For the ﬁnancial year ending March 2019, SITA continued its corporate social responsibility requirements set down in the ongoing support for SOS Children’s Villages, Khushii, and the India Companies Act, 2013. In the year ending March 2018, SITA Akshaya Patra Foundation. An increased funding commitment India supported four education-focused NGOs with funding to 5,500,000 INR enables us to contribute to further charitable totalling 5,099,000 INR (US$72,843). organizations, including: • Khushboo, through which we will continue to directly This included a sponsorship for SOS Children’s Villages to support 25 children with mental and multiple disabilities; fully support quality education for 75 children in ﬁve locations across India plus funding for the charitable organization • Vikas Sahyog Pratishthan, a rural development organization Khushii for infrastructure support of a government girl's that promotes sustainable natural resource use, secondary school. A donation from SITA helped the Anchal organic farming, micro entrepreneurship, and female Charitable Trust to purchase teaching materials and equipment empowerment; and for children with disabilities and to host a workshop for the • Blue Cross of India, a branch of the international charity children's parents. that helps abandoned and ill-treated animals. SITA also supported the Akshaya Patra Foundation’s Mid-day Meal Program in Vrindavan and Bhubaneshwar and our contribution helped to feed 1,500 school children. We continued support for the Akshaya Patra Foundation by taking part in “Pledge to Nourish” in August-September 2018, their national campaign that aims to reduce food waste and ensure the hungry are properly fed. SGD goals supported with this project are: HIGHLIGHTS 84 7 124 LEARNERSHIPS COMPUTER FULLY PAID GRANTED TO LABS OPENED IN INTERN YOUNG PEOPLE IN SOUTH AFRICA PLACEMENTS SOUTH AFRICA IN IRELAND SINCE 2010 30 CSR REPORT 2018 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER GRI INDEX GRI DISCLOSURE REPORT PAGE MATERIAL ASPECT UNGC COP SDG COMMENTARY General Disclosures 102-1 4 102-2 6 Product and service innovation SDG 9 See www.sita.aero/innovation Operational excellence and See www.sita.aero/solutions-and5,6 SDG 9 customer satisfaction services/solutions Supporting sustainable Principle 8: 6,10 SDG 13 aviation goals Environment 102-3 4 102-4 4 102-5 4 102-6 4,6 See SITA Group Consolidated Financial 102-7 14-15 Statements 2018. Figures are at year-end from our HR 102-8 12-17 information systems. Employment does not vary seasonally. Principle 7 & 8: See www.sita.aero/others/orders-and102-9 10 Responsible procurement SDG 9, 13 Environment deliveries 102-10 10 102-11 8 102-12 8 See www.sita.aero/about-us/working102-13 6 for-the-community 102-14 3 102-15 4,9 102-16 8 Principle 10: 102-17 9 Business integrity Anti-corruption See www.sita.aero/about-us/sita102-18 4-5 board-council-members 102-19 9 102-20 9 102-21 9 102-22 4 102-23 4 Selection of the SITA Board and 102-24 4-5 Council is directed by the Articles of Association for SITA SCRL. 102-26 4 102-29 3 102-30 4 102-31 4,8 102-32 8 102-33 9 102-40 6-7 102-41 12 Labor and working practices Principle 6: Labor 102-42 6-7 102-43 2, 6-7 See www.sita.aero/air-transport-it102-44 6-7 review/trends See SITA Group Consolidated Financial 102-45 4 Statements 2018. 102-46 2 CSR REPORT 2018 31 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER GRI INDEX 102-47 2 102-48 2 102-49 2 102-50 2 102-51 2 102-52 2 102-53 Inside front cover 102-54 2 102-55 31-33 102-56 2 Management Approach 103-1 2 Environmental management Principle 7 & 8: 103-2 8, 18 SDG 7, 13, 15 and compliance Environment 103-3 8 Economic Performance See SITA Group Consolidated Financial 201-1 12 Local economic contribution SDG 8 Statements 2018. 201-3 12 Local economic contribution Anti-corruption 205-2 9 Energy Environmental management Principle 7 & 8: 302-1 18-19 SDG 7, 13, 15 and compliance Environment Environmental management Principle 7 & 8: 302-3 18-19 SDG 7, 13, 15 and compliance Environment Environmental management Principle 7 & 8: 302-4 18-19 SDG 7, 13, 15 and compliance Environment Water and Effluents Principle 7 & 8: 303-5 20 Environmental management SDG 13 Environment Emissions Reducing greenhouse Principle 7 & 8: 305-2 18-19 SDG 13 gas emissions Environment Reducing greenhouse Principle 7 & 8: 305-3 18-19 SDG 13 gas emissions Environment Reducing greenhouse Principle 7 & 8: 305-4 18-19 SDG 13 gas emissions Environment Reducing greenhouse Principle 7 & 8: 305-5 18-19 SDG 13 gas emissions Environment Reducing greenhouse Principle 7 & 8: 305-7 19 SDG 13 gas emissions Environment Environmental Compliance No significant fines or non-monetary Environmental management Principle 7 & 8: sanctions for non-compliance with 307-1 18 SDG 7, 13, 15 and compliance Environment environmental laws and regulations were received in the reporting period. Management of end-of-life Principle 7 & 8: 20 SDG 13 equipment Environment 32 CSR REPORT 2018 LET'S MOVE THE WORLD, TOGETHER Employment 401-1 13, 16 Labor and working practices Principle 6: Labor 401-2 12 Labor and working practices Principle 6: Labor Figures for continued employment 401-3 12 Labor and working practices Principle 6: Labor 12 months after parental leave are not available. Labor/Management Relations 402-1 12 Labor and working practices Principle 6: Labor Occupational Health & Safety 403-3 12, 15 403-6 12, 15 Training and Education Employee talent acquisition 404-1 13 Principle 6: Labor and retention Employee talent acquisition 404-2 12, 15 Principle 6: Labor and retention Employee talent acquisition 404-3 15 Principle 6: Labor and retention Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 4 Labor and working practices Principle 6: Labor 15 Diversity and inclusion Principle 6: Labor SDG 5, 10 405-2 16 Labor and working practices Principle 6: Labor Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 407-1 10-12 Child Labor 408-1 10-11 Labor and working practices Principle 6: Labor Principle 1 & 2: 11 Human rights Human Rights Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 10-11 Labor and working practices Principle 6: Labor Principle 1 & 2: 11 Human rights Human Rights Local Communities Supporting local communities 413-1 3, 6, 22-28 SDG 10 (where we operate) Other material aspects Supporting local communities 26-28 SDG 4, 5 (through our Foundation) Supporting local communities Principle 8 & 9: SDG 4, 7, 8, 13, 22-23 (through carbon offset) Environment 15, 17 Data protection and information 11 SDG 17 security Certification and assurance 8 of best practices CSR REPORT 2018 33 Geographic Offices For further information, Europe please contact SITA by +41 22 747 6111 telephone or e-mail: info.euro @ sita.aero Americas Middle East, India & Africa +1 770 850 4500 +961 1 637300 info.amer@ sita.aero info.meia @ sita.aero Asia Pacific www.sita.aero/CSR +65 6545 3711 CSR@sita.aero info.apac @ sita.aero Follow us on www.sita.aero/socialhub © SITA 2019 Printed by Technique Print Group using their environmental print technology. Printed on Forestry Stewardship Council® (FSC®) accredited paper stock.
