SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OCTOBER 2019 TABLE OF 1. MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR 2. ABOUT INTERCRUISES CONTENTS 3. INTERCRUISES SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES A. Increase stakeholders’ sustainability awareness B. Sustainable offices and services C. Promote sustainable destinations to clients and guests D. Promote sustainable development of suppliers E. Reduce carbon footprint F. Reduce discrimination G. Promote corporate responsible actions 4. INTERCRUISES SUSTAINABILITY BEST PRACTICES A. Human Rights B. Labor Standards C. Environment D. Anti-Corruption I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 2 1. M  ESSAGE FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 3 On November 15th 2012, This year, as part of our Sustainability Roadmap, we have strengthened our commitments in As a proud member of the UNGC, we are thrilled to further our commitment to its principles Intercruises Shoreside & order to have a more positive impact on the and Sustainable Development Goals, and environments in which we operate. This includes look forward to reviewing and evaluating our Port Services became a the following: progress along the way. member of the United • During 2019 Intercruises has signed two Nations Global Compact new partnerships, Mercy Ships and Great Barrier Reef Foundation, both are very Yours sincerely, (UNGC), and committed to connected with our sustainability vision and the Cruise Industry. integrating the principles • We continue developing new processes of the UNCG within its to control our sustainability performance within our operations. During Seatrade’s Olga Piqueras business strategy and dayevent in Miami, Intercruises won a pitch Managing Director competition for our ‘Sustainable Tour Intercruises Shoreside & Port Services to-day operations. Criteria’ concept. • As part of TUI Group we have incorporated We are pleased to confirm our continued new processes like the Animal Welfare support for the UNCG and renew our ongoing auditing program, an independent audit commitment to the initiative and its principles against the Global Welfare Guidance concerning human rights, labor, environment for Animals in Tourism is a prerequisite and anti-corruption, as well as the Sustainable for continuing to be a supplier of animal Development Goals defined in the 2030 Agenda excursions for Intercruises. for Sustainable Development. Our mission and values will help us achieve our goals to help reconcile economic growth with environmental and social responsibility. With this document, our sixth annual Communication on Progress, Intercruises is making a clear statement of this commitment with stakeholders and the public using our primary channels of communication. I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 4 2. A  BOUT INTERCRUISES I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 5 Intercruises is an experienced global business offering turnaround, shore excursion, port operations and hotel services to the ocean and river cruise industry. Cruise specialist teams handle all vessel, guest and crew needs, before, during and after a ship’s time in port. Services are managed from over 100 local offices by teams operating in Intercruises is an Official Partner of Travelife – an organization dedicated over 400 ports worldwide, encompassing over 50 countries spread across to promoting sustainable practices within the travel and tourism industry. the Americas, Asia-Pacific, India & Indian Ocean, West Europe, East Europe It is also an Active Participant of the United Nations Global Compact and Mediterranean. (UNGC) – a principle based framework dedicated to the implementation of better business practices, primarily in the areas of human rights, labor, the All Intercruises teams worldwide are supported by the Intercruises Corporate environment and anti-corruption. Intercruises has signed the Global Code Office, a central team comprised of specialist in-house departments, of Ethics for Tourism – a set of principles implemented by the World Tourism including Health & Safety, Finance, Marketing & Communications, Business Organization, considered to be a point of reference for key players in the Processes, Sustainability and Operations Support. The Corporate Office tourism industry. focus is support regional initiatives, ensure quality standards, enhance business efficiency, strengthen client relationships and facilitate business Intercruises is part of TUI Group, the world’s largest travel group. TUI has the development. expertise and resources to help us enhance service, diversify our products and improve efficiency. They also share similar values and areas of focus as Intercruises is an award-winning business, having received numerous Intercruises, such as digitalization and sustainability. We expect Intercruises accolades relating to service quality and innovation, including being the to continue growing and being successful as part of TUI. most successful business in the history of the Seatrade Insider Innovative Shorex Award as a three time Winner and three time Runner Up, Winner of the Seatrade Sustainable Pitch, Best Use of Technology and Best Excursion at Wave Awards and Winner for Most Efficient Shorex Agent & Tour Operator at MedCruise Awards. I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 6 PART OF THE CRUISE INDUSTRY Diamond Executive Partner since Associate Member for over 10 Exhibitor, Advertiser, Sponsor and (Formerly Cruise Down Under) 2013 and Official Logistics Partner years and Official Shorex Supplier Official Logistics Partner on various Member since 2011 at various events since 2014 at various events occasions since 2004 Associate Member since 2014 Service Member for over 10 years Headline Sponsor since 2011 China Cruise and Yacht Industry and part of the Official Steering Association Executive Council Committee Member since 2017 I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 7 P a s si o n PRODUCT/SERVICES t and crew satisfa gues ctio u i se a rt of ever ything n Cr the h e we i s a t do TO BE THE WORLD’S LEADING PROVIDER ns is OF SHORESIDE tio tent to n, s sco er vic d& PORT SERVICES tte or mi pe e, r com ble w or egar Fully dless ty i na circ usta Inte TURNAROUNDS SHORE EXCURSIONS PORT OPERATIONS HOTEL PROGRAMS umsta bili and s et n ces k pr hica Co a ac l l oc lia gr tice of it y s Re KEY STATS +50 +400 COUNTRIES FULL TIME CRUISE EMPLOYEES WEST EAST EUROPE & MED EUROPE & MED +400 +12,000 AMERICAS ASIA-PACIFIC PORTS ANNUAL PORT CALLS INDIA & +100 +278m € INDIAN OCEAN OFFICES SALES (last Fiscal Year) I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 8 For the last eight years, Intercruises 2011 2012 2013 2014 has pursued a more sustainable and responsible way of • IC Sustainability • United Nations Global • Cruise Gateway • Global Compact 1st Department Compact partnership Conference 2013, report doing business with sustainable shore • Save the Children • ISO 9001+14001 • BCN Waste its suppliers and the partnership Certification for excursions Management travel and tourism • 1st Carbon Operations and Barcelona Head • Green Commitment Ecolabel (BCN) • “Don’t Look Away” Management Child Protection destinations in which reporting Office Campaign we operate. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 • ISO 9001+14001 • Travelife Partner • New Sustainability • Global Code of Ethics • Mercy Ships partnership certification (including Certification for 12 Objectives and KPIs for Tourism • Great Barrier Reef PMI) offices • Carbon Neutral • Travelife Partner partnership • Interquiz Project Project certification for 4 • Winner of a pitch offices • STEP Project competition Sustainable Tour Criteria concept Seatrade Cruise Global I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 9 3. I NTERCRUISES SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 10 Intercruises integrates sustainability into its The sixth Intercruises Sustainability Report will focus on our sustainability roadmap, our sustainability priorities defined for the next few years and business strategy and tries to continuously their connection with the four areas of the Global Compact Principles and with the Sustainable Development Goals defined in the 2030 Agenda for minimize its impact to ensure prosperity Sustainable Development. for all. Intercruises uses its network of The Intercruises Sustainability Plan has established 26 goals under seven stakeholders to minimize the negative priority areas: impact of tourism in the communities in A. Increase stakeholders’ sustainability awareness B. Sustainable offices and services which it operates. C. Promote sustainable destinations to clients and guests D. Promote sustainable development of suppliers E. Reduce carbon footprint F. Reduce discrimination G. Promote corporate responsible actions I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 11 A. INCREASE STAKEHOLDERS’ SUSTAINABILITY AWARENESS We want to contribute to generating a positive impact within the tourism industry. The first step would be to raise sustainability awareness. UN GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE COMPACT 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 DEVELOPMENT PRINCIPLES GOALS GOALS ACHIEVEMENTS NEXT STEPS • Sustainability Policy New Policies / • Sustainability Process Sheet Sustainability Guidelines for local DMCs, operations and Manuals / Guidelines • Be greener in the office suppliers (Sustainability Management System Project) / Procedures • New Groups Policies: Integrity Passport, Animal Welfare and Child Protection • Global Compact COP 2018 – New sustainability report • New Sustainability report adapted to the Group focused on SDGs Sustainability Strategy • Memoria del Port de BCN • Compromís per a la Sostenibilitat Turística Barcelona Sustainability report • Report to UNWTO Ethics about the Global Code of Ethics Biosphere for Tourism • Port de BCN • Travelife sustainability report • UNWTO Ethics • Sustainability Communications – Emails, Newsletters – Webpage – Workshops – Social media • Smiles Academy: design specific slides for sustainability • Waste Reduction Week in the Onboarding training for all Intercruises Colleagues Awareness / training • Being sustainable in the workplace worldwide • GSTC Sustainable Tourism Training • Sustainability training for KAMs • Sustainability training for Tour Guides • Sustainability training for shorex • Clean up activity (Platja de Llevant) I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 12 S  ustainable Development Policy and Code of Conduct G  lobal Code of Ethics for Tourism signed MEASUREMENT W  eekly newsletter with sustainability information M  onthly report for the Board 9  training courses developed by the Sustainability Department HIGHLIGHTED ACTIVITIES Communications: internal and external • A/C and lights Jul 19 communications have been sent to help combat • HEALTHY OFFICE HEALTHY PEOPLE Jul 19 the biggest threats to sustainability. • CHILD PROTECTION Guidelines Launch Aug 19 • Plastic Free Breakfast Oct 18 • Intercruises supports greener cruising in • Paper Consumption Nov 18 Cannes Aug 19 • Global Compact report Nov 18 • Innovative Shorex Award: Marine Mammal • Casa Batlló Christmas campaign Dec 18 Center Aug 19 • Carbon Footprint offsetting Dec 18 • How Ships & Ports Adapt for a Greener • Banc des Aliments Dec 18 Future Sep 19 All plates and cutlery are • Keep Balm and Carry On: China CSR • Buena Práctica Aniversario ODS Sep 19 completely biodegradable! Workshop Jan 19 • Buena práctica WTD Sep 19 TIPS: • IC offsets carbon emissions in the Amazon 2 1 Jan 19 Intercruises also interacts with other stakeholders Bring your Don’t use the cups provided for hot drinks • IC awarded Special Recognition for to integrate sustainability into our activities. We own reusable cup like coffee or tea excellence Feb 19 attend different workshops and meetings: (they might look plastic but they’re not!) 3 4 • Integrity Passport Feb 19 Don’t use more Remember, disposable tableware • Case of Study Seatrade Mar 19 • Xarxa Barcelona + Sostenible than one plate is completely biodegradable, during the event! please don’t use the plastic bin! • MercyShips Partnership Mar 19 • Bones Pràctiques de Sostenibilitat Port de • Animal Welfare Guidelines Mar 19 Barcelona Join us in our Plastic-Free Challenge! • New Sustainability Posters Apr 19 • Plastic-free Holidays, Balearic Islands • Barcelona smells of roses! Apr 19 • Greener cruising in Cannes WE THINK GL BALLY REUSE REDUCE RECYCLE • Our Award-Winning Sustainable Tour Criteria • Seatrade Cruise Events May 19 • World Travel Market • Do Good, Feel Good Week Jun 19 • Grupo de Turismo Red Española Pacto • Clean-up campaign launch Jun 19 Mundial I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 13 B. SUSTAINABLE OFFICES AND SERVICES – CERTIFICATIONS We promote the fostering of more sustainable environment within our offices and operations, and strive to receive the acknowledgement of compliance and vailidation from official auditors. UN GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE COMPACT 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 DEVELOPMENT PRINCIPLES GOALS GOALS ACHIEVEMENTS NEXT STEPS Travelife Partner Travelife certification for our Sustainability Management 16 Travelife Partner Certificates certification System GSTC – Travelife • Sustainability Management System GSTC Recognized Certified – Shorex Travelife gets GSTC accreditation • Sustainable Shorex Evaluation Tool Certifications • ISO 14001:2015 for Barcelona ISO 14001:2015 • New Internal Sustainability Management System integrated Environmental processes follow-up certifications with Environmental criteria based on ISO 14001 MEASUREMENT 16 Travelife certifications worldwide (116 ports distributed in 12 countries and 1302 shore excursions developed) I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 14 HIGHLIGHTED ACTIVITIES Intercruises controls and monitors sustainability REGION OFFICES PORTS COUNTRY issues through various internal and external processes aimed at ensuring the validity and 1 Singapore 1 Singapore reliability of our sustainability management 1 Hong Kong 1 Hong Kong practices and reporting. Regular controlling Asia-Pacific 1 Bangkok & Phuket 4 Thailand and monitoring gives us valuable information on the results of our sustainability work and 1 Sydney 21 Australia is therefore an important element in our Marseille continuous efforts to develop our reporting and 2 10 France building a more sustainable world. Nice Ireland • Sustainability Management System GSTC 1 London 19 Recognized UK • Travelife Sustainable Certification 1 Dubrovnik 17 Croatia • Sustainability Monthly Report for the Board 1 Piraeus 25 Greece Mediterranean & Europe Travelife verified our sustainability commitment Barcelona 1 and consistent sustainable business practices Fuerteventura in a variety of areas, including Legal Compliance, Environment & Community Las Palmas de Gran Canaria 6 Spain Relations, Transportation, Excursions and Santa Cruz de la Palma 6 Destinations. Intercruises has reached the Tenerife Travelife Partner full compliance status with 16 offices worldwide providing services across Lanzarote 116 destinations. Canada Americas 1 Fort Lauderdale 11 We are working in the development of a USA Sustainability Management System that very soon will be GSTC-Recognized, that means that our sustainable tourism standard is equivalent to the GSTC Criteria. I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 15 C. PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE DESTINATIONS TO CLIENTS OR GUESTS We are developing our own Sustainable Standards for our services to distinguish the most sustainable products included in our portfolio. We want to influence clients and tourists to choose the most sustainable options. UN GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE COMPACT 1 2 7 8 9 DEVELOPMENT PRINCIPLES GOALS GOALS ACHIEVEMENTS NEXT STEPS • Create criteria and checklist to identify more Sustainable • Sustainable Shorex evaluation process launch Sustainable excursions Excursions • Sustainable Shorex evaluation process Certification by a • Select online Evaluation Tool third Party Contribute to conservation and Not Started UNESCO Partnership protection of World Heritage sites Facilitate trained • Wheelchair Training people, infrastructure, • Person with reduced mobility training in accordance with vehicles and excursions the (EU) 1177/2010 regulation Evaluate shorex according accessibility criteria for people with • Accessibility included in our Sustainability Management disabilities System • 302 employees have completed the “Assisting Guests in Wheelchairs” training program MEASUREMENT • 626 employees have completed the “Disability Awareness” training program • 23 employees have completed “Persons with reduced mobility” onsite training I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 16 HIGHLIGHTED ACTIVITIES At Seatrade Cruise Global 2019, Intercruises Eight Assessment Areas was selected from numerous entries and Assessment Process – A Team Effort three ultimate finalists as the winner of a pitch competition for its Sustainable Tour Criteria A central team of Intercruises sustainable concept. This step towards more sustainable development experts created an online shore shorex operations was described by the cruise excursion assessment form focusing on each of line judges as a “scalable and well documented the criteria’s eight areas. This form is completed process”. by local teams for all shore excursions worldwide, with results sent to the central team The Sustainable Tour Criteria was developed of sustainable development experts for review. with the following five objectives: They will then define which shore excursions • Promote sustainable principles can be considered sustainable and responsible, • Protect the destination making recommendations on actions that can • Foster a sensible use of local resources be taken to make a shore excursion more • Benefit the local economy sustainable. • Engage the destination community I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 17 D. PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT IN SUPPLIERS We will promote sustainable activities in our supply chain, rating their sustainability commitment while facilitating the necessary training and awareness sessions for them too. UN GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE COMPACT 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 DEVELOPMENT PRINCIPLES GOALS GOALS ACHIEVEMENTS NEXT STEPS Favor suppliers and • Animal Welfare requirements contractors who • Animal Welfare auditing program Create sustainable criteria to contract suppliers promote sustainable • Sustainable purchases guidelines included in our development Sustainability Management System Facilitate training for Communication / Awareness / training Sustainable Sustainability training for Tour Guides contractors Excursions 7,940 suppliers have been risk-assessed and another 5,415 are planned. The risk assessment includes Sustainability, Health & MEASUREMENT Safety and Legal topics. We have our Animal Welfare Guidelines which are based on ABTA (Association of British Travel Agents) and a unique auditing System to evaluate our supplier’s activities involving animals. Tours involving animals are evaluated with online or onsite audits, HIGHLIGHTED conducted by a third party (SGS). Through this auditing process, we are able to influence suppliers to make improvements in ACTIVITIES terms of animal welfare if necessary. If an experience does not conform to our standards, or if unacceptable practice is taking place, we would put a stop to sales with immediate effect. I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 18 E. REDUCE CARBON FOOTPRINT We continue to analyse our Carbon Footprint, establishing several reduction goals while incorporating compensation projects. UN GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE COMPACT 7 8 9 DEVELOPMENT PRINCIPLES GOALS GOALS ACHIEVEMENTS NEXT STEPS Calculate Carbon Carbon Footprint for Barcelona and Travelife offices (major • Group report for Carbon Footprint Footprint premises) • Carbon Footprint for Barcelona and Travelife offices • Best practices awareness • Waste Reduction week Reduce Carbon • Be Greener in the Office • Smiles Academy: Sustainability awareness included in the Footprint (Travel, • IT donation US onboarding training for all IC employees waste, water, energy & • Do Good, Feel Good Week • Smiling Office: Best practices & technology available paper consumptions) • New Sustainability Posters • Case of study: Plastic Bottles in the operations • Carbon Neutral Project, CECIC Zhangbei Dayangzhuang Wind Farm – Head office offset Carbon Offsetting • In 2018, Intercruises successfully offset over 263 tons of New Project to become neutral at our Head office CO2 emissions, in collaboration with the Madre de Dios Amazon conservation project in Peru I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 19 • Since FY14/15 we have reduced 35% of our Head Office Carbon Footprint • 812 tons of CO2e neutralized since FY 15/16 MEASUREMENT • Since FY11/12, paper consumption has decreased by 85% per employee • Electricity consumption has decreased by 15% since FY 12/13 • We classify more than 60% of waste generated to recycle it HIGHLIGHTED ACTIVITIES As part of a global initiative Intercruises celebrated the World Environment New Sustainability Awareness Posters designed for our offices: Day and World Oceans Day with Do Good, Feel Good Week, 3rd-7th June. REDUCE, GREEN OFFICE PAPERLESS REUSE, PRINCIPLES STRATEGY The daily themes and challenges were: RECYCLE REDUCE YOUR CARBON FOOTPRINT BUY SUSTAINABLE EAT SUSTAINABLE a Think before you print a Travel less for meetings and communicate a Green logos digitally (email, skype & phone calls) a Eco certifications a Reduce paper usage by 50% with double-sided printing a Reduce emissions via walking, cycling and a Fair Trade products using shared transport to commute a Reuse boxes and envelopes a Buy local and choose less processed food • Left-overs Monday No food waste. Get creative and use all of the food REDUCE: By reducing your PAPERLESS WORKING POLICY a Reduce packaging by using tupperware & a Read documents on screen instead of printing them consumption of plastic, paper and a Think before you print reusable cups a Print in black and white when necessary energy, you reduce the waste! a Reduce paper usage by 50% with doubleSMART ENERGY CONSUMPTION you have left, cooked or uncooked, and try not to have any food waste sided printing a Use natural light roll up the blinds! a Reuse boxes and envelopes a Watch the thermostat: No less than 26°C/79°F in the summer and no more RECYCLING than 21°C/70°F in the winter for a day REUSE: Don’t forget your reusable cup! a Don’t mix! One wrong item can ruin the a Avoid leaving devices on standby whole bin Make a sustainable choice by avoiding a Unplug devices when they are not in use a Dispose of hazardous waste correctly single-use items! (batteries, toner and light bulbs) • Buy Local Tuesday Check where the things you buy come from. Try for one day to buy only local products RECYCLE: Recycling is essential for the planet. Make sure you dispose of your waste in the correct bin! • Recycling Wednesday Reduce, Reuse, Recycle! Come up with a creative way to reuse items that you would normally throw away, and give them a second life • No Plastic Thursday Avoid plastic for a whole day! It is difficult, but WHEN YOU ARE ENERGY give it a go SAVING WATER CONSUMPTION • Low Impact Friday Try alternative forms of transportation, that are KEEP YOU ARE REDUCTION better for the environment, in your daily routine. SAVING THE CALM PLANET AND To minimize your energy consumption, make sure your laptop is on standby THINK mode when not at your desk and switched off completely at the end of the day! Don’t keep the water running BEFORE when washing up! Rinse only as Ensure all lights are switched off if you are the last to leave the office. YOU necessary! PRINT Watch the thermostat! No less than 26°C/79°F in summer and no more than 21°C/70°F in winter. I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 20 F. REDUCE DISCRIMINATION (WOMEN, YOUNG PEOPLE AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES) Intercruises aims to provide a work environment that all employees can enjoy; free from all forms of discrimination based on race, religion, colour, gender, age, national origin, sexual orientation or disability. UN GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE COMPACT 1 2 3 6 DEVELOPMENT PRINCIPLES GOALS GOALS ACHIEVEMENTS NEXT STEPS As part of the Group, Intercruises has participated Implement Equality in the global International Women’s Day campaign Pending: Group Equality Plan feedback Plan ‘#BalanceforBetter’ More contracts for • Establish new partnerships First trial with Adecco Foundation disadvantaged people • Ley General de discapacidad, compliance Promote Well-being Well-being activities included in our Monthly Employee Monthly Employee Activities activities Activities Percentage of employees according to gender: Women in management positions: • 56% Female • 34.5 per cent of managers in the first four hierarchy levels MEASUREMENT • 44% Male • 2 women on the Management Board • 3 on the Group Executive Committee I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 21 G. P  ROMOTE CORPORATE RESPONSABLE ACTIONS Intercruises’ engages with NGOs through different types of collaboration, from philanthropy to partnership, giving us the opportunity to invest in global Sustainable Development Goals using their expertise to create social change in the most effective way. UN GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE COMPACT 1 2 7 8 9 10 DEVELOPMENT PRINCIPLES GOALS GOALS ACHIEVEMENTS NEXT STEPS • Worldwide volunteering activities (workshops) • Acton Homeless Concern (UK) Corporate volunteering Promote volunteering worldwide • El Gran Recapte (Barcelona) • Lip balm sticks (Shanghai) • Together for Genova Costa Foundation Monetary and in kind Promote benefit to local communities through operations and • Mercy Ships Partnership donations continue with Global Partnerships • Great Barrier Reef Foundation Partnership I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 22 MEASUREMENT Last FY we donated 12,848 € to different • Mercy Ships: Intercruises has been official • Great Barrier Reef Foundation: In May projects and lately this FY, the donations have partners of Mercy Ships since 2019. Mercy 2019, Intercruises is making a donation increased to 23,493 €. Ships is the largest non-governmental towards the Foundation’s innovation hospital ship in the world and provides projects, which test innovative and high See the main organizations supported: humanitarian aid, such as free lifesaving impact ideas and new technologies that surgeries for people in locations where could help ensure the Reef’s long-term • Together for Genova: Intercruises has medical care is nearly non-existent. conservation. contributed a monetary donation toward Costa Crociere’s foundation Together for Genova. The foundation supports the restoration project in favor of the city of Genova, following the tragic collapse of the Morandi Bridge. I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 23 HIGHLIGHTED ACTIVITIES Banc des Aliments: members from Intercruises currently covered by the national health system. In the traditional St. Jordi’s day the girls from in Barcelona helped this organization by Lately in Barcelona we have collected 120 Intercruises Barcelona received a rose. The categorizing and packing the donated food, kg, equivalent to 60,000 plastic caps. With proceeds gathered from the flowers went to a which was then sent to families nationwide. this initiative we raise money for children and charity that supports children and the young This year Intercruises helped by categorizing additionally avoid the emission of 180 kilos of people of today. and packing 85,000 kg of food. CO2, equivalent to the CO2 absorption of 30 trees. The Intercruises Asia Teams have always enjoyed being creative when it comes to giving back to their local communities. This time round, several members of the Shanghai Team managed to come up with something totally original giving up their time to create 1,500 lip balm sticks from scratch. Around 1,000 of the lip balm sticks were distributed among We provide an excursion to Finca La Laja in Some of the staff at Intercruises UK have the students of several schools, while 500 Gran Canaria for 72 of the crew onboard the supported Acton Homeless Concern were gifted to the staff of the Pujiang Station Africa Mercy (Mercy Ships), while they were Foundation, with the main goal being to of Shanghai Immigration Inspection, Wusong on the Canary Island for the Dry Dock period. provide some positive help for homeless Station of Customs and the Wusong Kou Port in the area. They collected and carried to Group, as a small New Year gesture. the Homeless Shelter some useful items like shampoo, soap, hairbrushes, toothpaste, socks, coats, sleeping bags, water, etc. Intercruises Barcelona collaborates with SEUR “Tapones para una nueva vida” program. Caps for a New Life is a plastic cap recycling initiative that raises funds to help children receive medical treatments that are not I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 24 4. I NTERCRUISES SUSTAINABILITY BEST PRACTICES I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 25 A. H  UMAN RIGHTS • Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in the abuse of human rights. Intercruises is committed to treating people in a Intercruises seeks to support efforts to protect bribery and corruption risks; identifying and way that respects their human rights by operating human rights and strives to develop appropriate, monitoring negative environmental impacts; and responsibly and sustainably worldwide. environmentally and socially sustainable chains introducing/maintaining Quality Assurance and of responsibility and response mechanisms within Health and Safety policies and procedures in Intercruises is committed to providing human, our sphere of influence. their businesses where possible. in-kind and/or financial support to the local communities where we are present, optimizing Our Integrity Passport gives us guidance on how We also have included a Sustainable our social and economic impacts with the support to deal with the most important legal and integrity Development Clause in our contracts to assure its of our human team and network of partners. The matters in our daily work and also how to report commitment. aim is to generate prosperity and sustainable potential violation of our Integrity Passport or development in the communities in which we other compliance matters using the SpeakUp Line. Maintaining integrity in dealings with employees, operate. business partners, shareholders and the general Likewise, suppliers shall comply with the public is an indispensable part of our culture We establish some partnerships and Suppliers Code of Conduct. This Code serves and essential to maintaining high morale and collaborations with different NGOs to offer as guidelines to a standard of ethical conduct, producing fair, reliable and innovative products more support to people, especially those from values and principles expected from the suppliers and services. undeveloped areas. when working on our behalf. Suppliers are expected to uphold our principles by: adopting Intercruises is committed to sustainable, ethical accessible and clear policies and procedures to business in compliance with applicable laws, respect human rights and labor law; supporting conventions and regulations. local communities; identifying and monitoring I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 26 B. L ABOR • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Some of our people are often located in Our Integrity Passport serves as guidelines to of modern slavery and human trafficking from underdeveloped regions, like Mozambique, ethical working practices dealing with workers, occurring in its business and supply chain. Tanzania, Kenya, Cambodia, India, South agents, suppliers, and customers. Africa, Egypt, Vietnam, Indonesia, Cape Verde, No employee will be compelled to work through Maldives, Dominican Republic, Sri Lanka, Peru, Intercruises acknowledges the right to collective force or intimidation of any form. We prohibit Ukraine, and Brazil. Intercruises promotes bargaining and freedom of association, trade any involuntary employment, the trafficking of opportunities for women and men to obtain union membership, collective labor negotiation persons or any form of modern slavery, forced or decent and productive employment, in conditions and representation of members by trade unions bonded labor. We also do not tolerate any other of freedom, equity, security and dignity in line is not hindered at Intercruises. We support the form of inhumane treatment of employees such as with SDOs to achieve equal and sustainable freedom of association. The representatives of physical punishment or other abuse. growth for all at all times. workers can be the company’s employees, who form part of a union or group of independent As part of our contract with suppliers and in The company is in line with the labor principles employees. our Code of conduct, we include some clauses laid out by the ILO, and both the national and related to employment conditions: international regulations. It also operates in Intercruises understands that slavery can occur compliance with the sector’s collective labor in several forms, on March 2019 the Group has • Ensure compliance with applicable national agreements that applies in each country, published its third Modern Slavery Statement as law or industry standards, whichever depending on national law for the Travel a response to the UK Modern Slavery Act. It sets affords employees the most protection, industry. out the steps Group has taken to prevent acts with regards to fair employment conditions I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 27 including: written contracts, correct visa Intercruises implements preventive measures and Following the commitment expressed by the and working documentation in place, procedures to ensure that children are protected management to guarantee the efficiency of working hours, documented legal minimum from tourism related sexual exploitation and all the principle of equality of treatment and wage, safe working environment, vacation potential forms of abuse and report any incidents opportunities between women and men within the time, leave periods and holidays. and raise awareness of any identified risks to company, Intercruises ensures a work-life balance • Treat workers with dignity and respect as child safety involving guests, employees, and with some measures for the reconciliation understood and defined by the International or local children on or near the premises to the between work, private and family life: Labor Organisation or Applicable Law, relevant local authorities. Our suppliers also shall ensuring they can enter or terminate their implement the same preventive measures. • The company offers schemes for employment through their own choice and pregnancy, maternity and paternity leave access to relevant information on their The Group has signed the Code of Conduct for all employees, depending on national employee rights; for the Protection of Children from Sexual laws. • Shall not employ anyone against their Exploitation in Travel and Tourism (The Code • The company supports flexible working will, traffic in persons or use any form www.thecode.org) and will implement an Action times or part-time employment, for of slave, forced or bonded labor and Plan accordingly to protect children at local example, to support family obligations as promptly inform the appropriate authorities levels. well as to go on leave. where they reasonably suspect that any • It is possible to request additional individuals associated with their businesses Intercruises ensures that employees are not holidays to the statutory paid leave per are at risk of human trafficking or similar discriminated. We strive to create the best annum through salary sacrifice where exploitation. environment for employees to innovate, develop operationally possible. and perform. Decisions about hiring, salary Intercruises does not permit child labor. People and the like must be based solely on objective under 18 are only employed in accordance with reasons, rather than on the basis of personal national regulations and the UN convention on characteristics, such as race or ethnicity, national the Rights of the Child, ensuring that International origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, religion Labor Organization conventions are fulfilled. or conviction, or disability. We provide a working We have obligated our suppliers to honor the environment free of harassment. We include an measures within both the contracts and Supplier Anti-discrimination clause in the Suppliers Code Code of Conduct. of Conduct. I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 28 C. ENVIRONMENT • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We have embedded environmental and social to sustainability within our operations, across the goods and services in preference to imported considerations into business operations, because entire product life-cycle and with our colleagues, products wherever possible and reasonable. we believe it is vital to our company’s future – suppliers and clients. sustainability delivers cost efficiencies, improves As a leading company in the travel industry, customer experience and drives engagement of We encourage our suppliers to be more Intercruises acknowledges the level of public customers, colleagues and suppliers alike. sustainable and environmental responsible concern about the animal welfare. We are also using the Sustainable Development clause in our aware that animal related issues are becoming Since we have started to work under an contracts and with our Supplier Code of Conduct. more and more sensitive for our clients. If the Environmental Management System, we have Supplier shall commit to actively manage their Excursion Provider’s business involves animals defined more ambitious objectives year by year to overall environmental impact by aiming to reduce in any form, they must ensure that the ‘Global reduce our environmental footprint. energy, water and natural resource consumption, Welfare Guidelines for Animals in Tourism’, reduce the volume of solid waste, wastewater, Minimum Standards and Specific Guidance The Corporate Sustainability Policy establishes environmentally damaging chemicals, and Manuals are observed. Additionally, such the framework for identifying, monitoring and energy-related direct and indirect air emissions, businesses will ensure that all animals have been improving aspects of our company’s environmental as required by Applicable Law and regulations; acquired legally and in accordance with the and social performance. In the policy, we avoid the use of single use plastic and promote the Convention on International Trade in Endangered. formulate our view on sustainability, giving an recycling, reusing, or substitution of materials; and insight into our targets and the means to reach implement purchasing policies and procedures We apply different actions in order to raise these targets. The policy reflects our commitment which favour sustainable and locally produced awareness on sustainability topics of Intercruises I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 29 employees worldwide. We encourage our people • Sustainable merchandise: Sea2see glasses • Waste: paper, confidential paper, plastic, to save water, energy and paper and to reuse and made 100% with recycled marine plastic. bottle caps, lamps, E-waste, toner, batteries, recycle waste using posters. Regular sustainability large waste, general waste, sanitary bins, updates are communicated by email and In order to measure the improvements and glass, writing instruments and CDs. newsletters, available to all Intercruises employees. effectiveness of our Environmental Management • Consumptions: electricity, water, HVACR (air System, each year we set environmental objectives conditioning / heating), printed paper and Intercruises controls and monitors its environmental and key performance targets. purchased paper, batteries and toner. performance through various internal and external • Emissions: business travel. processes aimed at ensuring the accuracy of our Some sustainability actions have been taken this data and validity of our reporting. year. Those different actions have resulted in CO2 Climate change has encouraged us, to measure emissions reduction and other benefits. They can our Carbon Footprint and to implement actions to Whenever possible, feasible and economically be summarized as below: reduce it. viable, we choose sustainable office supplies. Some examples of our sustainable purchases are: Save paper by sending an Intercruises Season’s Head office FY 15/16 FY 16/17 FY 17/18 Greetings E-Card. Instead of printing some environmental KPIs • Office paper is 100% recycled paper. Season’s Cards we prefer to do it by e-mail, our Carbon Footprint 280 269 221 Business cards and calendars are printed on Marketing Area designed different cards to send (ton CO2) FSC paper. to our client contacts. Air travel (Km) 1.275.007 835.447 783.726 • Electronic equipment: Energy Star technology (in monitors, computers, An internal e-learning platform, Intuition, has Electricity (kWh) 83.856 89.929 92.272 laptops, printers and multi-function printers), been developed to create unlimited online courses Electricity (kWh/ mouse with wire instead of batteries, reducing at the same time our paper consumptions. 601 655 663 FTE) solar calculators, rechargeable batteries, Printed paper recyclable or refillable toners if available for The IT Team has investigated digital signatures 454.616 434.032 399.324 (Sheets) the printer and at the destination. as a solution for the validation and signature of Printed paper • Cleaning products: we ask our supplier to documenting process such as invoices, offers and 3643 3164 2.868 (Sheets) / FTE substitute the hazardous ones for those that contracts finally we have chosen Hellosign. The Reams of paper 850 725 733 are respectful with environment. simple action of approving a document can result • Sustainable catering: reusable cups, ecoin pages of printing, scanning and manual signing Reams of paper 6,86 5,29 5,26 friendly cutlery and plates, biodegradable processes, meaning as an environmental impact. / FTE and compostable. Landfill waste 45.330 48.783 48.588 • RPET Sustainable lanyards: used in the We constantly measure Intercruises environmental congress and events. performance in order to be able to implement our Recycling waste 63.487 72.507 71.914 • Eco-friendly Jelly Beans: with compostable objectives of reduction and set some actions in Hazardous waste 11,3 322,2 139,5 pots. order to correct some deviations. I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 30 D. ANTI-CORRUPTION • Principle 10: B  usinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. UN key commitments include substantially Intercruises is committed to ensuring that effective For the purpose of this clause, the terms and reducing corruption and illicit financial anti-bribery and anti-corruption procedures conditions and the translations hereby shall be flows, developing effective, accountable and operate throughout all of its subsidiaries and governed by, and construed and interpreted transparent institutions, and strengthening to continue conducting business fairly, openly in accordance with applicable local and access to information and participation in public and honestly with zero tolerance to bribery and international legislation and related procedures decision-making. Intercruises has zero tolerance corruption. and codes from time to time in force, including to bribery and corruption and gives particular but not limited to the UK Bribery Act 2010. focus to destination markets where perceived An Anti-Bribery, Trade Restrictions and Business levels of corruption are high and with an absence Ethics clause is included in all contracts with The Group addresses Compliance through its of effective anti-bribery legislation. clients and suppliers. Intercruises states that it Integrity Passport, Supplier Code of Conduct, takes a zero tolerance approach to breaches Anti-Bribery, Trade Restrictions and Business Our products and services can compete on their of international norms for trade, including Ethics, Data Protection and Information Security own merits. We do not accept, demand, or bribery and corruption prevention legislation and Fair Competition processes. In addition, promise any advantages that could influence us and applicable restrictions on trade, funds flow regular communications and trainings to in our decisions. We also do not offer, make or and financing terrorism. The Excursion Provider employees are performed. authorise others to make payments (or anything warrants that they do and shall comply with, and else of value) in order to influence a government their Associated Parties do and shall comply with All employees can report, anonymously and official or someone in another business to give our Supplier Code of Conduct and all applicable confidentially, breaches or misconducts using the us an improper advantage. Such bribery, as well local and international anti-corruption legislation Confidential SpeakUp Line, is operated by an as facilitation or »grease« payments, are not and related procedures and codes from time to external and independent provider and can be acceptable – irrespective of the local culture. time in force. reached by phone or email in various languages 24/7. I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 9 31
