1. Elimination of all forms of forced and OVOL Singapore does not use any form of forced compulsory labour or compulsory labour and all our policies are aligned with Singapore’s employment legislations. The company had signed the Employer’s Pledge of Fair Employment Practices which help companies to adopt fair and merit-based employment practices. 2. Business should uphold the freedom of July 2011 – August 2017 association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining (eg. We have embarked on a Workplace Health Workers right and protection) Promotion programme since July 2011 and received a bronze award for the Singapore Health Awards 2012 which recognises organisations for their commendable efforts in promoting workplace health and honours organisations that strives to help their employees lead healthy and vibrant lives. The Managing Director is interviewed and featured in the local SME Magazine in the article, “Going Green”, in the March-April 2012 edition. The Managing Director is interviewed and featured in the local CPA Magazine in the article, “Sustainable Growth ICPAS Council Member Genevieve Chua On Relevant Role of CSE In Business” in the October 12 edition. In March 2015, the company received a Gold award for the Singapore Health Awards 2014 recognising the company’s continued efforts in promoting workplace health and keeping its employees lead healthy and vibrant lives. The company organised free health wellness screenings and health talks for the staff in 2016 and May 2017. The company’s Health Facilitator also started Qigong Interest Group and the group had Qigong sessions every Wednesday/Thursday since December 2016. In August 2017, the company organised U SME Corporate Membership with National Trade Union Congress (NTUC) which provides welfare and benefit programmes for the staff. The programme provides the staff with access to training and enrichment programmes, workplace advisory centres, employability and professional development programmes and other privileges such NTUC insurance coverage, NTUC Social Enterprises, exclusive offers with merchant partners etc. Current In August 2018, the company had participated in the APEX Corporate Sustainability Award 2018 Note: With effect from 1 July 2019, Spicers Paper (Singapore) Pte Ltd and JPP Far East (S) Pte Ltd have amalgamated to form OVOL Singapore Pte Ltd. which recognises businesses that excel in implementing sustainable practices within their core operations. The award criteria align to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, encompassing the areas of environment, human rights, labour and anti-corruption. They also recognise the companies attaining the triple bottom line. 3. Elimination of discrimination in respect of Apart from our charitable works, OVOL Singapore employment and occupation (eg. Gender truly puts our employees’ welfare ahead. We are a and age fairness) signatory to the Tripartite Alliance for Fair Employment Practices to prevent discrimination in the workplace and to uphold the principles of fair employment. Our staff also participates in an annual corporate web-based training programme related to the Anti-Competition Act to encourage fair trading practices and business ethics. Such are; a) Continuous relevant training provided to all employees, from forklift training to customer service and technical training b) Financial and other means of support for promising employees who wish to further their studies c) Internal promotions and opportunities for career enhancements An example of studies and training is a recent sponsorship of 2 employees for an effective strategic selling course to enhance their capabilities in August 2013. In terms of internal promotions, the Regional Sales Manager became General Manager for Hong Kong, South China and Vietnam in April 2013. In terms of internal promotions, the Customer Service Supervisor became Assistant Manager – Customer Service and Sales Admin, and Senior Sales Executive became Assistant Manager – General Paper & Publications in November 2014. In October 2016, the company had organised Printing & Product Training for 2 Customer Service Executive and 1 Shipping Executive staff at the supplier’s mill premises in Changshu, China. In August 2017, the company had organised an inhouse Leadership and Effective Communication programme for 12 staff for their professional development. Current In April 2019, the company had organised a “Core Values” workshop for all management staff to Note: With effect from 1 July 2019, Spicers Paper (Singapore) Pte Ltd and JPP Far East (S) Pte Ltd have amalgamated to form OVOL Singapore Pte Ltd. discuss and establish what the core operating values are for the 2 combined Singapore businesses which will be important to guide business decisions and actions going forward as an amalgamated entity from July 19 onwards. The company had sponsored 3 senior management staff to undergo 4 months Professional Diploma in Leadership & People Management between October 2018 and July 2019. The course facilitated, developed and enhanced the skillsets of the participants through critical thinking and analytical skills in implementing changes and problem resolutions innovatively on top of their leadership skills to achieve organisational excellence and success. 4. Businesses should support a We are committed to providing our customers with precautionary approach to environmental product options that have strong environmental challenges (eg. Environment protection credentials. Our business is well positioned to and conservation efforts) meet these requirements. Many of our papers also bear the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) logo, which confirms the FSC certified wood used in their production. FSC is an international organisation that promotes responsible stewardship of world forest. We are proud to be the first paper merchant in Singapore to be awarded the Forest Stewardship Council Certification in 2007. In March and June 2012, we have been successfully re-certified under PEFC and FSC Councils respectively. With the re-certification, our PEFC certificate is valid for 3 years ended March 2015 and FSC certificate is valid for another 5 years ended June 2017. In February 2015, we have successfully re-certified under PEFC Council and the PEFC certificate is valid for another 5 years ending Feb 2020. In March 2016, the company had been rated as a CIPS “Rated Supplier” by Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply in UK for our sustainability index score. The CSI (CIPS Sustainability Index) ratings for the 3 sustainability pillars are 69% for Economic Pillar, 95% for Environment Pillar and 97% for Social Pillar. In June 2016, we have successfully re-certified under FSC Council and the FSC certificate is valid for another 5 years ending June 2022. In February 2017, the company had been rated as a CIPS “Rated Supplier” by Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply in UK for our sustainability index score. The CSI (CIPS Sustainability Index) ratings for the 3 sustainability Note: With effect from 1 July 2019, Spicers Paper (Singapore) Pte Ltd and JPP Far East (S) Pte Ltd have amalgamated to form OVOL Singapore Pte Ltd. pillars are 76% for Economic Pillar, 100% for Environment Pillar and 100% for Social Pillar. In June 2017, the company had co-organised a public awareness talk for PEFC Council together with Eco Business about the developments about PEFC and how it fulfils many of the UN Social Development Goals. A lunch talk with CEO of PEFC Council based in Geneva with the local printers was also organised. In March 2018, the company had been rated as a CIPS “Rated Supplier” by Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply in UK for our sustainability index score. The company also maintained the CSI (CIPS Sustainability Index) ratings for the 3 sustainability pillars 76% for Economic Pillar, 100% for Environment Pillar and 100% for Social Pillar. 5. Undertake initiatives to promote greater We conduct Eco talks throughout the year with environmental responsibility customers/organisations and have previously organised field trips for clients to our PEFC certified paper mills to spread the awareness of responsible forestry. We have also gone one step further in promoting the green message by offering sponsorships in support to companies that organise green activities. In August 2015, the Managing Director had been invited as a speaker at Konica-Minolta Connect 2015 to share the topic on “Power of Print in Today’s World”. The company had sponsored about $3,500 worth of paper materials to local NGO’s in support of promoting the usage of sustainable materials from September 2014 to August 2015. In November 2015, the Managing Director had been invited as a speaker at FujiXerox Seminar 2015 to share the topic on “Add Print Add Power – the Sustainability of Print and Paper for Communication”. The company had sponsored about $2,000 worth of paper materials to local NGO’s in support of promoting the usage of sustainable materials from September 2015 to August 2016. In August 2016, the Deputy Marketing Director had been invited as a speaker at Singapore Book Publishers Association Members’ Meeting to share on the topic on using Sustainably Sourced Papers. The company had sponsored about $2,500 worth Note: With effect from 1 July 2019, Spicers Paper (Singapore) Pte Ltd and JPP Far East (S) Pte Ltd have amalgamated to form OVOL Singapore Pte Ltd. of paper materials to local NGO’s in support of promoting the usage of sustainable materials from September 2016 to August 2017. The company had donated $1,500 to Corporate Sustainability – GCNS and sponsored about $1,400 worth of paper materials to local NGO’s in support of promoting the usage of sustainable materials from September 2017 to August 2018. Current In February 2019, the company organised a “One Less Plastic” campaign to encourage both its staff as well as customers to promote and support the use of recyclable bags to reduce plastic waste – a campaign initiated by Singapore Environment Council. The company had sponsored about $2,000 worth of paper materials to local NGO’s in support of promoting the usage of sustainable materials from September 2018 to August 2019. In October 2018, the Managing Director was invited as a panellist in the inaugural cohort of the Sustainability Professional Programme (SPP) to share on the topic, “The role of sustainability in business and the workplace”. In November 2018, the Managing Director was invited by GCNS to participate as a panellist in the GCNS Summit 2019 to share on the topic, “The role of sustainability in business and the workplace”. In April 2019, the Managing Director had been invited to participate as a panellist in the ChannelNewAsia’s CNA-SMU Perspectives, “Going Beyond Green – How can we be truly sustainable?” broadcast. In the programme, the Managing Director exchanged views among other panellists as well as the participants at the show. 6. Encourage the development and diffusion July 2012 – June 2018 of environmentally friendly technologies The company had passed the 3rd party Eco-Office audit and attained the Project: Eco-Office Certification in December 2012. The certification was valid till December 2014. It recognised companies for their efforts to raise awareness and cultivate environmental habits and practices within their workplaces. We participated in Toshiba Toner Recycling Programme whereby the empty used toner cartridges are collected and recycled by Toshiba Data Dynamics. We have returned a total of 9 Note: With effect from 1 July 2019, Spicers Paper (Singapore) Pte Ltd and JPP Far East (S) Pte Ltd have amalgamated to form OVOL Singapore Pte Ltd. empty toner cartridges between Oct 2013 and Aug 2014. We had returned a total of 12 empty toner cartridges (Toshiba and other brands) between Sep 2014 and Aug 2015 under Toshiba Toner Recycling Programme. In December 2014 and April 2015, the company had changed the high-bay lightings in the warehouse to LED high-bay lightings to further reduce the electricity consumption. We had returned a total of 21 empty toner cartridges (Toshiba and other brands) between Sep 2015 and Aug 2016 under Toshiba Toner Recycling Programme. In December 2015 and January 2016, the company had changed 13 floodlights to LED ones that provide night lights around the old premises to reduce the electricity consumption. We had returned a total of 18 empty toner cartridges (Toshiba and other brands) between Sep 2016 and Aug 2017 under Toshiba Toner Recycling Programme. In April 18, the company had installed 8 units of movement-sensored LED lights along the corridors of the ground level to further reduce the electricity consumption at the old premises. We have returned a total of 15 empty toner cartridges (Toshiba and other brands) between Sep 2017 and Aug 2018 under Toshiba Toner Recycling Programme. Current In June 2019, the company had replaced 30 existing office lightings to LED ones to reduce the electricity consumption after relocating to a new office premise. 7. Businesses should work against all forms Staff members participated in a 12-month webof corruption including extortion and based training programme relating to Antibribery Competitive practice and in compliance with the Competition Act 2009 section 34 and 37. This training is being conducted on a yearly basis. Our Core Operating Principles and Values such as “Compliance is mandatory”, “Trust and Respect” as well as “Sustainability” place emphasise on the importance of businesses working against all forms of corruptions, understanding the line that divides the right and the wrong, and not crossing it in relation to competitive behaviour, employee safety Note: With effect from 1 July 2019, Spicers Paper (Singapore) Pte Ltd and JPP Far East (S) Pte Ltd have amalgamated to form OVOL Singapore Pte Ltd. or environmental issues in particular, within the workplace. Our current core values under the new holding company remain similar. In April 2015, the company had managed to raise $1,500 in donations from the sales of paper placed in the month of January and February 2015 during our SG50 Charity Drive 2015 for SPD (formerly Society for the Physically Disabled). In August 2015, the company had received a certificate of appreciation for its contribution to RSVP Singapore during RSVP Donor Appreciation Day 2015. In May 2016, the staff participated in the RSVP Singapore’s Flag Day 2016 and managed to raise $231 during the event. On 24 July 2016, the company had supported the local Institute of Technical Education (ITE) for their Alumni Bowling Tournament 2016 event garnered to raise funds for the needy ITE students through the event. The MD has been serving as the Honorary Treasurer in a pro-bono volunteer capacity for RSVP since January 2017. RSVP is a non-profit organisation for senior volunteers and holds an IPC status – Institution of Public Character and is also recognised as the National Centre of Excellence for Senior Volunteerism under the patronage of President Halimah Yacob. On 18 February 2017, the staffs have participated in the RSVP Singapore Flag Day 2017 to raise donations for the organisation. On 9 September 2017, the MD had supported RSVP Singapore in their National Senior Volunteer Month public event which had more than 1000 attendees. On 14 September 2019, the CEO (former MD) will support RSVP Singapore again in their National Senior Volunteer Month and will be giving a public health talk at the event. Note: With effect from 1 July 2019, Spicers Paper (Singapore) Pte Ltd and JPP Far East (S) Pte Ltd have amalgamated to form OVOL Singapore Pte Ltd.
