5 November 2019 To our stakeholders, I am pleased to reaffirm RMA Group’s support of the UN Global Compact with the release of our 2019 Communication of Progress (COP). At RMA, we ensure the various businesses connect not only with our customers but also with the communities and environments in which we operate. ‘CSR’ or Corporate Social Responsibility starts with each one of us and RMA has always acted to uplift communities by doing our part in giving back. RMA remains committed to protecting the environment both within and outside our facilities. We encourage all employees to make that commitment. In 2019 RMA held a CSR event titled “RMA Says No to Plastic Bags for World Environment Day on June 13th, where environmental care activities were held to raise awareness on the importance of environmental protection and reducing the use of plastic bags. Out new group hotel the FCCC Siem Reap has re-opened in 2019 with a “no plastic” policy. Every step counts in our pledge for a better tomorrow. Our companies engage in community projects, featured in this year’s COP, that illustrate just a few ways we cooperate with the Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). We continue to work toward integrating Global Compact and SDG principles into our company operations and culture and look forward to sharing further progress in future reports. Sincerely, Mr. Kevin R. Whitcraft Chief Executive Officer RMA Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress RMA Group November 2019 UN Global Compact & RMA Group: Ideals United Nations Global Compact A strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of: Human rights, Labour, Environment, Anti-corruption. The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right collective bargaining; 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. RMA supports the UN Global Compact 2009 2010 2011 2012Commit to UNGC Internal Review Strategy Present Kevin Whitcraft, RMA assesses the Internal RMA Group CEO, impact of the Establish key organizations officially commits Global Compact on metrics and define strategic and to the UN Global the organization guidelines implementation Compact in an and works with key according to the ideas to support official statement departments to Global Compact in RMA’s commitment to the Honorable address the order for RMA to to the Global Ban Ki-Moon concerning areas track progress Compact adhering to the 10 and how to meet principles. the goals. Practical Actions in Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption Principle: Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human Rights RMA’s Commitment: Human Rights Strategic goals towards meeting the UN Global Compact on Human Rights Education is a basic human right. The wider dissemination of knowledge leads to greater equality and wide spread social development. Education • RMA has established a scholarship program for students with goals to improve their community. • Basic requirements: need based, academic performance, and social/business awareness. • Internship with RMA group/subsidiary for subsequent summer break. Supplier due diligence is a part of RMA’s commitment to finding fair labor and ethically sound partners. Ethical Sourcing As part of the due diligence, background checks of suppliers are done to ensure no forced labor or child labor was used in the manufacturing of products supplied to RMA. RMA performs background checks on all employees hired to ensure they are of outstanding character and do not Outstanding participate in actions deemed questionable to human rights. Character of Employees All employees are required to adhere to a code of ethics which encompasses protection of human rights. Human Rights Principles: Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Labour RMA’s Commitment: Labour Strategic goals towards meeting the UN Global Compact on Labour RMA employs over 7,800 worldwide from all cultures, background, and nationalities. We employ approximately 40 different nationalities from all continents. They represent a wide range of religious, cultural, political, ethnic and linguistic backgrounds. Due to some of our key geographical locations and the intensive Diversity manual nature of some of the work, male employees represent over 70% of the workforce currently. However, in some locations female employees represent 40-50% of the workforce , including professional and managerial roles. Fair treatment of employees is a fundamental concept and RMA recognises employees’ rights both under the laws of the countries in which we operate and through working with employee representative bodies and Fair Treatment trade unions. We actively work with such representatives, both proactively as a means to establishing fair employment conditions and where issues and disputes require management and staff working together to find solutions. Human Rights Most labor issues overlap with human right concerns. Therefore, RMA commitments in Human Rights are Labour stated with labor issues in mind. In consideration of forced and child labor, RMA will work on implementing in house supplier checks and by all measurable methods practice fair labor employment. Labour Principles: Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environment RMA’s Commitment: Environment Strategic goals towards meeting the UN Global Compact on Environment RMA is committed to adopting and pushing new environmentally friendly technology and processes. This includes researching and test phasing different approaches that improve the quality of the environment before implementation. •Oil Recycling: The customary removal of used engine oil in the Afghan army was simple. Dump it. RMA introduced an easy-toNew Technology manage solution that saved money and introduced the concept of reduced waste management. The oil was filtered and recycled several times, saving money and the environment. •CNG Vehicles: Alternative fuel sources have increasingly become most cost effective alternatives to petrol vehicles. RMA has partnered with some of the largest car manufacturers in the world to test and develop Compressed Natural Gas vehicles. RMA is involved in a range or charitable institution and programs, the most significant of which is the “2008 Conservation and Environmental Grants” program in Cambodia and Laos. The following examples demonstrate how we have employed the grants; 1) Provided an ambulance (Ford) to the Lao Association for the Poor, 2) A donation of US$ 6,000 to the Lao Association for the Poor to purchase rice following a drought in the south of Laos, 3) a US$ 10,000 donation to build a school in Prea Smach village in Cambodia, 4) RMA paid for the materials and RMA staff volunteered their time to renovate a children’s library in Cambodia, 5) Together with Ford, RMA provided and planted 2,500 trees and plants in Kampong Speu Province and Siem Reap, Cambodia to help reduce soil erosion in the area and ‘green’ the environs of the town, 6) Grants Provided 600 helmets to the Cambodian Dept. of Transport and Ministry of Public to help promote road safety. 7) Donated 250 helmets and US$ 3,000 to the Red Cross in Cambodia to support their road safety program. 8) Donated over 25 tons of rice, thousands of soy sauce bottles and packets of noodles over the last 3 years as part of the Ford Adventure event. 9) Donated boats and food to teams from under privileged backgrounds to allow them to take part in the Cambodian Water Festival. RMA is also a main sponsor of AIESEC Cambodia, a programme to build the human resource capability for Cambodia by empowering it’s youth the develop into youth business leaders. ISO 14001: 2004 Accreditation assures customers and neighbors of RMA’s commitment to minimize its processes in Certification product manufacturing that negatively affect the environment. RMA’s commitment will continuously improve the qualities of air, water and land. Environment Principles: Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti-Corruption Principles & Commitment: Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. RMA has developed Anti-Corruption training programs , which have been rolled out to all our employees. Education is Education the best tool to show the micro and macro impacts of corruption on an individual and the surrounding communities All business transactions and agreements go through an internal audit process to check for irregularities. The Internal Audit scrutinization process introduces accountability and ownership of concessions and deals made. This is RMA’s effort in pushing for greater transparency. Management Executive Buy-In is critical to any goal an organization looks to implement. Directors at RMA will regularly communicate Buy In the challenges and hurdles of corruption to their teams. Anti-Corruption RMA Business Ethics Policy RMA Group of Companies view themselves as modern companies in tune with the demands of a market in which buyers are increasingly concerned about the impact their own actions might have in terms of the environment and human rights. As such, RMA Group has introduced its own Ethical Business Policy with the aim of satisfying these customer concerns. Through it, we hope to ensure that we source our materials and services from companies whose own practices are governed by similar principles. Our policy shall be applied to suppliers of materials, spare parts and vehicle options, as well as our service providers (freight forwarders, etc). The aim is to ensure that due care for the environment has been taken during the manufacturing processes and that the goods and services are produced and provided in a manner which ensures that employees and communities have not been exploited. Anti-Corruption RMA Business Ethics Policy RMA shall strive to act as outlined below: • To maintain the highest standard of integrity in all business relationships. • To reject any business practice that might reasonably be deemed improper. • To foster the highest standards of professional competence amongst those responsible for procurement and supply. • To enhance the proficiency and stature of those responsible for procurement and supply by acquiring and applying knowledge in the most appropriate way. • To optimise the use of resources for the benefit of the organisation as a whole. • To comply with both the letter and intent of the laws of the countries being dealt with; agreed contractual obligations; and professional practice. • Goods and services should be purchased that are produced and delivered under conditions that do not involve the abuse or exploitation of any persons. • Not to engage with suppliers that sell or manufacture anti-personnel mines or components utilised in the manufacture of antipersonnel mines. • Not to abuse position of authority for personal gain. • Declare any personal interest which may affect, or be seen by other to affect, impartiality or decision making. • Not to accept inducements or gifts other than items of low value. • To always declare the offer or acceptance of hospitality and never allow hospitality to influence a business decision. • To ensure that the information given is accurate. • To respect the confidentiality of information received and not to use it for personal gain. • To strive for genuine, fair and transparent competition. • To remain impartial in all business dealings and not to be influenced by those with vested interests. Anti-Corruption Activities in Support of Broader UN Goals and Issues RMA Thailand CSR August 8th, 2018 Bangkok – RMA Group Introduces Travel Mugs to Save the Planet This year, RMA Group aims to reduce the use of plastics and paper in the office. We introduced the RMA Travel Mug as a free gift to employees in a selection of four colors. Staff can now use these mugs at participating coffee shops in Bangkok to receive up to 20% on their coffee for bringing their own re-useable mug. SDG 12, 13 RMA Thailand CSR August 15th, 2018 Bangkok AFS Scholarship Program 2018. Each year, RMA Group awards the AFS scholarship to a child of one of our employees, allowing them to study abroad and live with an international host family. This year, K. Bharama Tutanon, the son of Khun Puttipond Tutanon, the PA to the Modification Sales Director at RMA Group, was selected to study in Brussels, Belgium. SDG 4, 10 RMA Thailand CSR August 16th, 2018 Bangkok – Donations to The Mirror Foundation RMA Group executed the “1 Baht A Day Program” by distributing piggy bank from The Mirror Foundation to each departments. Each team will be donating money, and once the piggy bank is full. Collected money will be delivered to The Mirror Foundation to support the people in need. The Mirror Foundation is a non-governmental organization based in northern Thailand that runs programs in support of education, agriculture, disaster relief, and community empowerment. SDG 1, 4, 10 RMA Thailand CSR December 14th, 2018 Samut Songkhram RMA Group Cares for Senior Citizens. RMA Group, visited one of our differently abled employees who works at Bang Kon Tee Subdistrict Administration Organization as a janitor, and renewed his contract of employment. RMA staff regularly visit the village where he works and provide donations of food and money. RMA volunteers also provide their services in the form of physical labor for maintenance, odd jobs and gardening and in general lending a helping hand to the community. SDG 1, 2, 8, 10, 11 RMA Thailand CSR  February 20th, 2019 Bangkok 32nd Raja’s Fashions Golf Day. RMA Group was one of the main sponsors of the 27th Annual Charity Golf Tournament held by Raja’s Fashions at the Bangpakong Riverside Country Club. RMA has been sponsoring this event for many years and US$30,000 was collected. The proceeds go directly to building a new school in Ubon Ratchathani province, Thailand. This is 17th school building that has been built through donations from this charity fundraiser to date. SDG 1, 4 RMA Thailand CSR  June 17th, 2019 Rayong Mazda City Cares for Animals. RMA Group’s Mazda City organized a two-day giving back event attended by 15 employees. Staff from Mazda City branch in Ramkhamhaeng 69, Rama 3 and Mazda City Rama 4 joined hands and traveled to Sattahip, Rayong on June 16th. They first visited the Stray Doggie Cat Care Center to looking after cats and dogs that need extra love, and donated 3,500 baht to the center. This was followed up with a trip to the Sea Turtle Conservation Center at the Sattahip Naval Base. The employees learned about the diminishing number of sea turtles around Thailand and ways the Center raises turtles before releasing them into the wild. SDG 14, 15 RMA Thailand CSR  September 20th, 2019 Laem Chabang RMAA Springs into Action for Save Ubon Campaign. RMA Automotive, based at Laem Chabang, Thailand, banded together to collect funds for residents of Ubon Ratchathani, in northern Thailand, who had been hit by the worst monsoon flooding in two decades. The affected area was particularly large and impassable as the land is flat with little run off. Money collected by staff was handed to Laem Chabang Municipality representatives who had organized a relief convoy to deliver cash and donations. SDG 1, 10 RMA Cambodia CSR  June 13th, 2019 Laem Chabang RMA Says No to Plastic Bags. RMA Automotive held a CSR event titled “RMA Says No to Plastic Bags for World Environment Day. The campaign centered around reducing the use of plastic bags inside the ADC canteen and encouraging all 339 participated employees to make that commitment. Environmental care activities were held to raise awareness on the CSR event and on the importance of environmental protection. All staff members were given a specially made reusable bag that they can take to stores. A “Tree of Commitment” was also created for everyone to wrote down their commitments and hung it up on the tree. SDG 11, 12, 13 RMA Cambodia CSR  February 23rd, 2019 Phnom Penh Hako and Avis Cambodia Join National Cleaning Day. RMA Cambodia’s Hako and Avis participated in National Cleaning Day near Independence Monument and in the Khan Chamkarmon neighborhood. 20 dedicated staff from the Special Products and AVR division spent the day cleaning up around Independence Monument, encouraging others to follow suit. The Hako Citymaster Street Cleaner was brought out to deep-clean the roads from Wat Botum Park to Independence Monument, helping volunteers cover hard-to-reach areas with its versatile cleaning features. RMA Cambodia’s organized cleaning days have reminded the public about the importance of environmental upkeep in the city and will be continued throughout 2019. SDG 11, 12 RMA Cambodia CSR  March 15th, Pursat 2019 Ford Donation Furthers Education in Cambodia. RMA Cambodia Ford Division organized a community service activity to improve the lives of schoolgoers in impoverished Pursat Province. Ford staff volunteers, in partnership with AIT Alumni Association Cambodia Chapter, painted classrooms, planted shade trees on the school grounds, laid out gardens in the pre school area, provided new desks and chairs, as well as new school bags, books and toys. The Ford volunteers worked relentlessly during the hottest time of the year and succeeded in their efforts to create a fresh environment for learners benefiting their learning, emotions and health. SDG 1, 3, 4, 10, 15 RMA Cambodia CSR  March 30th, 2019 Phnom Penh RMAC Keeps City Streets Clean. RMA Cambodia organized a cleaning day along the river bank of Chroy Changva joined by Ngorn Saing, CEO of RMA Cambodia, and 500 staff. The RMA team completed a four-hour large scale cleanup of the street, sidewalk and river bank to promote litter-free public spaces. 20 RMA branded trash bins were also donated to the local community, helping foster urban cleanliness and to raise awareness on environmental protection. SDG 11, 12, 13 RMA Cambodia CSR  March 15th, 2019 Kampong Chhnang – Ford Cambodia Pushing For Safer Roads on New Year. RMA Cambodia is helping the Kampong Chhnang province keep driver safety at the forefront of their the Khmer New Year celebrations. Together with Ford Cambodia, RMAC sponsored 200 motorcycle helmets at the Kampong Chhnang Provincial Hall. The New Year continues to be riddled with road accidents as traffic increases and more people drive under the influence. Implementing safe driving practices helps reduce the number of fatal accidents. Wearing a helmet can reduce a driver’s risk of death by 37%. Our team reinforced these stats along with safer driving messages at the handover ceremony. SDG 3, 11 RMA Cambodia CSR  May 31st, 2019 Phnom PenhThe Gift That Saves Lives. The RMA Cambodia team spent a sunny Friday afternoon showing the world that anyone can save lives by donating blood. 40 employees and management staff gathered at the Kantha Bopha Hospital to donate blood and raise awareness on the impact of this lifesaving gift. RMA Cambodia donated 27 units of blood that will go directly to helping children in emergency cases including accidents and illnesses. This can help to ensure hospitals like Kantha Bopha have enough blood supply to continue their life saving work. To round up the day, staff handed out Krispy Kreme doughnuts to children and parents waiting for treatment, which lit up the room with smiles. SDG 3 RMA Cambodia CSR  July 17th, 2019 Phnom Penh RMAC Keeps Phnom Penh Clean. RMA Cambodia staff put together a dustbin donation day for the Sangkat Chroy Chongva district on July 17th. 3 RMAC representatives handed over 70 RMA branded dustbins to be distributed at Sangkat Chroy Chongva, showcasing the Group’s commitment to urban cleanliness and improving the community environment. Mao Buntha. Chief of Sangkat Chroy Chongva, and other representatives from Sangkat Chroy Chongva were handed the new bins. SDG 3, 11, 12 RMA Cambodia CSR  September 17th, 2019 Phnom Penh – EMCAT Pledges to Reduce Plastic in All Airport Outlets. EMCAT Cambodia joined hands with Cambodia Airports for a campaign aimed at reducing plastic use and signed a memorandum promising that each EMCAT outlet will engage in eco-friendlier operations. EMCAT plans to stop providing customers with plastic bags, glasses and straws and remove all single-use plastics from onsite meals. Some outlets have already made the switch to paper straws with signs to notify customers. Other EMCAT signs highlight the harm that plastic causes. SDG 11, 12, 13 RMA Lao CSR  February 21st, 2019 – Her Works at Lao Land Rover Charity Auction. Lao Land Rover showroom hosted the Her Works Fashion Show for charity, spotlighting Lantan ethnic Laos clothing. Her Works’ fashion show was a part of a longer running campaign, ‘Love for Lantan,’ to support the Lantan community’s financial conditions as well as to train them to modernize design and colouring aspects to compete in the international markets. Money was raised through the auction of clothes, souvenirs, fashion accessories and home décor items. The aim was to raise LAK1.9 million. SDG 1, 8, 10 RMA Myanmar CSR  February 10th, 2019 Yangon EFG Cleans Up Yangon Streets. EFG Myanmar helped the local community of the Sangchuang Township in Yangon by cleaning the streets surrounding the Dagan Center, where EFG launched its first restaurant in 2014. 200 staff members from TPC and Swensen’s participated in the event, making it one of EFG Myanmar’s biggest cleanup in Yangon. EFG Myanmar initiated this idea to emphasize the importance of CSR and to safeguard the Yangon environment. SDG 3, 11, 12 RMA Myanmar CSR  May 18th, 2019 Yangon RMA Myanmar Gives Back to the Community. Over 50 RMA Myanmar staff members joined in for a full day of giving back at the Sacred Tooth Relic Pagoda in Mayangone Township and its surrounding community. The day began with pouring holy water on the Pagoda tree a traditional Burmese practice that’s an important sign of respect. Staff members handed out kyauk kyaw, a beloved Burmese coconut dessert, to people living near the pagoda. RMA Myanmar is committed to making a positive impact in Myanmar. SDG 3, 11 RMA Myanmar CSR  July 23rd, 2019 Yangon Taking Action for a Greener Myanmar. As part of their commitment to making Myanmar a more eco-friendly, greener country, Ford Myanmar is holding a ‘Green Myanmar’ initiative from July 15th to August 15th. During the onemonth period, all customers bringing their vehicles to Ford Yangon and Mandalay service centers for a service, repair or parts purchase will be offered one tree or flower plant as a free-of-charge gift. Each customer can choose between a mango, guava or thanatkhar tree plant if they live on a larger plot of land, or a rose, jasmine or kiss me quick plant if they’re in an apartment or condo in the city. The best part for customers is that they’ll be able to take action for a greener Myanmar completely free of charge with their new plant. SDG 3, 11, 13, 15 RMA Myanmar CSR  August 7th, 2019 Yangon RMA Myanmar Makes Life Saving Donations. RMA Myanmar organized a blood drive at the National Blood Center in Yangon. 40 generous staff members contributed 18,000cc of blood, which was delivered to the National Blood Donation Room. It will be used to treat patients in need, ranging from accident victims to those with life-threatening illnesses. SDG 3 RMA Myanmar CSR  August 18th, 2019 Mottama – Emergency Flood Relief in Mon State, Myanmar. Capital Automotive Ford Myanmar organized a relief drive to the badly affected community at Mottama in Mon State when sudden flash flooding paralyzed most of the region. Capital Automotive staff volunteered their weekend and had the support of The Voice Winner, Novem Htoo, who participated in the convoy to join aid workers from the Mon association. The affected area is a full day’s drive on virtually impassable roads that were best suited Ford Rangers. Donated items included blankets, baby clothing, rice, first aid kits and a cash donation. Ford Myanmar staff directly engaged with affected victims and lending a helping hand. SDG 1, 2, 3, 10 RMA Myanmar CSR  August 30th, 2019 Yangon RMA Myanmar Lends a Helping Hand to Mawlamying Flood Victims. RMA Myanmar and EFG franchisee, The Pizza Company, joined hands to raise donations for victims of the recent floods in Mawlamying. EFG held a fundraiser, managed by three volunteers on August 22nd, collecting and selling their kitchen necessities including cups, plates and kitchenware. On August 30th, seven representatives from RMA Myanmar delivered the collected funds to the firefighting team, who have been working closely with Mawlamying flood victims. SDG 1, 2, 10 RMA Myanmar CSR  September 22nd, 2019 Yangon EFG Brightens up Students’ Day. EFG Myanmar franchises The Pizza Company and Swensen’s held a ‘Share Food, Share Motivation’ CSR activity, brightening up the day of children from the Kyaik Waing Boys Training School & Disabled Care Center. EFG entertained the children and made financial donations to the school, supporting the education of hundreds of children. SDG 1, 3, 4 Minecorp Australia CSR  May 23rd, 2019 Melbourne Striving for a Cancer-Free World. Minecorp participated in Australia’s Biggest Morning Tea by bringing colleagues or community together over some tea and treats, and help fund Cancer Council’s life-saving research, prevention, support programs, and information. Minecorp runs a number of fund raising activities in conjunction with the event, including a MasterChef competition where employees submit their cooking for judging, a number of guessing games and closest to the jug throwing competition. This year, Minecorp raised $250 from the Australia’s Biggest Morning event, and donate to Anti-Cancer Council of Australia. SDG 1, 3 RMA Turkey CSR  June 17th, 2019 Turkey RMA Turkey Holds Bring Your Child To Work Day. RMA Turkey organize a day full of fun activities for 17 staff children came into the office and the day was off to a great start as they painted, made their own kites and pencil cases, and inflated balloons. The kids were all served with pizza for lunch. And the older children had the chance to learn more about RMA Group and the business from team members. One of the highlights of the afternoon was a ride in the Ford Transit vehicle, which concluded the fun-packed day. SDG 1, 4, 8, 10 UNGC & RMA: Moving forward for 2019-20 • Improve measurement of progress on UN Global Compact goals. • Continue to implement anti-corruption e-training and situational training throughout the organization. • Review supplier audit policies for procurement to take into consideration UNGC principles on child and fair labour recommendations. • Share case studies and success stories with Group subsidiaries in order to increase awareness and generate action. • Continue to communicate and encourage Global Compact values into corporate culture and among employees.
