Report 2019 Contents Editorial Policy ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p1 Prominence in CS & Quality ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥ p120 Scope of the CSR Report 2019 ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥ p2 Medium-term Plan ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p124 Creating Attractive Products and Services ‥p127 Top Message ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p3 Improving Quality ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p138 Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR Prominence in Human Resources ‥ ‥‥ p147 Our Company ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p5 Diversity Management ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p148 Our Approach to CSR ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p9 Building a Diverse Organizational CSR Promotion System ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p10 Structure ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p149 Basic Policies Regarding CSR ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p11 Allowing Diverse Human Resources Sekisui Chemical Group to Excel ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p157 Human Rights Policy ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p18 Basis for Fostering Personnel ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p172 Key CSR Issues ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p20 Data on Employees ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p177 CSR Medium-term Plan ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p24 Declaration of Support for Initiatives and Pledge to Society ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p180 Organizations in Which Sekisui Chemical Group Working Environment ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p181 Participates ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p32 Safety ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p192 SDGs Initiatives ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p34 Compliance and Respect for Human Rights ‥p205 Prominence in Environment ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥ p36 Stakeholder Engagement ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥ p220 Promotion System ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p37 Long-term Environmental Management Governance‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p228 Vision Sekisui Environment Sustainability Governance and Internal Control ‥‥‥‥‥ p228 Vision 2030 ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p38 Risk Management ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p241 E n v i ro n m e n t a l M e d i u m t e r m P l a n S e k i s u i Cyber Security ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p249 Environment Sustainability Plan: Accelerate (Fiscal 2017-2019) ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p39 Social Contribution Activities ‥ ‥‥‥‥ p252 Integrated Index Sekisui Environmental Environment ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p260 Sustainability Index ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p46 Next Generation ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p266 Environmental Management System ‥ ‥‥ p50 Local Communities ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p277 Environmental Education ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p55 Environmental Accounting ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p59 External Evaluation ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p284 Usage of Natural Capital ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p63 GRI Context Index ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p286 Climate Change ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p64 Efficient Use of Resources ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p77 Independent Practitioner's Assurance Conservation of Water Resources ‥‥‥‥‥ p83 Report ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p351 Chemical Substance Management ‥ ‥‥‥ p91 Environmental Impact Assessment ‥ ‥‥‥ p97 References ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p352 Material Balance ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p98 Contributing to Return of Natural Capital ‥ ‥ p99 Environment-Contributing Products ‥ ‥ p100 Conserving the Natural Environment -Biodiversity‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p107 Editorial Policy Editorial Policy •“The CSR Report 2019” is published with the goals of informing stakeholders about Sekisui Chemical Group's social responsibilities and the various initiatives in which it is involved to resolve social issues and of increasing public understanding of the Group’s activities. ・The report consists of the CSR philosophies set forth in Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR Medium-term Plan drawn up in 2017, namely “Three Prominences (“Environment,” “CS & Quality,” and “Human Resources”),” “Pledge to Society” (“Working Environment,” “Safety,” and “Compliance and Respect for Human Rights”), “Stakeholder Engagement,” and “Governance” — along which lines this report has been built. ・The information posted here has been decided upon in reference to various report-drafting guidelines, based on internal and external surveys and third-party reviews, and in consideration of what is important for both society and Sekisui Chemical Group. ・“The CSR Report 2019” has been edited with an anticipated readership of all stakeholders involved with Sekisui Chemical Group, particularly institutions that evaluate ESG and long-term investors. ・In order to ensure that information is both comprehensive and easy to read, this CSR Report 2019, which contains all information relating to the CSR activities of Sekisui Chemical Group, has been centrally consolidated and posted to the CSR section of the Company’s website. The Report is provided in the two PDF and HTML formats. The “CSR Report 2019 PDF Edition”, which has the same content as the Web Edition, can be obtained from the PDF download page. ・The standards used for calculating the major reported performance indicators are compiled together and listed after each set of performance data. ・To ensure reliability, the environmental and social information in the Japanese version of “CSR Report 2019 PDF Edition” has been assured by a third-party organization. Guidelines Used for Reference, etc. ・GRI Standards 2016 ・The Ministry of the Environment's “Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2018 Edition)” ・ISO26000 (Guidance Regarding Social Responsibility) ・10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact 1 Scope of the CSR Report 2019 Scope of This Report Entities Encompassed by This Report :The basic function of this Report is to comment on the activities of Sekisui Chemical Group, focusing chiefly on the business facilities that play key roles in those activities. Timeframe Encompassed by This Report : April 2018-March 2019 (Includes some activities that occurred outside this timeframe.) Published : June 2019 (Previous report was published July 2018 / Next report is scheduled for publication in July 2020) Scope of Independent Practitioner's Assurance The environmental and social information in the Japanese version of “CSR Report 2019 PDF Edition” has been assured by a third-party organization. Information that falls within the scope of independent practitioner's assurance is identified by a mark. Please refer to page 351 of the Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report for details. Disclaimer Readers are requested to note the following: The information in the “CSR Report 2019” includes not only past and present facts concerning Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd, and its affiliates but also future forecasts based on current plans and projections and management plans and management policies as of the time of publication. Changes in various factors could cause the results of business activities in the future and other circumstances to differ from these forecasts. Also, since the figures in the tables and graphs contained in this report have been adjusted through rounding off and other means, in some cases total figures may not be equal to the sums of their parts. In addition, for some items data for past fiscal years has been revised in line with expansion in the scope of summation, revision of calculation methods, and changes to environmental load coefficients. 2 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Top Message TOP MESSAGE Through its prominence in technology and quality Sekisui Chemical Group will open up new frontiers and help to improve people's lives and the global environment. In this manner, we will maintain our strong corporate presence for 100 years and beyond. President and Representative Director Sekisui Chemical Group engages in business activities underpinned by the “3S principles” embodied in its Corporate Philosophy and is guided by its Group Vision of “contributing to the improvement of people’s lives around the world and the Earth’s environment.” To realize the Group Vision, we have endeavored to solve social issues through our prominent technology and quality while contributing to the SDGs aimed at realizing a sustainable society. Moreover, we have positioned ESG (Environment, Social, and Governance) concerns at the heart of our management strategies so that we may continue to give back significantly to stakeholders by creating meaningful social value and remaining a corporate group with a strong presence. Sekisui Chemical Group positioned fiscal 2018, the second year of its SHIFT2019 -Fusionmedium-term management plan, as a core year and worked diligently to pursue the Plan’s SHIFT (Sustainable, Human resources, Innovation, Frontier, Transformation) focus. As a result, Sekisui Chemical Group achieved record-high net income for a sixth consecutive year owing to sales growth for high-value-added products and releasing new items. As for new businesses, we have engaged in urban development activities involving ASAKA Leadtown at the old Tokyo Plant site and saw progress in the development of large-scale biorefinery operations that transform waste into ethanol. We anticipate that these businesses will accelerate further going forward. Meanwhile, as far as the future is concerned, we assume operating conditions will remain severe on the whole, as a rapid recovery in automobile and smartphone production volumes looks unlikely, while the consumption tax hike is expected to impact new housing starts in Japan. Nevertheless, we aim for record-high profits in fiscal 2019 by pursuing M&A, strategic investment, forward-looking investment (including new product/business creation) and constant structural reform. We are steadily advancing ESG initiatives that include acquiring certification under the SBT Initiative aimed at reducing greenhouse gases, increasing the percentage of revenue from Environment-Contributing Products that facilitate the achievement in SDGs, reducing the incidence of occupational injuries, promoting health and productivity management, expanding the legal functions of the Asia/Oceania regional headquarters, and revising our human rights policies. We will accelerate our initiatives to reach the targets under the medium-term management plan in fiscal 2019, the final year. Top Message 3 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities There are currently many unprecedented global social problems such as climate change, deteriorating social infrastructure, raw resource/energy issues, and super aging societies. However, we are confident that we can leverage our prominent technology and quality to make a significant contribution to solving these issues. Looking ahead, Sekisui Chemical Group will implement our Corporate Philosophy “3S principles” and Group Vision to directly deal with global social problems and, in turn, help create a sustainable society. Top Message 4 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Our Company Globally rolling out diverse businesses that create social value based on three Group companies Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Plastics Company Environmental Products Company Housing Company Housing business : Steel-framed unit housing Sekisui Heim, wooden-framed unit housing Sekisui Two-U Home, land for sale in lots Housing Renovation business : Sekisui Fami-S Real Estate business : Second-hand distribution, rental management Residential Services business : Homes for the elderly with services, interiors, exteriors, etc. Business Value Chain Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 5 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Pipes and Infrastructure field : PVC pipes and joints, polyethylene pipes and joints, plastic valves, pipe rehabilitation materials and methods, reinforced plastic complex pipes, water tanks Building and Living environment field : Construction materials (guttering, exterior materials), heat-resistant materials, functional mats, care instruments, bathroom units Advanced Materials field : Decorative seats, synthetic wood (FFU), thermoplastic CFRP, soundproof vibration-suppressing materials, blow containers, farming and construction materials Business Value Chain Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 6 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities High Performance Plastics Company Electronics field : Liquid crystal particles, photosensitive materials, semiconductor materials, optical film, industrial tape Automobiles and Transportation field : Interlayer film for laminated glass, foam polyolefins, vehicle resin and rubber molded products, industrial tape, heat dissipation materials (grease and sheets) Building and Infrastructure field : Functional resin for infrastructure materials, flame-resistant materials, foam polyolefins, non-flammable polyurethane, polyurethane, livestock panels Life Science field : Reagents, examination instruments, pharmaceuticals, drug manufacture support business, hygiene materials Other industrial fields : Adhesives, wrapping tape, plastic containers, polyvinyl alcohol resin Business Value Chain Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 7 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Sekisui Chemical Group Worldwide Europe Asia / Oceania (including China) Japan America Companies: 17 Companies: 44 Companies: 78 Companies: 15 Employees: 958 Employees: 4,570 Employees: 19,464 Employees: 1,494 Key:● Housing Company ● Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company ● High Performance Plastics Company ● Headquarters Totals: 154 companies, 26,486 employees * Figures current as of the end of March 31, 2019 (on a consolidated basis) Business Data Number of employees by region Sales by region 17.3% 1.3% 11.4% 3.6% 5.5% 7.3% 5.6% 73.5 % 74.5 % See the fact book for details of the management indices. Fact Book http://www.sekisuichemical.com/ir/library/fact/index.html Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 8 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Our Approach to CSR Promoting Activities That are in Tune with Business Strategies as Part and Parcel of Efforts to Put into Effect the “3S Principles” of the Group’s Corporate Philosophy Basic Stance CSR at the Heart of the Group’s Management Strategy Contributing to society and creating value through its business activities, lies at the heart of Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR activities. Put another way, promoting CSR activities is essential to realizing the Group’s vision and the “3S Principles.” By positioning CSR at the center of our management strategy, we remain convinced that we will raise the quality of corporate management. With this understanding, we work proactively to fulfill our CSR regardless of the business environment in order to achieve sustainable growth and innovation in our businesses. We must continue to change and evolve. Key Themes Three Prominences, Pledge to Society, Governance, and Stakeholder Engagement Sekisui Chemical Group has positioned CSR, and in particular resolving social issues through business activities as well as promoting social responsibility in business processes at the heart of its management strategy. Through constructive dialogue with stakeholders, who we see as partners in the creation of value, we are working to incorporate expectations and demands into our management and operations. Recognizing that governance provides the underlying strength for all of the Group’s operations, we are building the necessary structure and systems to earn the trust of society. With a robust governance structure and systems as its platform, Sekisui Chemical Group maintains its pledge to society to act responsibly in terms of safety, compliance and respect for human rights, and its working environment across all business processes. Moreover, the Group will endeavor to resolve social issues through its business activities across its Three Prominences in the environment, CS & Quality, and human resources. In this manner, Sekisui Chemical Group will realize its Group Vision. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 9 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities CSR Promotion System Promoting CSR Across the Group as a Whole in an Effort to Increase Corporate Value CSR Committee / Subcommittee Structure The CSR Committee, with Participation by Top Management and Employee Representatives As a venue for deliberation on CSR, Sekisui Chemical Group has set up the CSR Committee. Under the umbrella of this Committee, the Group has established five subcommittees covering the environment, CS & Quality, human resources, safety, and compliance. Chaired by the President, the CSR Committee's membership also includes the Senior Managing Executive Officer Responsible for the ESG Management Department and head of Business Strategy Department serving as deputy chairperson, the presidents of the Housing Company, the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company, and the High Performance Plastics Company, representatives from the Headquarters R&D, CS & Quality, and Human Resources Departments, and three employee representatives, including the chairperson of the central executive committee of the Sekisui Chemical Labor Union. All members of the CSR Committee are working diligently to improve committee deliberations and measures. Meetings of the CSR Committee and each of its sub-committees are held twice a year, with key items reported on during the sub-committee meetings reviewed by the CSR Committee and reported to the Board of Directors for further deliberation. CSR Committee / Subcommittee Structure Board of Directors Reporting/Discussion CSR Committee Chairperson: President and Representative Director Deputy Chairperson: Keita Kato, Environmental Representative Director, Senior Sub-committee Managing Executive Officer, Responsible for ESG Management CS & Quality Department, Head of Business Sub-committee Strategy Department Members: Divisional Company Human Resources Presidents, Headquarters Directors, Sub-committee and Employee Representatives (Three people including head of Labor Union and representatives of Safety Sub-committee female employees) Office: ESG Management Department Compliance Sub-committee Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 10 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Basic Policies Regarding CSR We have determined all policies that presume CSR activities such as environment management, CS & Quality management, and personnel policies, etc. Sekisui Chemical Group Environment Management Policy Mission We, Sekisui Chemical Group, aim to be a Global Environmental Top Runner that contributes to the realization of a sustainable society by enabling the continuous growth and co-existence of ecology and the economy. Basic Policy Each company in Sekisui Chemical Group advances approaches that contribute to the prevention of global warming, the preservation of biological diversity and the construction of a recycling-based society in all countries and regions where they have operations, in order to leave this beautiful earth for our children in the future. 1. We contribute to the environment through our products and services, with consideration given to the environment in all stages of the product life cycle from research to procurement, production, sales, use, and disposal as waste. 2. We carry out environmentally conscious business activities in all our workplaces and offices, and promote our approach to the environment through cooperation with our customers and business partners. 3. We make efforts to reduce the environmental impact of greenhouse gas emissions and hazardous chemicals, etc., and to prevent pollution by promoting the effective use of limited resources and energy. 4. We observe the related laws, regulations, international rules, etc. 5. We make efforts to improve environmental consciousness through education, and advance continual improvements by setting our own objectives and targets. 6. We enhance confidence through close communications with society. 7. We aggressively work on social contribution activities such as nature conservation activities in each region. Sekisui Chemical Group CS & Quality Management Policy Mission We, Sekisui Chemical Group, consider CS & Quality as our central concept of management and will consistently innovate to maintain the quality of products throughout all our activities, continuously provide values (goods and services) that meet customer expectations, strive for selection by our customers on an ongoing basis, and develop and grow with the customer over the long time. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 11 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Basic Policy We, Sekisui Chemical Group, consider Customer's Feedback as precious resources for management and strive to innovate about Quality of Products, Quality of People and Quality of Systems based on the motto We consider customer's feedback as the beginning of our manufacturing. Furthermore, we contribute to the realization of a safe and affluent society by continuously providing our customers and their communities with new value. 1. Ensuring basic qualities To ensure the reliability and safety of our manufactured products, which form the basis of Product Quality, we effectively leverage customer's feedback and dedicate ourselves with a strong belief in forestalling any potential trouble and preventing any future recurrence throughout our entire value chain. 2. Creating attractive qualities We aim to share the emotional values of our customers by thoroughly pursuing what the customer value and constantly creating attractive products and services that should realize such customer values. 3. Upgrading technological capabilities For the sake of ensuring Basic Qualities and for creating Attractive Qualities, we are upgrading our technological capabilities in all fields in order to achieve superb manufacturing development. 4. Enhancing communications We value communication with our customers and the community and make sincere efforts when dealing with them as well as complying with the relevant laws and regulations in each country and region. We place special emphasis on resolving customer complaints or claims at an early stage by responding promptly and empathetically. 5. Providing thorough employee education To gain and maintain the full trust and impression of our customers, we provide employees with continuous CS & Quality education as well as motivating our employees to achieve self-realization through customer satisfaction. Sekisui Chemical Group Personnel Policy Mission Based on our belief that employees are precious assets bestowed on us by society, we, Sekisui Chemical Group, are committed to developing an environment where employees can work enthusiastically. We also offer various opportunities through which we help individual employees enhance their specialties and grow personally. With the recognition that it is our social responsibility to protect individual human rights, we respect the diversity, personality and individuality of each person, and promote various working styles as well as creating safe and secure working environments in response to conditions in each country and region. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 12 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Basic Policy on Human Resources 1. Creating opportunities for employees to take on new challenges We encourage employees to exceed their performance goals and actively take on new challenges. 2. Corporate culture fostering individual learning and growth We strive to enrich our education/training programs and develop a corporate culture that fosters individual learning and growth. 3. Continuous enhancement of performance and remuneration systems We recognize our employees’ personal commitment and strive to constantly improve the fairness and acceptance of our assessment systems regarding performance and processes. 4. Understanding and inclusivity of various working styles We respect various values and working styles and strive to provide an environment where every employee can work with enthusiasm and achieve a balance between life and work. 5. Creating safe and secure working environments We ensure that our employees work in a safe environment. Workplaces that support teamwork and communication We strive to offer an environment where all colleagues can work effectively and communicate together with respect. Harassment Prevention Guidelines We never commit sexual harassment or other actions that stain personal character. 1. We do not commit sexual harassment or any conduct that might be misunderstood as sexual harassment. 2. We do not misuse the power of a superior position nor use any language or conduct that could sexually annoy any person. In addition, we prevent other employees from using such offensive language or conduct. Diversity Management Policy Diversity is essential to maintain our strong corporate presence for 100 years and beyond. We understand and recognize that every employee’s orientation to work and life, and their personal strengths are different and thus we use this to our advantage. Through employee dialogue, we will strengthen our organizational culture by providing employment, opportunities for development and an enhanced working environment to support growth. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 13 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Statement of Work Style Reforms We determine work methods that promote growth over time to enable each and every individual employee to manifest their personal characteristics, and pursue highly productive work methods that maximize success. In order to improve productivity, the Company actively invests in management resources, and unifies managers and workers to coalesce their wisdom Companywide. We nurture work worth doing by improving the quality of the job, and promote workers’ diverse activities by returning the success of reforms to them. Declaration of Health Sekisui Chemical Group has been engaged in health management initiatives for our employees based on our belief that “employees are precious assets bestowed on us by society.” Sekisui Chemical endeavors to take these initiatives to the next level by treating the promotion of the health of our employees as a management strategy that is aimed at achieving the physical, mental, and social well-being of all employees. Basic Policy for Health and Productivity Management Strive to achieve the well-being of all employees, and create workplaces where a diverse personnel can play an active role with vitality. ·Practice a comprehensive health promotion program that encompasses everything from health management (defense) to improving (offense) the fulfillment and rewards of working. ·Focus on improving productivity by advancing the awareness and behavior of each and every employee. ·Encourage employees to make a proactive and ongoing effort to strive for well-being now and in the future. ·Strive to contribute to society by realizing the happiness of employees and their families, and our customers through the well-being of our employees. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 14 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Sekisui Chemical Group Safety Policy Mission We, Sekisui Chemical Group, recognize that employee safety is essential to achieving sustainable growth. We aim to be a Safe and Secure enterprise that establishes safe and secure working environments and has the full trust of its customers and the community as well as its employees. Basic Policy Based on the concept of human dignity that everyone is invaluable, we prioritize safety over anything else as a basic rule in all of our business activities from development, production, construction to servicing. We are committed to promoting comprehensive safety activities with the aim of achieving zero occupational injuries, equipment-related accidents, commuting-related accidents or extended sick leave. 1. We strive to develop a safe and comfortable workplace where everyone is taken care of both mentally and physically, which should lead to good health for each of our employees whom we highly value. 2. We thoroughly disseminate the legal requirements concerning health and safety/disaster prevention to our employees to ensure compliance. 3. We carry out risk assessment and promote risk reduction measures in a systematic way to eliminate hazardous factors that compromise health and safety/disaster prevention. 4. We strive to raise awareness regarding health and safety/disaster prevention through employee education/training and promote continuous improvements by setting voluntary objectives/goals. 5. We proactively disclose any necessary information as well as gain a higher level of trust by having close communication with public administrations and local communities. Sekisui Chemical Group Social Contribution Activities Policy As a good corporate citizen, we, Sekisui Chemical Group, engage in activities that focus on the Environment, the Next Generation, and Local Communities, and contribute not only to business activities but also to society. All employees working for Sekisui Chemical Group are proactively involved in the society and act so that they can serve as prominent human resources in society as well. In addition, their activities are supported by each company of the Group in order to generate synergistic effects. Sekisui Chemical Group Basic Procurement Policy Sekisui Chemical Group will perform its procurement of goods according to the following five basic ideas (openness, impartiality and fairness, compliance with laws and regulations, mutual trust, and environmental considerations). We will strengthen our harmonious and mutually beneficial partnership with our business partners through fair transactions. Also, Sekisui Chemical Group will engage in the promotion of CSR activities through the cooperation of business partners in the Group's procurement activities. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 15 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities 1-1. Basic Principles of Procurement Openness Sekisui Chemical Group opens its doors not only to domestic companies but also widely to overseas companies. Impartiality and fairness Sekisui Chemical Group selects business partners based on impartial and fair evaluation standards with emphasis on quality, price and delivery lead-time, services, etc., as well as environmental considerations. Compliance with laws and regulations When engaging in purchasing transactions, Sekisui Chemical Group will comply with relevant laws, regulations and administrative instructions in Japan and overseas. Mutual trust Sekisui Chemical Group will establish and maintain mutually beneficial relationships with its business partners, as well as sincerely fulfill all contractual obligations. Environmental considerations Sekisui Chemical Group will further promote the purchase of raw materials and goods that have minimal negative impact on the environment (Green Procurement), and strive to establish a resource-recycling society through concerted efforts with business partners. 1-2. Requesting Cooperation from Business Partners Concerning Procurement Sekisui Chemical Group, with its sincere attitude, aims to become a company trusted by society. The Company is aware of CSR in all spheres of its business operations based on its philosophy of contributing to society through its business activities. In order to achieve the above aim, it is absolutely necessary to engage in activities through mutual cooperation with business partners. Proactive cooperation from all business partners is requested on the following activities. (1) Securing Superior Product Quality Establish and operate a quality assurance system to improve and maintain the quality of products offered to customers. ·Establish a quality assurance system in conformity with ISO 9000 (2) Environmental Considerations Sekisui Chemical Group is working to reduce negative impact of its products on the environment from the development and production stages to disposal. To do so, the environmental consideration of our suppliers concerning raw materials and goods is essential. ·Establish environmental management system in conformity with ISO 14001 ·The procurement of parts and raw materials with minimal negative environmental impact, such as reduction of potentially hazardous chemicals ·Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, such as promoting the effective use of energy ·Initiatives to preserve water resources and biodiversity Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 16 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities (3) Compliance with Laws, Regulations and Social Customs Business partners are requested to ensure compliance with relevant laws, regulations and appropriate social norms of the countries and regions where their business operations are conducted. ·Comply with relevant laws and regulations in the business operations ·Prohibit forced labor ·Prohibit child labor ·Prohibit discrimination against employees (4) Safety and Hygiene Quality is built through human resources and facilities. The safety management of these resources is the basis of production. Business partners are requested to perform the following. ·Safety and hygiene management of the workplace and maintenance of employee health ·Machine safeguarding and safety and hygiene management of facilities ·Appropriate response to occupational injuries, equipment-related accidents, other accidents, etc. Timber Procurement At Sekisui Chemical Group, in order to contribute to the elimination of deforestation as well as the sustainable use of timber resources, we make every effort to ensure that the timber used in products is logged in accordance with statutory and regulatory requirements. Therefore, in cooperation with our suppliers, we implement investigations on commercial distribution with regard to the logging area, tree species, and quantity of timber materials, in order to ensure traceability. For recycled materials, we use timber and wood-based materials that are already used in markets, as well as unused thinnings and branches. In those cases where we find timber that we have concerns about in terms of legitimacy while investigating our distribution channels, we take appropriate measures in cooperation with our suppliers to promote responsible procurement. Conflict Minerals Sekisui Chemical Group is working in compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act in the U.S. to eliminate conflict minerals (gold (Au), tantalum (Ta), tungsten (W) and tin (Sn)) connected with inhumane acts by local armed groups in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries. If we find minerals that we have concerns about while investigating our distribution channels, we take appropriate measures in cooperation with our suppliers to promote responsible procurement. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 17 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Sekisui Chemical Group “Human Rights Policy” Sekisui Chemical Group recognizes that it is our responsibility to protect human rights of all individuals affected by our business activities. In order to advance efforts to promote respect for human rights, we hereby announce the adoption of Sekisui Chemical Group “Human Rights Policy” (“Policy”), based on the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights adopted by the United Nations Human Rights Council in June 2011. Sekisui Chemical Group contributes to society through its business activities under its Corporate Philosophy, the “3S Principles” (Service, Speed, and Superiority), in order to meet the expectations of its stakeholders. As part of our Group Vision, residential and social infrastructure creation and chemical solutions are designated as the business domains that should be pursued, through which we are working to improve the lives of the people of the world and the Earth’s environment. For the Sekisui Chemical Group to truly contribute to the achievement of a sustainable world, we understand that the human rights of all individuals within our sphere of influence must be respected. 1. Basic principles on human rights The “Policy” is our promise to respect human rights, in order to fulfill our responsibilities to all stakeholders, based on our Corporate Philosophy and Group Vision. To that end we support and respect the United Nations International Bill of Human Rights (specifically the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights), which sets out the basic human rights of every individual. Furthermore, in addition to the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work from the International Labour Organization (ILO), which sets out people’s fundamental rights at work, we also support and respect international human rights standards for workers adopted in conventions on such matters as wages and working hours, and the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. Lastly, as a company that has signed up to the United Nations Global Compact (“GC”), we support and respect the GC Ten Principles. 2. Scope The “Policy” is applicable to all employees and executive officers of Sekisui Chemical Group. Our Group also expects all of our business partners to comply with the “Policy” in connection with our products and services. 3. Responsibility of respect for human rights Sekisui Chemical Group is aware that it is not possible to completely eliminate every possibility of an adverse impact from its business activities. That said, we aim to fulfill our responsibility of promoting respect for human rights by building a responsible supply chain that avoids infringing the human rights of the people affected by our business activities, and, if our business activities do have an adverse impact on someone’s human rights, appropriate action will be taken in an effort to rectify that situation. 4. Human rights due diligence Sekisui Chemical Group will establish a system of human rights due diligence to identify, prevent and mitigate any adverse impacts on human rights that our Group causes in society. 5. Dialogue and Consultation In its implementation of the “Policy”, Sekisui Chemical Group will engage in earnest dialogue and consultation with our stakeholders, and will apply expert human rights knowledge from independent third parties. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 18 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities 6. Education and training Sekisui Chemical Group will provide education and training as is appropriate to ensure that the “Policy” becomes an incorporated part of all of our business activities and is implemented effectively. 7. Remediation If it emerges that Sekisui Chemical Group’s business activities have had adverse impact on someone’s human rights, or if our involvement in the same through for example one of our business relationships emerges or is suspected, we will work to remedy the same through dialog and the appropriate processes in line with international standards. 8. Responsible executive officer(s) Sekisui Chemical Group will entrust an executive officer or officers with the responsibilities for execution of the “Policy”, who will supervise its progress and status. 9. Information disclosure Sekisui Chemical Group will disclose the progress and the results of our efforts to promote respect for human rights, on its website and through other media. 10. Applicable laws and regulations Sekisui Chemical Group will comply with the laws and regulations of each of the countries and regions in which our business activities are conducted. Where there is a conflict between a country’s laws or regulations and internationally recognized human rights standards, our Group will pursue ways to respect international human rights principles to the maximum extent possible. The “Policy” has received the approval of our board of directors and the signature of our President and Representative Director. May 15th, 2019 Teiji Koge President and Representative Director Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 19 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Key CSR Issues Sekisui Chemical Group Has Defined the Key Issues in Becoming Involved with CSR Activities Identification of important issues Defining Key CSR Issues (Materiality) We undertook a review of our CSR initiatives from the viewpoints of the environment, society, and governance (ESG) under the Medium-term Management Plan SHIFT2019 -Fusion-, which started in fiscal 2017, and defined the key issues (materiality). Definition Process for Key CSR Issues Key CSR issues were defined for the CSR Medium-term Plan based on the following processes. Step 1. Discussing issues from the global guidelines, etc. (1) Identify candidate issues from the UN global compact (GC) and ISO26000 While adhering to the 10 principles in the GC, we examined the involvement status within the Group for relevant activities and aspirations concerning each of the seven main core issues in ISO26000, and identified the points where involvement was insufficient. (2) We identified candidate issues by considering the boundaries both inside and outside the Group while considering the relationship between Sekisui Chemical Group and business regarding the economics, environmental, and social items described in the GRI standard. (3) We analyzed the social issues described in SDGs, and selected the issues that provide business opportunities for Sekisui Chemical Group. In contributing to these solutions, we identified the necessary involvements. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 20 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Step 2. Identifying issues from ESG/CSR surveys and other companies' trends (1) Identifying candidate issues from ESG/CSR surveys We analyzed the issues based on the details of the replies and evaluation results to each ESG and CSR survey, and identified candidate key CSR issues where future involvement can be considered important. (2) Analysis of other companies' ESG/CSR involvement and information disclosure trends We examined involvement by other advanced ESG/CSR companies and trends in their disclosure using ESG/CSR reports, etc., and identified issues where improvements to Sekisui Chemical Group's future involvement and information disclosure are to be desired. Step 3. Analysis of stakeholder opinions and expectations (1) Sorting the major stakeholder opinions We collected and sorted the main opinions regarding ESG/ CSR from the results of talking to various stakeholders such as customers, shareholders, investors, employees, trading partners, and local communities, etc. (2) Analysis of major expectations by stakeholder We took in the main opinions from the various stakeholders described in (1) above, and analyzed the main stakeholder expectations from their relationship to Sekisui Chemical Group business and ESG/CSR involvement. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 21 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Step 4. Identifying key CSR issues / Establishing the CSR Medium-term Plan (1) Sorting key CSR candidate issues We added the CSR issues in which we have been strategically involved from before to candidate CSR issues identified in steps 1 to 3 above, and sorted the future key CSR candidate issues. (2) Evaluating the importance of key CSR candidate issues We comprehensively evaluated the key CSR candidate issues sorted in (1) along 2 axes: A. Important for stakeholders and B. Important for managing Sekisui Chemical Group, and identified the key CSR issues. Further, we ranked the key CSR issues that had been identified by priority. A. Important for stakeholders was evaluated from the viewpoints of stakeholder expectations, global trends, and positive and negative impact on the planet and society, and B. Important for managing Sekisui Chemical Group was identified from the viewpoints of Conformance to management policy and management strategy, extent of compliance with CSR issue, risk and reputation, and priority considered on the time axis. (3) Establishing the CSR Medium-term Plan The objectives (KPIs, etc.) for the designated key CSR issues were discussed by the main departments after deliberation by the CSR committee, and are reflected in the (draft) CSR Medium-term Plan. Finally, they were approved by the CSR Committee and the CSR Medium-term Plan was verified. Reflecting the key CSR issues surely and certainly in the CSR Medium-term Plan enables them to be managed suitably through the PDCA cycle. As a rule, the key CSR issues will be reviewed and mid-term CSR target will be set every three years when the medium-term management plan are created. On the other hand, the necessity of revisions will be discussed annually in light of social expectations and demands, and the business situation, etc. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 22 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Classifying key CSR issues Issues where the importance for stakeholders is extremely high, and is also extremely high for management of Sekisui Chemical Group • Permeation of CSR throughout the entire Group • Sales expansion of Environment-contributing Products Expansion of development and spread of Environment-contributing Products • Reduction of environmental impact Reinforcement of climate change countermeasures • Conserving the natural environment Promotion of involvement in preserving biodiversity • Polishing up basic quality Eliminating important quality problems • Polishing up attractive qualities Expanding products linked to solving social issues • Global HR creation • Promotion of diversity • Reduction of work accidents • Promotion of pollution prevention and illegalities • Elimination of important compliance problems • Thorough prevention in advance Expansion of BCP policies • Reinforcement of crisis management systems • Expansion of dialogue with stakeholders • Reinforcement of global governance Issues where the importance for stakeholders is high, and is also high for management of Sekisui Chemical Group • Reinforcement of information security • Reduction of long work hours • Maintenance of water resources • Promotion of the sustainable use of resources • Manage risks related to global labor • Implementation of human rights due diligence • Disclosure of the important issues identification process and identification results • Promotion of social contribution activities Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 23 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities CSR Medium-term Plan Promoting CSR That Is in Tune with Business Activities CSR Medium-term Plan (Fiscal 2017 to Fiscal 2019) In its Medium-term Management Plan SHIFT 2019 -FusionSekisui Chemical Group places considerable emphasis on balancing the needs to secure both social and corporate value. The main thrust throughout the period of the Plan is therefore to engage in CSR that is in tune with business activities. In addition to creating social value, the Group is conscious of the need to identify what is required to fulfill its corporate social responsibility while promoting long-term growth. With this in mind, we have positioned the Three Prominences of the environment, customer service (CS) & quality, and human resources, our pledge to society encompassing safety, compliance and respect for human rights, and the workplace environment, as well as governance and stakeholder engagement as key issues. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 24 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Three Prominences Medium-term FY2018 FY2018 FY2018 Key Measures Targets Targets Results Self-evaluation Target achieved. Going Secure a rate of Secure a rate Secured a rate forward, we will 1. Manage progress using return on natural of return on of return on further enhance integrated indices capital of 90% natural capital natural capital the effectiveness (sustainability index) or more of 87% of 92.8% of our activities within the Group. Target achieved. Improvement in sales due to 1) Environmentincrease in ZEH contributing 60% or more 55% or more 56.3% housing and Product sales rediscovery of ratio value in drug Environment development 2. Expand support business and create products. markets for Target Environmentachieved. We contributing will further Products promote the raising of 2) Number awareness of of newly 30 or more 10 or more 18 environmental registered and social products contributions at the planning and development stage. ···Achieved, ×···Target not achieved, −···Not applicable Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 25 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Three Prominences Medium-term FY2018 FY2018 FY2018 Key Measures Targets Targets Results Self-evaluation × We were unable to cover M&A and the increase in production volume through reduction 1) Reduce 6% or more 4% or more 2.3% activities. We greenhouse (vs. FY2013) (vs. FY2013) (vs. FY2013) will consider gas emission installing megasolar facilities and other initiatives 3. Reduce as additional environmental reduction impact activities. ① Reduce ① Reduce ① Increased × (1) Increased water usage by water usage by water usage by overseas due to 3% or more (vs. 2% or more 3.0% M&A. Environment FY2016) (vs. FY2016) (vs. FY2016) × (2) The ② Reduce the ② Reduce the ② Increased increase in 2) Maintain total amount of total amount of the total production had water river discharge river discharge amount of an impact. We resources water chemical water chemical river discharge are promoting oxygen demand oxygen demand water chemical reductions (COD) by 3% (COD) by 2% oxygen through capital or more (vs or more (vs demand (COD) investment.*1 FY2016) FY2016) by 20.7% (vs FY2016) × The number Secured an of participants Secure an Secure an employee is increasing employee employee participation year by year. participation participation rate in SEKISUI 4. Conserve natural environment We will further rate in SEKISUI rate in SEKISUI Environment raise awareness Environment Environment Week of of our Week of 100% Week of 95% 88.1% environmental contributions. ···Achieved, ×···Target not achieved, −···Not applicable *1 For more details on promoting reduction, please refer to “Reducing Water Use” on page 86. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 26 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Three Prominences Medium-term FY2018 FY2018 FY2018 Key Measures Targets Targets Results Self-evaluation × Recognizing that issues were related to the design 1) Reduce the 1) Reduce the 1) There was of products, number of number of one major strengthen major quality major quality quality issue the ability issues to zero issues to zero to uncover risks at the development stage 1. Improve basic qualities × Confirm through audits CS & whether Quality there is any 2) Reduce new 2) Reduce new ambiguity product product 2) 288 million regarding external failure external failure yen the manner costs*2 to zero costs*2 to zero in which customers’ specification requirements are managed Introduce nine − No single new attractive fiscal year 2. Improve attractive qualities − − quality target initially products set*3 ···Achieved, ×···Target not achieved, −···Not applicable *2 For more details on external failure costs please refer to page 124. *3 For more details, please refer to “Attractive Qualities Screening System for Evaluating by Outside Experts” on page 131. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 27 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Three Prominences Medium-term FY2018 FY2018 FY2018 Key Measures Targets Targets Results Self-evaluation × ① To promote diversity, we will further promote the creation ① Secure a ① Maintain of a working ① Secured a ratio of women the ratio of environment in ratio of women to total hires women to which women to total hires of 35% total hires at can work 1)Empower of 29.7% ② Number 30–39% comfortably women ② Number of women in ② Number × ② The of women in management of women in number of management positions: 200 management female managers positions: 160 positions: 165 steadily Human Promote increased due Resources diversity to training for female manager candidates Target achieved. Positioned Number of Number of Number of and promoted 2)Develop participants participants participants short-term global talent in the Global in the Global in the Global overseas employees Trainee Trainee Trainee practical Program: 20 Program: 15 Program: 21 training as one of the experiences of working abroad ···Achieved, ×···Target not achieved, −···Not applicable Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 28 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Pledge to Society Medium-term FY2018 FY2018 FY2018 Key Measures Targets Targets Results Self-evaluation The incidence Continued Halve the Reduce the of occupational progress with incidence of incidence of injuries attributable efforts to improve Reduce the occupational occupational to machinery and equipment incidence of injuries Safety injuries equipment was while achieving occupational attributable to attributable to reduced by half targets through injuries machinery and machinery and at 10 cases (vs. equipment equipment (vs. equipment to zero the 20 cases in intrinsic safety FY2016) FY2016) measures Target Reduce the Reduce the Reduced the achieved; moving 1.Prevent major incidence of incidence of incidence of forward, work to violations major violations major violations major violations minimize the risk of laws and of laws and of laws and of laws and of any incidence, ordinances that ordinances that ordinances that ordinances that reoccurrence, impact society impact society to impact society to impact society to and increase zero zero zero in compliance Compliance violations and Respect for Human Completed Rights steps to undertake CSR Undertake CSR 2.Expand the Undertook CSR procurement in Undertake CSR procurement in area and procurement in the Asia region; procurement in the Asia area scope of CSR the Asia region target achieved. five global areas (undertaken in procurement (excluding China) In FY2019 we China in FY2017) will review implementation in Europe ···Achieved, ×···Target not achieved, −···Not applicable Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 29 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Pledge to Society Medium-term FY2018 FY2018 FY2018 Key Measures Targets Targets Results Self-evaluation Reduced the Reduce the Reduce the × Paid vacation number of 1.Manage number of number of day utilization subsidiary and control subsidiary subsidiary rate and number companies prolonged companies where companies where of days off where employees working hours employees work employees work increased. We work more than (in excess of more than 2,000 more than 2,000 will continue 2,000 hours on 2,000 hours hours on an hours on an efforts to reduce an annual basis annually) annual basis by annual basis by total working by 8.5% (vs. 30% (vs. FY2016) 9% (vs. FY2016) hours FY2016) Raise the number Raise the number Raised the Working of Group of Group number of Group Environment companies companies companies Target certified as certified as certified as achieved. an Excellent an Excellent an Excellent Through inEnterprise of Enterprise of Enterprise of house and 2.Promote health Health and Health and Health and external health management Productivity Productivity Productivity management Management Management Management initiatives White 500 by White 500 by White 500 by and instilling Japan’s Ministry Japan’s Ministry Japan’s Ministry awareness of the of Economy, of Economy, of Economy, need Trade and Trade and Trade and Industry to 21 Industry to 21*4 Industry to 21*4 ···Achieved, ×···Target not achieved, −···Not applicable *4 Includes 13 companies subject to the Act on Promotion of Women's Participation and Advancement in the Workplace Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 30 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Governance Medium-term FY2018 FY2018 FY2018 Key Measures Targets Targets Results Self-evaluation Continue to 1. Put in place Established a establish a Expanded the a structure structure and Complete area structure and legal function of overseas systems for the coverage systems for the in the Asia and regional Asia and Oceania Asia and Oceania Oceania regions headquarters regions Governance regions 2. Increase the Increased effectiveness penetration of of risk Achieve Achieve Achieved risk management management effectiveness of effectiveness of effectiveness of activities across (prevent risks 70% or more 60% 75% Sekisui Chemical before they Group as a whole occur) ···Achieved, ×···Target not achieved, −···Not applicable Stakeholder Engagement Medium-term FY2018 FY2018 FY2018 Key Measures Targets Targets Results Self-evaluation Ensure that investors and management engage in Ensure that Ensured that Achieved Stakeholder Promote active Engagement engagement dialogue on a investors and investors and dialogue target; cumulative total management management continue to between investors of 200 occasions engage on 70 engage on 87 engage in and management throughout the occasions occasions dialogue period set forth for the mediumterm target ···Achieved, ×···Target not achieved, −···Not applicable Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 31 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Declaration of Support for Initiatives and Organizations in Which Sekisui Chemical Group Participates Declaration of Support for International Standards and Norms Sekisui Chemical Group respects international norms and standards regarding CSR, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ISO 26000, the OECD's Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the ILO's International Labor Standards, and the United Nations' Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (Ruggie Framework). In March 2009, Sekisui Chemical signed the United Nations Global Compact*. In compiling and issuing its 2019 CSR Report, Sekisui Chemical conforms to the “Core” options of the internationally recognized Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards. In addition, Sekisui Chemical Group is a supporter of the Japan Climate Initiative (JCI) Declaration. As such, the Group is joining the front line of the global push for decarbonization from Japan. * United Nations Global Compact: A voluntary program in which top management of firms around the world pledge to comply with 10 principles on subjects such as human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption efforts within the scopes of influence of their firms and participate in building a global framework for realizing sustainable growth. Supporting the stance on information disclosure Declaration of support for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Sekisui Chemical Group declared its support for the recommendations of the TCFD* on analysis and disclosure of the impact of climate change on corporations’ financial affairs in January 2019. By supporting the stance on information disclosure sought by the TCFD recommendations and promoting related information disclosure, the Group will build a sustainable management foundation including relationships of trust with its stakeholders going forward. * TCFD: The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures was established in 2015 by the Financial Stability Board (FSB), which is an international organization that seeks to stabilize the financial system. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 32 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Major Organizations Organizations in Which Sekisui Chemical Group Participates ・ Japan Chemical Industry Association. ・ The Japanese Society for Quality Control ・ Kansai Chemical Industry Association. ・ Japan Prefabricated Construction Suppliers and Manufacturers Association ・ Japan Business Federation ・ Kansai Economic Federation ・ The Osaka Chamber of Commerce and Industry ・ Japan Federation of Housing Organizations ・ The Machinami Foundation ・ The Real Estate Companies Association of Japan ・ The Provision of Quality Housing Stock Association (SumStock) ・ KIDS DESIGN ASSOCIATION ・ Japan Sewage Pipe Renewal Method Association ・ The Japan Plastics Industry Federation ・ Japan Initiative for Marine Environment （JaIME） ・ Japan Clean Ocean Material Alliance （CLOMA） etc. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 33 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities SDGs Initiatives Sekisui Chemical Group's Contributions to the SDGs through its Business In its Group Vision statement, Sekisui Chemical Group has declared that it will contribute, through its primary business activities, to “improving the global environment” and “improving the lives of people around the globe”—that is, the resolution of issues called for in the SDGs. Hitherto, we designated products with a high degree of contribution to issue resolution as Environment-contributing Products, and strove to create and expand markets where we should increase contributions to “improving the Earth’s environment” (resolutions to issues described in SDGs Nos. 6, 7, 12, 13, 14, and 15). Since fiscal 2017, we have looked back on changes to business content and the social environment, and have declared the creation and expansion of products that heighten contributions to “improving life for everyone around the world” (resolutions to issues described in SDGs Nos. 3, 9, and 11). We will also further accelerate contributions to actualizing a sustainable world. Involvement History Environment-Contributing Products – About Expanded Definition Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 34 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities SHIFT on Approach to Contributions Made by Environment-Contributing Products SHIFT on Approach to Contributions Made by Environment-Contributing Products Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 35 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Prominence in Environment Continuing to Provide Prominent Value Toward the Realization of a Planet where Biodiversity is Preserved Management Approach Our Philosophy Sekisui Chemical Group aims for a planet in which the air, water and land provide a healthy living environment for its inhabitants and fosters robust biodiversity. Our daily lives and economic activities are sustained by the natural capital* provided by our planet. Sekisui Chemical Group envisions a planet and society like this. We are engaged in our daily business activities with the aims of halting the deterioration of natural capital, such as by reducing emissions of greenhouse gases, promoting the use of recycled use of resources, and decreasing impacts on ecosystems; contributing to making returns to natural capital through such means as expanding sales of Environment-contributing Products; and achieving a world in which biodiversity is preserved. * Natural capital: A term that refers to physical capital, such as soil, air, water, minerals, flora and fauna, as well as biological capital, human capital and social capital. Prominence in Environment 36 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Promotion System Building Management Systems to Help Activities Progress and to Achieve Targets Sekisui Chemical Group formulated the Long-term Environmental Management Vision, the basis of its environmental activities, to advance environmental management. Under the three-year medium-term plan, we are making progress toward specific targets set to achieve our Longterm Environmental Management Vision. Long-term Environmental Management Vision Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030 Established in fiscal 2013, the Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030 is our policy for advancing environmental management. Environmental Medium-term Plan Sekisui Environment Sustainability Plan: Accelerate We provide details of the Environment Medium-term Plan Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Plan: Accelerate that covers the period from fiscal 2017 to fiscal 2019. Integrated Indicator Sekisui Environment Sustainability Index The Sekisui Environment Sustainability Index is a single indicator of the level of impact on the environment by the corporate activities of Sekisui Chemical Group (i.e. use of natural capital) and the degree of contribution back to the environment (i.e. return of natural capital). Environmental Management System We promote environmental activities through an environment management system based on ISO 14001. Environmental Education Sekisui Chemical Group implements environmental training programs with the aim of fostering ideal employees who can take one step closer to achieving its long-term vision. Environmental Accounting To express our posture as a company engaged in environmental activities, we quantitatively assess our environmental investments, costs and outcomes, such as reducing environmental impact. Prominence in Environment 37 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Long-term Environmental Management Vision Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030 Toward the Realization of “a Planet Where Biodiversity Is Preserved” Sekisui Chemical Group is aware that its business activities depend on resources (natural capital). Each and every executive and employee is working to develop into talented personnel with excellent environmental activity promotional skills and will engage in environmental management based on contributions in three areas to “give back more to the Earth than is taken” by 2030. Expand and create markets for Environment-contributing Products Reduce environmental impact Conserve the natural environment With a view toward the return of natural capital, energies will continue to be directed toward creating prominent value as a part of efforts to realize a planet where biodiversity is preserved. By continuing to create this kind of value, we are confident in our ability to help resolve various issues raised as Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by the United Nations. Prominence in Environment 38 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Environmental Medium-term Plan Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Plan: Accelerate (2017-2019) Targets for Crucial Items to Implement within the Environmental Medium-term Plan “Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Plan: Accelerate” (2017-2019) ・Increasing Environment-contributing Products Sales ratio: 60% or more ・Reductions in greenhouse gas emissions: 6% or more (vs. FY2013) ・Preservation of water resources : Amount of water used 3% or more reduction (compared to fiscal 2016), COD total quantity 3% or more reduction (compared to fiscal 2016) ・“SEKISUI Environment Week”: Participation at all business sites and by all employees ・Monitoring of progress in respect to integrated index “Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index”: A rate of return on natural capital of 90% or more Prominence in Environment 39 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Implementing a Two-Stage Environmental Medium-term Plan Based on Backcasting from Our Long-term Vision We have established and are implementing a three-year Environmental Medium-term Plan for fiscal 2017 through fiscal 2019. As its name suggests, this Environmental Medium-term Plan, “Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Plan: Accelerate,” will accelerate various initiatives aimed at achieving the posture we have depicted for 2030 in our longterm environmental vision. Initiatives of particular focus include reducing greenhouse gases and expanding Environment-contributing Products. In the Paris Accords, adopted at the COP 21* meeting held in 2015, each country has promised to achieve country-level CO2 emissions reductions targets; Japan has set a target of reductions of 26%, compared to fiscal 2013, by 2030. To fulfill its responsibilities as a Japanese company, Sekisui Chemical Group has indicated reduction targets equal to or greater than the state targets and intends to willingly strive to reach them. Concerning greenhouse gas reductions, the environmental medium-term plan lays out a target of reductions of 6% from the total amount of CO2 emissions released during business activities, even as the Group is aiming to expand its business further. To ensure that this target is reached, the Group has created Environment-Contributing Investments Framework in order to promote aggressive investment in facilities on the scale of 12 billion yen, equivalent to 0.3% of revenue. Concerning Environment-Contributing Products, the Group aims to increase the degree of contribution by expanding the criteria of recognition from natural environments to a framework which includes contributions to the social environment, encompassing human capital and social capital from the current environmental medium-term plan. Sekisui Chemical Group aims to improve the lives of the people and the Earth's environment. In terms of improving the lives of the people, it will be essential to resolve the issues noted in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the UN in 2015, including “promoting welfare and health” and “securing robust infrastructure.” In terms of the Earth's environment, it will be essential to resolve the issues presented in the SDGs of “mitigating and adapting to climate change” and others. The Group intends to produce products and services that display considerable abilities to resolve such issues and to further accelerate the expansion of the market for Environment-Contributing Products. * COP 21: The 21st meeting of the parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. Prominence in Environment 40 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Fiscal 2018 Results in Respect to the Environmental Medium-term Plan Fiscal 2018 results in respect to the Environmental Medium-term Plan are provided below: Expanding and Creating Environment-Contributing Products Number of new registrations: Fiscal 2018 target of 55% of revenue or more Fiscal 2018 target of 10 registrations Target achieved, with 56.3% Target achieved, with 18 new registrations in fiscal 2018 ＜Factor Analysis＞ In fiscal 2017, steps were taken to upgrade and expand the definition of Environment-Contributing Products, reaffirm our commitment to contribute the social environment, and commence registrations from a more diverse perspective. In fiscal 2018, new registrations exceeded targets. Sekisui Chemical Group also achieved its Environment-Contributing Products sales ratio target. Meanwhile, Sekisui Chemical Group is increasing sales of Environment-Contributing Products through new registration. This is in turn attributable to growth in zero energy houses (ZEH) in Japan and a reaffirmation of the value of pharmaceuticals and drug manufacture support in the Group’s medical operating which expanding globally. ＜Changes and Matters under Consideration in the Environmental Medium-term Plan through Fiscal 2017＞ In the Environment-Contributing Product certification system commenced in fiscal 2006, we set the percentage of revenue attributable to Environment-Contributing Products as a KPI from fiscal 2010. However, in the past we have undertaken the following corrections, and have promoted the new creation and market expansion of Environment-Contributing Products. Changes up to fiscal 2016 ・ Added the viewpoint of contributing to energy creation and the protection of biodiversity to the standards ・ Introduction of the concept of area contributions ・ Consideration of expanding the scope of evaluation to include contributions to resolving issues relating to matters such as disaster preparedness and damage mitigation Changes from fiscal 2017 ・ We included Environment-Contributing Products as products that contribute to the natural environment under the current framework, and newly expanded the definition of products that work to resolve issues related to the social environment as Social Environment-contributing Products. Note: For details see SDGs Initiatives (page 34) Prominence in Environment 41 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities ＜Quantification of the Contribution Effect gained from Environment-contributing Products＞ To visualize the contribution gained from Environment-contributing Products, we calculate by using “LIME2,” a method that indicates environmental value of products and businesses (the return to natural capital and degrees of contribution) through LCIA evaluations. In fiscal 2018 we understood environmental value gained from products on the equivalent of around 75% of revenue from Environment-contributing Products. More than just the natural environment, the Group will consider as contributions to natural capital those based on resolving issues relating to human and social capital and other aspects of the social environment, and will promote a greater range of products that can contribute to the return to natural capital. Furthermore, the Group will leverage the environmental value (degree of contribution) of visualized products and lines of business, releasing information and raising awareness in society, and will also step up its activities that allow it receive feedback about its business. Reducing Environmental Impact GHG emissions: Fiscal 2018 target of reductions of 4% or more (relative to a fiscal 2013 benchmark) Target not achieved, with reductions of 2.3% Energy savings: Fiscal 2018 target of reductions of 2% of energy consumption per unit of output (based on a benchmark of fiscal 2016) Target achieved, with reductions of 3.7% (8.2% reduction in Japan and 2.4% increase overseas) ＜Factor Analysis＞ ・We are unable to cover the increase in GHG emissions from M&A and production increases through reduction activities Going forward, the Group intends to step up its energy-saving efforts at business sites in Japan and overseas, promote upgrades to aging facilities, as well as to work toward deployment of self-consumption-type solar power-generation facilities so as to expand the volume of reductions. Prominence in Environment 42 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Amount of Waste Generated: Fiscal 2018 target of reductions of 2% from per unit of output (relative to a fiscal 2016 benchmark) Target not reached, with an increase of 3.3% (increase of 1.9% in Japan, up 8.0% overseas) ＜Factor Analysis＞ ・Japan: A deterioration due to production volume increase, and an increase in composite products on account of higher functionality ・Overseas: Increase in high-functionality products of the overseas operating sites of the High Performance Plastics Company Going forward, the Group will strive for even greater reductions in waste materials by developing recycling technologies, establishing schemes for recycling and reuse, recycling end materials, and promoting zero-emission activities in overseas business sites. Conserving the Natural Environment SEKISUI Environment Week Fiscal 2018 target for participation rate among employees of 95% Target not reached, with participation rate among employees of 88.1% ＜Factor Analysis＞ ・Insufficient promotion of individual action Going forward, we will roll out positive examples of all-employee participation-based activities to all sites while announcing and publicizing examples of activities by individuals to make the idea of participation by all in both business site-held events and individual actions a more integral part of the corporate culture. Prominence in Environment 43 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Environmental Medium-term Plan “Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Plan: Accelerate” (2017-2019) Target Domestic offices Production sites Overseas Overseas offices Medium Efforts Indicators Laboratories (FY2 in Japan production sites Other Sekisui Environment Sustainability Index Manage process utilizing the integrated index ü ü ü ü ü ü Rate of return to natural capital 90 Number of new Environment-contributing Create Environment-contributing Products 30 Expand and create ü ü ü Products registrations markets for Environment-contributing Products Environment-contributing Increase sales of Environment-contributing Products 60 ü ü ü ü Products sales ratio (consolidated) Reducing GHG emissions Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions ü ü ü ü ü ü attributable to business activities -6% or more (compar Energy reduction Energy consumption for unit of output -3% or more (compar ü ü Reduce the amount of waste generated per unit of production volume ü ü Waste generated per unit of output -3% or more (compar Reduce the amount of resources Waste reduction used in offices ü ü ü Copier Paper use per unit of output -3% or more (compar Reduce environmental impact Reduce the amount of waste generated ü Waste generated per building -10% or more (compa at new construction sites ü ü Water usage at production sites -3% or more (compar Maintain water resources Total volume of COD discharged into ü rivers by production sites -3% or more (compar Reduce the impact of chemical substances ü ü VOC emissions -3% or more (compar SEKISUI Environment Week ü ü ü ü ü Employee participation rate ü ü JBIB Land Use Score Card® points +5 points (compared Improve the quality of the green spaces at business sites Number of business sites in harmony ü ü with their local environments 5 bu Conserving the natural environment Number of sales companies Forest preservation activities at Housing Sales companies ü undertaking activities 7 sale Ratio of applicable business sites in Japan 50 ü ü Self-guided activities in partnership with local communities ü ü Number of overseas activities 5 Environmental education Environmental education ü ü ü ü ü Human resources index average +20 points (compare Prominence in Environment 44 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Environmental Medium-term Plan “Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Plan: Accelerate” (2017-2019) Medium-term Targets rs FY2018 targets FY2018 results Evaluation (FY2017-FY2019) nability Index pital 90% or more 87% or more 92.8% ü nt-contributing Environment-Contributing Products: 3 registered 30 products 10 products Social Environment-Contributing Products: 15 registered ü 60% or more 55% 56.3% (643.8 billion yen) lidated) ü tivities -6% or more (compared with fiscal year 2013 results) -4% or more (compared with fiscal year 2013 results) -2.3% × nit of output -3% or more (compared with fiscal year 2016 results) -2% or more (compared with fiscal year 2016 results) -3.7% (Japan: -8.2%, Overseas: +2.4%) ü of output -3% or more (compared with fiscal year 2016 results) -2% or more (compared with fiscal year 2016 results) +3.3% (Japan: +1.9%, Overseas: +8.0%) × of output -3% or more (compared with fiscal year 2016 results) -2% or more (compared with fiscal year 2016 results) +1.4% × ing -10% or more (compared with fiscal year 2016 results) -5% or more (compared with fiscal year 2016 results) +1.7% × sites -3% or more (compared with fiscal year 2016 results) -2% or more (compared with fiscal year 2016 results) +3.0% (Japan: -1.1%, Overseas: +15.1%) × arged into -3% or more (compared with fiscal year 2016 results) -2% or more (compared with fiscal year 2016 results) +20.7% × -3% or more (compared with fiscal year 2016 results) -2% or more (compared with fiscal year 2016 results) +7.1% × e 100% 95% 88.1% × oints +5 points (compared with fiscal year 2016 results) +3 points (compared with fiscal year 2016 results) +4.3 points ü n harmony Business site evaluation trial run in accordance 5 business sites 3 business sites × nts with the proposed evaluation standards s 7 sales companies 7 sales companies 7 sales companies ü ss sites in Japan 50% or more 50% or more 55.3% ü ties 5 activities 5 activities 7 activities ü erage +20 points (compared with fiscal year 2017 results)* +10 points (compared with fiscal year 2017 results) Japan: +5 points (44 points) × Overseas: US benchmark achieved (50 points) *Because we decided to start measuring human resources indicators in fiscal year 2017, the base year was changed to fiscal year 2017. Prominence in Environment 45 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Integrated Index Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index What is the Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index? The Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index represents the impact on the environment of the activities of Sekisui Chemical Group companies (the use of natural capital) and their degree of contribution to the environment (returns to natural capital) as a single indicator. The major items for implementation in the medium-term plan—reducing various impacts on the environment, conserving the natural environment, and so forth—were integrated into this indicator; the Group began trial calculations in fiscal 2014. Starting in fiscal 2017, the “rate of return to natural capital,” as reflected in this index, is being used as a KPI to manage the overall progress of Group companies’ environmental management. The Group aims to achieve 87% in fiscal 2018 and 90% over the three-year period of the Medium-term Plan and has established returns of 100% or higher as its target for 2030. Results of Calculation The results of calculating the Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index, utilizing results from fiscal 2018, are provided in the chart below. Setting the use of natural capital (the impact on the environment) at 100, the return of natural capital (contributions to the environment) was 92.8%. One of the factors in this achievement was reducing the impact on the environment by working on the supply chain, such as reducing SCOPE 3 greenhouse gas emissions, and expanding the sales of Environment-Contributing Products, including solar power-equipped houses and interlayers to address sound and heat insulation in vehicles. We plan to further increase the effectiveness of our various initiatives with the aim of achieving an even better return in 2019. We aim for a “world in which biodiversity is conserved” by reaching a return rate to natural capital of 100% or higher by 2030 and thus achieving sustainable use of the earth’s natural capital. Increasing the “product contribution,” as reflected in this index, and bringing about an improvement in the return to natural capital are also linked to improving the environmental efficiency of Sekisui Chemical Group customers. Results of Fiscal 2018 Calculation Environmental impact = Use of natural capital Raw materials 54.0 Production 21.1 Other 25.0 100 Conservation of the natural environment 0.8 Environmental contribution = Return of natural capital Contribution from products 90.9 92.8 Impact reduction 1.1 【算出方法】 （1） 環境負荷の量、環境に関する活動の成果を項目毎に定量把握 環境負荷および ・原材料使用量 ・GHG排出量 ・廃棄物量 環境に関する ・取水量 ・化学物質排出量 ・利用土地面積 活動 （i） ・製品ごとの環境貢献度 ・自然環境の保全活動の参加率 （2） 環境への負荷を算出する係数を集積した専門家のデータベースを使用し、項目ごとの負荷量 （ー因子） 、貢献量 （＋因子） を計算 項目毎の生データ Ai × 係数ki = 環境への影響度 （Ti） （3） 項目ごとの負荷量、貢献量を合算 （＝統合化） ∑（項目毎の生データ） Ai x 係数ki =∑ （環境への影響度 Ti） ※ 単位は、被害算定金額（＝活動によって破壊された場合に、元の環境（生物、植物、温暖化状況）に戻すために必要な金額） After compiling the raw data in (1), above, the damage calculation-based impact assessment method “LIME2,” developed for use in Japan by Professor Norihiro Itsubo of Tokyo City University, was employed for the calculations in stages (2) and (3). Prominence in Environment 46 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Indicator Calculation Method Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index: Overall volume of returns of natural capital by the Group / Overall volume of usage of natural capital by the Group Calculating the usage and return volumes of natural capital Employing LIME2 (a damage calculation-based impact assessment method developed for use in Japan by Professor Norihiro Itsubo of Tokyo City University) and covering all the criteria for conservation defined by LIME2, the impacts on each of “human health (including the effects of global warming),” “societal assets (including the effects of global warming),” “the effects on plants (reducing interference on growth),” and “the effects on life (restricting the extinction of living species)” were evaluated and then made into a single indicator The amount of return to natural capital was calculated as the reduction in the risk of harm to natural capital because of the whole Group’s various initiatives that contribute to the Sekisui environment, relative to if these initiatives had not been implemented. Environmental Sustainability ・Items included in the calculation of the amount of natural capital used Index Direct usage: Use of land, greenhouse gases, amounts of emissions into the air of PRTR substances and air pollutants, the COD volume of discharges into bodies of water Indirect usage: Purchased raw materials*1, energy use, amount of water used, amount of waste material emitted, amount of GHGs emitted indirectly in supply chains (Scope 3) ・Items included in the calculation of returns to natural capital Amount of contributions to reducing usage of natural capital through Environment-contributing Products, the amount of contribution from environmental conservation activities, environmentrelated donations, mega-solar power generation output *1 Until fiscal 2017, the Group gained an understanding of environmental impact, including the volume of greenhouse gasses emitted, by making calculations using “MiLCA,” the database furnished by the Japan Environmental Management Association For Industry. However, from fiscal 2018, the Group is reflecting the actual GHG emissions of its raw material suppliers with regard to four principal resins (PP, PE, PVC and PVA). Prominence in Environment 47 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Indicator Calculation Method Scope of Calculation / Listing by category of calculation: Trial calculations were conducted using the following assumed conditions: ・Raw materials: Purchased raw materials covered; estimates incorporated into calculations Concerning housing, the calculation includes the constituent raw materials for one structure multiplied by the number of structures manufactured ・Manufacturing / Emissions of harmful chemical substances:〈Japan〉emissions of 1 t per year or more of substances covered under PRTR are included in the calculation. 〈Overseas〉Not included ・Manufacturing / Land maintenance: Domestic plants and research facilities were incorporated into the calculation using the area of the premises, generally considered in terms of the land used for buildings*2. The areas of the premises of overseas plants were estimated. The effects of land usage are included in the calculation based on the 30-year period after the purchase of the land Sekisui *2 Concerning land usage, starting with the current Medium-term Plan (2017-19), improvements Environmental to soil quality in the “JBIB Land Use Score Card®” were deemed as reductions of the impact of Sustainability land usage, weighted accordingly, and included in the calculation. Index ・Others: Capital goods in supply chains, other fueland energy-related activities, transport and shipping, waste, business trips, commuting by employees, leased assets (downstream), processing/use/disposal of sold products Business trips and commuting by employees: Covers consolidated numbers of employees and includes some estimation Use of sold products: Covers housing sold during the fiscal year, and included in the calculation with assumed energy usage for 60 years into the future Until fiscal 2017, the Group calculated the amount of greenhouse gas reduction achieved through solar power generation as the amount of reduced environmental impact. From fiscal 2018, however, we are also calculating the effect of reduction in energy used in residences built to zero energy house (ZEH) specifications. Processing of sold products: Energy usage by customers while processing products anticipated to consume large amounts of energy was estimated and included in the calculation Disposal of sold products: Major raw materials for each fiscal year were covered and included in the calculation based on the assumption that they would be made into products and disposed of during that fiscal year Prominence in Environment 48 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Indicator Calculation Method ・Product contributions: (1) The differences in contribution to the environment between the relevant products and previous technologies were evaluated qualitatively for each criterion, based on the contribution to the natural and social environments for each life-cycle (the five stages of procurement of raw materials, manufacturing, distribution, usage/maintenance, disposal, and recycling) in terms of CO 2 reductions and energy savings, reductions in waste materials, resource savings, water-savings and the water cycle, preventing pollution, direct preservation of biodiversity, QOL improvements, and other factors. For factors for which a significant difference was estimated, data per product unit was investigated. (2) Based on the results of these investigations, a coefficient for calculating the impact on the environment for each series of data was multiplied by the data, yielding a calculation of the degree of contribution to the environment of each product unit. (3) The sales results for products in each fiscal year were multiplied by the results found in (2) to calculate the degree of contribution to the environment for each product, and the results were included in the calculation. Trial calculation performed on the effects of products equivalent to around 75% of Environment-contributing Products ・Direct contribution / Contribution from activities reducing environmental impacts: Sekisui The effects on the environment relating to production for each fiscal Environmental year were compared to “the effects on the environment relating to Sustainability manufacturing in fiscal 2016 × (revenue in that fiscal year / revenue in Index fiscal 2016),” and the difference was included in the calculation. There was a proportional relationship between revenue and the effects on the environment relating to manufacturing, based on the idea that the difference was the result of efforts undertaken in the group's activities. ・Direct contribution / Conservation of the natural environment: The Group keeps track of the number of participants and the amount of time spent on each activity. In the case of planting cedar trees, a fixed amount of CO2 (1.1 t-CO2/person-hour) was multiplied by the number of people and the amount of time spent and incorporated into the calculation. Because, starting with the current medium-term plan (201719), improving the sustainability of activities through local cooperation and by making them stand on their own (autonomous) were made a target, the Group’s ability to work toward this target was weighted against the growth axis and included in the calculation ・Direct contributions / donations: The amount intended to be paid for conservation was deemed equal to the amount of money calculated for damage caused and included in the calculation. ・Direct contribution / Mega-solar: Amount of electricity generated included in the calculation as generated energy converted to a CO2 basis Prominence in Environment 49 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Environmental Management System Building an Environmental Management System Based on ISO 14001 Management Approach Environmental Management System Establishing a Subcommittee Structure That Reports to the CSR Committee Sekisui Chemical Group’s Board of Directors deliberates and makes decision on all financial and non-financial initiatives. In regard to the “environmental” aspect of non-financial matters, Sekisui Chemical has positioned its Environmental Management Policy, common to all Group companies, at the heart of the Group’s environmental management efforts. The CSR Committee—headed by the Group president and including Group directors such as the divisional company presidents, as well as employee representatives—and the Environmental Subcommittee of Sekisui Chemical Group meet twice a year to discuss and report on CSR-related issues, afterward determining CSR policies and initiatives for the entire Group. Their reports are then submitted to the Board of Directors for approval and subsequent implementation. In response to matters decided by the CSR Committee, environmental managers from headquarters and each division company meet to formulate specific action plans. Each business site manages its environmental activities through an environment management system based on ISO 14001. In fiscal 2018, the CSR Committee met three times, in May, October, and February, and the Environmental Subcommittee met twice, in September and March. In the first half of the fiscal year, implementation strategies and assessment of KPI progress were discussed related to initiatives such as water resource-related efforts and measures aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Meetings in the second half of the year covered progress confirmation and implementation considerations, and there were also discussions of crucial items for implementation such as the Group Environmental Management Policy. In addition to the ongoing regular management system mentioned above, a management meeting, chaired by Keita Kato, the head of the Business Strategy Department and the person in charge of the ESG Management Promotion Department, is held once a month to determine suitable actions and report to the Board of Directors on matters requiring deliberation over a longer period of time, such as KPI planning, as well as matters related to the acceleration of measures aimed at resolving pressing issues. System for Promoting Environmental Management Board of Directors CSR Committee Environmental Sub-committee Sub-committee Chairperson: Keita Kato, Representative Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, Responsible for ESG Management Department, Head of Business Strategy Department Sub-committee Members: Managing executive officers and Executive officers at each Divisional Company, Executive officers at headquarters Office: ESG Management Department Divisional companies Environmental sections at each Divisional Company Production sites Environmental sections Sales companies Environmental sections Environment Environment officers' meeting brainstorming sessions Headquarters ESG and environment promotion organizations Prominence in Environment 50 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Environmental Management across the Supply Chain Support for Obtaining ISO14001 and Eco-Action 21 Certification Sekisui Chemical Group encourages and provides support to its suppliers to acquire ISO 14001 and Eco-Action 21* certification. Through its procurement policy, Sekisui Chemical Group also works to enhance supplier understanding of its Environmental Management Policy and to convey the Group’s requirements regarding environmental considerations. In fiscal 2018, we started to convey to suppliers our requirements with regard to the setting of targets as well as activities and measures aimed at addressing climate change. * Eco-Action 21: An environmental management system created by the Ministry of the Environment. Utilizing EMS in Office Eco-activities Promoting Group EMS-Aligned Environmental Activities in Offices Sekisui Chemical Group encourages environmental activities in its offices that are in line with its Environmental Management System (EMS). At the headquarters buildings and offices located throughout Japan, we refer to the EMS for guidance on environmental activities, such as turning off lights during lunch breaks and other steps to conserve energy and reducing the use of paper. Complying with Environmental Laws and Regulations Working to Prevent Risks before They Occur by Setting Self-management Targets That Are Tougher than Regulations Sekisui Chemical Group has set its own environmental management targets, such as for reducing emissions into the atmosphere and water environments, which are tougher than legal regulations. Each business site strictly follows these internal targets. We aim to prevent environmental accidents before they occur by conducting internal environmental audits to unveil latent environmental risks. The latest regulatory trends and case studies of accidents at other companies are shared within the Group as a part of comprehensive environmental activities. In fiscal 2018, Sekisui Chemical Group had zero environmental accidents, and zero incidents involving administrative guidance from the government. Sekisui Chemical Group makes every effort to comply with laws and regulations. Major Initiatives Expansion of EMS Overseas Promoting ISO Certification and Zero Waste Emissions At our overseas bases, we are also expanding the implementation of environmental management systems (EMS) with similar policies to Japan. We are putting in place systems for obtaining environmental impact data and taking initiatives to reduce environmental impact based on this data. As of the end of March 2019, 54 business sites in Japan and 39 business sites overseas had acquired ISO 14001 or other certifications. The proportion of Sekisui Chemical Group employees working at business sites which have acquired these certifications is now 55%. Additionally, the Group aims to achieve ISO 14001 certification and zero emissions at all production sites. Note: See page 82 for more information about “Attainment of Zero Waste Emissions Activity Targets.” Prominence in Environment 51 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Performance Data Scope of Tabulation for Environmental Performance Data Note: All of Sekisui Chemical's (consolidated) offices (100% of produced sales amounts) are subject to environmental reporting. Japan Housing Company High Performance Plastics Company R&D institute One company and one business site R&D institutes Three companies and three business sites Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba R&D Site Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Minase Site Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Drug Development Solutions Center Production plants Seven companies and 10 business sites Sekisui SoflanWiz Co., Ltd. R&D Division Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. / Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Production plants 14 companies and 19 business sites Ltd. / Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. / Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. / Kyusyu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. / Sekisui Board Co., Ltd., etc. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Musashi Plant, Shiga-Minakuchi Plant and Taga Plant Sales and construction 25 companies and 126 Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. / Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd., companies business sites Sekisui Nano Coat Technology Co., Ltd. / Sekisui Fuller Company, Ltd. Sekisui Heim sales companies Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. / Sekisui Polymatech Co., Ltd. Construction and service companies Sekisui SoflanWiz Co., Ltd., etc. 33 companies and 137 business sites in total 14 companies and 22 business sites in total Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Headquarters R&D institutes One company and one business site R&D institutes One company and one business site Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Kyoto Research & Development Laboratories Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Development Center Production plants 25 companies and19 business sites Production plants and Two companies and three headquarters business sites Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant and Gunma Plant / Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. / Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd. / Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Osaka headquarters and Tokyo headquarters Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. / Shikoku Sekisui Co., Ltd. / Nara Sekisui ENAX,Inc. Chubu office Co., Ltd. / Yamanashi Sekisui Co., Ltd. / Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. / Sekisui Hinomaru Co., Ltd., etc. Two companies and four business sites in total Sales One company and 10 business sites Total: 71 companies and 193 business sites Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Higashinihon Sales, Nishinihon Headquarters, etc. 25 companies and 30 business sites in total Note: The total number of companies and business sites do not match, since some companies have two or more business sites, and some business sites are shared by two or more companies. Overseas Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Calvert City Plant Housing Company Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe S.L. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Sekisui-SCG Industry Co., Ltd. One business site S and L Specialty Polymers Co., Ltd. Sekisui Voltek, LLC. Lawrence Plant Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Sekisui Voltek, LLC. Coldwater Plant Sekisui-Alveo B.V. Sekisui Polymer Innovations, LLC. Bloomsburg-north Plant Sekisui Alveo BS G.m.b.H. Sekisui Polymer Innovations, LLC. Bloomsburg-south Plant Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd. Sekisui Polymer Innovations, LLC. Holland Plant Sekisui Pilon Pty. Ltd. Sekisui Eslon B.V. Youngbo Chemical Co., Ltd. Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd. Youngbo HPP (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Rib Loc Australia Pty. Ltd. Sekisui High Performance Packaging (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Sekisui (Wuxi) Plastics Technology Co., Ltd. Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. Sekisui (Shanghai) Environmental Technology Co., Ltd. Sekisui Xenotech, LLC. Sekisui Diagnostics, LLC. San Diego Eight business sites in total Sekisui Diagnostics (UK) Ltd. Sekisui Diagnostics P.E.I. Inc. High Performance Plastics Company Sekisui DLJM Molding Private Ltd. Greater Noida Plan Sekisui DLJM Molding Private Ltd. Tapukara Plant Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC. Sekisui DLJM Molding Private Ltd. Chen nai Plant Sekisui S-Lec Mexico S.A. de C.V. PT.ADYAWINSA SEKISUI TECHNO MOLDING Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Film Plant Sekisui Polymatech (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Resin Plant PT. Polymatech Indonesia Sekisui S-Lec (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Polymatech (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-LEC (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Pasadena Plant Total: 32 business sites Prominence in Environment 52 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Business Sites that Have Received Third-party Certification for Their Environment Management Systems Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Plastics Company Environmental Products Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba R&D Site* Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Musashi Plant Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Minakuchi Plant Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Kyoto R & D Laboratories [Sekisui Fuller Company, Ltd. Shiga Plant] Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Taga Plant Kanto Site Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Minase Site Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Nara Plant Tokyo Site Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Ota Plant Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Mie Plant Chubu Site Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Aichi Plant Kinki Site Shikoku Sekisui Co., Ltd. Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. Hamamatsu Plant Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Iwate Plant Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Nara Sekisui Co., Ltd. Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba Plant Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Minakuchi Plant Hanyu Sekisui Co., Ltd. Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Ami Site Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Yamanashi Sekisui Co., Ltd. Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Drug Development Solutions Center ☆ Sekisui-SCG Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Chiba Plant Sekisui Nano Coat Technology Co., Ltd. SCG-Sekisui Sales Co., Ltd. Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Kanto Plant Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Hyogo Plant Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Film Plant Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Resin Plant Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Hyogo-Takino Plant Sekisui-Alveo B.V. Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Izumo Plant Sekisui Alveo BS G.m.b.H. Sekisui Hinomaru Co., Ltd. Tosu Plant Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe, S.L. Sekisui Hinomaru Co., Ltd. Kanto Plant Sekisui Diagnostics (UK) Ltd. Sekisui Home Techno Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC. Sekisui Polymer Innovations, LLC. Bloomsburg Sekisui Votek, LLC. Lawrence Plant Plant Sekisui Votek, LLC. Coldwater Plant Sekisui Polymer Innovations, LLC. Holland Plant Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Sekisui Eslon B.V. Pasadena Plant Sekisui Rib Loc Australia Pty. Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Calvert City Plant Sekisui Refresh Co., Ltd. Sekisui Diagnostics, LLC, San Diego Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd. Sekidui Diagnostics P.E.I. Inc. Sekisui (Wuxi) Plastics Technology Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec Mexico S.A. de C.V. Sekisui (Qingdao) Plastic Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec Thailand Co., Ltd. Sekisui (Shanghai) Environmental Technology Co., Ltd. Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals (Thailand) Co., Ltd. S and L Specialty Polymers Co., Ltd. Sekisui Polymatech (Thailand) Co., Ltd. PT. Polymatech Indonesia Sekisui Pilon Pty. Ltd. [ ]: Organizations in square parentheses are Sekisui DLJM Molding Private Ltd. Great included in the scope of certification. Some sites Headquarters Noida Plant not shown above may include related sections Youngbo Chemical Co., Ltd. that have attained ISO 14001 certification. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Development Center Youngbo HPP (Langfang) Co., Ltd. ☆ Eco Action 21; others ISO 14001 ENAX,Inc. Headquarters, Chubu office Sekisui High Performance Packaging (Langfang) Co., Ltd. * The Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba R&D Sekisui S-LEC (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Site and Development Center share a single Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. certification Sekisui Polymatech (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Prominence in Environment 53 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Indicator Calculation Method Number of business sites that have received external EMS certification Number of EMS-certified business sites External EMS certification: ISO 14001, Eco-Action 21, etc. The proportion of all business sites within Sekisui Chemical The proportion of all business sites within Group that have received external EMS certification = Σ[Number Sekisui Chemical Group that have received of employees at business sites that have received external EMS external EMS certification certification] / Consolidated number of employees: Number of employees on the final day of the relevant fiscal year Environment-related Accidents, Complaints, etc. Content Response Noise Noise from exhaust blowers Exhaust mufflers installed Nighttime lighting environment Lighting angles changed Rainwater getting into waste plasPrevention of rainwater ingress by Complaints tic storage containers vinyl covers and stretch film Other Failure to submit an application Submission of application for perfor permission to make alterations mission to make alterations to dangerous goods storage In fiscal 2018, there were four environment-related complaints. In each case in turn, we implemented measures to prevent any reoccurrence. Prominence in Environment 54 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Environmental Education Fostering Human Resources Who Can Think About the Importance of Environmental Activities and Act on Their Own Management Approach Educational Plans and System The Creation of an Environmental Education System That Follows the Policies of Our Long-term Vision The Sekisui Chemical Group has created an education system to enable it to achieve the “ideal model of environmental human resources” in respect to employees, as drawn up as a means of achieving the group’s Vision. Education based on this system began being conducted in 2014. Through their work, all employees consider on their own what actions they can take to contribute to the environment with the aim of creating “a world in biodiversity is conserved. The foundation for human resources who think and act in this way is built through environmental education. Promoting Education Concept for Promoting Environmental Education over the Long Term Our environmental education program puts a strong emphasis on the process for instilling “interest, excitement, and gratitude.” With the goal of raising awareness of environmental issues (creating “interest”), driving action (generating “excitement”), and producing results (fostering “gratitude”), we are conducting a variety of educational activities suited to each situation, with a focus on the most effective teaching methods and targets for each job and area of responsibility. Prominence in Environment 55 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Medium-term Plan Philosophy for Environmental Education in the Environmental Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) 1) A program to assist the transformation to “hands-on” action Based on monitoring the levels of environmental knowledge and awareness at the Company (organization) level throughout the period of the Environmental Medium-term Plan that was implemented through fiscal 2016, differences based on job type and responsibilities were apparent, but there was almost no difference among regions. In the Environmental Medium-term Plan (2017-2019), the group will create tools to allow it to monitor individual-level levels of knowledge and degrees of participation so that studies of individual employees can serve as indicators and will create mechanisms that allow employees to engage in activities “hands-on.” 2) The ongoing implementation of effective programs The programs that proved effective among the various education programs instituted as part of the Environmental Medium-term Plan followed until fiscal 2016 will continue to be implemented in the current Environmental Medium-term Plan, with some revisions to their content. Major Initiatives Human Resource Environmental Awareness Indicator Ascertaining the Level of Environmental Awareness in Human Resources by Indicator In the surveys on environmental awareness conducted as part of the Environmental Medium-term Plan through fiscal 2016, the level of knowledge was demonstrated to go up, though we noted that there was a need to turn this awareness into action. In order to further boost awareness, we believed it would be effective to create a mechanism that promotes education and training based on each individual’s specific circumstances. Thus, in fiscal 2017, to “visualize” changes in behavior or in the level of knowledge, a human resource environmental awareness indicator was created to monitor employees’ current levels of environmental knowledge and the status of their behavior and to serve as a progress chart to encourage individuals to engage in self-study. We use an online “Human Resource Environmental Awareness Check” to promote a better understanding of the human resource environmental awareness indicator. The Human Resource Environmental Awareness Check focuses on items which Sekisui Chemical Group expects its employees to know about and take action on, including natural capital, SDGs, and environmental policies, and asks the employees in survey form if they know the meaning and purpose of the key terms, and what specific actions the employees may have taken. The results are then scored, with feedback given in regard to each employee’s current level and areas for potential improvement. Having the employees periodically take the “Human Resource Environmental Awareness Check” allows us to measure the strength of an employee’s environmental activity promotional efforts and through this, his or her knowledge and willingness to act. 2017, the first year in the Environmental Medium-term Plan, is used as the benchmark for the human resource environmental awareness indicator, and the Group is targeting a 20-point improvement from the benchmark level in the course of the current Medium-term Plan. The domestic benchmark is 39 points, and the fiscal 2018 score was 44. While this latter figure represents a five-point improvement, it is still below our target. Thanks to concentrated educational efforts, improvements were shown in areas where low scores had previously been recorded. However, we believe that among the reasons we did not achieve our target are that a system for undertaking selfstudy is not yet in place and that the educational opportunities offered are rather limited. Another point was that not all employees were able to attend educational programs. In aiming to expand attendance and increase participation rates, we will work on further horizontal development. Prominence in Environment 56 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities We have started to utilize the human resource environmental awareness indicator overseas as well. In fiscal 2018, we identified the benchmark in North America, and the result was 50 points. In the years to come, we plan to gradually expand the areas to, for example, take in China and Europe, ascertain the trends in each area, and utilize the indicator as a means to improve the level of human resource environmental awareness on a global basis. Environmental education offered Covered job responsibilities, job Category of FY2018 plan Educational program name types, etc. education Japan Overseas (Sekisui Chemical Group) 1 Environment e-learning 1 ②③⑤ P Management 2 Environment e-learning 2 ②③ P All employees 3 Environment e-learning 3 ⑤ P All employees People in charge of environmental 4 Workshop Meeting ④⑤ P P affairs Production sites, research facilities 5 EMS Content Distribution (DVD) ①④⑤ P △ (Japan, Europe) Training for Fostering Internal 6 ④⑤ P Production sites, research facilities Environmental Auditors 7 CSR Training 1 ①② P New company employees Newly appointed people in 8 CSR Training 2 ②③ P management positions Environmental Human 9 ①⑤ P △ All employees (Japan, America) Resources Check Pamphlets on Environment10 ①②③ P All employees in Japan contributing Products Booklet for Publicizing the New 11 Environmental Medium-term ①②③ △ All employees (Japan, Europe) Plan (Vision Guidebook) △…Conducted in a limited area Prominence in Environment 57 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities 1) Environmental e-learning for management Management regularly introduces environmental topics that are believed necessary to support corporate operations. In fiscal 2018, we implemented an environmental e-learning program focusing on water risks and the issue of plastic pollution in marine environments. We believe we can learn about potential business opportunities by focusing on efforts aimed at resolving environmental issues, as well as on international trends and items requiring corporate compliance. 2) Workshop Meetings for People in Charge of Environmental Affairs During fiscal 2018, workshop meetings aimed at improving the environmental management skills of people in charge of environmental affairs at production facilities were held in five areas: Japan, North America, China, Europe, and Thailand. The workshops focused on reducing greenhouse gas emissions–a key item in the Environmental Medium-term Plan–on environmental regulations and improving the green spaces around the operating facilities as well as on assessments of energy-saving policies at model business sites and discussions on how to reduce waste risk. Workshop Meetings for People in Charge of Environmental Affairs (Left: Europe, right: Thailand) Prominence in Environment 58 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Environmental Accounting We compile data on the cost and benefits of our environmental conservation activities. Management Approach Compilation Method Sekisui Chemical Group Refers to Public Guidelines and Adds Its Own Concepts To fulfill our reporting responsibilities as a company and promote efficient environmental management, we employ environmental accounting that is capable of identifying the cost and benefits of our environmental conservation activities. Calculation is conducted by referring to the Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 issued by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment, with the addition of Sekisui Chemical Group’s own concepts, such as external economic benefits (estimated effects). Performance Data 【Scope of Environmental Accounting】 (1) Summation period: April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019 (2) Scope of tabulation: 45 production sites + 5 research facilities + various departments in headquarters + indirect divisions of Companies + 15 housing sales companies In fiscal year 2016, the scope of tabulation consisted of 40 production sites + 5 research facilities + various departments in headquarters + indirect divisions of Companies + 15 housing sales companies. Deleted: Four Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. production sites (outside the scope of consolidation), Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Amagasaki Plant (business transferred) In fiscal year 2017, the scope of tabulation consisted of 42 production sites + 5 research facilities + various departments in headquarters + indirect divisions of Companies + 15 housing sales companies. Addition: Hanyu Sekisui Co., Ltd. Tohoku Office, Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Ami Office The business sites deleted from and added to the scope of tabulation in 2018 are as follows: Deleted: Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Nara Office (plant closure) Addition: Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Tochigi Office, Sekisui SoflanWiz Co., Ltd. Iwaki Office, Atsugi Office, Akashi Office Prominence in Environment 59 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities (3) Approach toward summation ・Depreciation amounts are the same as those for financial accounting. ・Investment amounts are based on budget approvals during the summation period. ・Expenditures and investments that contain other than environmental conservation activities are distributed pro-rata in 10% increments. During fiscal 2018, the number of business sites counted as production sites increased. Concerning costs, management activity costs increased, while upstream and downstream costs, R&D costs, social activity and other costs decreased, and total costs amounted to less than in the previous fiscal year. Meanwhile, in terms of investment, there was increased investment in pollution prevention measures, and investment in R&D increased; thus, the total amount exceeded that of the previous fiscal year. In terms of economic effects, profit on the sale of valuables decreased, as did profits from the sale of mega-solar electricity. Additionally, the amount saved on costs from energy-saving activities decreased, while the cost-savings from waste material reduction activities and other efforts increased. The external economic effects from housing equipped with solar power-generation systems and so forth are growing steadily. Environmental Conservation Costs (Sekisui Chemical Group) (Millions of yen) Items FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Category Description of main activities Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Prevention of air, water, and noise pollution, etc. 1,391 265 1,697 99 1,358 168 1） Costs within business areas Countermeasures against global warming (energy saving), etc. 383 706 427 1,312 400 870 Waste reduction, recycling, disposal, etc. 5,370 80 4,967 2,030 5,099 542 Cost increases due to URU, switching to packaging/packing methods involving reduced 2） Upstream/downstream costs environmental impact, greener purchasing, etc. 144 6 218 0 98 7 Environmental education, EMS maintenance, running costs for green action 3） Administrative costs organization, information disclosure, etc. 1,687 5 2,072 0 2,220 13 4） Research & development costs Research and development on environmental conservation 5,349 804 7,932 1,477 5,983 4,826 5） Social activities costs Social contributions, etc. 291 0 277 0 271 0 6） Environmental damage costs Nature restoration, etc. 27 0 29 32 27 0 Total 14,640 1,866 17,618 4,951 15,456 6,426 Total amount of R&D costs* or investment in the fiscal period (million yen) 34,169 20,220 36,974 18,838 38,838 30,551 Ratio of amount related to environmental conservation activities to total amount of R&D costs or Investment (%) 15.7 9.2 21.5 26.3 15.4 21.0 * R&D costs are the total for all consolidated companies. Environmental Conservation Benefits (Sekisui Chemical Group) Environmental conservation benefits Environmental performance criteria: per unit of output; Total SelfDescription of effects Item Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Effect (18-17) Item Unit FY2017 FY2018 evaluation (1) Electricity TJ 1,124 1,116 1,085 -31 Effects on invested Amount of energy usage (1) Energy usage per unit of output GJ/ton 1.05 1.00 ✓ resources (2) Fuel TJ 2,415 2,488 2,507 19 (electricity + fuel) Thousand Effects within (3) CO2 emissions tons 318.9 317.4 306.7 -10.7 − − − − × business areas Effects on (4) Volume of environmental pollutants discharged *1 Tons 567.3 649.5 679.7 30.2 − − − − × environmental Thousand impact and waste (5) Waste generated *2 tons 37.2 38.3 40.3 2.0 (2) Waste generated per unit of output kg/ton 42.3 43.4 × Thousand 0.24 (3) Outsourced disposal per unit of (6) Outsourced disposal *3 tons 0.00 0.31 0.55 output kg/ton 0.34 0.59 × Upstream/ Effects related to CO2 reduction by photovoltaic power generation, Thousand downstream products/services etc. (cumulative) tons 425 452 481 29 − − − − ✓ effects New acquisitions Sites 3 2 10 − Total number Business sites attaining ISO 14001 Business sites attaining ISO 14001 and of and other certifications other certifications *5 business 102 112 ✓ Other Renewals Sites 12 19 14 − sites benefits to Others *6 environmental Total number conservation Number of business sites achieving zero emissions *4 Sites 4 0 0 − Number of business sites achieving zero of emissions *4 business 162 162 ✓ sites Thousand CO2 reduction from use of megasolar facilities tons 5.18 4.96 4.57 -0.39 ー ー − − − *1 Class I Designated Chemical Substances specified by PRTR Law. *2 Amount discharged + Amount disposed of at price + Amount incinerated within own premises. *3 Simple incineration + Landfill. *4 Including business sites not subject to environmental accounting summation, such as overseas business sites. *5 A cumulative total number of sites reviewed for factors, such as consolidation and return of certifications for housing sales companies. *6 A business site affiliated to multiple companies is counted as one. Prominence in Environment 60 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Economic Benefits of Environmental Conservation Measures (Sekisui Chemical Group) (Millions of yen) Description of effects FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Remarks (1) Profit on sales of valuable resources 129 291 159 Profit on sales of valuable resources from promotion of waste segregation and recycling Revenue (2) Revenues from sale of electricity 379 384 363 Revenues from sale of electricity generated by megasolar facilities (3) Savings from simplified packaging 0 4 0 Cost savings (4) Cost savings through energy-saving activities 486 654 595 (5) Cost savings through waste-reduction activities, etc. 646 677 1,595 Including resource-saving activities Subtotal (actual effects) 1,639 2,010 2,712 (6) Contribution to environmental conservation activities *1 6,694 7,737 11,017 Contribution of environmental conservation activities to added value at business sites *2 (7) External economic effect 30,647 34,982 35,754 Monetary conversion of impact from photovoltaic generation systems and No-Dig pipe rehabilitation method Subtotal (estimated effects) 37,341 42,719 46,771 Total 38,980 44,728 49,483 *1 Excluding housing sales companies *2 (Added value from business sites) × {(Costs within business areas + Administrative costs)/(Total production costs excluding materials costs)} Environmental Conservation Costs (by Company) (Millions of yen) Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Sekisui Items Housing Company *1 Environmental Products Company Plastics Company Chemical Group *2 Category Description of main activities Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Prevention of air, water, and noise pollution, etc. 1,168 67 43 17 144 83 1,358 168 1) Costs within Countermeasures against global warming (energy saving), etc. 120 125 167 269 113 476 400 870 business areas Waste reduction, recycling, disposal, etc. 4,188 2 284 17 618 523 5,099 542 2) Upstream/ Cost increases due to URU, switching to packaging/packing methods downstream costs involving reduced environmental impact, greener purchasing, etc. 66 0 5 7 17 0 98 7 3) Administrative costs Environmental education, EMS maintenance, running costs for green action organization, information disclosure, etc. 545 0 296 0 849 11 2,220 13 4) Research & development costs Research and development on environmental conservation 161 134 1,819 2 729 1 5,983 4,826 5) Social activities costs Social contributions, etc. 181 0 33 0 16 0 271 0 6) Environmental damage costs Nature restoration, etc. 0 0 0 0 27 0 27 0 Total 6,429 328 2,648 312 2,514 1,093 15,456 6,426 Total amount of R&D costs *3 or investment in the fiscal period (million yen) 4,249 5,159 5,938 9,249 21,233 13,840 38,838 30,551 Ratio of amount related to environmental conservation activities to total amount of R&D costs or Investment (%) 3.8 6.4 30.6 3.4 3.4 7.9 15.4 21.0 *1 Including 43 business sites of housing sales companies. *2 Total of three division companies and departments of headquarters. *3 R&D costs are the total for all consolidated companies. Environmental Conservation Costs (by Environmental Conservation Measure) (Millions of yen) Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Sekisui Items Housing Company *1 Environmental Products Company Plastics Company Chemical Group *2 Category Description of main activities Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments 1. Prevention of global warming Reduction of CO2 emissions, etc. 109 125 165 247 111 321 387 693 2. Ozone layer protection Reduction of chlorof luorocarbon emissions, etc. 7 0 5 8 11 47 23 56 3. Conservation of air quality Prevention of air pollution by reducing polluting substances 388 63 34 3 39 11 460 77 4. Prevention of noise and vibration Prevention of noise and vibration pollution 4 0 7 2 10 0 20 2 5. Conservation of water environment, soil environment, ground quality Preservation of water quality, prevention of subsidence 212 1 18 12 132 58 364 72 6. Waste reduction and recycling Reduction and treatment of waste, recycling, etc. 4,240 2 290 23 646 523 5,185 549 7. Reduction of chemical substances Risk management of chemical substances, etc. 527 0 1 0 4 3 533 3 8. Conservation of natural environment Nature conservation, etc. 103 0 87 0 42 5 263 8 9. Others Others 840 137 2,041 15 1,518 124 8,221 4,966 Total 6,429 328 2,648 312 2,514 1,093 15,456 6,426 *1 Including 43 business sites of housing sales companies. *2 Total of three division companies and departments of headquarters. Prominence in Environment 61 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Environmental Conservation Benefits (by Company) Environmental conservation benefits Housing Company*1 Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Plastics Company Sekisui Chemical Group*2 Environmental Products Company FY2017 FY2018 Effect FY2017 FY2018 Effect FY2017 FY2018 Effect FY2017 FY2018 Effect Description of effects Items Unit (18-17) (18-17) (18-17) (18-17) Effects on Amount of energy (1) Electricity TJ 151 152 1 573 547 -27 383 377 -6 1,116 1,085 -31 invested Effects within business areas usage resources (2) Fuel TJ 131 128 -4 94 90 -4 2,257 2,282 25 2,488 2,507 19 Thousand (3) CO2 emissions tons 27.7 27.3 -0.4 89.5 81.3 -8.2 198.7 196.4 -2.3 317.4 306.7 -10.7 Effects on (4) Volume of environmental environmental pollutants discharged *3 Tons 1.5 1.4 -0.2 47.0 46.4 -0.6 601.0 631.9 31.0 649.5 679.7 30.2 impact and Thousand waste (5) Waste generated *4 tons 11.2 11.1 -0.1 7.9 7.8 -0.1 19.0 21.1 2.1 38.3 40.3 2.0 Thousand (6) Outsourced disposal *5 tons 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.18 0.38 0.20 0.31 0.55 0.24 Upstream/ Effects related CO2 reduction by photovoltaic － － － － － － Thousand downstream to products/ power generation, etc. tons 452 481 29 452 481 29 effects service Business sites New acquisitions Sites 0 0 － 0 0 － 2 10 － 2 10 － attaining ISO Other benefits to 14001 and other certifications Renewals Sites 1 5 － 10 4 － 8 4 － 19 14 － environmental Others *6 － － － Number of business sites achieving Sites 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 － conservation zero emissions *7 CO2 reduction from use of Thousand megasolar facilities tons 3.11 2.91 -0.20 0.80 0.67 -0.12 1.05 0.98 -0.07 4.96 4.57 -0.39 *1 Including 43 business sites of housing sales companies *2 Total of three division companies and departments of headquarters.*3 Class I Designated Chemical Substances specified by PRTR Law. *4 Amount discharged + Amount disposed of at price + Amount incinerated within own premises *5 Simple incineration + Landfill *6 Including business sites not subject to environmental accounting summation, such as overseas business sites *7 A business site affiliated to multiple companies is counted as one. Economic Benefits of Environmental Conservation Measures (by Company) (Millions of yen) Urban Infrastructure High Performance Sekisui Description of effects Housing Company*1 & Environmental Remarks Plastics Company Chemical Group*2 Products Company 159 Profit on sales of valuable resources from promotion of waste (1) Profit on sales of valuable resources 23 32 103 segregation and recycling Revenue (2) Revenues from sale of electricity 226 59 77 363 Revenues from sale of electricity generated by megasolar facilities (3) Savings from simplified packaging 0 0 0 0 Cost savings (4) Cost savings through energy-saving activities 21 106 468 595 (5) Cost savings through waste-reduction activities, etc. 36 97 1,462 1,595 Including resource-saving activities Contribution of environmental conservation activities to added Subtotal (actual effects) 306 294 2,110 2,712 value at business sites *4 Monetary conversion of impact from photovoltaic generation (6) Contribution to environmental conservation activities *3 1,408 1,811 7,798 11,017 systems and No-Dig pipe rehabilitation method (7) External economic effect 25,242 10,513 − 35,754 Sub-total (estimated effects) 26,650 12,324 7,798 46,771 Total 26,956 12,618 9,908 49,483 *1 Including 43 business sites of housing sales companies *2 Total of three division companies and departments of headquarters. *3 Excluding housing sales companies *4 (Added value from business sites) × {(Costs within business areas + Administrative costs)/(Total production costs excluding materials costs)} Indicator Calculation Method Calculation based on referring to the Ministry of the Environment's “Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 Edition” and adding Sekisui's own concepts, such as external economic effects (estimated effects) Environmental Among the economic effects attendant with environmental conservation measures, the Accounting external economic effect consist of the effects of energy-savings from sales of housing equipped with solar power-generation systems and the effects of non-digging renovation methods for sewers, and so forth, converted to a monetary value Prominence in Environment 62 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Usage of Natural Capital Initiatives by Sekisui Chemical Group to Reduce its Impact on the Environment Sekisui Chemical Group is involved in business that utilizes fossil fuels, lumber, and other resources of the earth (natural capital). To balance the irreplaceable global environment with sustainable business, Sekisui's initiatives for “reducing the impact on the environment” are explained here. Climate Change Sekisui is engaged in reducing greenhouse gas emissions in all stages from the procurement of raw materials to development, manufacturing, transport, and use. Efficient Use of Resources Sekisui strives to thoroughly implement the “3 Rs” (reduce, reuse, and recycle) throughout entire lifecycles and to achieve zero emissions from its business sites. Conservation of Water Resources Sekisui monitors the impact of water resources on business continuity and reflects its findings in its business plans. Chemical Substance Management Sekisui establishes its own targets and strives to reduce the amount of runoff of chemical substances and the amount transported among sites. Environmental Impact Assessment Sekisui runs systems that evaluate the environmental effects of products in all stages from product planning, development, and mass prototyping to marketing and initial distribution. Material Balance Sekisui releases information on the resources and energy used in its business activities (inputs) and on the impact on the environment from those activities (outputs). Prominence in Environment 63 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Climate Change Efforts to Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions throughout the Supply Chain Management Approach Basic Concept Reducing Emissions throughout the Supply Chain Sekisui Chemical Group has formulated a medium-term greenhouse gas emission reduction plan in line with targets established at COP21 (the Paris Agreement). We are identifying and disclosing the effects in terms of “risks and opportunities” that climate will have on business continuity based on science-based scenarios aimed at the achievement of the ambitious goals of the Paris Agreement, which are based on Science Based Targets (SBT). Moreover, we reflect these factors into our business plans and emission reduction targets. Concerning emissions, Sekisui Chemical is engaged in reducing greenhouse gas emissions at every stage, from the procurement of raw materials to development, manufacturing, transport, and use. We monitor these emissions throughout the supply chain, including not just our own business sites but also raw material suppliers and the use of our products after being sold, and publish our findings. Combating Climate Change Steadily Reducing Greenhouse Gases in All Business Activities Under the Environmental Medium-term Plan that we have been implementing since fiscal 2017, we have widened the scope to encompass not only production-related greenhouse gas emissions but also those from n all aspects of our business activities. In the case of the latter, we have set a reduction target of 6% against the fiscal 2013 level by fiscal 2019. Sekisui Chemical is also actively engaged in environment-contributing investments that contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from its production divisions. In regard to the electricity that accounts for about half of these greenhouse gas emissions, we are reviewing our selection criteria for electric power suppliers with an eye toward cutting costs and CO2 emission coefficients. Moreover, we are increasing our utilization ratio for renewable energy by advancing the introduction of solar power equipment to generate electricity for use at the plant or facility in which it was installed. Looking ahead, we will continue to work toward reducing greenhouse gases at every stage of our business activities, with the COP21 (Paris Agreement) objectives at the forefront of our decision-making. Prominence in Environment 64 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Climate Change and Our Business Risks and Opportunities Presented by Climate Change for Our Businesses Sekisui Chemical Group recognizes that global warming and other forms of climate change are a global problem for society. The Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030 created in fiscal 2013 aims to realize “a planet where biodiversity is preserved.” Our concept of “a planet where biodiversity is preserved” is a vision where the earth has achieved a state of having solved global-scale social issues, such as climate change, resource depletion and ecosystem degradation. We also strive to understand the risks and opportunities that climate change presents to the operations of Sekisui Chemical Group, in terms of their magnitude, scope of impact and other matters. For identified risks, Sekisui Chemical Group examines measures to mitigate the risks, and for identified opportunities, it considers the creation of new businesses by developing products and services. Through this kind of management, we believe it is possible to remain a company that meets the demands of society through sustainable business development. Higher Costs to Address Climate Change Can Be Met with Reductions in Environmental Impact As an initiative to reduce environmental impact, the Sekisui Chemical Group introduced the ECO-JIT Program* for the purpose of greatly increasing energy efficiency in production processes while working on the visualization of its energy usage and reducing the volume used. We also created a system where employees can select an eco-car from the list of company-owned vehicles and conduct environmental impact assessments and energy conservation assessments when installing new equipment in our plants. Through these and other efforts, the Sekisui Chemical Group has put in place a structure that allows it to meet new environmental regulations around the world at minimal cost. * ECO-JIT Program: A program to reduce energy costs by thorough detection of energy losses in production processes and thorough innovation Changes in Market Needs and Stronger Demand for Environmental Products Can Be Addressed by Improving Environment-contributing Products We manage risks that arise from climate change and other global social issues by continuing to develop Environment-contributing Products and disclosing and distributing detailed data on outcomes, and this also allows us to precisely identify opportunities arising from strengthening demand. In particular, we believe it is possible to magnify the impact of the products and services we create by quantifying as much as possible the size of the contribution Group products make to solving social issues, which leads to opportunities to create and transform markets in ways that help solve global issues and change the awareness of consumers. Deterioration in Operating and Working Conditions Can Be Addressed on a Case-byCase Basis If climate change becomes a grave problem and significantly increases the highest and lowest temperatures, it is possible that people in manufacturing and construction would be unable to work as much. Since climates vary by region, it may be possible to minimize the effects of climate change by proposing to do construction work and projects during the more favorable seasons in the region. Each company division and Group company has formulated its own BCP based on their unique situation as a means of avoiding as much as possible the risk of loss in operations and work availability due to natural disasters. Prominence in Environment 65 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Major Initiatives Acquisition of SBT Certification Acquisition of Certification under the SBT* Initiative (a World-First in the Chemistry Industry) Relating to Greenhouse Gas Reduction Targets To commit before society its stance of actively engaging in corporate efforts to resolve issues of climate change, Sekisui Chemical Group publicly releases CSR reports and other materials relating to its targets. Additionally, in fiscal 2017, the Group applied for certification under the SBT Initiative to demonstrate that the mediumto long-term targets announced for its overall business and for its supply chains reach a scientifically grounded, ambitious level aimed at achieving the COP21 (Paris Agreement) targets. The Group then became the first in the chemical industry worldwide to receive this certification. ＜Certified targets＞ SCOPE 1+2: Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 26%, relative to fiscal 2013, by 2030 SCOPE 3: Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 27%, relative to fiscal 2016, by 2030 The Group will continue to affirm its growing responsibility to play its role as an industry leader and will strive to engage in activities leading and imploring society as a whole to work on measures to combat climate change. * SBT: SBT (short for Science-Based Targets). Called for by joint initiatives, including the UN Global Compact, in response to the adoption of the Paris Agreement. Through the SBT Initiative, greenhouse gas reduction targets established by companies are certified as science-based targets (SBT) that contribute to long-term measures combating climate change. Environment-contributing Investments Environment-contributing Investment Framework Newly Created to Advance Measures for Combating Global Warming It will first be necessary to steadily achieve the targets, set by backcasting, in the Environmental Medium-term Plan that the Group has been implementing since fiscal 2017 to achieve the Group’s 2030 targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The Group is already implementing extremely high-level initiatives for reducing emissions at its production sites. To achieve its targets of wide-ranging reductions, the Group believes that bold capital expenditures, in addition to mere changes to its operations in production sites, will be essential. To promote capital expenditures that contribute to energy savings, the Group has set a new Environment-contributing Investment Framework, and has established internal systems that support production sites upgrade or replace equipment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The effects of initiatives, such as the undertaking of capital investment that had previously been considered not economically viable and had thus been postponed, have become increasingly apparent. By investing to upgrade older types of manufacturing equipment, introduce solar power equipment to generate electricity for in-house use, utilize energy conversion boilers, and switch to LED lighting, the Group is on track to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions from projects already ordered through fiscal 2018 by 30,000 metric tons, and, with the further spending based on this support system, we aim to achieve total reductions of 40,000 metric tons. Prominence in Environment 66 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Greenhouse Gas Emissions in the Supply Chain (SCOPE 3) Reducing Greenhouse Gases at Supply Chain Stage In the case of Sekisui Chemical Group we were able to determine that greenhouse gas emissions falling under SCOPE 3 are highest at the raw materials procurement and product usage stages. The reason that emissions are high in the raw materials procurement stage is understood to be due to the characteristics of our business as a chemicals manufacturer. Meanwhile, the emissions from the product-usage stage arise from the large volumes of greenhouse gases emitted as the result of energy consumed in the houses that we sell. Concerning raw materials, going forward, we will revise our selection criteria for new materials at the time of their adoption and reduce the use of four resins known to be raw materials that result in high levels of emissions to reduce the amount of greenhouse gases that are emitted. Thus, we will act to include the entire supply chain, achieving reductions of 20%, relative to fiscal 2016. In terms of emissions at the stage of product usage, we will contribute to energy usage reductions from occupied housing by increasing the proportion of net-zero energy houses (ZEH) among the housing units that we sell, achieving 50% reductions, relative to fiscal 2016, by fiscal 2030. Renewable Energy Use The Installation of Solar Power Equipment Generating Electricity for In-house Use Sekisui Chemical has been promoting the use of renewable energy by installing solar power generators at our domestic and overseas production sites. In fiscal 2018, solar-derived energy usage amounted to 1,268 MWh, which is equivalent to 0.15% of our total energy usage, including purchased electricity. This equates to a 0.1 of a percentage point improvement compared with fiscal 2017, thanks largely to the installation of solar power generation equipment with 814kW of power output capacity at Sekisui S-Lec America in July 2018. The equipment is expected to produce 1,044MWh of power on an annual basis. In Japan, we installed solar power generation equipment with 644kW of power output capacity at Yamanashi Sekisui Co.,Ltd. in March 2019, with this equipment expected to produce 700MWh of power on an annual basis. Sekisui Chemical Group is actively focused on introducing similar equipment at several of its facilities. Sekisui Chemical will continue to monitor the proportion of renewable energy out of its total amount of electricity consumed, including purchased electricity, and to strive to increase that proportion to help achieve its Environmental Sustainability Vision 2030 targets. Prominence in Environment 67 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Performance Data Starting with the current Environmental Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) we have revised the CO2 emissions coefficient and amount of heat generated per unit of output, resulting in revisions to figures for previous fiscal years. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions That Arise from Business Activities Emissions Comparative level of emissions (1,000 tons-CO2) (FY2013: 100) 1400 120 100.0 97.8 98.5 98.9 97.7 1200 94.7 94.0 100 1000 942 922 928 932 921 Offices (Target) 892 80 36 33 31 48 38 43 35 37 37 37 37 Shipping 886 800 12 12 39 11 11 10 10 Research 60 600 Facilities Manufacturing 40 400 847 829 808 842 851 843 200 20 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Target Note: Past figures have been revised due to improvements in precision. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions during Manufacturing Energy Usage and per Unit of Output* (Index) during / Japan Manufacturing / Japan Comparative level of emissions Per unit of output index (1,000 tons-CO2) (FY2013: 100) Usage (TJ) (FY2016: 100) 800 120 5000 100.0 99.0 98.0 100 97.0 89.9 91.5 93.0 100.0 95.8 91.8 (Target) 94.5 100 90.6 88.4 87.8 4000 3,820 80 600 85.1 84.2 3,592 3,463 3,539 3,604 3,592 280 254 80 244 268 282 280 (Target) 806 Housing Company 60 3000 Greenhouse gases 744 687 664 667 636 400 from non-energy 60 372 351 9 consumption sources Urban Infrastructure 9 337 9 329 9 326 10 316 313 2000 and Environmental 40 31 28 9 Housing Company 40 Products Company 113 104 27 28 27 81 Urban Infrastructure 97 92 89 2,734 2,594 2,532 2,599 2,640 2,660 200 28 and Environmental Products Company 20 1000 High Performance 20 Plastics Company 218 210 203 198 199 196 High Performance Plastics Company 0 0 0 0 1 1 2 Headquarters 0 0 0 0 0 8 14 16 Headquarters 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Target Target * Energy consumption per unit of production weight Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions during Manufacturing Energy Usage and per Unit of Output* (Index) during / Overseas Manufacturing / Overseas Comparative level of emissions Per unit of output index (1,000 tons-CO2) (FY2013: 100) Usage (TJ) (FY2016: 100) 800 120 120 110.5 110.9 111.2 (Target) 100.6 108.0 102.3 107.2 107.1 102.4 100.0 99.3 100.0 102.0 97.0 100 100 600 (Target) 8000 99.0 98.0 513 525 527 Greenhouse gases 80 472 4 4 3 6,391 6,559 6,454 80 475 478 0.4 32 0.4 32 0.5 32 from non-energy 486 6000 5,983 5,956 5,881 3 3 3 Housing Company 4 29 consumption sources 238 400 30 29 60 232 232 206 202 205 Urban Infrastructure 60 Housing Company 4000 and Environmental 476 489 491 Urban Infrastructure 40 Products Company40 445 449 438 and Environmental 200 Products Company 6,324 6,219 High Performance 20 2000 5,777 5,754 5,676 6,150 Plastics Company 20 High Performance Plastics Company 0 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Target Target * Energy consumption per unit of production weight Prominence in Environment 68 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Breakdown of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions during Breakdown of Energy Usage during Manufacturing Manufacturing / Japan / Japan Other forms CO2 from non-energy of energy 2% consumption sources 3% Heavy oil A 2% Other 4% Heavy oil A 1% Purchased Purchased steam 7% steam 10% Purchased electricity FY2018 FY2018 30% 316 thousand 3,592TJ tons-CO2 City gas Purchased City gas 33% electricity 57% 51% Breakdown of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions during Breakdown of Energy Usage during Manufacturing Manufacturing / Overseas / Overseas Heavy oil A 0% CO2 from non-energy consumption sources 1% Heavy oil A 0% Other 1% Other forms of energy 0% Purchased electricity 22% 2018 527 thousand FY2018 tons-CO2 Purchased 6,454TJ City gas Purchased 12% steam electricity Purchased 49% 43% steam 65% City gas 7% Electricity Consumption Volume for Research Facilities In-House Use Solar Power Generation Volume for Research and Manufacturing / Japan and Overseas Facilities and Manufacturing / Japan and Overseas Amount of electric power (GWh) Electricity generation volume (MWh) 1000 2000 800 809 814 825 790 764 776 1500 600 314 321 395 1,268 314 340 378 Overseas solar power Overseas electricity 1000 generation consumption 540 400 Domestic electricity 452 495 consumption 500 429 410 397 Domestic solar 200 469 450 436 436 430 317 0 power generation 0 20 16 728 0 317 429 452 390 380 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Note: Past figures have been revised due to improvements in precision. Prominence in Environment 69 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities GHG Emissions at Research Facilities Energy Usage and per Unit of Output* (Index) at Research Facilities Per unit of output index (1,000 tons-CO2) Usage (TJ) (FY2016: 100) 25 300 120 115.1 (Target) 109.3 101.6 100.0 99.0 98.0 97.0 20 250 100 200 93.9 80 15 89.5 11.9 11.8 11.3 150 60 0.2 0.2 10.6 0.1 10.3 10.2 10.8 10 0.2 0.1 0.0 Other GHGs 100 106 110 110 CO2 from energy 100 98 97 40 consumption 5 11.7 11.6 10.4 11.2 10.2 10.2 sources 50 Amount of 20 energy used 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Target * Energy consumption per employee Target GHG Emissions at Offices Energy Usage and per Unit of Output* (Index) at Offices Per unit of output index (1,000 tons-CO2) (FY2016: 100) 50 600 150 112.6 Overseas 40 Overseas 112.3 0.88 0.88 104.1 0.90 0.89 0.85 100.9 100 101.7 Energy usage (TJ) 0.86 500 (Target) 100 0.86 112.1 30 102.4 100 99.0 Overseas 4.59 93.8 4.60 91.4 20 4.72 Japan 4 Japan 400 4.64 50 4.48 35.1 37.2 33.6 36.4 32.3 30.2 35.3 4.45 10 Japan 416 442 393 429 382 365 416 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Target Target *Amount of energy used per unit of exclusive-use area Note: For Japan, electricity and fuel for company cars are tabulated,while only electricity is tabulated for overseas. Prominence in Environment 70 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Indicator Calculation Method GHG emissions = Σ[fuel usage, purchased electricity, purchased steam × CO 2 emissions coefficient] + greenhouse gas emissions not arising from energy consumption Greenhouse gas emissions not arising from energy consumption = CO2 emissions not arising from energy consumption* + Σ[emissions of non-CO2 greenhouse gases × global warming coefficient] *Includes CO2 emissions from the burning of non-fuel matter based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures, both inside Japan and overseas [CO2 Emissions Coefficient] Purchased Electricity: In Japan, the coefficient provided in notices pursuant to the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures is applied to the latest data at the start of each fiscal year. In cases where the Company Greenhouse purchases power with the emission coefficient set by menu, the adjusted Gas emission coefficient applies. Emissions For overseas data, the latest coefficient data as of the start of each fiscal year acquired from suppliers is applied. When no data is available, the data is complied with the GHG Protocol and EPA eGRID 2014 for determinations. City Gas and Purchased Steam: Coefficients obtained from suppliers are applied to the latest data at the start of each fiscal year If a coefficient cannot be obtained in this manner, it is based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures Fuel Other than the Above: Based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures Global warming coefficient: An emissions coefficient determined based on a system of greenhouse gas emission calculations, reports, and official disclosures Energy usage = Σ[amount of fuel used, amount of electricity purchased, amount of steam purchased × amount of heat generated per unit] Energy Usage [Amount of Heat Generated per Unit] Purchased Electricity: 3.60 MJ/kWh Fuel, Purchased Steam: Based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy Prominence in Environment 71 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Transportation Volumes and Energy per Unit of Output* CO2 Emissions during the Transport Stage / Japan (Index) during Transportation / Japan Per unit of output index Transportation volume (10,000 ton-km) (FY2016: 100) 50,000 100 High Performance Housing 98.8 100.5 99.4 100.0 99.8 99.2 Plastics Company Company 40,000 80 23% 21% 30,000 32,899 60 FY2018 28,907 8,297 26,677 25,499 25,398 25,353 Housing Company 37 thousand 7,440 20,000 7,182 7,165 7,248 7,632 40 Urban Infrastructure tons-CO2 13,004 and Environmental 10,889 9,742 Products Company 10,000 11,630 11,431 11,059 20 6,109 5,821 5,119 High Performance Urban Infrastructure 0 Headquarters 5,489 4,757 4,633 6,704 6,719 6,662 Plastics Company 0 and Environmental 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Products Company 56% * Both transportation volume and Energy per unit of output (index) have been revised from fiscal 2016 due to improvements in precision. Indicator Calculation Method The calculation is the CO2 emissions yielded by combining the fuel method (transport of housing units, etc.) and the metric ton-kilo method (other than transport of housing units, etc.) CO2 CO2 emissions = Σ[fuel usage × CO2 emissions coefficient] + Σ[amount transported (metric tons) Emissions × distance transported (km) × fuel usage per unit of output × CO2 emissions coefficient] during the Transport Fuel usage per unit of output is the value used in the reporting system for specified freight carriers under the Act on the Rational Use of Energy Domestic distribution (shipment of products) is covered Prominence in Environment 72 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Greenhouse Gas Emissions throughout Supply Chain (SCOPE 3) Estimated emissions (1,000 tons-CO2) Category FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Purchased goods and services 1,521 1,455 2,180 2,336 2,457 Capital goods 31 17 37 171 123 Fuel-and energy related activities not included in Scope 1 and Scope 2 121 119 127 131 129 Upstream Transportation and distribution (upstream) 24 24 37 46 48 Waste generated in operations 45 45 46 42 44 Business travel 30 29 26 30 27 Employee commuting 5 5 5 6 6 Transportation and distribution (downstream) 59 53 45 45 50 Processing of sold products 42 41 43 46 48 Downstream Use of sold products 1,353 1,528 1,542 1,554 940 End-of-life treatment of sold products 227 216 310 529 560 Leased assets(downstream) 1 1 1 1 1 Total(upstream/downstream) 3,461 3,531 4,400 4,937 4,433 Note: Since fiscal 2016, the scope of tabulation of purchased products and services has been expanded; this resulted in the emissions increasing substantially from the previous fiscal year following review of the values for fiscal 2016. After including the effects of reducing energy consumption, emission volumes related to the “use of sold products” declined, and SCOPE3 decreased compared to the previous fiscal year for ZEH specification housing from fiscal 2018. 1 1,000 tons-CO2 ■ Purchased goods and services 560 ■ Capital goods ■ Fueland energy-related activities not included in Scope 1 and Scope 2 ■ Transportation and distribution (upstream) ■ Waste generated in operations ■ Business travel 940 2,457 ■ Employee commuting ■ Transportation and distribution (downstream) ■ Processing of sold products 48 ■ Use of sold products 50 ■ End-of-life treatment of sold products 6 ■ Leased assets (downstream) 27 123 129 48 44 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Throughout Supply Chain as a Whole (Classified by SCOPE) (1,000 tons-CO2) 8000 7000 6000 5,831 5,317 5000 5,271 4,340 4,384 4000 3000 4,400 4,937 4,433 SCOPE3 3,461 3,531 2000 1000 698 680 685 706 694 SCOPE2 0 181 174 186 188 190 SCOPE1 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Note: Since fiscal 2016, transport energy accuracy has improved and the scope of tabulation of purchased products and services has been expanded in relation to SCOPE3; this resulted in the emissions known increasing substantially from the previous fiscal year. After including the effects of reducing energy consumption, emission volumes related to the “use of sold products” declined, and SCOPE3 decreased compared to the previous fiscal year for ZEH specification housing from fiscal 2018. Prominence in Environment 73 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Indicator Calculation Method CO2 emissions = ∑[(amount of major raw materials used as listed in Material Balance section of this report + estimated values for other raw materials) × emission coefficient (IDEA v 2.2 (a GHG emissions database by the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology and the Japan Environmental Purchased Management Association for Industry))] goods and Up to and including fiscal 2017, the Group gained an understanding of environservices mental impact, including the volume of greenhouse gases emitted, by making calculations using “MiLCA,” the database furnished by the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry. However, from fiscal 2018, the Group is reflecting the actual emissions of its raw material suppliers with regard to four principal resins (PP, PE, PVC and PVA). CO2 emissions = ∑[(amount of spending on capital expenditures authorized for the given fiscal year for buildings, structures, mechanical equipment, and transport Capital goods vehicles) × emissions coefficient (per unit emissions database for calculating organizational greenhouse gas emissions, etc., arising from supply chains (Ver. 2.0) (Ministry of the Environment and Ministry of the Economy, Trade and Industry))] CO2 emissions = ∑[(fuel usage, amount of purchased electricity, and amount of purchased steam) × emissions coefficient] Fuel-and The emissions coefficients used are as follows. For fuel, IDEA v 2.1 (a GHG emissions energy related Greenhouse database by the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology activities not Gas and the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry); for purchased Emissions included in electricity and steam, per unit emission database for calculating greenhouse gas throughout Scope 1 and Supply Chain emissions by organizations, etc., arising from supply chains (Ver. 2.0) (Ministry of the Scope 2 Environment and Ministry of the Economy, Trade and Industry). Applicable to production sites, laboratories, and offices both inside Japan and overseas CO2 emissions = ∑[amount of major raw materials used as listed in the Material Transportation Balance section of this report × transport distance × emission coefficient (IDEA v and 2.1 (a GHG emissions database by the National Institute of Advanced Industrial distribution Science and Technology and the Japan Environmental Management Association for (upstream) Industry))] (Calculated assuming that the uniform transport distance was 200 km) CO2 emissions = ∑[amount of waste materials generated (by type) × emission Waste coefficient (IDEA v 2.1 (a GHG emissions database by the National Institute generated in of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology and the Japan Environmental operations Management Association for Industry))] Covers major production sites and research facilities in Japan and overseas CO 2 emissions = Σ[transportation costs by method of transport × emissions coefficient (per unit emissions database for calculating organizational greenhouse gas emissions, etc., arising from supply chains (Ver. 2.0) (Ministry of the Environment Business travel and Ministry of the Economy, Trade and Industry))] (Includes estimates of transportation costs for group companies) Covers group companies in Japan and overseas Prominence in Environment 74 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Indicator Calculation Method CO2 emissions = Σ[amount spent on commuting assistance × emissions coefficient (per unit emissions database for calculating organizational greenhouse gas emissions, etc., arising from supply chains (Ver. 2.0) (Ministry of the Environment Employee and Ministry of the Economy, Trade and Industry))] commuting (Calculated based on the assumption that all commuting is done by passenger train) (Group company commuting costs include estimates) Group companies in Japan and overseas all covered he calculation is the total amount of CO2 emissions yielded by combining the fuel method (transport of housing units, etc.) and the metric ton-kilo method (other than transport of housing unit, etc.) Transportation CO 2 emissions = Σ[fuel usage × CO 2 emissions coefficient] + Σ[amount and transported (metric tons) × distance transported (km) × fuel usage per unit distribution of output × CO2 emissions coefficient (value used in the reporting system for (downstream) specified freight carriers under the Act on the Rational Use of Energy)] (Estimates used for overseas) Covers shipments of products by group companies in Japan and overseas CO2 emissions = Σ[production volume of relevant products × emission coefficient Greenhouse at the time of processing the relevant products (IDEA v 2.1 (a GHG emissions Gas Processing of database by the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology Emissions throughout sold products and the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry))] Supply Chain Covers products for the automotive industry by group companies in Japan and overseas CO2 emissions = Σ[number of structures sold as housing during the relevant fiscal year × amount of electricity purchased from power companies throughout a year × 60 years × electricity-based emissions coefficient] The amount of electricity purchased from power companies throughout a year is based on the Electricity Income and Expenditure Home Survey of Houses with Built-In Solar Power Generation Systems (2018). The electricity-based emissions coefficient employed is the emissions coefficient from the 2018 report produced Use of sold by the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures reporting system products (alternate value), equal to 0.512 metric tons-CO 2 /MWh. The calculation is performed under the assumption that housing will be used for 60 years. Housing sold within Japan for the fiscal year relevant to the calculation is covered. Up to and including fiscal 2017, the Group calculated the amount of greenhouse gas reduction achieved through solar power generation as the amount of reduced environmental impact. From fiscal 2018, however, we are also calculating the effect of reduction in energy used in residences built to zero energy house (ZEH) specifications. Prominence in Environment 75 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Indicator Calculation Method CO2 emissions = Σ[amount of major raw materials used in the products sold during the relevant fiscal year × emission coefficient (IDEA v 2.1 (a GHG End-of-life emissions database by the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and treatment of Technology and the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry))] sold products Greenhouse The calculation assumes that products sold during a given fiscal year are disposed Gas of during the same fiscal year Emissions throughout Calculated to cover construction related to the installation of machinery leased by Supply Chain Sekisui Leased assets CO2 emissions = Σ[relevant installation units × emission coefficient (IDEA v 2.1 (a (downstream) GHG emissions database by the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology and the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry))] Prominence in Environment 76 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Efficient Use of Resources Working to Reduce Waste and Increase Recycling Throughout Product Life Cycles Management Approach Basic Concept Pursuing the Three R's (Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle) Throughout Product Life Cycles Sekisui Chemical Group strives to thoroughly implement the “3 Rs” (reduce, reuse, and recycle) throughout the life cycles of its products. We also engage in Zero Waste Emissions Activities with the intention of reusing as resources all the waste we generate from our business activities. Environmental Medium-term Plan Targets and Directions for the Future New Waste Reduction Initiatives Under its Environmental Medium-term Plan that began in fiscal 2017, Sekisui Chemical Group has set a target for reducing the amount of waste generated per unit of output by 1% every year compared with the fiscal 2016 level. Changing our perspective on reducing waste by improving production efficiency, we are taking on the challenge of shifting our emphasis from simply selling waste materials as valuable materials to generating additional value using the resin processing technologies we have developed to date. Zero Waste Emissions Activities are being conducted in our overseas production sites. While domestic Group facilities have been certified under standards calling for zero direct landfill waste and no incineration without heat recovery in Japan, many sites overseas still bury waste. Prominence in Environment 77 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Zero Emissions Zero Emissions Achievement Criteria and Accreditation System of Sekisui Chemical Group (1) Not engaging in any outside incineration without thermal utilization (thermal recycling), or landfill outside or inside of facilities (recycling ratio: 100%) (2) If the waste quantity is small and it is a type of waste that has never been recycled before, recycling methods and relevant contractors must be identified, and a service agreement must be executed. We also have established uniform evaluation criteria known as the Zero Emissions Achievement Evaluation List. We have established a system designed to conduct internal checks and issue approvals for the status of observance of the evaluation criteria as well as legal compliance, rules and signage for waste segregation and storage, management of related facilities and waste reduction planning and management. The list obliges us to conduct inspection of outside contractors and to clarify treatment routes in order to enhance the management system through these activities. Recycling Construction Materials Promoting the Effective Use of Construction Materials to Fulfill Our Responsibilities as a Housing Manufacturer Sekisui Chemical pursues the industry-wide recycling of construction waste produced when houses are demolished— regardless of whether such houses were built by itself or by a competitor—as part of initiatives under the Japan Prefabricated Construction Suppliers and Manufacturers Association’s environmental action plan “Eco-Action 2020” Social Responsibility Regarding Waste Addressing the Issue of Microplastics With regard to the waste generated by its production businesses, the Sekisui Chemical Group exchanges manifests with operators and confirms that disposal is undertaken in a sound and proper manner. While the impact of microplastics on our oceans and marine pollution have emerged as issues of recent concern, Sekisui Chemical Group does not engage in the manufacture and sale of primary microplastics where use presupposes dissolution. However, it cannot be denied that the possibility of deterioration in the natural environment and micro-reduction does exist in the event of the improper disposal of plastic processed products being discarded or of the plastic materials that go into the manufacture of the Group’s products either during or after use. To ensure the proper treatment of waste, Sekisui Chemical Group recognizes the important need to build social systems while promoting a shift in the awareness of each individual and undertaking education and training. The Group is taking initial steps to consider collaboration between industry, government, and academia with a view to the early resolution of issues. Currently, Sekisui Chemical Group is a member of the Clean Ocean Materials Alliance (CLOMA) led by the Japan Initiative for Marine Environment (JaIME). Every effort is being made to promote international collaboration, consider methods for resolving issues, and engage in a variety of activities, for example in the dissemination of educational information. Prominence in Environment 78 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Reducing Packaging Materials Using Less Product Packaging Sekisui Chemical Group has long been an environmentally conscious company, and we are reducing packaging volumes, introducing reusable boxes, and eliminating packaging wherever possible, among other initiatives. Our proactive efforts to reduce packaging since the early 2000s have enabled us to achieve results. We will continue these efforts in the future, taking further steps to reduce packaging waste. As one initiative aimed at using less product packaging, we sell foldable shipping cartons and a range of plastic containers that help facilitate the implementation of returnable box systems. Major Initiatives Thermal Recycling Initiatives Using Chips from Wood Offcuts as Fuel for Boilers At its Chubu facility, Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. promotes the thermal recycling of waste materials produced during its manufacturing processes. Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. crushes wood offcuts generated during the production of modular houses into chips, which are then utilized as boiler fuel for its plants that manufacture external wall panels. Reduction of Waste Generated at Construction Sites Switching to Factory Production to Reduce Materials That End Up Unused on Site Modular houses are the main pillar of our housing business, and by doing as much as possible at the factory when prefabricating the modules, we are reducing the amount of construction work that has to be done on site. Thus, we are reducing waste from excess materials that end up unused at construction sites. Prominence in Environment 79 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Performance Data Waste Generated by Production Sites Some past figures have been revised due to improvements in precision. Waste Generated by Production Sites and per Unit of Waste Generated by Production Sites and per Unit of Output (Index) / Japan Output (Index) / Overseas Per unit of output index Per unit of output index Waste generated (1,000 tons) (FY2016: 100) Waste generated (1,000 tons) (FY2016: 100) 60 120 60 150 100.0 99.4 101.9 84.5 107.1 105.5 108.0 82.8 99.0 98.0 97.0 100.0 103.1 40 38.3 (Target) 80 40 100 40.3 34.1 37.2 99 98 31.7 11.2 11.1 31.2 97 7.0 10.9 Housing Company 30.1 30.5 (Target) 5.6 27.9 26.3 0.1 0.2 0.7 6.1 7.9 7.8 Urban Infrastructure 7.8 8.1 10.3 9.5 Housing Company 20 6.8 7.8 and Environmental 40 20 7.2 Urban Infrastructure 50 Products Company and Environmental High Performance Products Company 19.2 17.5 18.6 19.0 21.1 Plastics Company 20.1 19.1 21.9 20.0 21.0 High Performance Headquarters Plastics Company 0 1.8 1.9 0.0 0.2 0.2 Headquarters 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Target Target Fiscal 2018 Annual Production Site Waste Generation and Disposal Conditions / Japan Reused within the premises 6,875 tons On-site incineration (reduction) 0 tons (increased by 3.1%) (0.0%) Total amount of Valuable materials sold 18,741 tons (increased by 7.1%)[46.5%] materials recycling 33,611 tons (increased by 2.6%) Total amount of generated [83.4%] waste 40,285 tons Materials recycling Amount of discharged Outsourcing of recycling (increased by 5.1%) [100%] 14,869 tons waste 21,544 tons resources 20,996 tons (increased by 3.4%) [53.5%] (increased by 2.3%) [52.1%] (decreased by 2.6%) [36.9%] Use of incineration heat 6,127 tons (increased by 16.6%) Simple incineration 284 tons Outsourced disposal 547 tons (increased by 81.7%) [0.7%] [15.2%] (increased by 76.0%) [1.4%] Landfill 264 tons [0.7%] Note: Change over previous year is in ( ) and proportion of total waste generation is in [ ]. Prominence in Environment 80 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Breakdown of Waste Generated at Production Sites / Japan Burnt residue 0.3% Other 4.8% Plasterboard 2.6% Oil waste, acidic waste, alkaline waste 8.9% Metal scrap 5.8% FY2018 Wood chips 4.2% 40 thousand Wastepaper 4.8% tons Plastics waste 46.4% Sludge 9.1% Glass and ceramics scrap 13.1% Index Calculation method Amount of waste generated = Amount of waste disposal outsourced + Amount recycled (use of incineration heat + materials recycling + sold at a price) + Amount incinerated in the Company; Generated the items below are excluded: waste amount waste generated by demolition of old houses of the clients, left-over materials at construction sites, disposal of facilities, OA equipment, etc., infectious waste generated during medical consultations / medical practices Waste Generated on Construction Sites of New Housing Amount of Waste Generated on Construction Sites of New Housing (per Building) / Japan (Tons) 3 2.41 2.41 2.45 0.32 0.32 0.32 Assembly plant 2 1.87 0.22 1.73 0.71 0.70 0.66 0.23 Exterior wall plant 0.34 0.16 1 1.39 1.40 1.46 1.31 1.34 New house construction site 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 * Because of changes to the waste materials data collection method used by the Housing Company, we are revising the fiscal 2016 benchmark Index Calculation method Amount Amount of waste generated on construction sites of new housing = Amount of waste generated of waste during construction of outer walls (at factory) + Amount of waste generated during assembly (at generated factory) + Amount of waste generated at construction site of new housing on construction Amount of waste generated per building during construction of new housing = Amount of waste sites of new generated during construction of new housing / Number of buildings sold housing Target: housing business in Japan Prominence in Environment 81 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Waste Related to Office Work Amount of Copy Paper Used at Offices per Unit of Output (Index) Per unit of output index (FY2016: 100) 30 150 Overseas 121.0 114.5 120.1 Pages Used(1,000 pages/person) 100 100.5 (Target) 20 116.0 100 100 101.2 94.1 Japan Japan Overseas 85.6 10.7 10.1 10 8.7 9.6 9.2 8.4 9.3 7.2 9.3 10.1 50 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Target Waste Disposal Methods / Overseas Waste Disposal Methods at Production Sites Incineration 6.1% Landfill 9.1% FY2018 31 thousand tons Recycling 84.8% Attainment of Zero Waste Emissions Activity Targets 44 plants in Japan and 12 plants overseas, including those of affiliated Production sites companies, achieved the target Research institutes All research institutes achieved the target by fiscal 2012 Construction of new housing All production sites achieved the target by fiscal 2003 Remodeling work All production sites achieved the target by fiscal 2004 Corporate headquarters buildings Achieved the target by fiscal 2005 in Osaka/Tokyo Specified construction materials for fiscal 2018 Demolition work Recycling rate (of concrete, wood offcuts, etc.): 99% Indicator Calculation Method Number of production sites that Number of production sites that achieved zero emissions in that year achieved zero emissions Prominence in Environment 82 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Conservation of Water Resources Working to Preserve Water Resources as a Precious Natural Resource Management Approach Basic Concept Identifying the Impact of Water Resources on Business Continuity and Reflecting this into Our BCP Sekisui Chemical Group is working to reach its targets—contributing to the return of natural capital through products, reducing environmental impacts, and engaging in environment-contributing activities—as envisioned by the SEKISUI Environment Sustainability Vision 2030, which was formulated in 2014. To this end, the Group has formulated an Environmental Medium-term Plan, in which the following initiatives are considered key issues: reducing water use; identifying water-related risks, including impacts on supply chains and the natural environment; conducting environmental education targeting management and employees; and providing information to stakeholders. In order to supply products for infrastructure for water supply, storage and drainage, Sekisui Chemical Group recognizes that conveying the importance of safe water supply and water infrastructure to customers is critical for business sustainability. In addition, the Group also realizes that contributions to preserving water resources through its businesses will help achieve one of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): “access to safe drinking water and sanitation.” As for specific initiatives, we have determined the impact (risks and opportunities) of water resources on business continuity and have reflected this into our business and environmental plans. In addition, we conduct surveys of suppliers and procured materials that include water-related risks during procurement, recognizing that such risks pose difficulties for sustaining procurement from suppliers. Prominence in Environment 83 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Assessment of Water-related Risks Conducting Water Risk Surveys at All Production Sites and Research Institutes Sekisui Chemical Group has conducted water risk surveys at all of its production sites and research institutes since fiscal year 2013 using a mapping tool for water-related risks (Aqueduct: Aqueduct Overall Water Risk map)* and proprietary surveys. These proprietary surveys use factors related to water intake such as future increases in water intake and presence or absence and frequency of water outages, as well as water quality fluctuation issues, factors related to wastewater such as wastewater destinations and usage conditions downstream from wastewater, water quality regulation trends, and water quality measurements to compile the current conditions, predicting future water shortages based on water source conditions, supplier water supply restrictions, and other related factors. In addition, the surveys also include items related to wastewater processing facilities, wastewater quality, changes in business and population size, possibilities of flooding, and the necessity for water-related investment. We hold interviews at each production site or research institute deemed to have high water-related risks based on survey results. Prior to undertaking large-scale developments (such as factory construction), new investment and M&A, we employ the Environmental Safety Check Sheet that is later used to examine capacity expenditures, convene a commission to examine capacity expenditures that include environmental considerations, and conduct other environmental assessments that include water risks. In development of new products also, we implement design reviews based on the Environmental Impact Assessment List to evaluate the impact of our products on the environment. * A global map showing water-related risks / information tool developed by the World Resources Institute (WRI) Region Risks of direct water use Water discharge risks Location risks (Number of Water Direct water Increased Groundwater Waste water Discharge to Strengthening Increased Regional water Future water Flooding supply supply locations) pollution restrictions costs pumping processing water source regulations costs pollution uncertainty Drought Domestic 2.0 4.0 4.0 0.0 2.0 0.0 0.0 4.0 % % % 24.0 % % % % % (50) 38.0 % 32.0 % % Central and NorthAmerica 0.0 0.0 7.1 7.1 57.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 % % % 14.3 % % % % % % % % (14) Europe 0.0 0.0 0.0 8.3 8.3 50.0 0.0 8.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 (12) % % % % % % % % % % % Asia and Australia 16.7 8.3 0.0 % 25.0 16.7 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % % % % 33.3 (12) % % China 0.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 0.0 % 20.0 % (10) % % 30.0 % % % % % % % Water risk survey results (ratio of production sites and research institutes judged to have risks) Prominence in Environment 84 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Impact of Water-related Risks on Business Direct Impact on Operations As production sites in Japan manufacturing synthetic resins drain their wastewater directly into rivers or the sea / ocean, even though the water quality of the wastewater complies with the present control levels, we understand that if any changes to, reinforcements of, etc. of the laws and regulations regarding water quality of drainage are implemented in the future, it may cause major impact on the continuity of our business activities. For that reason, we check on a continuous basis the future trends in regulations at every area our business bases are located in, and, at the same time, to improve the water quality of drainage, implement Whole Effluent Toxicity (WET) tests assessing the effect of drainage on the ecological system. If any negative impact is identified with the WET tests, we investigate the causes and strive to eliminate them using the PDCA cycle to reduce the impact of water-related risks as much as possible. Risks Identified, Their Potential Impact on Operations, and Strategies for Mitigation Impact on Supply Chain Manufacturers of steel materials used in the Housing Business and manufacturers of synthetic resins used in the Plastics Business are suppliers of primary materials of Sekisui Chemical Group that consume large quantities of fresh water during manufacture. Although we do not directly encourage such suppliers to conform to environmental standards, with our Sekisui Environment Sustainability Index we calculate as 'use of natural capital' the environmental impact of the pollutants contained in drainage generated during manufacture of primary materials and monitor it on a continual basis. At the same time, we monitor reduction of impact on water environment made possible through our business activities, expansion of products and services contributing to water environment, and other aspects, through which we contribute to the environment, calculating them as our returns to the natural capital. The goal is to reach the Sekisui Environment Sustainability Index of returns to the natural capital of 100% or more by 2030. Contribution to Reduction of Water-related Risks Through Operations Sekisui Chemical Group develops a range of businesses related to water infrastructure, such as supply, storage, and drainage of water, contributing to the society not only by technologies and products that help to improve the quality of drainage, such as water treatment systems and drain pipes, but also by creating strong water infrastructure made to withstand natural disasters. For example, one of our Environment-Contributing Products which is being marketed in Japan, India, China, Taiwan, and other ASEAN areas, the “Cross Wave*” rainwater collection system, is used for the prevention of chronic water shortages and to achieve both greening of urban areas and disaster prevention. Since 2010, we have been continually working to reduce water-related disaster risks such as flooding through this product. In fiscal 2018, we made further contributions to infrastructure business with Cross Wave, including participation in planning such as the Indian government’s smart city project. * Cross Wave: Rainwater storage system. This molded product made from recycled plastic creates an underground space which is used to store rainwater. It regulates the rain volume flowing into sewer systems and rivers during torrential rains and makes reuse of rainwater possible. Prominence in Environment 85 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Activity Policy and Reduction Targets Target an Annual 1% Reduction in Water Usage, Making Fiscal 2016 the Base Year Sekisui Chemical Group draws the water it needs to use in its business activities from public water systems, water systems for industrial use, underground reservoirs, and surrounding rivers. With the understanding that water is a precious natural resource shared by everyone in the community, we do our best to reduce the amount of water used, such as by reusing cooling water. Under its Environmental Medium-term Plan (2017 – 2019), Sekisui Chemical Group targets a 1% annual reduction in water usage (intake volume), with fiscal 2016 serving as the base year. At the same time, the Group has set the goal for reducing the impact of wastewater chemical oxygen demand (COD) by 1% annually. Major Initiatives Reduce the Amount of Water Used The Amount of Water Used Increased by 3.0%, Compared to the Base Fiscal Year The amount of water used in fiscal year 2018 increased by 3.0%, relative to results in the base fiscal year of 2016. This is due to the reduction activities being insufficient to cover the increased usage resulting from the larger number of production sites and expanded production volume due to M&A. As a specific initiative specialized for production sites with especially large water intake and wastewater COD output volume, we have started proactive reduction goal setting and considerations for facility improvement. We are using the environmental contribution investment framework to provide the necessary investment for this purpose and support these sites. Prominence in Environment 86 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Ongoing Monitoring of Water Risks Continuously Assess Water Extracted from Production Sites and Wastewater Risk In fiscal years 2014 and 2015, we surveyed 98 production sites and R&D laboratories around the world to gain a fi rm understanding of our sources of water, destinations for wastewater, the current and future prospects of continuing to acquire water, and related matters. As a result, we now understand there are major differences in water supply volume and water quality by region, although the in-depth survey did not identify any water supply risks, such as potential increases in costs or restrictions on water sources that would be severe enough to adversely impact production activities. We also found out that there are many business sites that rely on ground water as their main water source. Of particular significance, 18 business sites, accounting for 35% of all business sites in Japan, use ground water or spring water (including industrial water in some cases), and 44% of the total amount of water intake for all domestic business sites depends on ground water or spring water. Although ground water is a cheap and very effective source of water, due to unforeseen factors it may become impossible to use it in the future, and we perceive it as a risk to our business continuity. In fiscal year 2017, we created a tool for qualitative assessment of ground water risks using our own original method. The assessment tool allows us to apprise the risks from three viewpoints, namely, susceptibility, concerns in the area, and future changes. The tool uses five evaluation criteria of abundance of ground water, amount of water used by the business site, environmental changes in the surrounding area, restrictions by laws and regulations, and changes of amounts used / precipitation; it consists of 12 assessment indices. In fiscal year 2018, using the evaluation tool created, we implemented risk assessment at all business sites that use ground water in Japan, extracted the three sites with the greatest risks, and also added the two sites with the largest comparative volume of water intake to our considerations. For these five production sites, we analyzed hypothetical scenarios resulting from climate change due to global warming and estimated future ground water replenishment. Regarding wastewater risks, we have been using assessment of the effects of wastewater on biodiversity in the surrounding area as a means for wastewater WET tests of production sites since fiscal year 2013. In fiscal year 2018, we also continued the implementation of investigations into the causes at sites where effects on biodiversity were discovered up until now and were able to identify specific causative agents. Example of Ground Water Risk Assessment Prominence in Environment 87 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Water Recycling Recycling Cooling Water Used for Plastic Moldings Sekisui Chemical Group promotes the reuse of water in its production processes and the use of recycled water in order to reduce the amount of water it draws from water sources. At the production plants of Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company and High Performance Plastics Company, large volumes of cooling water is recycled and reused in manufacturing processes. In fiscal 2018, at production sites in Japan and overseas, we used 104 million cubic meters of recycled water. This is equivalent to 5 times the amount of water used from all other sources. The main water supply for Kurohama Lake*—which has been designated as a natural conservation area in Saitama Prefecture—is wastewater from the Musashi Plant (located in Hasuda City) that has been purified in accordance with environmental standards. * For more information about Kurohama Lake, see the page below. https://www.sekisui.co.jp/musashi/eco/ Prominence in Environment 88 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Performance Data Some past figures have been revised due to improvements in precision. Water Intake Volume at Production Sites / Japan Water Intake Volume at Production Sites / Overseas (thousands of m3) (thousands of m3) 6,015 20,000 6,000 Housing Company 5,566 20 16,019 5,224 13 93 Urban Infrastructure 15,557 15,386 15,679 and Environmental 15,214 16 95 264 261 306 106 Products Company 15,000 286 305 4,500 2,189 Housing Company 4,321 4,238 2,319 2,330 2,473 21 High Performance 2,539 77 Plastics Company Urban Infrastructure 100 and Environmental 10,000 Products Company 3,000 5,902 10,700 10,059 12,768 12,897 12,367 5,102 5,458 High Performance 4,244 4,117 5,000 Plastics Company 1,500 0 2,867 2,918 1 3 4 Headquarters 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Water Intake Volume at Production Sites by Water Wastewater Volume at Production Sites by Discharge Source Type / Japan and Overseas Destination / Japan and Overseas (thousands of m3) (thousands of m3) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Public Water Systems 3,016 3,132 3,200 3,374 Rivers 11,018 10,993 11,477 11,179 Water for Factory Use 13,656 14,943 15,085 15,682 Industrial Waterways 564 249 176 194 Underground Water 2,172 1,787 1,803 1,908 The Ocean 2,741 2,892 2,503 2,277 Rainwater 0 0 0 0 Sewers 2,897 3,509 3,695 3,663 Other 951 747 1,156 265 Other 1,555 1,498 1,464 1,885 Total 19,795 20,610 21,245 21,229 Total 18,776 19,140 19,316 19,197 * Other refers to the direct use of river water domestically and purchase of purified water overseas. * Other refers to drainage to industrial park waste water treatment facilities. Fiscal 2018 Water Intake Volume at Production Sites by Region (thousands of m3) The Rest of North and Japan China Asia and Oceania Europe Central America Total Public Water Systems 673 324 216 1,834 327 3,374 Water for Factory Use 12,547 0 729 32 2,374 15,682 Underground Water 1,798 0 110 0 0 1,908 Rainwater 0 0 0 0 0 0 Other 197 0 69 0 0 265 Total 15,214 324 1,125 1,866 2,700 21,229 Fiscal 2018 Wastewater Volume at Production Sites by Region and Discharge Destination (thousands of m3) The Rest of North and Japan China Asia and Oceania Europe Central America Total Rivers 11,159 0 20 0 0 11,179 Industrial Waterways 194 0 0 0 0 194 The Ocean 2,277 0 0 0 0 2,277 Sewers 615 308 760 1,860 120 3,663 Other 0 0 55 0 1,829 1,885 Total 14,245 308 835 1,860 1,949 19,197 Prominence in Environment 89 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Index Calculation Method Water intake volume = Amount of public water systems + Amount of water for factory use + Amount of underground water taken on site + Amount of Water intake volume rainwater + Other water intake* * Other water intake: Water taken directly from rivers, etc. COD Emission Volume / Japan Emissions Comparative emission levels (Tons) (FY2016: 100) 150 150 128.2 120.7 100.0 100 87.5 93.0 100 84.4 90 2 2 85 Housing Company 70 6 59 2 62 1 65 2 7 Urban Infrastructure 50 2 5 and Environmental 50 5 7 82 7 39 41 63 76 Products Company 37 Head High Performance 0 13 16 16 quarters Plastics Company 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Index Calculation Method Emission volume = Σ[COD concentration (annual average of measured value) COD emission volume x Drainage volume] Prominence in Environment 90 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Chemical Substance Management Minimizing Environmental Impact through Proper Control and Emission Reductions of Chemical Substances Management Approach Basic Concept Minimizing Environmental Impact through Proper Control and Emission Reductions of Chemical Substances While chemical substances make people's lives more convenient, they also could have harmful effects on the environment or on human beings. Therefore, we believe that consideration of product safety, occupational safety and health and environmental impact through proper management of chemical substances is an important responsibility of an enterprise. Since fiscal 1999, Sekisui Chemical Group has set and worked toward its own targets for reducing emissions and the transfer of chemical substances in addition to implementing efforts such as the Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact*1 and the Green Procurement System*2. Periodically we also review chemical substances, in accordance with the establishment and amendment of relevant laws and regulations. *1 Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact: A system for assessment of the environmental impact of product development all the way from raw material procurement through manufacture, use, disposal, transport and all other stages. *2 Green Procurement System: A system of giving priority to choosing raw materials, parts, etc. with lower levels of environmental impact when procuring them. Prominence in Environment 91 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Major Initiatives Controlling VOC Emissions VOC Emissions Increased by 7.1% Compared with the Fiscal 2016 Level Sekisui Chemical maintains the medium-term target of reducing VOC emissions by more than 3% compared with the fiscal 2016 level. In fiscal 2018, VOC emissions in Japan increased by 7.1% compared with fiscal 2016. The reason for the greater emissions was a higher volume of production by the Adhesive Tape Manufacturing Department, which uses solvents Preventing Air and Water Pollution Managing Gas Emissions and Wastewater in Accordance with Regulations Sekisui Chemical Group complies with the regulatory values under laws and ordinances for the various types of equipment it uses in connection with exhaust gases and water drainage. We also strive to control the discharge of pollutants through appropriate maintenance and management, including periodic inspections. Soil Surveys Surveys of All Planned Business Sites Completed We drew up plans to conduct a self-assessment of soil contamination at our business sites and conducted ongoing surveys. The planned business site surveys had all been completed by fiscal 2011. Surveys have also been conducted since fiscal 2012 as and when required. In fiscal 2018, conditions did not require any assessments of soil contamination. Disposal and Storage of Devices Containing PCBs and Management of Equipment That Uses Fluorocarbons Properly Storing and Disposing of Devices Containing PCBs in Line with Regulations Transformers and condensers that contain PCBs are being disposed of steadily, where PCB treatment facilities are available. Machines and equipment in storage that contain PCBs are managed strictly and thoroughly, through means including locked storage and periodic inspection. Steps are being taken to enhance awareness toward mandatory requirements regarding equipment that use fluorocarbons in accordance with Japan’s Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons (Freon Emission Control Act) and to ensure thoroughgoing management including periodic inspection. Prominence in Environment 92 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Response in Emergencies Training to Respond to Unforeseen Events That Impact the Environment To prevent and mitigate environmental pollution during an emergency, our employees at each business site are trained at least once a year in emergency procedures and communications for a variety of scenarios unique to each business site. The implementation results from the main training held in fiscal 2018 are set out below. Training for Measures to Be Done / Notices to Be Made in Time of Emergency Simulated emergency situation Number of times drills performed Leakage and outflow of oils 41 Atmospheric discharge of solvents 0 Fire 35 Earthquake 16 Emergency communication training 7 Comprehensive disaster drills 32 Responding to other equipment-related emergencies 11 Prominence in Environment 93 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Performance Data Aggregated Results Based on the PRTR Law (Substances Handled at the Business Sites Subject to Assessment with Volume of Handling of 1 Ton or More Are Aggregated) (Tons) Govt. Emission volume Transfer volume ordinance Emission Transfer in Transfer in Detoxification Substance notification Public In-house Sewage volume Atmospheric waste waste no. water areas In-house soil landfill system disposal recycling Acrylic acid and aqueous salt solutions thereof [4] 15.9 0 0 0 0 0 0 1.6 14 n-Butyl acrylate [7] 230.9 0.27 0 0 0 0 0 1.8 229 Acrylonitrile [9] 468.3 3.7 0 0 0 0 0 0.0080 465 Acetaldehyde [12] 260.3 0.19 0 0 0 0 0 0 260 Acetonitrile [13] 90.1 7.2 0 0 0 0 0 83 0 2,2’-Azobisisobutyronitrile [16] 5.5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5.5 Antimony and its compounds [31] 11.5 0 0 0 0 0 0 1.2 0 Isobutyraldehyde [35] 175.3 1.8 0 0 0 0 0 0 173 2-Ethylhexanoic acid [51] 6,617.5 0 0 0 0 0 0 5.6 6,608 Ethylbenzene [53] 2.1 2.1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ε-Caprolactam [76] 55.4 0 0.018 0 0 0 0 0 55 Xylene [80] 37.1 2.3 0 0 0 0 0 0.061 35 Vinyl chloride [Special 94] 107,244.1 4.0 0.12 0 0 0 0 0 107,240 Chloroform [127] 7.8 0.42 0 0 0 0 0 4.4 0.80 Vinyl acetate [134] 58.5 4.6 0 0 0 0 0 4.0 50 Inorganic cyanide compounds (not including complex salts and cyanate) [144] 61.6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 62 Cyclohexylamine [154] 9.3 0.52 0 0 0 0 0 0 8.7 Methylene chloride [186] 202.0 2.6 0 0 0 0 0 0 199 Divinylbenzene [202] 2.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2.0 2,6-di-t-butyl-4-cresol [207] 62.4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 62 N,N-dimethylacetamide [213] 4.0 0.016 0 0 0 2.5 0 1.5 0 Organic tin compounds [239] 133.5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.67 0 Styrene [240] 1,470.5 33 0 0 0 0 0 0.011 776 Terephthalic acid [270] 80.2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 80 n-Dodecyl alcohol [273] 23.2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 23 1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene [296] 1.4 1.4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Tolylene Diisocyanate [298] 9.6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Toluene [300] 818.2 337 0 0 0 0 0 42 396 Lead compounds [Special 305] 560.5 0 0 0 0 0 0.069 2.5 59 Phenol [349] 23.4 0.0021 0 0 0 0 0 0.038 21 Bis-(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate [355] 1,019.9 0 0 0 0 0 0 1.5 0 n-Hexane [392] 299.9 226 0 0 0 0 0 11 63 Poly (oxyethylene) = alkyl = ether [407] 2.8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (C = 12-15 and other blends) Formaldehyde [Special 411] 16.3 0.0093 0 0 0 0 0 0 16 Manganese and its compounds [412] 7.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 7.0 0 Methacrylate [415] 224.5 1.3 0 0 0 0 0 0.0050 223 Methyl methacrylate [420] 154.4 1.4 0 0 0 0 0 0 153 Methylnaphthalene [438] 7.0 0.034 0 0 0 0 0 0 6.9 Methylenebis (4,1-phenylene) [448] 1,455.4 0 0 0 0 0 5.0 0.17 1,429 = diisocyanate 121,929.0 630 0.14 0 0 2.5 5 168 118,716 Prominence in Environment 94 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Index Calculation Method Volume of chemical Volume of handling of substances subject to regulation by the PRTR Law substances handled Production sites and research institutes in Japan are subject to assessment Volume of Volume of emission / transfer of chemical substances subject to regulation by the PRTR Law emissions / Volume of emissions = Volume of emissions into the air + Volume of emissions into public transfer of waters + Volume of emissions into the soil on-site + Volume disposed by burial on-site chemical Transfer volume = Volume transferred to sewers + Volume transferred as waste material substances Covers production sites and research facilities in Japan Volume of Volume of chemical substances subject to regulation by the PRTR Law subjected to chemical detoxication substances Amount detoxified = Amount consumed in reaction + Amount consumed through subjected to combustion, etc. detoxication Covers production sites and research facilities in Japan Chemical Substance Emission and Transfer Discharge of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) into Volumes (PRTR Law) / Japan the Atmosphere / Japan (Tons) (Tons) 800 2,000 Other 649 Methylene 631 638 chloride 600 4 35 3 28 3 37 534 567 Xylene 6 40 2 30 3 31 2 33 1,259 1,262 0 30 226 Styrene 12 1,174 1,142 125 7 38 13 1,066 Housing Company 7 36 228 95 73 8 6 400 1,000 12 67 71 1,034 112 189 78 Urban Infrastructure N-Hexane and Environmental Products Company 1,147 1,173 1,064 200 425 975 1,095 347 305 357 337 High Performance Toluene Plastics Company 0 0 4 4 1 4 1 Headquarters 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Target Index Calculation Method Index Calculation Method Volume of emission / transfer of Volume of emission into the chemical substances subject to atmosphere of volatile organic regulation by the PRTR Law VOC compounds (VOC) among the Volume of emission = Volume of emissions substances subject to regulation by emission into the atmosphere + the PRTR Law and Japan Chemical Volume of Volume of emission into the public Industry Association emission / waters + Volume of emission into transfer of the soil on site + Volume disposed chemical of as landfill; Volume of transfer substances = Volume discharged into sewage systems + Volume discharged as waste elsewhere Production sites and research institutes in Japan are subject to assessment Prominence in Environment 95 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities NOx Emissions / Japan SOx Emissions / Japan Emissions Comparative emission levels Emissions Comparative emission levels (Tons) (FY2016: 100) (Tons) (FY2016: 100) 400 140 25 141.8 150 118.1 113.8 119.3 120 300 100.0 99.5 20 120 Housing Company 100 95.6 100.0 80 15 15 82.4 90 200 197 190 199 69.1 167 166 3 36 31 23 25 38 Urban Infrastructure 60 10 10 10 9 60 3 2 2 3 and Environmental 11 Housing Company 100 Products Company 40 6 High Performance 7 5 7 Plastics Company 30 158 156 141 139 158 0.5 7 7 High Performance 20 0.5 0.4 0.5 Urban Infrastructure and Environmental 0 Plastics Company 0 0 3 3 4 1 0.2 0 Products Company 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Index Calculation Method Index Calculation Method NOx emissions =Σ(Amount of SOx SOx emissions =Σ(amount of SOx NOx emissions exhaust gas airflow per year x NOx per year x 64/22.4) emissions concentration x 46/22.4) Soot and Dust Emissions / Japan Emissions Comparative emission levels (Tons) (FY2016: 100) 25 120 97.4 94.6 100.0 94.6 95.5 100 20 16.7 16.3 17.2 16.2 16.4 80 15 0.9 0.7 1.3 1.0 Housing Company 0.7 0.3 0.2 0.0 60 10 Urban 0.7 0.0 High Performance Infrastructure 15.7 Plastics Company 40 15.2 and15.3 15.5 15.4 5 Environmental 20 Products 0 Company 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Some past figures have been revised due to improvements in precision. Index Calculation Method Soot and Dust emissions =Σ Soot and Dust (amount of exhaust gas airflow per emissions year x soot concentration) Prominence in Environment 96 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Environmental Impact Assessment Understanding the Impact of Our Products and Services on the Global Environment Management Approach Basic Concept Results of Environmental Impact Assessments for Each Product Reflected in Measures Sekisui Chemical Group assesses environmental impact at every stage of a product's lifecycle when product processes are developed or changed. Assessment of environmental impact of products Range: all stages of product life cycle Targets: products and processes Compliance Evaluation Chemical Substance Assessment ● Laws and ● Self-regulation ● Requirements of ● Laws and ● Prohibited ● Restricted regulations industries, etc. regulations substances substances Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact Environment-friendly design Raw material procurement Manufacture Transportation Construction and assembly ● Invested resources ● Environmental impact ● Capital investments ● Environmental impact ● Invested resources, energy ● Raw materials, Means of transportation ● Invested resources, energy Means of transportation ● Secondary resources used composition, and structure Packaging materials ● Secondary resources used Load-efficient design ● Environmental impact ● Information disclosure ● Green procurement ● Environmental impact ● Information disclosure Atmosphere, water, waste, ● Environment-Contributing (suppliers, raw materials) Atmosphere, water, waste, chemical substances, etc. Products standards chemical substances, etc. ● LCCO2 evaluation Use Disposal ● Invested resources, energy ● Composition and structure ● Secondary resources used ● Recyclability ● Environmental impact ● Environmental impact Atmosphere, water, waste, Transportation, disposal, chemical substances, etc. soil/groundwater contamination Prominence in Environment 97 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Material Balance Performance data Shows resources and energy used in business activities (input) and substances that constitute environmental impact (output) generated in connection with business activities. Material balance Main Raw Materials (Total amount used) Into the Atmosphere ● Metals*1 129 thousand tons ● CO2 from energy consumption 830 thousand tons-CO2 ● Wood, wooden building materials*1 57 thousand tons ● Cement for exterior walls *1 91 thousand tons ● Nox*1 199 tons ● Concrete for foundations *1 452 thousand tons ● Sox*1 7 tons ● PVC*2 156 thousand tons ● Soot and Dust*1 16 tons ● Polyethylene*2 98 thousand tons ● Polypropylene*2 33 thousand tons ● PRTR-designated substances*1 630 tons ● Kraft paper*2 32 thousand tons ● PRTR-designated substances*1 122 thousand tons Sekisui ● Other resins/chemicals*2 408 thousand tons ● Other inorganic/composite materials*2 29 thousand tons INPUT Chemical OUTPUT Group Into Water ● Water discharged 19,197 thousand m3 ● COD 85 tons Energy 10,046TJ ● PRTR-designated substances ● Purchased electricity 0.1 tons 695,824MWh ● Heavy oil A 2,089kL ● City gas 65,876 thousand m3 Waste Industrial water 21,229 thousand m3 ● Total generated waste 72 thousand tons *1 The scope of tabulation for environmental performance data in Japan has been set as only those domestic business sites listed as falling within that scope. *2 The following overseas business sites have been excluded from the scope of tabulation for environmental performance data. Sekisui-SCG Industry Co., Ltd. S and L Specialty Polymers Co., Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Youngbo HPP (Langtang) Co., Ltd. Sekisui High Performance Packaging (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. Sekisui Xenotech, LLC. Sekisui Diagnostics, LLC. San Diego Sekisui Diagnostics (UK) Ltd. Sekisui Diagnostics P.E.I. Inc. Sekisui DLJM Molding Private Ltd. Greater Noida Plant Sekisui DLJM Molding Private Ltd. Tapukara Plant Sekisui DLJM Molding Private Ltd. Chennai Plant PT. Adyawinsa Sekisui Techno Molding Sekisui Polymatech (Thailand) Co., Ltd. PT. Polymatech Indonesia Sekisui Polymatech (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Prominence in Environment 98 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Contributing to Return of Natural Capital Co-existing with the Global Environment Through Business Activities and Environment-contributing Products Toward the realization of earth with maintained biodiversity, Sekisui Chemical Group is committed to returning more natural capital back to the planet than it uses through three initiatives: expand and create Environment-Contributing Products, reduce environmental impact*, and conserve the natural environment. * See page 63 of Usage of Natural Capital for more information. Environment-contributing Products Environment-contributing Products are internally certified products that have demonstrated a high level of environmental contribution when used by customers. Conservation of Natural Environment Sekisui Chemical Group improves the quality of green spaces on its business sites in order to coexist in harmony with the local environment. To prevent negative effects on and ensure the safety of the water environment for aquatic life in the places where wastewater flows, the Group conducts assessments of impact of wastewater on aquatic life. Prominence in Environment 99 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Environment-Contributing Products Create and Expand Markets for Products That Display Significant Environmental Contribution Effectiveness During Customer Use Environment-Contributing Product Certifications Certifications Based on Proprietary Criteria, and Third-party Evaluations of Validity For the Environment-Contributing Products of Sekisui Chemical Group, the internal certification screening committee undertakes certifications based on criteria established in cooperation with internal committee members while receiving opinions and advice on the criteria, the stance they are based on, and the validity of results from the External Advisory Board. Evolution of Frameworks for Environment-Contributing Products Beyond Just the Natural Environment, Expanding into Standards That Include Contributions to the Social Environment We have shifted frameworks for Environment-Contributing Products since fiscal 2017. Since the system was first established in 2006, we have focused on products that contribute to solving issues on the Earth’s natural environment and have worked to create and expand such frameworks. On the other hand, in terms of the Company’s business, we also possess many products that contribute to solving matters that concern the social environment. Raising such contributions, we believe, is another mission of Sekisui Chemical Group. This stance is embodied in the long-held Group Vision of “improving the lives of the people of the world and the Earth's environment through its businesses.” Based on this stance, and to extend product contributions beyond the natural environment, we have also included such social environments as human capital and social capital in our efforts, in effect expanding the scope of our work across natural capital as a whole since fiscal 2017. To this end, Sekisui Chemical Group will begin first and foremost by expanding its contributions to “healthier and longer lives,” “promoting the resiliency and spread of strong social infrastructure” and “safe living and strengthened disaster resistance.” Therefore, Sekisui Chemical Group will strive to contribute to the realization of the SDGs through tackling these issues. Unwavering Stance High Environment-Contributing Level of Environmental Products Environment support Contribution Low SEKISUI Targets for environmental impact reduction Customers/society Definition ● Products and business that demonstrably assist our customers and society to reduce their environmental impact. ● Environment-Contributing Products refer to products that achieve a certain level of environmental impact reduction in comparison to previous products and systems. Prominence in Environment 100 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities SHIFT of Environment-Contributing Products New Environment-Contributing Products Perspectives Prominence in Environment 101 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Environment-Contributing Products PR External Promotional Activities In fiscal 2018, Sekisui Chemical participated in the Eco Products 2018 exhibition, an environment-focused tradeshow. The Company showcased Environment-Contributing Products and introduced the dual perspectives of contributing to both the natural environment and social environment, while providing explanations to booth visitors. Visitors were especially interested in our Bio-Refinery technology which uses microbes from burnable trash to create ethanol, a compound used in the production of materials such as plastics, which is currently undergoing inspection at a verification plant, as well as our next-generation energy technologies such as film batteries for indoor use and perovskite solar cells with outdoor specifications. We reconfirmed the social significance of these technologies through discussions and negotiations participants had with the staff explaining the products from technical, business, and environmental perspectives. Prior to the upcoming Tokyo Olympics, Sekisui Chemical Group has contributed to trash collection method innovations in the city of Tokyo through polyethylene buckets. Through the Bio-Refinery technology mentioned above, we are working toward a “circular economy” in which waste materials have economic merits with the goal of achieving this goal by 2020, the year the Tokyo Olympics will be held. By spreading the awareness of waste materials as resources with value, we think this is one technology which will bring about social reforms. Exhibition at Eco Products 2018 Prominence in Environment 102 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Discussion with External Advisors Considering the Opinions of External Stakeholders Related to Environmental Contributions of Products Since fiscal 2012, we have held an External Advisory Board as an opportunity to receive opinions and advice from renowned authorities from outside the Company, with regard to the standards and registration of Environment-Contributing Products, positions to take in the future, and other comments. The External Advisory Board meetings are sponsored by the supervising director of the organization in charge of environmental issues and CSR, and the members of the internal certification screening committee for Environment-Contributing Products, including staff such as executive officer representatives from each division company who unify the technical side, organization heads carrying out management project work with a grasp for business conditions as a whole, participate in this board. We also ask others from outside the Company coming from various backgrounds in industry, government, and academia who are currently engaged in CSR-related work, including related to the environment, to take part as external experts. We currently request participation from representatives of a public corporation which serves as a consulting service providing advice to consumers, an NPO engaged in forestry preservation and education for the next generation, the representative of an office which has released numerous publications related to natural resources and the environment, a corporation which is an auxiliary organization for a government administrative office, and individuals active in media-related capacities for other companies (see photo in the next page for reference). In fiscal year 2018, one study session was held with the External Advisory board in September, and one meeting of the Advisory Board was held in March. At the study session held in September, external advisors spoke to core employees and younger members involved in company and corporate Environment-Contributing Product development, business plans, and sales about trends in environmental and social problems, needs, and demands being made of the company from a variety of different perspective, and also discussed these issues with participants directly. In addition to deepening the understanding of individual employees, the event was also a chance for the individual participants to consider what they can do in their position, as well as the various trends moving forward. The Environment-Contributing Product External Advisory Board meeting held in March was sponsored by the supervising director of the organization in charge of environmental issues and CSR (Senior Managing Director and Executive Officer Kato) to consider the 18 total Environment-Contributing Products approved by the internal certification screening committee* in two separate instances in fiscal year 2018. External advisors each shared advice and important points from their respective specialties. The experts shared comments such as “I hope you will carry out processes like standard registration and clarification for visualizing the contribution of Social Environment-Contributing Products in order to show the world at large their value and the thinking behind them” and “be aware of the fact that the same issue consists of varying problems in different global areas and consider these differences when thinking about the contribution aspect of products,” touching on issues points to be careful when expanding Environment-Contributing Product business in the future and new thinking related to solving environmental and social problems. The speakers covered topics which will be useful references for the promotion of Environment-Contributing Product business expansion in the future. * Internal certification screening committee The chairman of this committee is the supervisor of the Environment Department, and corporate and company technology and business supervisors participate in the committee’s meetings as members. These meetings are held for screening related to certification of Environment-Contributing Products. Held regularly twice per year. Prominence in Environment 103 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities External Advisory Board (from the left) ・Minako Oishi, Nippon Association of Consumer Specialists (public corporation), Representative Director, Deputy Chairperson, Environmental Committee ・Juichi Shibusawa, President of the specifi ed non-profi t corporation “Network for Coexistence with Nature” ・Masatsugu Taniguchi, Representative of the Resource and Environment Strategic Planning Offi ce ・Takehisa Kabeya, Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry, Deputy Director, Department of Regional and Industry Support ・Shoichi Saito, Nikkei Business Publications, Executive Director, ESG Forum Prominence in Environment 104 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Visualization of Environmental Contributions Environmental Assessment and Quantification of Environment-Contributing Products To clarify the amount of return to natural capital, Sekisui Chemical Group endeavors to visualize the environmental contribution for each Environment-Contributing Product. We calculate and quantify into a single indicator (damage costs) the various contribution vectors in the life cycle of Environment-Contributing Products. We multiply the market impact, based on sales, by the environment contribution of each product to arrive at a quantifiable contribution by product, reflected in the Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index. In calculating the impact on the environment for each Environment-Contributing Product until fiscal 2016, we broadly classified environmental issues into three areas that should be resolved in our aim to help realize a planet where biodiversity is preserved. However, by broadening the scope of Environment-Contributing Products, we have since taken steps to integrate contributions across four areas adding the area of human health / social assets. How to Visualize Environmental Contribution (1) Determine technologies and products to be compared. (2) Gather quantifiable data related to environmental impact of each stage of a product's lifecycle (from raw materials to production, transport, use and disposal). (3) Apply a coefficient* to calculate environmental impact for each factor affecting the environmental impact data obtained and consolidate the results. (4) Environmental contribution is the difference between the coefficient-derived value in (3) above and the original value. * Coefficient: Calculated using a customized version of MiLCA, a system developed by Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry using LIME2, an environmental impact assessment method created by Professor Norihiro Itsubo at Tokyo City University. Prominence in Environment 105 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Performance Data Net Sales / Proportion of Environment-Contributing Products (Billions of yen) Sales ratio (%) 1,000 56.3 60 50.2 800 45.2 44.5 44.3 643.8 40 600 555.9 128.0 Products that Contribute to 84.3 the Social 400 Environment 20 515.7 Products that 200 495.1 485.8 481.2 471.6 Contribute to the Natural Environment 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Revenue from Products That Contribute to the Environment Over Time (Unit: Billions of yen) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Housing Company 305.8 280.6 290.9 317.6 364.3 Urban Infrastructure & Environmental 99.8 103.5 90.3 93.7 97.7 Products Company High Performance Plastics Company 88.1 99.8 99.4 142.2 178.9 Headquarters 1.4 1.8 0.6 2.4 2.8 Company-wide total 495.1 485.8 481.2 555.9 643.8 Index Calculation Method Net sales of Environment-contributing Products = Consolidated sales across Sekisui Net sales of Chemical Group of products internally certified as Environment-contributing Products EnvironmentAll businesses of the Group in and outside Japan are subject to assessment contributing Note: See pages 100-101 for a definition of Environment-contributing Products and the way Products of thinking behind them. Proportion in Proportion in net sales of Environment-contributing Products = Net sales of Environmentnet sales of contributing Products / Consolidated sales EnvironmentAll businesses of the Group in and outside Japan are subject to assessment contributing Note: See pages 100-101 for a definition of Environment-contributing Products and the way Products of thinking behind them. Number of Environment-Contributing Products Newly Registered Number of Environment-Contributing Products Number of registrations as of the end of March newly registered in FY2018 FY2019 18 160 Prominence in Environment 106 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Conserving the Natural Environment ~ Biodiversity ~ We Strive to Conserve Natural Environments and Biodiversity. Management Approach Basic Concept Lessening the Impact of Business Activities on Biodiversity While the business activities of Sekisui Chemical Group receive blessings of nature coming from biodiversity, they also negatively impact the ecosystem. In April 2008, the Sekisui Chemical Group incorporated biodiversity-related items into its Environmental Management Policy. Following this, the Group has been making efforts to reduce the environmental impact of, for example, greenhouse gas emissions and hazardous chemicals and to prevent pollution by promoting the effective use of resources and energy that are more limited than ever. Having established a set of guidelines on biodiversity in 2011, the Group strives to conserve biodiversity, including the natural environment, through both environmentally conscious business activities and actions to preserve the environment undertaken around the world. Prominence in Environment 107 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Long-term Environmental Management Vision Toward the Realization of a Planet Where Biodiversity Is Preserved To contribute to the realization of a planet where biodiversity is preserved, Sekisui Chemical Group aims to return more natural capital to the planet than it uses by 2030, through three initiatives: expand and create Environment-contributing Products, reduce environmental impact, and conserve the natural environment. Note: See page 38 for details of Long-term Environmental Management Vision Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030 . Note: See page 46 for details of Integrated Index Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index . Major Initiatives SEKISUI Environment Week Held to Help Develop Human Resources with Excellent Environmental Activity Promotional Skills At the Sixth SEKISUI Environment Week, held in fiscal 2018, a total of 28,396 employees participated in activities. The activities were creatively devised to match each business site and included beautification around the areas, tree planting, energy-conservation in the offices and much more. Procurement of Sustainable Raw Materials Usage of Sustainable Timber and Assurance of Traceability To contribute to the elimination of deforestation as well as the sustainable use of timber resources, at Sekisui Chemical Group every effort is made to ensure that the timber used in products is logged in accordance with statutory and regulatory requirements, such as FSC-certified wood. In addition, the Group conducts investigations into commercial distribution with regard to the logging area, tree species and quantity of timber materials to ensure traceability. For recycled materials, we use timberand wood-based materials that are already used in markets, as well as unused thinnings and branches. Initiatives to Improve Green Space Quality Initiatives to Improve Green Space Quality at All Domestic Production Sites and Laboratories We are moving forward with efforts to improve green space quality at business sites with the aim of maintaining flora and fauna habitats, building ecosystem networks that connect regions and business sites and invigorate regional partnerships. Under the Environmental Medium-term Plan (2017-2019), we aimed to improve our score on the JBIB Land Use Score Card® by five points compared with fiscal 2016. As a result of improving the environment of waterside biotopes in co-sponsorship with museums and planting native shrubs in green spaces, we improved our average score by 4.3 points (compared with fiscal 2016) in fiscal 2018. Prominence in Environment 108 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Example of Green Space Quality Improvement Tsukuba Office Biodiversity Project Sekisui Chemical’s Tsukuba Office launched the Tsukuba Works Biodiversity Project, a project open to all general employees on a voluntary and participatory basis, and 17 members who had put up their hands promote green space activities at the office. Planting seedlings that include those of Japanese aster and Tsurigane carrots, which are native to the Tsukuba area, and other highly regional flora, the members create green spaces that show consideration for biodiversity so that the fauna that inhabit the area can live. During SEKISUI Environmental Week in fiscal 2018, calls were made to employees to mark out a green space promenade. In addition to its use as a relaxation area for employees on weekdays, this promenade hosts “sowing meetings” during which members engage in the planting of highly regional seeds. Organized by members of the Biodiversity Project, these meetings are also a forum for exchange between employees of the Tsukuba Office. The members will carry out activities to increase the value of green space, to enable the conducting of environmental education utilizing green space long into the future. SEKISUI Environment Week activity The promenade and planting zone General view of a sowing meeting (marking out) established on the office premises. Prominence in Environment 109 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities An Example of Our Initiatives to Improve Green Space Quality Creating a Biotope in Harmony with Regional Ecosystems In 2000, Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. created an around 6,300m2 biotope named “Country Woods” on its premises. Drainage from the factory (cooling water from machinery) is reused for the biotope’s pond. The trees that were small when the creation of the biotope began have now grown, and some are over 15m high. Also, a variety of species can be found inside the biotope. Kingfishers are among the birds that make visits, purple emperor butterflies flutter around the weeping willow, and Japanese moles live underground. Around April and May, the light purple flowers of Salvia plebeia (sage weed, a species on the Near Threatened list) come into bloom by the waterside. In an ongoing regional environmental project, a company called Environment Consultants conducts surveys of the pond in particular. A survey in 2015 found 15 individuals of the rare species Abbottina rivularis (a fish on the Endangered IB category list). After that, when the habitat was improved by removing the koi and ginbuna carp from the biotope pond, an average of 72 individuals could be confirmed in surveys in 2017 and 2018, and the number of Abbottina rivularis increased. Furthermore, not noted at the time of the 2015 survey, four individuals of the fish known as the rosy bitterling were found for the first time in the 2017 survey. Having then introduced bivalves and improved the habitat and breeding environment, one survey in 2018 was able to confirm the presence of an average of 10 individuals, and the rosy bitterling population thus appeared to be gradually increasing, too. Since this biotope is open to the public, it has also become a place for relaxation for the local community. Continuing to improve the biotope environment while conducting biological research, we will also conduct education for nature conservation by organizing natural environment field trips. Autumn colors in the biotope General view of biological research being conducted with a casting net. Prominence in Environment 110 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Park-like Production Plant in the Middle of a Forest Rich with Nature Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd.’s Iwate Plant is a park-like facility, the grounds of which are rich in greenery and natural beauty; 95% of the plant’s area is covered by green. There, high-quality pharmaceutical products which are distributed throughout the world are manufactured, in a safe and efficient manner. Through its environmentally friendly wastewater treatment system and reduction of CO2, the plant aims to exist in harmony with its precious surrounding natural environment. As a result of surveys of the birds and plants as well as of the animals that gather in the surrounding area, including streams and springs, 673 species were found. Of these, 14 species, including Argyronome laodice (Pallas’ fritillary, a species of butterfly on the Endangered II category list) and Hynobius lichenatus (Tohoku salamander, a species of amphibian on the Near Threatened list), are recognized as ecologically valuable. In recognition of the above activities, the Iwate Plant has acquired 4 Stars (the highest rank) under the “Iwate-friendly business place certification system,” certified by Iwate Prefecture. Through manufacturing, the plant will continue to contribute to people’s healthy and fulfilling lives, and the conservation of ecosystems. Making a forest by planting saplings Watching the species that live in spring water Prominence in Environment 111 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Promoting Biodiversity in the Housing Business Town Development That Takes Natural Environments and Ecosystem Preservation into Consideration The Sekisui Heim Group is working to create sustainable town schemes by maintaining and improving the property value of the towns in its residential housing business. In Smart Heim City Asaka, the lots of which Tokyo Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. commenced selling in the spring of 2019, approximately 25% of the development area was set aside as green space,*1 and town development was carried out in consideration of the surrounding natural environment and ecosystem preservation. We established a park with an open grassed space in Neighbors Circle*2 , which will become a town landmark, and the road leading from there to the area where the lots are being sold is being developed as a lush, dedicated road for pedestrians and cyclists. In addition, Fitness Park , which consists of a park with fitness equipment and a promenade along the Kurome River, is a healthcare area zone where people can exercise while communing with Nature. As a result of its greening policy with a sense of unity and continuity, Smart Heim City Asaka acquired Ikimono Symbiotic Coexistence Enterprise Certification, awarded by ABINC*3, in fiscal 2018. *1 Refers to the green coverage ratio that shows the proportion of green space etc. with regard to the ABINC*3 application site. *2 Neighbors Circle is the name of a plaza that includes Neighbors Store, a childcare facility, clubhouse and Miyadai Park (managed by Asaka City). *3 The Association for Business Innovation in harmony with Nature and Community (ABINC) is a system that certifies the results of biodiversity conservation efforts to encourage businesses to coexist with nature and people. Artist’s impression of the Neighbors Fitness Park Circle meet-up area upon completion Full area diagram of Smart Heim City Asaka Prominence in Environment 112 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Environmental Contribution Activities in Collaboration with Local Communities Expanding Initiatives at Domestic Production Sites and Housing Companies Sekisui Chemical Group is promoting measures aimed at protecting the natural environment in collaboration with local communities at domestic products sites and laboratories. Working in partnership with NPOs, elementary schools, and local government authorities, we pushed forward various initiatives in such areas as woodland conservation and environmental education at 26 business sites in fiscal 2018. This was an implementation rate of 55%. At seven* of its mainstay housing companies, Sekisui Chemical Group has also been engaging in forest and woodland conservation activities since fiscal 2013. In addition to gaining an insight into the importance of the multifaceted functions of forests, steps are being taken to improve communication with local communities through increased collaboration. All seven housing companies took part in activities in fiscal 2018. For an example of our initiatives, please see Social Contribution Activities on page 252 * The seven companies are: Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Group, Sekisui Heim Tohoku Group, Tokyo Sekisui Heim Group, Sekisui Heim Chubu Group, Sekisui Heim Kinki Group, Sekisui Heim Chushikoku Group, and Sekisui Heim Kyushu Group “Sekisui Forest” Preservation ActiviCooperation with NPO / Making a ties (Tokuyama Sekisui Co., Ltd.) children’s forest hands-on workshop (Sekisui Heim Chubu Group) Prominence in Environment 113 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Wastewater WET Investigation of Causes at Business Sites Where Impact Had Been Confirmed by Previous Surveys Sekisui Chemical Group strictly adheres to wastewater standards regulated by laws and ordinances and has set even tougher standards for the management of wastewater from its production sites. To prevent negative effects on and ensure the safety of the water environment for aquatic life in the places where wastewater flows, the Group has conducted whole effluent toxicity (WET) assessments of wastewater and surveys of the habitat conditions in the rivers where wastewater is released since fiscal 2013. Looking at past surveys, 96% of the water emitted into public water areas by Sekisui Chemical Group production sites has been checked. In fiscal 2018, the Company continued to conduct investigations into causes at business sites where past surveys have revealed an impact on living organisms. As a result, we have been able to specify causative agents. General view of a river Examples of living creatures used in ecosystem survey WET assessments (zebra fish) Prominence in Environment 114 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Cooperation with External Organizations Dialogue and Partnership with Stakeholders An Association Aiming for and Taking Action in Biodiversity Conservation In 2013, Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. became a member of JBIB (Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity), which is a group of Japanese corporations committed to biodiversity conservation. In order to contribute to the conservation of biodiversity in and outside Japan, we promote diverse activities, such as conducting research regarding biodiversity together with various companies. Activities to Conserve Green Spaces We work together with an environmental consulting firm on environmental conservation activities and development of local environment, such as research on ecosystems at production sites and laboratories, conservation of biodiversity, and extermination of non-native species. Social Contribution Activities To develop personnel who contribute to the environment, we engage in natural environment conservation activities in various regions around the world, through cooperating with local governments, academic institutions, schools, NPOs and NGOs. Note: Please see page Social Contribution Activities, page 252. Note: See page 272 for details of the Innovations Inspired by Nature Research Support Program. Prominence in Environment 115 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Performance Data Results from the JBIB Land Use Score Card® FY2017 FY2018 JBIB Land Use Score Increase by 2.6 points Increased by 4.3 points Card® Index Calculation method JBIB Land Use Score Card® is a tool promoted by JBIB, which evaluates the level of effort to preserve biodiversity with respect to the land owned by the Company. It is a sheet for evaluation of every business site regarding the size and quality of its green Points of JBIB Land Use space, management system, etc. on a scale from 0 to 100. Score Card® We implement assessments of every business site for the fiscal year using the JBIB Land Use Score Card® and calculate the increase from the number of points it had in fiscal 2016. The index is the average value of the points increase of all business sites. SEKISUI Environment Week Participation Rate FY2017 FY2018 Participation rate in the SEKISUI Environment 84.9% 88.1% Week initiative Index Calculation method Proportion of participants Total number of participants in the SEKISUI Environment Week initiative / total in the SEKISUI Environment number of employees in the business sites participating in the initiative x100 Week initiative Prominence in Environment 116 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Rare Species Identified at Sekisui Chemical Group Facilities and Their Surroundings up to Fiscal 2018 (including out-of-area conservation*) Severity of Number of Category Species Name Classification Confirmation Location Endangerment Species Endangered IA High Rhodeus ocellatus CR 1 Fish Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Species kurumeus Hemigrammocypris Endangered IB Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. EN 2 rasborella Fish Species 2019 Ministry of the Environment Red List Abbottina rivularis Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Haliaeetus albicilla Bird Co., Ltd. Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Argyronome Co., Ltd. Insect laodice Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Iwate Office Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Anser fabalis Bird Co., Ltd. Cipangopaludina Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Invertebrate chinensis Ltd. Endangered II Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Iwate VU 8 Rumex longifolius Plant Species Office Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Iwate Rubus rosifolius Plant Office Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Cephalanthera Kanto Office Plant falcata Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Tokyo Office Oryzias latipes Fish SEKISUI SEIKEI CO., Ltd. Izumo Factory * Out-of-area conservation: A method for protecting endangered species by sheltering them in safe facilities and increasing their numbers, avoiding extinction. Prominence in Environment 117 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Rare Species Identified at Sekisui Chemical Group Facilities and Their Surroundings up to Fiscal 2018 (including out-of-area conservation*) Severity of Number of Category Species Name Classification Confirmation Location Endangerment Species Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Anser albifrons Bird Co., Ltd. Gallinago Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Bird hardwickii Co., Ltd. Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Accipiter nisus Bird Co., Ltd. Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Lasius teranishii Insect Co., Ltd. Radix auricularia Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Invertebrate japonica Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Hydrophilidae Insect Ltd. 2019 Ministry of the Environment Red List Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Vallisneria natans Plant Ltd. Hynobius Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Iwate Amphibian lichenatus Office Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Iwate Paeonia japonica Plant Endangered II Office NT 19 Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Iwate Species Corydalis raddeana Plant Office Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Rana porosa porosa Amphibian Tokyo Office Sasakia charonda Insect Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Calanthe discolor Plant Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Macromia daimoji Insect Shiga-Minakuchi Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Kyoto Eupatorium Research Institute Plant japonicum Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. R&D Institute Biwia zezera Fish Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Pandion haliaetus Bird Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Ardea intermedia Bird Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Salvia plebeia Plant Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Formica fukaii Insect Insufficient Co., Ltd. DD 2 Information Sekisui Medical Co., ltd. Iwate Ectemnius nitobei Insect Low Office * Out-of-area conservation: A method for protecting endangered species by sheltering them in safe facilities and increasing their numbers, avoiding extinction. Prominence in Environment 118 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Rare Species Identified at Sekisui Chemical Group Facilities and Their Surroundings up to Fiscal 2018 (including out-of-area conservation*) Species Protected by the Act on Protection of Cultural Properties Severity of Number of Category Species Name Classification Confirmation Location Endangerment Species Special High Sekisui Medical Co., ltd. Iwate Natural SN 1 Capricornis crispus Mammal Office Treasure Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Anser fabalis Bird Co., Ltd. Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Anser albifrons Bird Co., Ltd. Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Natural Haliaeetus albicilla Bird N 4 Co., Ltd. Treasure Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Pica pica Bird Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Hinomaru Co., Ltd. Tosu Plant PrefecturallyDesignated SEKISUI SEIKEI CO., Ltd. Izumo PN 1 Carassius auratus Fish National Factory Treasure Low * Out-of-area conservation: A method for protecting endangered species by sheltering them in safe facilities and increasing their numbers, avoiding extinction. Prominence in Environment 119 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Prominence in CS & Quality Pursuing the Quality Always Specified by Customers by Maximizing “Quality of People,” “Quality of Systems,” and “Quality of Products.” Management Approach Our Philosophy Since 1999, Sekisui Chemical Group has practiced customer satisfaction (CS) management. In 2004, we coined the phrase CS & Quality in the belief that customer satisfaction and quality are inseparable. We began CS & Quality Management to consistently deliver value to our customers so that they will always choose our products and services. As we consider customer’s feedback as the beginning of our manufacturing activities, we are actively honing the Quality of Our People, the Quality of Our Systems, and the Quality of Products and Services. In this manner, the Group is working in unison to consistently deliver the quality that is always specified by customers. Sekisui Chemical Group’s CS & Quality Management Circulation Diagram Flow of Utilizing Customer Feedback in Management Prominence in CS & Quality 120 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities CS & Quality Management Promotion System Establishing the CS & Quality Subcommittee That Reports to the CSR Committee Sekisui Chemical Group deliberates on and determines all financial and non-financial initiatives and policies through its Board of Directors. Sekisui Chemical maintains a CS & Quality Subcommittee, which reports to the Company’s CSR Committee. Both the CSR Committee and CS & Quality Subcommittee meet twice a year to deliberate on non-financial CS & Quality issues. In fiscal 2018, meetings of the CS & Quality Subcommittee were held in September and March. CS & Quality Management Promotion System Board of Directors CSR Committee CSR & Quality Sub-committee Sub-committee Chairperson:Hitoshi Kobayashi, Executive Officer, Head of Total ManufacturingManagement Center Sub-committee Members:Managing executive officers and Executive officers at each Divisional Company, General managers of CS & Quality Management Section at each Divisional Company, Directors, Senior managing executive officers at headquarters Office: Total Manufacturing Management Center, CS Quality Group Divisional Company CS & Quality sections at each Divisional Company Production sites Quality management sections Sales companies Technology Department Customer Consultation Office After-sales service sections Customer Consultation Office Headquarters Total Manufacturing Management Center's CS & Quality Group Customer Consultation Office Prominence in CS & Quality 121 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Creating Customer-oriented Products About the Follow-up Activities for the Self-declaration for Customer-oriented Management Sekisui Chemical is in favor of the Consumer Affairs Agency’s initiates for bringing about “Customer-oriented Management” and made a “Self-declaration for Customer-oriented Management*,” expressing Sekisui Chemical philosophy and plans for initiatives, in January 2017. * Companies declare to engage in consumer-oriented management, take action based on their declarations and disclose the outcomes of their initiatives. Mindful that customer opinions are a valuable resource for management, our CS & Quality Management is based on the motto “customer feedback is the beginning of our manufacturing activities” and is focused on aggressively pursuing innovations in the “Quality of Our People”, the “Quality of Our Systems”, and the “Quality of Our Products.” We aim to contribute to the realization of a worry-free and abundant society by continuing to provide new value to our customers and society. Below are five activities undertaken in fiscal 2018 based on our “Self-declaration for Customer-Oriented Management.” 1. Ensuring Basic Qualities Sekisui Chemical Group conducts the CS & Quality Seminar: Basic Qualities Edition every year with the goal of bolstering the level of Basic Qualities among Group employees. With a focus on people, the fiscal 2018 seminar centered on the fostering of human resources with an eye toward eliminating human error. Group companies in Japan and overseas are developing and promoting Group KAIZEN Activities, in which employees in each workplace form small groups to address various topics, including improvements in quality and productivity, increasing operational efficiency, and policy and management issues. Sekisui Chemical Group is also focused on establishing a common language in quality and employs a QC Certification system to measure the level of quality knowledge in its employees. 2. Creating Attractive Qualities Sekisui Chemical Group conducts the CS & Quality Seminar: Attractive Qualities Edition with the goal of bolstering attractive qualities. In fiscal 2018, the seminar was focused on the building of a corporate culture that fosters the creation of attractive qualities from the workplace in line with Company policies aimed at bolstering workplace abilities. With the goal of accelerating the creation of attractive qualities, Sekisui Chemical Group has established the Attractive Qualities Screening System, in which a third party measures the attractiveness of our products once every three years. In fiscal 2018 we introduced our employees through the intranet The Story of Attractive Qualities, a summary of the development efforts and ideas of departments with award winning products in fiscal 2017. As part of our effort to build a corporate culture that creates attractive qualities, Sekisui Chemical Group has established the Wakuwaku Chaya Study Group in fiscal 2013 where employees steer their own study groups in order to focus on how to best improve CS culture, with the ultimate goal of promoting communication on the topic across organizational boundaries. The methodology of these study groups is used each year in the training of newly appointed managers, and with the goal of creating a corporate culture that fosters the creation of attractive qualities, participants have declared through dialogue their commitment toward determining their own CS & Quality activities. Prominence in CS & Quality 122 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities 3. Upgrading Technological Capabilities We are holding a variety of seminars to learn effective and efficient preventative measures in order to avoid the occurrence of quality issues when developing new products. We are also effectively utilizing our quality management systems (QMS) in the implementation of attractive qualities process approach. For internal audits in particular, we are promoting activities aimed at increasing the use of the SPMC (Sekisui Process Management Chart), an in-house assessment tool. We believe the ability to respond effectively to our customers is a key attractive quality and have accordingly established a Telephone Service Training program to improve the ability of our employees to provide phone-based service to our customers. 4. Enhancing Communications Sekisui Chemical Group believes a customer-oriented business requires a developer to effectively understand the needs of its customers, through communication with individuals from both inside and outside the Company. To this end we are focused on creating a variety of communication opportunities. Our efforts to take into account the voices and values of those outside the Company include our CS & Quality Seminar, which invites external experts to speak, the Attractive Qualities Screening System, which involves product quality assessments provided by third-party experts, and customer satisfaction surveys in the housing company business. In addition, and separate from this survey, each year we publish and distribute to all Group companies the VOICE booklet summarizing customer inquiries and feedback gathered by the Customer Consultation Office. With the goal of improving communication among employees, Sekisui Chemical Group shows CS & Quality videos from other companies, sponsors the Wakuwaku Chaya Study Groups to promote increased CS awareness and the shared understanding of individual perspectives, and conducts employee CS & Quality assessments and workshops aimed at promoting employee discussions on CS & Quality systems and activities. 5. Providing Thorough Employee Education Sekisui Chemical Group distributes to all Group employees the CS & Quality Management booklet summarizing the Company’s CS & Quality management philosophy and policies. We published this booklet in English, Chinese and other languages in fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018 for distribution to our overseas locations. We also distribute our STAR 55 Bulletin, a newsletter collecting outstanding examples of CS & Quality management to our Group employees. We see the introduced initiatives (1) to (4), which cover such wide-ranging fields as CS & Quality Seminar, Attractive Qualities Screening System, Wakuwaku Chaya, Telephone Service Training, VOICE, and Employee CS & Quality Assessments as measures that facilitate the education of employees. Prominence in CS & Quality 123 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Medium-term Plan Sekisui Chemical Group Has Put in Place a CS & Quality Policy Under Its Medium-term Management Plan Management Approach Medium-term Plan Implementation Initiatives Under the CS & Quality Medium-term Plan (Fiscal 2017 to Fiscal 2019) Roadmap for CS & Quality Control Initiatives Note: SPMC (short for Sekisui Process Management Chart) Major Initiatives Medium-term Plan (Fiscal 2017 to Fiscal 2019) Progress Decrease in External Failure Costs Compared with Fiscal 2017 In fiscal 2018, the middle year in the medium-term plan, there was one incidence of a major quality issue*1. This was the first incidence of a major new product*2 quality issue within the period of the current medium-term plan. In addition, external failure costs*3 decreased compared with fiscal 2017. To achieve zero major quality issues in the future, we aim to improve Basic Qualities by ensuring thorough adherence to the practice of Development Guidelines and Everyday Management Guidelines throughout the entire Group. We aim to continue to decrease external loss costs by rolling out across the entire Group a more robust quality assurance system, management of changes and alterations to this system, and quality risk-reduction activities based on the prevention of defects. *1 Major quality issues: Problems related to product and service quality that could cause significant damage to customers, society, or Sekisui Chemical Group if not thoroughly resolved on an urgent basis. *2 New product: A challenging product selected by divisional companies through the development of new fields and technologies. *3 External failure costs: Costs arising from responding to product-related complaints. Prominence in CS & Quality 124 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Enhance Basic Manufacturing Capabilities Rebuilding of Quality Audit Mechanisms In accordance with the “CS & Quality Management Activity Roadmap,” we promoted the rebuilding of our auditing mechanisms in fiscal 2018. This initiative was done in response to the updates in the 2015 edition of the ISO 9001 standard and each company has conducted a continuous review of its quality-management system from fiscal 2017. The major change in the new auditing system was the introduction of Sekisui Chemical Group’s tailor-made “Sekisui Process Management Chart” (SPMC), which is used to conduct process management using charts. By advancing internal audits using the SPMC, we aim to efficiently perform quality control throughout the entire supply chain, including suppliers and cooperating companies. During fiscal 2018, we advanced initiatives to promote the understanding and widespread use of the SPMC on the manufacturing shop floors at each company. Prominence in CS & Quality 125 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Performance Data Data Concerning Major Quality Issues Number of Major Quality Issues (Incidents) 3 2 2 1 1 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Indicator Calculation Method These refer to product and service quality issues determined by Headquarters or the divisional company presidents, based on evaluations and judgments by the quality assurance manager, which could cause significant damage to customers, society, or Sekisui Chemical Group and lead to the loss of society’s trust in the Group if not thoroughly resolved on an urgent basis including: 1) Problems that could have a serious impact on (or cause severe damage to) Major Quality Issues society, such as product recalls 2) All serious problems involving human safety and those acknowledged by the Divisional Company to be serious problems involving the safety of property 3) Compliance-related problems concerning the quality of products or services (e.g., those involving compliance with relevant laws and regulations) 4) Problems that could inflict serious financial damage on customers Data Concerning External Failure Costs External Failure Costs （FY2016 : 100） （Index） 100 112.1 108.9 100 102.4 98.6 80 60 40 20 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Indicator Calculation Method External failure costs Costs arising from responding to product-related complaints Prominence in CS & Quality 126 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Creating Attractive Products and Services Advancing the Development of Human Resources, Systems, and a Culture Enabling the Creation of Attractive Qualities Management Approach Basic Concept Building a Customer-oriented, Free, and Open-minded Organizational Culture Sekisui Chemical Group is working on building a customer-oriented, free and open-minded organizational culture to create Attractive Qualities that customers will continue to ask for by name. Prominence in CS & Quality 127 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Major Initiatives Systems That Convey CS & Quality Management Mission to Employees Building Systems That Will Encourage Concrete Action by Employees to Enhance CS & Quality Sekisui Chemical Group formulated its CS & Quality Management Mission in fiscal 2004 and on three occasions since then, in fiscal 2004, 2005 and 2007, has issued a CS & Quality Management Guide, which serves as a tool for explaining to employees that the Group positions CS & Quality activities at the foundation of its management. In addition, in fiscal 2008, the basic policies needed to bring the CS & Quality Management Mission to realization were compiled and disseminated to Group employees for their information. In fiscal 2016, in view of the fact that more than 10 years had passed since the formulation of the CS & Quality Management Mission, the Group issued the fiscal 2016 edition of the CS & Quality Management Guide with the purpose of once again internally instilling its mission and policies. In addition to restating the CS & Quality Management Mission and basic policies, it was intended that the fiscal 2016 edition make all employees consider the universal and basic parts of the question “Who is your customer?” In fiscal 2017, this 2016 Edition CS & Quality Management Guide was also translated into other languages, including English and Chinese, and distributed to 14 companies in China, 10 companies in North America and Mexico as well as to 11 Group companies in Europe. In fiscal 2018, to continue working to instill CS & Quality Management at overseas Group companies, we distributed the 2016 Edition CS & Quality Management Guide to 21 Southeast Asia companies and to two companies that had newly joined the Group companies in China. CS & Quality Management Booklet Japanese edition English edition Prominence in CS & Quality 128 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Measures to Create Attractive Qualities Providing Products and Services While Enhancing CS Sensitivity To continue creating Attractive Qualities Sekisui Chemical Group strives to improve the CS sensitivity of individual employees and to build an organizational culture focused on CS. Wakuwaku Chaya Study Groups for CS Culture Study Groups for CS Culture began as a measure to improve awareness of CS when we realized there was not enough communication across organizational borders in the Employee CS & Quality Assessments that were conducted in fiscal 2012. Employees steer their own study groups about how best to improve CS culture and have nicknamed the groups Wakuwaku Chaya. Moderated by the managers in charge of CS & Quality, study groups were started at factories and sales offices in fiscal 2013. In addition, in that year’s educational program for newly appointed managers, participants were encouraged to declare their own actions through dialogue with others on the program. Since fiscal 2014, an organization has been in place to set up and maintain a facilitator within the organization, and activities have continued in each department within the Group up to the present day. Sekisui Chemical Group believes that having an organization where employees are able to enjoy and fully engage in work is a shortcut to enhancing its CS culture. Our Study Groups for CS Culture are not meetings or debates, but opportunities for employees to engage in discussions among themselves. Specifically, all participants view documentaries about how other companies have promoted CS activities and share their thoughts and feelings with one another about CS. The participants declare action targets during the sessions and take back to their workplaces the knowledge they gained from this dialogue with their peers. Departments that have continued to hold these study groups have witnessed a natural improvement in their CS culture. Energies remain directed toward further advancing Study Groups for CS Culture not only as a forum to reflect on dialogue that promotes mutual understanding, but also as the means to deliberate on future aspirations and scenarios and to enhance employee satisfaction by sharing forward-looking visions. Prominence in CS & Quality 129 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities CS & Quality Seminars For CS & Quality Seminars we invite people from a variety of fields outside the Company to give lectures with the intention of improving awareness of CS & Quality. Held several times a year, the lectures are split into Attractive Qualities themes about creating attractive quality and Basic Qualities themes to strengthen core quality. A total of 53 seminars have been held from the first event in 2001 through to the end of fiscal 2018. Under the Attractive Qualities themes, we hold various lectures not only on excellent case studies of the planning and development of hit and long-selling products, but also on matters related to hospitality and employee motivation to achieve customer satisfaction. From fiscal 2016, we held video conferences on case study videos from other companies similar to the lecture themes to coincide with the days on which CS & Quality seminars were held. From fiscal 2018 we also set up a forum for employees to share their thoughts with their peers after trial meetings while working to enhance communications. In fiscal 2018, a total of 281 people participated in the three seminars held at Sekisui Chemical's Tokyo Headquarters on plant floor ideas of how to create ways of thinking and systems to instill CS activities voluntarily. ●May 18, 2018 ●August 24, 2018 ●February 1, 2019 “Guiding Principles of Managers Who “What Do People Need to Work “Giving Form to Feelings Leads to CS. Learned to Strengthen the Front Line Happily? Cybozu Thoughts about Things I Learned from Restaurants, at Disney and USJ” Improving Motivation” Tiffany & Co. and Disney” Chihiro Imai, Director, Communication Takenori Wada, Executive Director, Hiroshi Ueda, Representative at Otona Energy Co., Ltd. Teamwork Research Institute, Cybozu, no Terakoya Enkaina Inc. Prominence in CS & Quality 130 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Telephone Service Training As part of efforts to improve customer satisfaction, the Customer Consultation Office has been conducting telephone service training since fiscal 2008 to horizontally deploy the customer telephone service skills that are cultivated in business operations in each division company. Having implemented Telephone Service Training since fiscal 2008, back office staff from the Customer Consultation Office serve as instructors and visit each office, thereby providing employees with opportunities to improve Sekisui Chemical Group’s telephone service skills. Initially, Telephone Service Training was only conducted at the Housing Company, which handles many general inquiries from individual customers, but from fiscal 2011 we also deployed the training at the Urban Infrastructure and Environmental Products Company, the High Performance Plastics Company, Headquarters and each subsidiary company that focus on corporate customers. From fiscal 2016 onwards, Telephone Service Training has been introduced in the Urban Infrastructure and Environmental Products Company’s educational programs for new employees. The “All-Japan Telephone Service Contest,” in which Sekisui Heim sales company call center employees from across the country pit their telephone service skills against each other, has been held every year from fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2017. Although postponed for various reasons in fiscal 2018, plans are in place to hold the contest in fiscal 2019 using a new method. Systems That Confirm Attractive Qualities from the Viewpoint of Society Attractive Qualities Screening System for Evaluating by Outside Experts Sekisui Chemical Group has set up the Attractive Qualities Screening System for evaluating its Attractive Quality products from an external third-party viewpoint, in order to accelerate the creation of attractive qualities. The evaluations are based on a product’s ability to provide value to customers and society, not just on sales and profits. This system has been implemented since fiscal 2008 and a cumulative total of 13 products has been selected for awards: four in fiscal 2008, three in fiscal 2011, four in fiscal 2014, and two in fiscal 2017. In addition, and in order for Sekisui Chemical Group employees to share what concepts and perspectives were used to commercialize award-winning products, we post on our intranet The Story of Attractive Qualities, the secrets behind the development of these products. More than just a means to provide helpful hints and increase awareness, this initiative is instilling a greater sense of pride while motivating employees to take on the challenge of developing new products despite the various hurdles they may face. In fiscal 2018, we posted details of each Story of Attractive Qualities based on interviews with related parties in connection with the two products that received awards in 2017 on the intranet. Drawing on the opinions of various sources including outside experts, we undertook a review of the management and other methods of the Attractive Qualities Screening System in the leadup to implementation in fiscal 2019. Note: See the Performance Data on page 135 for details of Attractive Qualities Screening System results. Prominence in CS & Quality 131 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Systems to Measure the Degree to Which CS & Quality Management Has Spread Surveying Awareness of and Behavior Regarding CS & Quality Management by Employee CS & Quality Assessments Since fiscal 2012, Sekisui Chemical Group has been utilizing e-learning to conduct a CS & Quality Assessment (survey) program once every two years for employees in Japan, the aim being to ascertain the degree to which CS & Quality Management has spread throughout the organization, identify any related issues by measuring employees’ awareness of CS & Quality and related activities, and reflect this information in the code of conduct. More specifically, the survey identifies issues for creating the groundwork for CS & Quality culture, such as by measuring the degree that management’s philosophy and policies have spread throughout the organization, and communications up and down the ranks, across organizations and among members. Thereafter, based on the final report, new action objectives are set for each organizational unit with the aim of gradually fostering a culture of CS & Quality within Sekisui Chemical Group. We believe that employees' awareness of CS & Quality is steadily improving, as the number of respondents is increasing year by year. In addition to conducting results feedback through individual visits to executives at each business site from the fiscal 2014 results, since fiscal 2015 we have worked to expand overseas by conducting employee CS & Quality assessments in China as well. In fiscal 2018, we partially reviewed the content of the questionnaire, following the judgement made through the assessment completed three times from 2012 to 2016 that the CS & Quality system in each organization had to some extent been fixed. As a result, wording of a question was changed from “presence or absence of system” to “presence or absence of system operation.” In addition, from fiscal 2018, when providing feedback to each business site, we hold a workshop where executives talk to each other about the CS & Quality system and the activities of their own organizations. Systems That Use Customer Feedback to Increase CS & Quality Improve the Responsiveness of Customer Consultation Office The staff of the Customer Consultation Office responds to questions, concerns, opinions, requests, and other inquiries from customers. To provide support that satisfies customers without requiring them to be directed to call the departments responsible for the matters concerned, all employees of the Customer Consultation Office learn about our products and technologies and strive to offer, as much as possible, responses to inquiries at a one-stop shop. Thanks to this initiative, we have received praise from customers concerning calls relating to opinions and requests. Prominence in CS & Quality 132 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Systems for Employees to Share Customer Feedback Publication of VOICE and VOICE PLUS That Summarize Customer Feedback Sekisui Chemical Group’s Customer Consultation Office receives over 10,000 inquiries and comments every year. Sekisui Chemical Group directly answers each inquiry and analyzes the factors that motivated the customer to make the inquiry in the first place, in order to discover the hidden needs of customers. Many of these customer inquiries contain requests and ideas for making improvements, such as changing product specifications and increasing the range of variations. By feeding back these customer opinions to the divisions of each internal company, we are able to improve CS & Quality by revising specifications and enhancing catalog markups from the users’ perspective. As a new initiative starting in fiscal 2015, the Group has published VOICE, which is a summary of the inquiries received by Customer Consultation Office. This booklet is published with the aim of reflecting customer feedback in management activities, cultivating and instilling a culture of CS & Quality in all employees, and promoting understanding of these issues in Group-wide businesses in a manner that transcends particular operational areas. Sekisui Chemical Group aims to improve three qualities (people, systems, products and services) based on feedback from customers. Following on from the publication of the first issue in fiscal 2015 and the second issue in fiscal 2017, the third issue was published in fiscal 2018. In addition to the number of incoming calls from customers and the content of their inquiries, we worked to further enhance the editorial mix with a booklet that contributes to the improvement of CS & Quality, such as by posting the content of interviews with related departments with regard to the improvement case studies of products that had prompted many general inquiries. Moreover, in order to provide more familiar information that would serve as a hint for better responding to customer and that could not be conveyed solely through the VOICE publication, we prepared and posted VOICE PLUS, a special issue, on the Company’s intranet. お客様相談室で毎年初夏に発行しているVOICEもおかげさ まで3周年を迎えました。 + No. そこでこの度、お客様の声や改善事例だけでなく、お客様相談 室の活動や積水化学グループ社員の皆様にとってお客様対応 プラス 01 VOICEでは、積水化学グループに寄せられるお客様の声、 な のヒントになるような 情 報をお 伝 え す るた め 、増 刊 号として らびにお客様のご意見をもとに製品やサービスの改善に努めて 『 VOICE＋（プラス）』を発刊する運びとなりました。 『 VOICE＋ いる事業担当者の事例等をご紹介してきました。 しかし、VOICE （プラス）』によって、お客様の声、お客様相談室をより身近に感じ の紙面でお伝えできるお客様の「声」はほんの一部にすぎません。 ていただければ幸いに存じます。 お客様相談室一同 2018年、 お客様が注目した セキスイ製品は？ 2018年はたくさんのお客様に積水化学ウェブサイトのトップページを閲覧いただき、 その数は約530万ページビュー （以下PV）にのぼりました。 その中で、 さらに製品情報検索で製品の詳細を検索したお客様は 全体の約30%になります。 2018年 積水化学製品情報ページアクセスランキング ※アクセス集計期間：2018年1月1日～12月31日 エスロンパイプ／ 第 1 位 VP・VU 58,254PV 環境・ライフラインカンパニー 管材事業部 ●2～15位までの製品 2～15位までの製品 アクセスされたお客様の属性までは正確に把握でき 順位 製品名 カンパニー PV数 ませんが、アクセス数上位の製品から、個人のお客様 2位 エスロンカラーパイプ 環境・LL 43,929 よりも販売店、施工会社等の業者の方からアクセスし 3位 エスロン HI-TS継手 環境・LL 22,007 4位 エスロンTS継手 環境・LL 19,896 ていただいていると推測されます。 5位 エスロン DV継手 環境・LL 18,663 事業の特性上、上位を環境・ライフラインカンパニー 6位 エスロンクリアーパイプ 環境・LL 16,495 の製品が占める中、11位フィブロック、14位ソフトロン 7位 エスロンユニオン継手 環境・LL 12,962 が高機能プラスチックカンパニーの製品としてランク 8位 フタ(マス・マンホール用) 環境・LL 12,885 インしています。 9位 エスロン エスロハイパーAW 環境・LL 11,624 住宅カンパニーはセキスイハイムウェブサイトに直接 10位 エスロンダクトE管 環境・LL 10,753 アクセスされるケースが多いためランクインしていませ 11位 フィブロック ケーブル区画貫通処置材（PF管・ケーブル貫通用） 高機能P 10,243 12位 エスロンドレンタイト 環境・LL 10,037 んが、2018年1月～12月にかけてのセキスイハイム 13位 エスロンHT継手 環境・LL 9,816 ウェブサイトのトップページへのアクセス数は約100万 14位 ソフトロン各種 高機能P 9,692 PVに上ります。 15位 エスロン接着剤 環境・LL 9,453 Prominence in CS & Quality 133 Sekisui Chemical Group’s Housing Company conducts CS surveys of customers for whom it has built Sekisui Heim In 2002, its 55th anniversary, Sekisui Chemical Group implemented STAR 55 as a program to promote CS throughPledge to Society STAR 55 Bulletin Highlights Good Examples of CS & Quality for Group Employees out the Company and declared CS to be positioned as the foundation of management for all employees. So that the STAR 55 activities did not lose momentum, in 2006 we also issued the first STAR 55 Bulletin, a newsletter compilaGRI Context Index Prominence in homes. The feedback from the customers who kindly respond to the surveys is broadly shared throughout the ComHuman Resources tion of excellent case studies for CS & Quality for Group employees. We have continued to publish STAR 55 Bulletin お 客 様 に〝 わ か り や す く 〟が テ ー マ リニューアル工場の〝魅力化推進〟進化中! 九州セキスイハイム工業㈱ 〈九州セキスイハイム工業〉 「マイユニット見学」 の時はお客様へ記念写真をお手渡し vol . 039 楽しく見て・感じて・触れる見学会大好評 九州のセキスイハイム生産拠点である九州セキスイハイム工業㈱（本社：佐賀県鳥栖市、別府信広 社長）は、２０１６年６月にリニューアルオープンをし、生産・施工一体体制の強化と作業環境改善 を実現したが、加えて工場見学会の〝さらなる魅力化〟も同時進行。現在では来場者もセキスイハイ ム検討中のお客様はじめ、地元企業関係者から小・中・高校生まで巻き込んで九州全域を対象に〝開 かれた生産工場〟として進化している。現状を取材した。 ２０１６年６月のリニ 「わかりやすいか」を考 り、鳥栖市のＨＰに掲載 に常に触れる様に工夫さ を作っていこう〟という 左から松藤さん、田中さ ューアルに向けた、さら え、他社の工場見学会に してもらったり、校長先 れている。 熱い想いから命名したの なる工場見学会充実のた 参加したり、営業へのヒ 生の集会に赴くなど、積 また、工場内の各工程 だという。当初は手探り め準備組織として設置さ アリングを行いながら、 極的に誘致活動を進めて の作業者と共に、お客様 で各現場の情報を集め発 ん、石井さん、柳場さん れたのが「工場魅力化推 リニューアルに向けた約 きた。 に実際に触って良さを体 信していたが、徐々に各 since fiscal 2006. 進 プ ロ ジ ェ ク ト 」（ 現 在 １年間で様々な試行錯誤 感してもらいたいと、自 現場からも積極的に情報 年代別に見学 「魅力化推進係」） 。当初 を行ったという。 作のツールも作成（下写 が寄せられるようになっ マニュアル作成 ３人で発足したチーム こうして迎えた工場の 真 ）。 セ キ ス イ ハ イ ム の てきたのだという。ラン は、お客様案内を主に担 リニューアルは、想像以 工場を見学する際、家 強さや快適さの一端とし クアップ通信を介してお External Evaluation 自作のツール。 当していた１名以外、製 上の反響だった。家づく づくりを検討しているお て、断熱材やガスケット 互いの活動の理解も深ま 造の知識・経験がほとん りを検討しているお客様 客様へのご案内は営業が 等の実物に触れられるよ っており、工場内だけで S T A R 55 通 信 どなかった。そんな中で の見学が増えた事は言う 主体だが、社会科見学や うに展示、肌でも感じて はなく、今ではセキスイ 「 お 客 様 が わ か り や す までもないが、以前は特 企業・団体のご案内は工 もらえるようにした。当 ハイム九州グループ全体 Prominence in 断熱材（右）とガスケット い」、「営業担当が説明し に誘致をしていなかった 場が担う。そこで、営業 時リーダーに抜擢された へ発信をしている。 やすい」をテーマにスタ 法人・団体や、安全面の 向けの資料を参考にしな のは、その年に入社した 細かな気配りに ー ト し た 。 ど う し た ら 観点からお断りしていた がら案内時のマニュアル ばかりの松藤莉絵さん。 涙するお客様も 社会科見学の学生も積極 を作った。このマニュア 「入社したてで工場に染 的 に 受 け 入 れ る 様 に し ルの作成を通じて「今ま まっていないからこそ、 お施主様が我が家を工 た 。 鳥 栖 市 の 協 力 も あ でいかにお客様視点が欠 素直に『もっとこうした 場で作られる日に見学を ユニットの前で記念写真 でしたが、今では子ども けていたかを痛感しまし い 』 と い う 考 え が 言 え する「マイユニット見学」 を撮影。帰り際に記念品 たちもが家をつくってい た」（ 総 務 部 石 井 利 一 部 た。最初は他人事だった も見直しを行った。目の として贈呈している（写 る工場と知ってくれてい 長 ）。 ど う し た ら 子 ど も 作業者も、徐々に積極的 前でマイホームが形にな 真 右 下 ）。 思 い も よ ら ぬ て 感 動 し ま し た 」（経営 たちにわかりやすく伝え に提案をしてくれるよう っていく光景はもともと サプライズ演出に、涙を 企 画 室 田 中 純 子 係 長 ） 。 CS & Quality られるか、メンバーみん になりました」と振り返 好評であったが、さらに 流すお客様も多いのだと 「鳥栖市内の全ての小学 pany and used in product development and in improvements in the quality of the Group’s services for its customers. なで何度も練り直し、小 る。当時作ったツールは その場で作業者から直接 いう。工場からマイホー 生が社会科見学で来てく The name STAR 55 embodies Sekisui, Trust, Action and Revolution, meaning that each and every employee of Sekisui 学生から高校生まで、年 今 で も 工 場 見 学 に 使 わ お施主様へ「皆で一生懸 ムが誕生する瞬間に立ち れ、市民全員がセキスイ 2019年（平成31年）３月28日 代に合わせたマニュアル れ、お客様だけでなく営 命作りますから、楽しみ 会える感動は格別に違い ハイムを知っている。そ も用意。今では佐賀県内 業にも説明しやすいと好 にしていてください」と な い 。「 お 客 様 に も っ と んな日が来ることを信じ だけでなく、沖縄を含む 評だ。 話しかけるシーンを追加 も っ と 喜 ん で も ら い た て毎日を一生懸命努めた 九州全域からはるばる見 プロジェクトのスター した。お客様にご安心頂 い」の一心から生まれた い と 思 っ て い ま す 」（石 学に来るまでになった。 トとともに、魅力化活動 けるだけでなく、作業者 取り組みだ。 井利一部長） 。 工場内のあちこちには、 をまとめて発信する「ラ にとってもお客様への想 リニューアルから二年 工場見学会に参加した これら社会科見学時に依 ンクアップ通信」のネッ いが強まり、モチベーシ 半がたった今、地道な工 子どもたちが将来従業員 頼したアンケート用紙の ト 配 信 も 始 め た 。〝 工 場 ョンの向上につながって 夫と活動が実を結んでい として、あるいはお施主 拡大版が貼られ〝見て、 見学そのものをランクア いる。また、これまでは る 。「 以 前 は 地 域 の 皆 さ 様となって「あの日」を 感じて、触れる〟工場の ップさせ、さすがセキス 写真撮影を禁止していた んに工場で何が作られて 思い出すケースが増えて （1） ハイムご検討のお客さまから法人、小・中・高校生の社会科見学まで盛況だ 率直な感想が従業員の目 イハイムと言われる工場 が、場所を限定してマイ いるか知られていません いくことだろう。 134 Chemical Group promises action to gain the trust of customers and will attempt to bring about a revolution in the Social Contribution Prominence in CS & Quality 右から東さん、松下さん、 〈「平成30年７月豪雨」復旧活動〉 お客様に寄り添い、 必死の復旧活動 熊野さん vol . 038 Prominence in 平成 年６月 日から７月８日にかけ、前線や台風７号の影響により、西日本を中心に全国的な大雨 施工協力会の職人さんが中心となり、毎日、暗く狭い床 30 28 セキスイハイム中四国㈱ 「平成30年７月豪雨」で被害798棟に！ ２階への浸水は45棟 を も た ら し た「 平 成 年７月豪雨」（気象庁命名） 30 。中でも特に記録的豪雨となった岡山・広島県の２ 県を管轄エリアに持つセキスイハイム中四国㈱は雨が止んだ８日直後から被害に遭ったＨＴＦＣ（ハ イム・ツーユー・ファミリー・サークル＝既築ハイム・ツーユーにお住いのお客様呼称）への対応を開始 System to Convey CS & Quality Activities to Employees したが、それは想像すらできなかった被害状況に直面することになった。真夏の炎天下、お客様に寄り 添い、泥にまみれながら必死の復旧作業を続けて、冬の今なお復旧に向けて尽力する同社を取材した。 Note: Origin of the name: STAR 55 Bulletin セキスイハイム中四国 方々（※）に話を伺った。 下浸水の被害に遭われた 「現地対策本部」を設置、 の精神を不安定にさせて Activities Environment ㈱（岡山県岡山市、水山 まず、被害状況の全体 お客様を中心にひとまず 「被害の質の違いなど現 い っ た と い う 。 「何日も 下での作業を行った。顔も作業服もドロだらけになった 健二社長）管轄内のハイ 像も見えないなか、重点 生活できるように戻そう 地の状況に応じて迅速な 泥の中で作業をしている ム保管棟数は約４３、０ 被害エリアでのお客様全 と考え、現地に赴き必要 意思決定ができる体制に ので、ストレスも爆発寸 Group’s spirit and culture while the Company allows each to take a leading role and become a STAR. ００棟（うち築５年以上 員に電話での安否確認を な作業の確認・検討から 変更しました」（山田毅セ 前になっていたと思いま Conducting a Customer CS Survey は約３９、０００棟＝ 30 開始した。翌８日、雨は上 始めました」（東慎一朗岡 キスイファミエス中四国 す」（東さん）。熱中症等 年６月末現在）。 こ の う がったが本社・全管轄エ 山 支 店 技 術 部 課 長 ）。 泥 ㈱本社技術統括部部長）。 の健康被害も心配された 55 = 55th anniversary since founding. ち今回被害に遭ったのは リアの支店・営業所にＨ の中で呆然と立ち尽くし が、毎朝ペットボトルを 若 手 で「 床 下 ７９８棟、過去記録がな ＴＦＣから入電が殺到、 ているお客様が自分たち 全員に配給し作業者の健 い２階への浸水は 棟に その数は３００件を超え を見つけると「『よく来て チーム」を編成 康管理把握と完了時の報 45 S T A R 55 通 信 （ 左 表 に 被 害 た。９日にはセキスイハ くれた、ほんとにありが のぼった。 「床下チーム」は施工 告を作業リーダーに義務 詳 細 ）。 特 に 岡 山・ 広 島 イ ム 中 四 国 ㈱ 本 社 内 に とう』と、手を握り涙を流 協力会に依頼し、 〜 20 付け、作業員は無事にゼ ４、５件のところ１００ 態です。普段はアフター 30 Details of any customer dissatisfaction are closely assessed, and steps then taken to change dissatisfaction into satisの２県に被害が多く、中 「対策本部」を設置、セキ しながら何度もお礼を言 代の若手職人さんを中心 ロ災害で乗り切ったとい 件近く一気に依頼がきた サービス専門の大工さん でも岡山は真備エリアに スイファミエス中四国㈱ ってくださいました。ご に編成。１班 〜 3 名で う。こうして住宅カンパ ため「机に山積みとなっ と室内解体業者の混合チ 4 ニーや近畿・中部 ている資料を見ると気が ームを作るなどして何と 泥まみれでの床下作業 お い て 甚 大 な 被 害 が あ （リフォーム担当会社）が り、今回はその最前線で 前線部隊となり初動を担 などの応援も受け 滅入りそうになりました かやりくりしています」 お客様の対応にあたった った。 「とにかく床上・床 ながら、床上・床下 が、お客様の方が大変な （ 松 下 さ ん ）。 来 年（ 平 本人ご家族が一番辛いの チームが文字通り床下 浸水邸５４１邸のうち、 辛い思いでおられると考 成 8 年）６月に水害復旧 31 ・被害状況＝798棟 （うち岡山３４４棟、広島３３2棟） ・現場被害＝１棟 （新築基礎工事中の床下浸水） ※今回取材に対応して頂いたのはセキスイファミエス中四国㈱の方々です ・被害種別棟数＝床上浸水2３４棟（2階以上４5 に、とこちらも目頭が熱 と格闘した。キッチン床 初期対応が必要だった４ え、とにかく１日でも早 工事の完了を目指してい セキスイハイム中四国㈱管轄エリア被害状況 御礼 住宅カンパニーをはじめ、多方面からの温か くなりました」（東さん） 。 下収納口から潜り込み、 １６邸での辛く長い闘い く保険給付を受けてもら るが「築浅邸にも対応す 被害状況は想像以上だっ 暗く狭い床下を這いつく は豪雨発生から か月後 うことだけを最優先に毎 るため気密や断熱の施工 Systems to Confirm Customer Satisfaction 2 た。汚泥・汚水が床下い ばりながら汚泥搬出時に の 月 日、完了した。 日作成を続けました」（岡 法など分からないことも いご支援、誠にありがとうございます。 9 7 Sekisui Chemical Group's っぱいに流れ込み、床下 邪魔となるグラスウール 現場での復旧作業が進 山支店技術部設計課熊野 多く試行錯誤状態。正直 断熱材のグラスウールは を撤去し、手作業で収納 捗するなかで、お客様が 聖 子 主 任 ）。 スタートし ゴ ー ル が 見 え て い ま せ In addition to announcing the results of employee CS & Quality assessments, in the 37th to 39th issues of STAR 55 社員一同心から深く感謝申し上げます。 棟）、床下浸水287棟、土砂災害22棟（うち 水を含んで重く垂れ下が 口から排出するその繰り いち早く保険給付を受け てから１カ月、８月末に ん」（熊野さん）。 り空調用ダクトは切断さ 返し。作業服は泥で見分 られるようにと見積り業 はほぼ全棟の保険申請見 施工現場や同社には被 2018年（平成30年）12月25日 水害復旧は未だ道半ばです。 れていた。即日技術部に けがつかず、汗で下着は 務担当スタッフも大忙し 積りが完了したという。 害 に あ っ た お 客 様 か ら STAR 55 Bulletin No.’s 37, 38, and 39 （山口・岡山・広島・愛媛・鳥取・島根） 「床下チーム」を編成、 ズブ濡れになった。汚泥 となっていた。通常のリ 現在は施工現場も苦慮 「ありがとう。助かりま 全ての被災されたHTFCの皆様が、普段通りの生活 部員総出で「発生から５ ・汚水はキッチン床下収 フォーム工事と違って前 し て い る 。 「 大 型 改 修 だ した。これからも頼りに 日後の 日には床下汚泥 納口からホースを突っ込 例がなく、「どうすれば良 けでも毎月４、５件の工 しています」など感謝の 11 甚大被害11棟）、雨漏り他255棟 撤去の初期対応を開始し みバキュームカーで吸い いのか途方にくれました 事をしなければならない 声が数多く届いている。 に戻れるように、これからも全力で取り組んで参り Governance ました」（東さん） 。 取った。１棟で ㍑のゴ が、試行錯誤しながら作 状 況 。 た だ で さ え 業 者 復旧対応は今なお続行中 90 岡山は浸水、広島は土 ミ袋が 袋も軒先に山を 成 し て い き ま し た 」 50 （ 岡 （職人）さんが不足して だ。お客様からの感謝を ます。 砂と主な被害が異なるこ 作った。来る日も来る日 山支店技術部松下隆三係 いるので新規の業者さん 励みにしながら、しばら とから、 日には岡山支 も悪臭漂う床下に潜り込 長 ）。 特 に 大 型 改 修 見 積 に も お 願 い は し て い る くは歯を食いしばる日々 （1） 17 店と広島支店にそれぞれ んでの作業は、若い社員 り依頼が通常では半期で が、競合が多く厳しい状 が続く。 CSR Bulletin published in fiscal 2018, a year in which natural disasters frequently occurred, we carried articles on the ac取材に対応して頂いた企画課（事務局） 滋賀水口工場 独自のグループ改善活動 〈グループ改善活動〉 年間継続、全員参加型で成長 vol . 037 33 広いグラウンドを利用してイベントが行われている 積水化学工業㈱滋賀水口工場・積水水口化工㈱（以下滋賀水口工場、滋賀県甲賀市・武智 の中森さんと青木課長 「カンパニー活動」が浸透 昌裕工場長）が推進しているグループ改善活動「カンパニー（ＣＯＭＰＡＮＹ）活動」が１ ９８５年のキックオフから今年 年 目 を 迎 え て い る 。 従 業 員 全 員 が「 カ ン パ ニ ー（ 仲 間 ） 33 」 と呼ぶチームに所属、そこを基点に日々の改善活動に取り組み、組織化したスタッフがその （ソフトボール大会） 。楕円内は研修の様子 推進・支援・発展をバックアップするという、強い一体感を持ちながら独自の活動として維 持・継続、そして浸透している注目すべき生産現場だ。近況を取材した。 R = Revolution, STAR = Leader, 積水化学工業が１９６ 業員全員が参加し、成長 カンパニー活動は、職 体制（左上表参照）だ。 発行する広報紙「ＣＯＭ faction. In fiscal 2018, customers who had responded that they were “very satisfied” reached 75.6%. ６年、全国の生産現場で ・飛躍するための仕組み 場や改善テーマを軸に編 スタッフは 〜 代が中 ＰＡＮＹ紙」でイベント 20 30 開始した「ＱＣサークル を作って、どうせやるな 成された「△△カンパニ 心。それぞれが職場のカ ・研修組の広報活動や様 tivities of employees and partner companies that, while maintaining their close links with customers, were actively 活動」。滋賀水口工場も翌 ら楽しく、新しく、工夫 ー」と名付けられたチー ンパニーに所属しながら 々な情報発信を行う。 １９６７年に同活動を開 しながら改善活動の推進 ム（リーダーを含む８名 ①イベント②研修③広報 「イベントに関して 始したが、１９８５年、 と活性化を図って、工場 前後のメンバーと係長以 の３組に分かれ各組長を は、工場の稼働が忙しい それまでのＱＣサークル 体質強化と事業貢献に寄 上の指導上長１名）で構 中 心 に 企 画・ 運 営 を 行 という現況もあって参加 たことを受け継ぎながら るころには普段だと接点 S = Sekisui, A = Action, 活動や方針管理活動を統 与 す る 」（ 企 画 課 談 ） と 成され、その数は現在 51う。任期は３年で担当の 者が減ってきていると感 長年にわたってこの活動 のない他部署の方と繋が S T A R 55 通 信 Top Message Stakeholder 合、全員参加型の新しい いう基本理念 が維持されて りができ、今後の業務に 活動として「カンパニー をもとに、こ 活動」 をキックオフし れ ま で イベント 年 な ど 楽しむ工夫随所に いる、という も活かせるので有意義だ 意識は皆が感 った、と言ってくださる T = Trust, 33 た。それまでは各現場で 間、活動を維 じ て い ま す 方も多いです」 （中森さ の活動がバラバラで横断 持・継続してきている。 チーム（製造・技術・間 組 に は １ 年 間 固 定 さ れ じています。しかし、そ ね。前向きに取り組む人 ん）。 的交流も少なく、方針管 接・ 協 力 会 社 ）。 各 チ ー る。 のような中でもいかに多 がほとんどです。それと 滋賀水口工場の改善チ 理活動にも組織性が乏し 51 チームが登録 ムの改善活動をトップ以 具体的活動としては、 くの方に楽しんでもらえ トップはじめ上長の方々 ーム「メタボスリム」は かった現状を変革し、「従 下 経 営 陣 が 支 援・ 管 理 イベント組はスポーツ大 るかをスタッフで話し合 ほとんどが自身もスタッ ２０１７年度のグループ し、カンパニースタッフ 会等の企画・運営を行う っ て い ま す 」（ 企 画 課 中 フ時代を経験してきたこ 改善発表会で見事金賞に Engagement と呼ぶ一般社員、班長、 ことで縦横のコミュニケ 森宏恵さん）。 とがサポートの面で非常 輝いた。 年にわたる独 「カンパニー活動」の推進体制（現在） 33 事務局（企画課） ＊ イベント組〈縦・横の繋がり強化〉 作業長 名から構成され ーション強化を図り、研 22 に大きいです」 （ 企 画 課 自の改善活動を継続して Company （リーダー・メンバー） る横断的組織が教育や職 修組はＱＣ手法・ストー 継続が支える一体感 青木利之課長） 。 きたからこそ咲いた大輪 場間交流をサポートする リー研修会の企画・運営 「スタッフ任期が終わ の花だろう。 カンパニースタッフ（22名） involved in disaster recovery activities. 改善実施 を行う。ま スタッフとしての仕事 ＊ 研修組〈改善活動に関する知識強化〉 推進長（グループ長） 2018年（平成30年）７月30日 部長・グループ長 長 た、毎年７ はそれぞれ持ち場の仕事 ほんの少しのスパイス 進捗報告 武智昌裕工場長 指導上長 月に実施す をしながらのプラスα 。 や、ちょっとしたひと手 社内には組ごとの活動が 場 る場内改善 気持ちの負担はないのだ 間を加えることで料理が 改善活動に関する教育、 活動発表会 ろうか。 見違えるほど美味しくな 改善支援 工 ＊ 広報組〈研修やイベントの広報活動、その他情報発信〉 は研修組を 「実際、スタッフの任 るように、カンパニー活 分かりやすく掲示される （工場長、企画管理部長、 中心に３組 命期間中はイベントや研 ◆武智工場長 談話 動による様々な取り組み アドバイザー 進捗管理、方針管理 改善活動推進 職場間交流 で協力し運 修の内容を考えたり資料 カンパニー活動は滋賀 や仕掛け作りが、日々の グループ長） 営 し て い を揃えたりと大変なこと 水口工場に脈々と受け継 仕事を面白く大きく変化 る。広報組 は間違いないです。しか がれるモノづくりのＤＮ させる原動力となるよう （1） は毎月１回 し、先輩たちがやってき Ａそのものです。 期待しています。 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Performance Data Attractive Qualities Screening System Results Number of AwardAward-winning Products winning Products • Attractive Quality Award SPR method and materials • Attractive Quality Gold Award ・S-LEC (sound and heat insulation, sound and heat insulation First (Fiscal 2008) Four Products interlayer film) ・SMART HEIM (advancing energy self-sufficient house) • Special Recognition Award Lineup of Eslo Hyper products (earthquakeresistant, highperformance polyethylene water pipes) • Attractive Quality Award Comfortable Air System • Attractive Quality Gold Award Second (Fiscal 2011) Three Products ・NORUDIA N ・CALMMOON • Attractive Quality Award Rapid-Tester™ RSV-Adeno • Attractive Quality Gold Award Third (Fiscal 2014) Four Products ・Fire-resistant VP Pipe Piping System ・Liquid crystal UV sealant ・Smart Power Station • Attractive Quality Gold Award ・Energy self-sufficient housing Smart Power Station “100% Edition” Fourth (Fiscal 2017) Two Products ・“Kucho Hyper CH” high-performance polyethylene tube for air conditioner piping Note: Attractive Quality Award not applicable Indicator Calculation Method Attractive quality products Products selected under the Attractive Qualities Screening System Prominence in CS & Quality 135 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities 4-017_190618_ Data Related to 宮下 Support Improvement at the Customer Consultation Office Number of Incoming Calls, etc., from Customers (Cases) 12,000 10,000 10,205 10,240 10,067 756 761 9,806 702 734 Housing Company 8,000 Urban Infrastructure and Environmental 6,000 6,333 6,436 Products Company 6,498 6,272 4,000 High Performance Plastics Company 2,000 1,980 2,116 1,852 1,914 971 1,030 980 983 Other 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 Indicator Calculation Method Number of incoming calls, etc. Number of inquiries by telephone, email, letters, faxes, and other means Breakdown of incoming calls (Sekisui Chemical) Needs/Expectations 222 cases (2%) Complaints and Compliments dissatisfactions 5 cases (0%) 259 cases (3%) FY2018 10,067 cases General inquiries 9,581 cases (95%) Indicator Calculation Method The subjects of incoming calls are recorded on “Insider Net” and categorized as follows: •General inquiries: questions about Sekisui Chemical Group product specifications, how to use products, construction methods, stores selling the products, repairs, and related matters •Complaints and dissatisfactions: Incidents during which customers expressed their dissatisfaction or lodged rebukes concerning Sekisui Chemical Group products or support Breakdown of •Compliments: Calls during which praise was received for satisfaction with the Sekisui Chemical incoming calls Group's products or support •Needs and expectations: What customers require of Sekisui Chemical Group products and services (product improvements and new products, etc.), and inquiries relating to business activities, or comments on what is expected of Sekisui Chemical Group Note: “Insider Net”: A Sekisui Chemical Group intranet site on which incoming calls to the Customer Consultation Office are released in real-time. Prominence in CS & Quality 136 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Data Relating to Employee CS & Quality Assessments in Japan Employees in Japan Outline of CS & Quality Assessments Number of Bases Visited to Give Total Number of Responses Feedback FY2012 8,399 − FY2014 8,957 63 FY2016 16,243 94 FY2018 19,765 100 The number of bases visited is calculated on the basis of offices with the same address excluding Headquarters and research institutes. For example: Visits to Tokyo Sekisuiheim Co., Ltd. and Tokyo Sekisui Famis Co., Ltd., which have the same address, are counted as one base. Data Relating to Customer Surveys CS Questionnaire 7-Step Evaluation (Housing Company) Other (Somewhat dissatisfied, Very dissatisfied, (%) Extremely dissatisfied) 100 1.0 0.7 0.7 0.8 2.6 2.6 2.1 2.0 7.1 5.8 5.4 5.1 Neither 80 18.3 15.0 15.2 16.6 Somewhat satisfied Satisfied 60 Extremely satisfied 40 75.9 76.6 75.6 71.1 20 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 Prominence in CS & Quality 137 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Improving Quality Pursuing the “Three Zeros” in Accidents, Waste and Complaints Management Approach Basic Concept On-site Manufacturing Supports Quality Recognizing that it is the fields of manufacturing development that support quality, since fiscal 2006 Sekisui Chemical Group has focused its efforts on innovation in production. Based on its belief that quality defects lead to higher costs arising from handling complaints or increased waste, we are trying to reduce costs by targeting the “three zeros” of accidents, waste, and complaints. Prominence in CS & Quality 138 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Quality Management Systems in Each Section Reflect Business Characteristics Sekisui Chemical Group has developed quality control systems covering every process from production to product use by customers. Each section has developed a quality assurance system, and in each process, we promote standards-based controls on a daily basis. In developing products and making improvements to quality, we conduct screening from a variety of perspectives, such as those of quality assurance and safety. Formulating Three Quality Guidelines Maintaining Uniform Quality Control from Development to Sales Undertaking uniform quality control throughout the value chain—from development, manufacturing, and sales— Sekisui Chemical Group is working to improve the level of its quality control by formulating and issuing three guidelines: Development Guidelines for Strengthening Quality Assurance, Guidelines for Daily Management Activities, and Contract / Specification Guidelines. Development Guidelines are aimed at preventing Basic Quality-related problems from occurring by predicting quality risks that can arise after commercialization. Guidelines for Daily Management Activities are a collection of basic guides to management on a daily basis that must be undertaken in manufacturing and post-development processes. Contract / Specification Guidelines were added in fiscal 2015 with the aim of reducing expanded compensation* risks related to product sales. * Expanded compensation: Customers compensation in the case of product defects that extend beyond returns and exchanges to include compensation for processing / construction / items made with these products, and other related damage. Prominence in CS & Quality 139 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Preventing Quality Fraud Implementing In-house Quality Control Investigations In light of the frequent occurrence of quality control related fraud from 2017 to 2018 in Japan, Sekisui Chemical implemented an in-house investigation to confirm that our quality data is not fraudulent and that inspection, etc., has not been conducted by uncertified personnel for all products throughout the Group in order to ensure that we do not put the lessons learned by others to waste. As a result, we have confirmed that there are no cases of deficiencies regarding certification of auditors, official certification and quality that hold the risk of violation or fraud. Sekisui Chemical Group will continue to ensure that the specifications agreed upon with our customers are observed and that we re-instill an awareness of compliance for the purpose of enhancing our quality assurance capability. At the same time, by ensuring the reliability and transparency of inspections, we will continue to implement in-house quality control investigations that extinguish any potential for fraud. Product Safety Compliance with Laws and Internal Rules for Product Safety When a legal violation related to product safety becomes known internally or is pointed out from external sources, Sekisui Chemical Group rapidly discloses information about the incident and moves quickly to discover the cause and prevent a reoccurrence. This is also true if internal rules and standards for product safety have not been followed. In fiscal 2018, there were no cases where we violated laws or internal rules related to product safety. Products Information Disclosure and Labeling Compliance with Laws and Internal Rules Relating to Product Information Disclosure Sekisui Chemical Group complies strictly with laws and internal rules relating to the disclosure of product quality and safety. In fiscal 2018, there were no cases where we violated laws or internal rules related to the disclosure of product quality and safety.Major Initiatives Major Initiatives Review of the Quality Management Systems Certification Migration to the Revised ISO 9001 Standard Completed at All business Sites During fiscal 2015, ISO 9001 underwent a full-scale revision, and in response, each company and each Group company revised its quality management systems (QMSs) starting in fiscal year 2016 in turn. As a result, all business sites had completed migrating their certification by the migration deadline of September 2018. Prominence in CS & Quality 140 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Design and Development Seminars Development Risk Prevention Seminar and DR* Reviewer Training Seminar Continuing from fiscal 2013, we held the Development Risk Prevention Seminar aimed at acquiring effective, efficient prevention methods as well as the DR Reviewer Training Seminar to improve the skills of people who conduct DRs. Both seminars are based on the topic of preventing quality problems before they arise. In fiscal 2018, we held case study meetings for ongoing development themes with the Musashi Plant of the High Performance Plastics Company and the Nara Plant of the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company. We reconfirmed the importance of predicting and identifying risks to quality by focusing on points of change with existing products. We plan to hold these seminars again in fiscal 2019. Note: DR: Design Review DR Reviewer Training Seminar CS & Quality Seminar CS & Quality Seminar: Basic Qualities Edition Held during Quality Month CS & Quality Seminars invite people from a variety of fields outside the Company to give lectures with the intention of improving awareness of CS & Quality. The lectures are split into Attractive Qualities themes about creating attractive quality and Basic Qualities themes to strengthen core quality and held several times each year. A total of 53 seminars have been held from the inception of the program in 2001 through the end of fiscal 2018. With respect to the Basic Qualities lecture in fiscal 2018, Ryutaro Kawano (professor emeritus at Jichi Medical University), Representative and Center Director of the Safety Promotion Research Center, was invited to speak on the theme of the mechanisms that cause human error and their countermeasures. Mr. Kawano provided easy to understand explanations on the importance of assessing the actual conditions and having a scientific understanding when errors occur, as well as on the importance of maintaining a stance whereby we question why we considered something to be correct as an important attribute of error analysis. His talk made for an in-depth seminar that highly satisfied the participants. CS & Quality Seminar Prominence in CS & Quality 141 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Steady Penetration of Manufacturing Education and Training Implementing Manufacturing Supervisor Management Skills Investigations During fiscal 2018, we implemented the Second Manufacturing Supervisor Management Skills Investigation. In order to reflect the results of this investigation into our education and training programs, we implement this investigation once every three years. As a result of comparing the scores received by manufacturing training program participants during the previous and current investigations, we observed positive results of the training, including particular improvements in facility management, production and inventory management, and cost management. However, because the scores did not achieve our expected level for each rank (assistant manager, section chief), we will work to improve the scores received in low-scoring areas though employee rank-based training, etc. QC Certification Acquisition of QC Certification* Sekisui Chemical Group also employs QC Certification effectively to measure levels of quality knowledge, and as of the end of fiscal 2018, over 4,300 members of the Company had attained QC Certification. Note: A certification system conducted by the Japanese Standards Association and the Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers and certified by the Japanese Society for Quality Control. * Figures show the total number of employees who have acquired QC Certification levels 1 through 3 Prominence in CS & Quality 142 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Group KAIZEN Activities on a Global Scale Holding the Group KAIZEN Activities Award / Presentation Meeting Annually Group KAIZEN Activities* are an initiative in which employees in each workplace form small groups to address various topics such as improvements in quality and productivity and increasing operational efficiency, and to take on various subjects through policy management. These activities have a track record of more than 50 years. They are underway at numerous business sites in Japan and around the world, centered on production companies. Once a year in January, presentations are made by the representative group in each area Japan, North America / Mexico, China, Europe, and Asia / Oceania to share information and foster mutual improvement. In the 53rd Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN Activities Presentation Meeting held in January 2019, a total of 13 groups (nine from Japan and four from other countries) made presentations. As a result, the sense of representing the Company among the various regions was stronger than ever before. 22 companies made requests in advance to view the proceedings of Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN Activities Presentation Meeting in real-time, and the event was broadcast to their offices as requested. This meeting has become a valuable opportunity to deepen our employee’s understanding of improvement activities, which was underscored by participants’ statements such as, “I was able to hear more details about the content presented,” “I had a chance to exchange information and opinions with those working at other business sites and companies,” and “I was glad the real-time broadcast did not have any problems with the images and interpretation (business site in China).” * Group KAIZEN Activities: Activities that began in 1966 as Quality Control (QC) groups and later evolved into small group activities before taking the form they have today. Group KAIZEN Activities on a Global Scale. Award name Site Group Gold Prize Iwate Plant, Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Yamadori Silver Prize Shiga-Ritto Plant, Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Resi-cons Bronze Prize Musashi Plant, Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. PT-D Group Representatives who Participated in the KAIZEN Activities Presentation Meeting Efforts to Reduce Energy Consumption Improving Production Process Quality by Reducing Energy Use With the intention of creating products with superior quality at a proper price (reduce loss-related costs), Sekisui Chemical Group is promoting energy innovation activities at its business sites in Japan and overseas as a part of its production processes in order to improve quality in line with its mission of helping customers achieve their green procurement standards. These activities are aimed at rethinking the inherent (ideal) role of energy. Aiming to consume the least amount of energy necessary, we are reassessing each production process at the design stage to cut projected energy loss. In fiscal 2018, energy innovation measures that equate to approximately 3.5% of the CO2 emissions generated by Sekisui Chemical Group’s operations were undertaken. Prominence in CS & Quality 143 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Instilling and Utilizing SPMC Activities for More Effectively Utilizing ISO9001 (QMS) The 2015 edition of the ISO 9001 standard incorporated ways of thinking based on PDCA cycles and risks for the purpose of enhancing a process approach. In order to address this change, we developed SPMC (SEKISUI Process Management Chart) as a tool for organizing the essential factors for putting a process approach into practice in chart form. We are promoting activities to instill the effective use of QMS and to ensure that SPMC can be applied during internal audits in particular. Training Content and Details (1) Commentary on methods for preparing and applying SPMC (SEKISUI Process Management Chart) (2) Commentary and exercises for internal audit procedures using SPMC Prominence in CS & Quality 144 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Performance Data Business Sites That Have Received Third-party Certification for Their Quality Management Systems Housing Company Urban Infrastructure and Environmental Products Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Housing Company (integrated Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Bloomsburg Plant certification) Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant SEKISUI Polymer Innovations, LLC. Housing Product Research & Development Department Sekisui Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Plant Holland Plant Technology & CS Promotion Department Engineering Division / Water Supply & SEKISUI Rib Loc Australia Pty. Ltd. Administrative Management & Control Department Drainage Division SEKISUI ESLON B.V. Information Systems Group Sekisui Home Techno Co., Ltd. Sekisui Refresh Co., Ltd. Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. East Japan Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui (Shanghai) Environmental Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Technology Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Yamanashi Sekisui Co., Ltd. Sekisui (Wuxi) Plastics Technology Co., Ltd. Tokyo Site Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd. Sekisui (Qingdao) Plastic Co., Ltd. Kanto Site Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Headquarters, Ota Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd. Chubu Site Plant Kinki Site Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Shikoku Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Global Trading Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Supply Co., Ltd. Technology Department Sekisui Pipe Renewal B.V. Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. SEKISUI Polymer Innovations, LLC. Headquarters High Performance Plastics Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. R&D Center, LB Project Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Musashi Plant Youngbo Chemical Co., Ltd. ENAX, Inc. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Minakuchi Plant Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd. Tokuyama Sekisui Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Taga Plant Sekisui Pilon Plastics Pty. Ltd. Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. (headquarters) Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba Site / IM Project Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC. Sekisui Diagnostics, LLC. Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Aichi Plant Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Sekisui Diagnostics, LLC. San Diego Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Nara Plant Sekisui S-Lec (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Diagnostics P.E.I. Inc. Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Mie Plant Sekisui S-Lec (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Diagnostics (UK) Ltd. Sekisui Polymatech Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec Mexico S.A. de C.V. Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. Sekisui Nano Coat Technology Co., Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Sekisui Fuller Company, Ltd. (integrated Calvert City Plant certification) Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Hamamatsu Plant Pasadena Plant Shiga Plant Sekisui Specialty Chemicals (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Tokyo Office Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Osaka Office Dallas HQ Sekisui Material Solutions Co., Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe, S.L. Sekisui Soflan Wiz Co., Ltd. Tarragona Plant Sekisui High Performance Packaging SEKISUI Polymatech (Shanghai) Co., LTD. (Langfang) Co., Ltd. SEKISUI Polymatech (Thailand) Co., LTD. Sekisui Voltek, LLC. Lawrence Plant PT. SEKISUI Polymatech Indonesia Sekisui Voltek, LLC. Coldwater Plant S and L Specialty Polymers Co., LTD Sekisui Alveo A.G. SEKISUI DLJM Molding Pvt. Ltd Chennai Sekisui Alveo G.m.b.H. SEKISUI DLJM Molding Pvt. Ltd Gr. Noida Sekisui Alveo (Benelux) B.V. SEKISUI DLJM Molding Pvt. Ltd Tapukara Sekisui-Alveo S.A. PT. ADYAWINSA SEKISUI Techno Molding Sekisui Alveo S.r.L. SEKISUI Alveo BS G.m.b.H. Sekisui Alveo Ltd. Sekisui-Alveo B.V. Prominence in CS & Quality 145 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Other Data FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of participants in the Development Risk Prevention Seminar 302 418 502 Number of participants in the DR Reviewer Training Seminar 166 259 283 Participants in employee grade-based training system for managers in 2,252 2,768 3,174 production departments FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of people with QC Certification 4,103 4,228 4,337 Prominence in CS & Quality 146 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Prominence in Human Resources Actively Supporting Individual Prominence and Self-realization While Contributing to Society through Business Activities Management Approach Our Philosophy Based on our belief that “employees are precious assets bestowed on us by society,” we, Sekisui Chemical Group, are committed to developing an environment where employees can work enthusiastically. We also offer various opportunities through which we help individual employees enhance their “unique skills” while achieving personal growth. We also firmly believe that we have a responsibility towards the society to uphold human rights of every individual, respect employees' diversity, personality, and individuality, create diverse work places meeting the needs of the countries and regions we operate in, and allow diverse ways for people to work and be at ease at their work place. This fundamental way of thinking regarding human resources is shared throughout the entire Group, and we are striving to ensure that our work places enable diverse personnel to play an active role, fulfilling for each and every person. Prominence in Human Resources 147 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Diversity Management Fostering a Corporate Culture Where Diverse Human Resources Can Work with Enthusiasm and Make Unique Contributions Formulated a Diversity Management Policy In November 2015, Sekisui Chemical Group formulated its Diversity Management Policy following deliberations at meetings of the Board of Directors and Policy Committee. Not only perceiving diversity by differences understood from outward appearance such as gender, age and, nationality, Sekisui Chemical Group will also focus on differences that include careers, values and, personality while understanding, recognizing, and utilizing the differences between each and every employee as strengths. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Diversity Management Policy Diversity is essential to maintain our strong corporate presence for 100 years and beyond. We understand and recognize that every employee’s orientation to work and life, and their personal strengths are different and thus we use this to our advantage. Through employee dialogue, we will strengthen our organizational culture by providing employment, opportunities for development and an enhanced work environment to support growth. Created a Statement of Work Style Reform Moreover, we put in place an organizational culture in which all employees can work dynamically in 2017. We then positioned fiscal 2018 as the inaugural year for promoting work style reform in order to remain the preferred choice of stakeholders. As one step in our efforts to push forward Group-wide endeavors, we also created the Statement of Work Style Reform. Statement of Work Style Reforms We determine work methods that promote growth over time to enable each and every individual employee to manifest their personal “characteristics,” and pursue highly productive work methods that maximize success. In order to improve productivity, the Company actively invests in management resources, and unifies managers and workers to coalesce their wisdom Companywide. We nurture work worth doing by improving the quality of the job, and promote workers’ diverse activities by returning the success of reforms to them. Distributed the President’s Top Message to Employees We distributed a message from the president to employees outlining the background behind as well as our philosophy and approach toward diversity management. At the time the Diversity Management Policy was formulated in 2015 and again when we created the Statement of Work Style Reform in 2017, we published the president’s message in the D-Book and D-Book 2 for employees. On both occasions, these publications and messages were distributed to all employees. See page 352 of the reference materials the president’s message regarding the Statement of Work Style Reform published in the D-Book 2. Prominence in Human Resources 148 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Building a Diverse Organizational Structure Every Effort Is Being Made to Build an Organizational Culture in Which All Employees Are Able to Work Dynamically and Make the Most of Their Unique Characteristics and Talents Management Approach Organization-wide Initiatives Promoting the Entrenchment of Diversity Management Sekisui Chemical’s organizational culture is based on actively taking advantage of each and every employee’s orientation and their distinctive characteristics. To this end, activities are divided into two categories: “promotion” and “implementation.” We launched our “promotion” efforts in fiscal 2015 and moved on to “application” in fiscal 2016. In fiscal 2018, we focused on entrenching diversity management so that we could achieve an organizational culture that makes best use of each person’s orientation and distinctive characteristics by fiscal 2019, the last year in our current CSR Medium-term Plan. Prominence in Human Resources 149 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Implementation period Purpose Major ini tiatives Targets 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Spreading Implementation Established knowledge practice Diversity All Policy Management Policy members expansion Spreading knowledge FL and Leader Spread and penetration Frontier Leader (FL) Workshop of Diversity Workshop Superiors Explanatory Leader Workshop meetings at each Management Policies department Building a corporate culture Creation of tools for spreading Diversity All D-Book Poster D-Book 2 Management Policy members drafting creation drafting knowledge Making use of the individual strengths of Implementation Implementation Educational programs Implementation training follow-up 2 each individual member to on diversity management Superiors training achieve results for the training follow-up (multifaceted implementation observation) organization Bottom-up improvement Start with the theme of activities for achieving Project to develop a diversity promotion and diversity management workplace in which Organization Launch add work style reforms as an at each organization all employees can excel essential theme in 2018 Facing your own goals and individual strengths Activities All starting with Implementation and making your own Career plan training Expansion to group companies decisions about your members Sekisui Chemical career for the future alone New female hire Achieving established Promotion of assignment support Activities starting practice and active Expansion to group companies and from Hiring of disabled seminar Superiors with Sekisui participation among new female employees only to all employees Female subordinate Chemical alone young female employees management seminar Female women's activities Fostering women’s Career Development candidates for Activities starting candidacy for management with Sekisui Expansion to group companies people management positions Program for Women positions Chemical alone Superiors Maintaining an environment that's easy for disabled Promotion of people to work in Expansion to group companies Organization disabled hiring Brainstorming session on employment of people with disabilities Monitoring Understanding the current status of Employee All employee job Implementation satisfaction and awareness survey members contributing factors Prominence in Human Resources 150 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Diversity Management Promotional Structure We are Putting in Place a Structure That Promotes Diversity Management Across the Entire Group. CSR Committee, Human Resources Committee The CSR Committee deliberates on CSR measures generally. This includes matters relating to diversity management. Chaired by the president, the CSR Committee is comprised of such senior executives as the presidents of division companies as well as employee representatives including female employees and the head of the Labor Union. Matters that require resolution are also reported to the Board of Directors. In addition to deliberating on Group-wide diversity management issues, the Human Resources Committee puts in place and monitors measures aimed at securing and developing the personnel necessary for diversity management. Chaired by the managing executive officer and head of the Human Resources Department, the Human Resources Committee is comprised of executive officers and the heads of human resources departments selected from each division company. The Human Resources Committee met twice in fiscal 2018, once in September and once in March. Board of Directors CSR Committee Human Resources Sub-committee Sub-committee : Hiroyuki Taketomo, Director, Managing Executive Chairperson Officer, Responsible for Legal Department, Head of Human Resources Department Sub-committee : Managing executive officers and Executive Members officers at each Divisional Company, General managers of Human Resources Section at each Divisional Company Office : Human Resources Department HR at Divisional Company/ Headquarters HR sections at each Divisional Company Each Labor-management Committee HR sections at production sites, laboratories, sales facilities, affiliates, etc. HR section Prominence in Human Resources 151 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities The Ongoing Project to Develop a Workplace in Which All Employees Can Excel Separate from the CSR Committee and the Human Resources Committee, the Group in its goal of creating a system that allows diversity promotion strategies to reach each of its employees has established the Project to Develop a Workplace in Which All Employees Can Excel. Sekisui Chemical Group has appointed those responsible for and those in charge of the promotion of this project at each of its 178 domestic bases. Each manager is working to ensure the smooth implementation of diversity management measures at each location. Promotion Awareness and Entrenchment of Diversity Management Policies In November 2015, Sekisui Chemical Group formulated its Diversity Management Policy following deliberations at meetings of the Board of Directors and Policy Committee. Ongoing communicative efforts from management since 2015 have contributed to an improved understanding regarding Sekisui Chemical Group’s goal of focusing not only on a person’s attributes, such as gender or disability, but rather on making best use of each person’s orientation and defining characteristics. Distributed the “D-Book” As a means for promoting diversity management, Sekisui Chemical drafted the “D-Book” in fiscal 2015 and “D-Book 2” in fiscal 2017, both of which have been distributed to all domestic Group employees. Kicking off our diversity management policies, D-Book features an overview of management’s commitment, stance, and details on initiatives. D-Book 2 showcases initiatives and case studies undertaken since fiscal 2015 and describes work-style reforms that will commence in earnest starting in fiscal 2018. The Group has used D-Book 2 to further educate employees as part of diversity-related training. Using material from the section covering the discovery of distinctive characteristics and the worksheet, some employees are applying their understanding of diversity to their own lives. Prominence in Human Resources 152 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Conducts Frontier Leader Workshops & Leadership Workshops Sekisui Chemical conducted top-down-based explanations with the aim of promoting its Diversity Management Policy. To begin, the Company president provided explanations of the meaning behind diversity management promotion through Frontier Leader Workshops targeting 200 senior managers (Frontier Leaders) in December 2015. Subsequently, we held workshops to raise awareness of the meaning behind diversity management promotion for 1,800 department managers, who in turn conveyed this information to employees at each department. Understanding and Awareness of Our Diversity Management Initiatives With the aim of fostering understanding and awareness of our diversity management initiatives, we created a slogan and logo that puts a face to our Sekisui Chemical Group’s Diversity Management Policy. After promotion managers and supervisors decided on a logo and slogan “Project to Develop a Workplace in which All Employees Can Excel,” both of these were featured in a poster that was distributed to every workplace. With the goal of further entrenchment, the Group in fiscal 2018 updated information contained on the intranet in order to promote understanding and reaffirm awareness regarding the importance of diversity and work style reforms. The Group continues to provide information on diversity management, including through the distribution of a quarterly Group newsletter to all employees, including non-regular employees. Slogan: Diverse Colors, Diverse Strengths Featuring the capital letter S for Sekisui, the logo features intersecting lines with varying colors and widths to express the coordination of diversity as well as illustrates forward-looking activities that will enable all employees to shine. Prominence in Human Resources 153 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Implementation Initiatives to Build an Organizational Culture Implementing Initiatives from Three Perspectives: Organization-wide, Department Managers, All Employees Project to Develop a Workplace in Which All Employees Can Excel The Project to Develop a Workplace in which All Employees Can Excel began in December 2016 as improvement activities implemented at each department. The purpose of the Project to Develop a Workplace in which All Employees Can Excel is to create ideal workplaces where diversity management is realized. Targeting 159 domestic Group organizations, the project involves assigning a promotion manager and supervisor at each department, recognizing that each department has different issues. Improvement activities are carried out spearheaded by these promotion managers and supervisors. Kicking off project activities in fiscal 2016, we created ideal images for each department along with formulating proposals to analyze the status quo, identify issues, and set improvement plans. From fiscal 2017, the project focused on the implementation of measures to help solve issues at each department, while efforts were made to identify issues at 152 organizations within the Group. In fiscal 2018 we sought to make the changes achieved through our efforts more visible, and enacted a variety of measures, including those aimed at the building of a system in which activities are based not only on the efforts of the promotion managers and supervisors, but also the organizational representatives and employees. We aim to realize these improvements by fiscal 2019. ● How Project to Develop a Workplace in Which All Employees Can Excel Works Prominence in Human Resources 154 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Examples of visible changes (comments from employees) ● By recognizing differences in each person, including understanding whose performance can improve through praise, whose performance can improve through strict guidance, and who can improve their performance on their own, work is now assigned with consideration given to the distinctive attributes of the individual worker. ● I have noticed a completely new level of growth and clear sense of purpose gained as a result of carefully listening to what a person was saying and deriving what they really meant. ● We were able to complete work at the regularly scheduled time by shifting factory operations previously accomplished by one man doing overtime work to two women working on a shift schedule. It appears misconceptions about women, including the idea that factory work is a man’s job, have all but disappeared. Educational Programs on Diversity Management Implementation In working toward the realization of diversity management, since it is important for department managers, who play a key role, to understand, recognize and utilize the fact that attitudes to work and life and distinctive characteristics differ from one team member to another, we have since 2016 been implementing educational programs on diversity management that are geared toward the managers of all groups and sections from domestic Group companies. With the goal of acquiring management methods that would allow us to make better use of each employee’s orientation and special characteristics, we focused our efforts through fiscal 2017 on managers understanding and organizing the special characteristics of employees, and learning how to effectively leverage these to produce organizational results. In fiscal 2018, we confirmed through multiple checks the degree to which leaders were using diversity management to make best use of the distinctive characteristics of their employees, and on the practical front we continued to implement training to bolster the quality of our activities. Prominence in Human Resources 155 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Performance Data Educational Programs on Diversity Management Implementation FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of participants in programs 1,168 1,723 1,736 Career Plan Training by Age FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of participants at career plan training 1,276 1,429 1,745 Project to Develop a Workplace in Which All Employees Can Excel FY2017 FY2018 Number of organizations engaged in activities 159 organizations 178 organizations Organizations: Organizations linked to management at Sekisui Chemical subsidiary companies in Japan Prominence in Human Resources 156 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel (Depending on the Individual Career Orientation) Management Approach Basic Concept Providing Opportunities for Personnel Training According to Individual Career Orientation As an overall company activity, we strive to ensure that the Group can move forward on the two pillars of business leaders, who will someday shoulder management, and efficient staff that can maintain our manufacturing processes. Major Initiatives Developing Business Leaders 1) Developing Business Leaders from an Early Stage We have developed a consistent training system covering all stages from new hires to management positions, in order to systematically train business leaders to power Sekisui Chemical Group into the future. Based on the concept that the foundations of growth are the experience gained through everyday business activities and learning from such experience, we have developed a training system that links these two elements together. Through this system we will enhance each individual's mastery of the skills required of business leaders, by running through the cycle of growth through experience, from when a new hire joins the Company through to management. 2) Developing Employees to Fill Senior Management Position Going Forward With an eye toward management positions throughout the Group, Sekisui Chemical has established the Saijuku School. This internal training and development tool is designed to help enhance the scope and depth of future business leaders going forward. Employees participating in the Saijuku School review a wide range of case studies while attending lectures. In addition to the skills required to put forward management strategies, the Saijuku School provides details of important business theories and philosophies. This in turn provides participants with the broad perspective necessary to engage in global business development and to further hone the abilities to think and act. Working to instill a broad mindset that encompasses the Group as a whole, employees are encouraged to take the initiative in their own development and to establish action plans geared toward reform. Prominence in Human Resources 157 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities 3) Innovation School (Fostering of Business Leaders by Newly Appointed Operating Officers) The Innovation School has been held since fiscal 2003 to “change the Company and change each individual’s behavior” and with the aim of having operating officers themselves directly train Sekisui Chemical Group’s next-generation business leader candidates. Up to and including fiscal 2017, a total of 1,039 next-generation business leader candidates had taken part. In fiscal 2018, with operating officers up to their second year in office acting as headmasters, we again trained young, highly motivated employees, irrespective of their Group company or business domain, as candidates to become next-generation business leaders across the whole Group. In addition to talking directly with senior management and learning as potential business leaders while engaging in discussions at great length, the Innovation School offers an excellent opportunity for the candidates to broaden their horizons through interaction with parties from both inside and outside the Company. Training Human Resources to Support the Workplace The human resources who will support the foundations of management in practical terms in the workplace must undergo self-growth as highly capable practitioners accumulating experience over the long term and acquiring highly specialized knowledge and skills. Based on this concept, Sekisui Chemical Group hires human resources who will support the workplace as permanent, full-time employees, creates an environment in which they can demonstrate their abilities with peace of mind over the long term, and deploys the Meister System to strengthen their abilities in the workplace. In the future as well, we will promote measures to strengthen training abilities in the workplace on a Group-wide basis. Follow-up Training for New, Mid-career Hires With the aim of, for example, acquiring knowledge from outside the Company and enhancing its business potential, Sekisui Chemical is increasingly active in mid-career appointments (the hiring of experienced personnel). Meanwhile, having joined the Company, there are few examples of a lack of understanding with regard to the workplace culture or inhouse systems on the part of the mid-career hires themselves proving to be an obstacle to the process of having them display their skills at an early stage. Providing new, mid-career employees (those hired based on their previous experience) with the opportunity to learn the basic knowledge (including the Company’s unique history, culture, policies and systems), Sekisui Chemical Group draws on the high levels of competence and specialized skills they have accumulated up until their previous positions and implements follow-up training for new, mid-career hires as an environment improvement so they demonstrate those attributes and participate actively at an early stage. Group Internal Job Posting Sekisui Chemical Group supports its employees’ willingness to take on challenges. At the same time, assistance is given to realize career plans by providing opportunities to thrive within the Group through the internal posting of job openings. Prominence in Human Resources 158 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Support System for Diverse Career Paths The Company has in place a system that enables partner employees who—after having reviewed their careers and written self-assessments—are involved in the career planning-based course conversion system or are working in pre-specified workplaces or areas of business operations, can choose to switch to becoming permanent, full-time employees. Performance Data Results from Main Recruitment-type Training Programs Numbers of Numbers of Numbers of Numbers of Name of Training Program Attendees in Attendees in Attendees in Attendees in FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 The Saijuku School 34 33 37 27 Innovation School 70 72 58 86 Follow-up Training for New, Mid-career Employees FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of training participants 45 87 60 Results of Intra-Group Job Postings Cumulative FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Total since FY2000 Number of recruitment cases 44 46 46 477 Number of employees recruited 149 130 140 1,218 Number of applicants 83 98 115 1,848 Number of employees transferred 12 18 26 369 Prominence in Human Resources 159 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Career Path Support System (Number of people) FY2017 FY2018 Men 14 9 Course conversion system Women 2 2 Permanent, full-time employee Men 5 3 conversion system Women 11 7 Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel (Gender) Management Approach Organization-wide Initiatives Stepping up: adding the promotion of workstyle reforms to the empowering of women in their careers The CSR Medium-term Plan launched in fiscal 2017 sets specific targets in line with the Company’s goal of becoming “an organization where women can truly thrive.” As a first step, we launched measures aimed at the hiring and retention of women, as well as initiatives targeting their training as managers. With the goal of moving on to the next step from fiscal 2018, we have designated 2018 as the inaugural year for promoting workstyle reforms throughout Sekisui Chemical Group, and are developing a variety of initiatives in line with three workstyle-reform targets. ■ CSR Medium-term Plan (Fiscal 2017 to Fiscal 2019) Targets Ratio of women to total hires: 35% Number of women in management positions: 200 (Sekisui Chemical non-consolidated: 50; Consolidated Group companies in Japan: 150), Ratio of women in management positions: 4.4% Ratio of permanent, full-time female employees: 15% (Sekisui Chemical non-consolidated) ■ Results as of the end of fiscal 2018 Ratio of women to total hires: 29.7% Number of women in management positions: 160 (Sekisui Chemical non-consolidated: 44; Consolidated Group companies in Japan: 116) Ratio of women in management positions: 3.2% (Sekisui Chemical non-consolidated) Ratio of permanent, full-time female employees: 14.8% (Sekisui Chemical non-consolidated) Prominence in Human Resources 160 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Recognition of Sexual Minorities, Including LGBT In its Personnel and human rights policies, Sekisui Chemical Group states that all forms of discrimination are prohibited. The Company’s diversity management policy recognizes that the orientations and strengths of each employee are different, and aims to make the most of these differences though the implementation of initiatives based on a broad definition of diversity, rather than one based solely on gender. Major Initiatives Retention and Empowerment of Young Female Employees New Female Hire Assignment Support Seminars Sekisui Chemical Group up through fiscal 2017 conducted New Female Hire Assignment Support Seminars for those who were charged with the management of new female recruits before and after the new female hires were assigned. The seminars were devised to get new female hires established and thriving at an early stage by increasing awareness from the point of view of those attending the seminars. From fiscal 2018 the focus of the seminars has been expanded to include not only new female hires, but all new personnel targeted for training, with initiatives being developed also at each Sekisui Chemical Group companies. These efforts have contributed to the enhanced realization by managers regarding the importance of communication that is based on an understanding that different people can hold differing values and enacted in a manner that takes into account each person’s individual characteristics. Retention and Empowerment of Young Female Employees Female Subordinate Management Seminar Geared toward those in management positions overseeing female staff members who are up to their fourth year since joining the Company, this training program has provided opportunities to learn about day-to-day guidance and training methods to all relevant personnel participating in the program through fiscal 2017. Beginning in fiscal 2018, the program has been expanded to include managers overseeing not only women, but younger workers in general, and now includes new content alongside diversity management training. Thanks to this training, there has been an increase in the number of managers focused less on the conventional method of guidance and more on listening to the thoughts of their employees and offering career formation guidance in line with the aspirations of those individuals. Fostering Women’s Candidacy for Management Positions Career Development Program for Women Targeting women employees who hope to be appointed to management positions and their direct supervisors, the Company is conducting a Career Development Program for Women. This educational program has been put in place with the aim of fostering awareness and gaining the achievements appropriate for management positions. We have been continually conducting this program as essential training across the entire Group since fiscal 2016. It would appear that attitudes of the female employees themselves are changing, with comments from those participating in the training including, “I’d like to change the organization so that women can participate more in decision making” and “I am no longer worried about becoming a manager.” Prominence in Human Resources 161 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Balanced Support for Child Rearing and Nursing Care Supporting Flexible Workstyles in Tune with Life Events Sekisui Chemical Group introduces a variety of systems designed to enable employees to work flexibly in tune with life events and lifestyles. In addition to system upgrades that go beyond those stipulated under law, the childcare support system is covered in a guidebook, which summarizes the necessary information to support a flexible workstyle, including from pregnancy to childcare leave, and working mother know-how is posted on the Company intranet. To encourage male employees to participate in childcare, the first five working days of childcare leave are paid, and we are advancing the use of a system for male employees whose children have just been born and their superiors. Performance Data Number of Women in Management Positions and Ratio of Women to Total Hires Number of Women Directors and Managers FY2017 FY2018 Number of women directors 2 2 (Sekisui Chemical Group) Number of women in management positions 138 160 (Sekisui Chemical Group in Japan) Ratio of Women to Total Hiresn (Sekisui Chemical Group in Japan) Note: Includes certain affiliates accounted for by the equity method and non-consolidated subsidiaries. Entered in Entered in Entered in Entered in FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Ratio of women to total hires (%) 26.5 31.3 29.8 29.7 Career Development Program for Women FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Women 90 58 35 Number of program attendees Superiors 77 44 31 Prominence in Human Resources 162 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Main Systems Allowing Various Workstyles and Their Use (Number of people) Name of Main content FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 system Can be taken until the end of the Women 18 22 30 32 month in which the child reaches Childcare leave three years of age. (The statutory Men 12 14 20 28 end date is until the child reaches two years of age.) Total 30 36 50 60 Women 30 30 34 41 Can be extended until the child Shortened starts fourth grade. working hours Men 0 0 0 2 (The statutory end date is until the for childcare child reaches three years of age.) Total 30 30 34 43 Times of starting and finishing Women 3 6 8 9 work may be moved earlier or Use of flexible later by up to 60 minutes until the Men 0 1 6 4 working hours child reaches junior high school age. Total 3 7 14 13 Women 1 0 1 0 Up to a total of 93 days for each Nursing care individual eligible for care Men 0 2 3 4 leave (Up to a maximum of one year for the first individual eligible for care) Total 1 2 4 4 Women 0 0 0 0 Two days per week or 4.5 hours Shortened per day for a maximum of three working hours Men 0 1 2 2 years for each individual eligible for nursing care for care Total 0 1 2 2 Women 40 43 48 62 Three days of special care leave Family leave per year granted until the child or Men 73 77 101 146 grandchild starts high school. Total 113 120 149 208 Prominence in Human Resources 163 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities FY2017 FY2018 Women 14 21 Employees whose babies were newborns Men 101 111 Total 115 132 Women 11 15 Employees who took childcare leave Men 17 25 Total 28 40 Ratio of those who took childcare leave (excludes those Women 100 100 who are taking maternity leave) (%) Men 16.8 22.5 Women 12 15 Employees who returned to work after childcare leave Men 19 27 Total 31 42 Women 91.6 100 Ratio of those who returned to work after childcare leave Men 100 100 Retention rate after one year of those who returned to Women 100 100 work after having taken childcare leave (%) Men 100 94.7 Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel (People with Disabilities) Management Approach Efforts to Employ People with Disabilities Putting in Place an Invigorating and Comfortable Workplace Environment That Is Conducive to the Hiring and Retention of Employees We believe it important not only to hire people with disabilities, but to create an environment where those with disabilities can easily work. Maintaining an environment in which people with disabilities can work easily at the same time leads to an environment in which all employees find it easy to work. To help maintain that environment, we have been conducting joint brainstorming sessions for people with disabilities that involve the personnel departments of the entire Group since fiscal 2016. We also conduct study sessions with experts in advance for employees in departments where people with disabilities work, and conduct training on aspects of working with people with disabilities. Prominence in Human Resources 164 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Major Initiatives Creating an environment receptive to workers with disabilities Creating a comfortable work environment for all and raising awareness among those working with these employees In the brainstorming sessions on employment of people workers with disabilities that took place in fiscal 2018, we implemented training divided into three segments—employment planning, establishing worker responsibilities, and actual hiring methods—and worked to improve performance of human resource workers throughout the Group. To accept a wide range of people interested in working together, it is essential to establish close relationships with partner organizations, including employment transfer support. So that more workers with disabilities are introduced to Sekisui Chemical Group as a whole, the Company has been working to build close relationships with these kinds of organizations, including through on-site visits to related locations primarily in the Kanto and Kansai areas. At Sekisui Chemical we also conduct pre-hiring training so that people with disabilities can play an active part not only at our special provision subsidiary but also at regular workplaces. As a result, we encourage mutual understanding with employees who work with the people with disabilities themselves and work to create environments in which people with disabilities can work for a long time. In addition, when calculating the employment rate for people with disabilities, we always make sure to confirm and report the existence of a physical disability certificate beforehand. A workshop held as part of the employment General view of people with disabilities working planning program for people with disabilities together at their workplace. Prominence in Human Resources 165 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Performance Data Employment Ratio of People with Disabilities (Sekisui Chemical) Note: Including Special Provision Subsidiary (as of March 2018) (%) 3.0 2.81 2.40 2.29 2.29 2.21 2.0 Legally stipulated ratio 1.0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Indicator Calculation method Employment ratio of (Number of regular workers who have physical or people with disabilities mental disabilities ÷ Number of regular workers) ×100 Brainstorming Sessions on Employment of People with Disabilities (Number of Participating Companies) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Action plan seminar for hiring people 23 27 14 with disabilities Workplace improvement and ー 42 11 operational review program Short-term intensive program on hiring ー ー 12 people with disabilities Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel (Age) Management Approach Retaining and Utilizing Young Employees Training Manager (Brother/Sister) Program Sekisui Chemical has established a training manager (brother/sister) program aimed at enabling new employees to smoothly adapt to their assigned workplaces and quickly hit the ground running. The role of training managers goes beyond job-related instruction to play a role in providing guidance on how adult members of society should conduct themselves while following up on new employees’ state of mind. The program also encourages training managers to leverage their experience guiding junior employees to gain a new perspective and thereby grow themselves. Prominence in Human Resources 166 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Promote the Active Participation of Seniors Enhance Initiatives Aimed at Enabling Active Roles for Employees Aged 65 In fiscal 1993, Sekisui Chemical introduced a reemployment system for employees who had reached mandatory retirement age. Since fiscal 2006 this program has been expanded to Group companies as well. A new program of training for employees aged 57 was introduced as an opportunity to think about their careers after retirement. This was the start of a new effort to enable motivated employees to remain in active employment through age 65. In October 2015, Sekisui Chemical revised its Senior Expert System, a system for reemploying elderly retirees in order to foster greater employee motivation. We have finished putting in place systems for employees to continue working through to the age of 65 at all Group companies, ensuring that 100% of the employees that elect to do so can remain employed or be reemployed. Major Initiatives Career Plan Training by Age (Sekisui Chemical Group) All employees are called to take it upon themselves to proactively display their distinctive characteristics, learn, and grow in order to realize diversity management. To this end, faced with their orientation to work and life and distinctive characteristics, the Company is conducting career plan training by age (young employees and employees aged in their 30s, 40s, and 50s) to give employees an opportunity to consider their future careers for themselves. From fiscal 2016, career plan training is being extended to cover all domestic Group employees. We are conducting training to draft career plans. Performance Data Number of Elderly Employees Reemployed and Reemployment Rate (Sekisui Chemical) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of elderly employees reemployed 104 65 21 49 Reemployment rate (%) 82.5 83.3 63.6 76.6 Note: The reemployment rate for applicants is 100%. Indicator Calculation method (Number of reemployed elderly employees ÷ number who have reached mandatory retirement age) × 100 Reemployment of elderly employees (Number who have reached mandatory retirement age includes those who do not wish to be reemployed) Prominence in Human Resources 167 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Career Plan Training by Age Total Young In Their 40s 50s 57 Number of Employees 30s Participants Number of participants 107 311 360 535 116 1,429 in FY2017 Number of participants 117 321 383 609 315 1,745 in FY2018 Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel (Global) Management Approach Basic Concept Fostering Personnel Based on Conditions in Each Area In the Medium-term Management Plan (SHIFT 2019-Fusion-), HR (Human Resources) is listed as one of the basic strategies to achieve a “new phase of growth.” Amid accelerating global business development, it is essential to make active use of diverse human resources supporting each business and to revitalize the organization in order for each company of Sekisui Chemical Group to maintain autonomous growth. To adapt to the different business characteristics, history, management styles, lifestyle habits, as well as the various laws and regulations of each country and region, Sekisui Chemical Group is focusing on training human resources capable of demonstrating their abilities in their respective countries and regions. Prominence in Human Resources 168 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Major Initiatives Developing Personnel Who Can Succeed on the Global Stage Fostering Personnel Based on Conditions in Each Area with International Experience to Ensure Sustainable Growth As our business categories expand, the proportion of foreign sales and overseas personnel are increasing year by year. We believe that to develop as a Group, we need each and every employee of the Group working in various countries across the globe to develop themselves through their work, to learn to create and provide products and services matching the needs of each country. This way of thinking lies at the base of our efforts to develop training programs for our human resources, programs that are firmly rooted in each area we operate in, enabling every employee to maximize his or her distinctive capabilities at their place of work. In 2017, following the U.S. and Europe, we established regional headquarters in China and several regions of the ASEAN, giving them substantial freedom to decide personnel-related matters. In addition to engagement surveys, training programs, and other initiatives organized on the Group-wide basis irrespective of regional differences, we also develop a wide range of personnel policies based on the specifics of each area including training programs, personnel systems, personnel recruitment systems or recruitment activities. Integration and Training of Personnel across Regional Boundaries In fiscal 2017, to reinforce the ties of cooperation across regions regarding human resource development tasks, we held the first Global HR Conference of managers in charge of personnel affairs of various countries, including 28 overseas subsidiaries of the Group. Overcoming language barriers and national differences, the conference actively developed discussion, such as how to help diverse human resources to excel, how to strengthen management base, and how to solve the problems shared by Group companies across the world. In addition to construction of a global HR network, the ideas of the participants are already being reflected in a number of personnel policies that shall pave the way for further growth, including those supporting better understanding of management philosophies of the Group in overseas subsidiaries, increasing educational opportunities across regions, and working on creation of a new infrastructure system. Hiring Foreign Nationals Sekisui Chemical Group is actively hiring foreign nationals for the purpose of further globalizing the Group’s businesses. In addition to hiring students who have been studying in Japan, the Company launched overseas recruitment activities in fiscal 2015. In fiscal 2018, the Company carried out the hiring of engineers in India and of personnel for office-based positions in the UK and the Netherlands. We will allow our diverse human resources to excel and accelerate globalization by expanding the area in which we recruit new employees, acquiring the best candidates from around the world, and having them work with a global perspective. Prominence in Human Resources 169 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Global Talent Employee System Developing Personnel to Be Immediately Effective Overseas The Group has established a Global Talent Employee System dedicated to nurturing of global human resources that can succeed on the global stage, and about 1,700 employees of the Group working in Japan have registered with it. The participants are provided with cultural training programs and professional education necessary for working overseas, and we are currently promoting measures to create opportunities for them to actually go to other countries and gain work experience there. Global Trainee Program Providing Opportunities to Succeed Overseas The Group offers a Global Trainee Program that enables employees to gain work experience overseas. Employees working in sales, accounting, product development, and some other areas with a certain achievement level are eligible to participate in the program allowing them to apply for posts at the overseas companies affiliated with the Group. In fiscal 2018, we organized our Overseas Engineers Dispatch Program aiming at training engineers with globally competitive high-level expertise as well as Short-term Overseas Dispatch Training Program that teaches the participants to cultivate their own abilities and behavioral patterns that are required to succeed in global business. The Group shall continue expanding the programs allowing more and more employees working in various countries to gain experience in business overseas. Performance Data Breakdown of Number of Employees (Sekisui Chemical Group) (Number of people) Number of employees 26,486 Breakdown by region Japan 19,464 The Americas 1,494 Europe 958 Asia/Pacific 4,570 Prominence in Human Resources 170 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Number of Japanese Global Talent Employees (Number of people) 400 325 329 341 340 326 300 200 100 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Indicator Calculation method Japanese employees with overseas Global talent employees assignment experience Number of Participants in the Global Trainee Program FY2017 FY2018 Number of participants 10 21 Prominence in Human Resources 171 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Basis for Fostering Personnel Management Approach Basic Concept Improving Group-wide Human Resources Capabilities As it strives to empower Group human resources to achieve sustainable growth, Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing a variety of efforts to secure and train human resources. Medium-term Plan Specific Targets Set, Various Measures Being Enacted Under the CSR Medium-term Plan (fiscal 2017 to fiscal2019), through even further advancements for diversity and the promotion of initiatives for work style innovation, we are endeavoring to build an organizational culture in which all employees can work dynamically. Human Resources Medium-term FY2018 FY2018 FY2018 Key Measures Targets Targets Results Self-evaluation × ① To promote diversity, ① Secure a ratio ① Maintain the we will further promote ① Secured a ratio of women to total ratio of women the creation of a working of women to total hires of 35% to total hires at environment in which hires of 29.7% 1)Empower ② Number 30–39% women can work ② Number women of women in ② Number comfortably of women in management of women in × ② The number of female management positions: 200 management managers steadily increased Promote positions: 160 positions: 165 due to training for female diversity manager candidates Target achieved. Number of Number of Number of Positioned and promoted 2)Develop participants in the participants in the participants in the short-term overseas global talent Global Trainee Global Trainee Global Trainee practical training as one of employees Program: 20 Program: 15 Program: 21 the experiences of working abroad ○・ ・・Achieved, ×・ ・・Target not achieved, ─・ ・・Not applicable Prominence in Human Resources 172 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Pledge to Society Medium-term FY2018 Key Measures FY2018 Targets FY2018 Results Targets Self-evaluation Reduced the Paid vacation Reduce the number Reduce the number 1. Manage number of day utilization of subsidiary of subsidiary and control subsidiary rate, number companies where companies where prolonged companies where of days off employees work employees work working hours employees work increasing. We more than 2,000 more than 2,000 (in excess of more than 2,000 will continue hours on an annual hours on an annual 2,000 hours hours on an annual efforts to reduce basis by 30% basis by 9% annually) basis by 8.5% total working (vs. FY2016) (vs. FY2016) (vs. FY2016) hours. Workplace Raise the number Raise the number Raised the Environment of Group of Group number of Group Target achieved. companies certified companies certified companies certified In-house and as an Excellent as an Excellent as an Excellent 2. Promote external health Enterprise of Health Enterprise of Health Enterprise of Health health management and Productivity and Productivity and Productivity management initiatives and Management Management Management management awareness White 500 by White 500 by White 500 by of necessity Japan’s Ministry Japan’s Ministry Japan’s Ministry instilled. of Economy, Trade of Economy, Trade of Economy, Trade and Industry to 21 and Industry to 21* and Industry to 21* ○・ ・・Achieved, ×・ ・・Target not achieved, ─・ ・・Not applicable * Includes 13 companies subject to the Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace Major Initiatives Training Systems to Support Our Businesses Promoting the Growth of Each Employee Sekisui Chemical Group is operating a training system with various programs tailor-made to match various career plans with stages differentiated by level and skill. As our business categories are extensive and we employ a divisional company system whereby each department is given substantial authority to make its own decisions, the Group operates its system of development of human resources at the level of each company and subsidiary of the Group, based on the philosophy and programs that serve as the fundament. At the same time, some programs such as initial training of new employees, level-specific training by qualification grade, career planning training, or business leaders’ training are developed across the Group to promote improvements in power of human resources in the Group as a whole. Prominence in Human Resources 173 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Consolidation of Labor Conditions Measures to Improve Compensation and Labor Conditions With the aim of securing and developing personnel throughout Sekisui Chemical Group that goes beyond company and individual Group company frameworks, we will continually work to upgrade various systems and improve labor conditions based on the results of our analysis of labor conditions at domestic Group companies. We also conduct investigations of not only compensation levels but also the working hours, use of paid leave, and flexible work stylesaspects that are linked to reform of the very way we work with the intent of optimizing conditions across the entire Group. Labor-management Relations Labor-management Cooperation and Communication Sekisui Chemical Group strives to understand and respects the positions of labor unions. We believe that through close communications between labor and management we can resolve our common problems based on a shared objective of advancing the Company. In Japan, in fiscal 2018, there were 15 independent labor unions with 5,349 employees in the All-Sekisui Chemical Labor Union Federation, while Sekisui Chemical Labor Union, which is the core organization in the Federation, had 2,445 members (as the Group employs a union shop system, the membership rate of employees eligible to become union members is 100%). Benefits Providing Adequate Benefits Regardless of Gender, and Welfare Benefits to Non-full-time Employees, Including Health Insurance and Childcare Leave At Sekisui Chemical, base salaries are the same for each gender, and proper benefits are provided regardless of gender. Sekisui Chemical also has systems in place that provide welfare benefits to contracted employees, such as contract employees, including healthcare (i.e., health checkups), compensation for disabilities and illnesses that arise at work, and childcare leave. Only indefinite-term employees are eligible to join the Company’s life insurance, defined-benefit retirement plans, and shareholding programs. Periodic Evaluation of Individual Performance and Career Development At Sekisui Chemical, we are working to build a system for human resources that enables people to thrive, regardless of age or attributes. Our source of growth is found in those tasks we perform on an everyday basis. Indicating the specific actions an employee needs to take and the abilities needed to execute tasks in order to achieve a sustained level of consistently optimal results, there is the Sekisui Self-accountability & Competency Sheet (SSAC Sheet). Sekisui Chemical Group bases all of its business activities on its corporate philosophy called the 3S Principles aiming to achieve satisfaction of its stakeholders. Based on these 3S Principles, the SSAC Sheet lists the roles and responsibilities of our employees in execution of their business duties as well as concrete behavior required by the Group from employees in each course, at each qualification level. Under the Group's evaluation system, employees are assessed not only by their business results but also by the process that led them to the results and the personal growth they achieved through accomplishment of the tasks (increase of task-execution abilities). The SSAC Sheet serves as a standard for this evaluation. Superiors and subordinates are provided with regular opportunities to discuss the individual goal setting and assessment. All permanent, full-time employees irrespective of their job description or level are target to this initiative. Prominence in Human Resources 174 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Employee Awareness Surveys (Engagement) Monitoring whether work is fulfilling for its employees, finding aspects that can be improved, and implementing the required measures at each organization, Sekisui Chemical Group conducts employee opinion polls (engagement surveys) of all the workers of the Group once every three years. The term engagement refers to the feeling of individual workers that they are the key players, to the pride and enthusiasm they feel regarding their work, the determination to do one's best and not give up until the results surpass everyone's expectations ≒ willingness to contribute to the organization, sense of fulfillment. With the employee opinion poll conducted in 2016, we analyzed the state of engagement and factors that improve it. Based on the results of the analysis, we have implemented a variety of diversity and workstyle reform-related measures as the most effective means to improve worker engagement. We also conducted a special opinion poll for interested overseas Group companies in fiscal 2018. Performance Data Average Hours per FTE of Training and Development (Sekisui Chemical) FY2017 FY2018 Average hours per FTE of training and development 9.9 hours 9.4 hours Note: Educational programs held at Sekisui Chemical’s Human Resources Department at Headquarters Training Programs Common to Entire Company to Improve Group-wide Human Resources Capabilities (Number of people) FY2017 FY2018 New employee induction training 223 251 Training for newly appointed managers 245 210 Number of New-graduate Hires / Ratio of Women among New-Graduate Hires (Sekisui Chemical Group in Japan) Note: Includes certain affiliates accounted for by the equity method and non-consolidated subsidiaries. (Number of people) (%) 2,000 40 31.3 29.8 29.7 1,500 26.5 30 1,000 953 20 804 744 678 500 10 0 0 Entered in FY2016 Entered in FY2017 Entered in FY2018 Entered in FY2019 Prominence in Human Resources 175 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Employee Turnover Rate in First Three Years of Employment (Sekisui Chemical) Entered in Entered in Entered in Entered in FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Employee turnover rate in first three years 10.7 7.4 8.0 1.8 of employment (%) Indicator Calculation method Employee turnover rate in first three years Employee turnover rate in first three years of employment for each of employment (%) fiscal year Prominence in Human Resources 176 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Data on Employees Performance Data Sekisui Chemical FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Men (number of people) 3,233 3,239 3,290 3,330 Employees*1 Women (number of people) 445 490 533 587 Ratio of women (%) 12.1 13.1 13.9 15.0 Men (number of people) 2,991 2,955 3,005 3,071 Permanent, full-time Women (number of people) 403 441 483 532 employees*2 Ratio of women (%) 11.9 13.0 13.8 14.8 Average years of continuous Men (number of people) 19.9 18.1 17.7 17.3 employment*2 Women (number of people) 15.4 14.3 13.7 13.2 Men (number of people) 74 77 90 114 New graduates hired*3 Women (number of people) 39 35 39 39 Ratio of women (%) 34.5 31.3 30.2 25.5 Men (number of people) 40 39 70 46 Employees hired mid-career*3 Women (number of people) 3 5 6 9 Ratio of women (%) 7.0 11.4 7.9 16.4 Men (number of people) 697 696 689 685 Managerial positions Women (number of people) 21 24 27 30 (managers) Ratio of women (%) 2.9 3.3 3.8 4.2 Managerial positions Men (number of people) 602 597 612 637 (department managers and Women (number of people) 11 11 14 14 general managers) Ratio of women (%) 1.8 1.8 2.2 2.2 Men (number of people) 1,299 1,293 1,301 1,322 Managerial positions Women (number of people) 32 35 41 44 Ratio of women (%) 2.4 2.6 3.1 3.2 Men (number of people) 46 46 53 63 Employees newly appointed to Women (number of people) 5 1 6 3 managerial positions Ratio of women (%) 9.8 2.1 10.2 4.5 *1 Workers with direct employment relationships with the Group (including permanent, full-time employees and non-regular employees as well as workers on loan from the Group to other companies but excluding workers on loan from other companies to the Group) *2 Employees with no determined period of employment (including workers on loan from the Group to other companies but excluding workers on loan from other companies to the Group) *3 Number of employees, who joined the Group from April to March of the following year (Employees with no determined period of employment) Prominence in Human Resources 177 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities All Consolidated Subsidiaries in Japan FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Men (number of people) 15,619 15,684 16,136 Employees Women (number of people) 4,313 4,394 4,702 Ratio of women (%) 21.6 21.9 22.6 Men (number of people) 453 395 486 New graduates hired Women (number of people) 176 145 211 Ratio of women (%) 28.0 26.9 30.3 Men (number of people) 2,763 2,843 2,922 Managerial positions (managers) Women (number of people) 84 92 118 Ratio of women (%) 3.0 3.1 3.9 Men (number of people) 1,512 1,520 1,534 Managerial positions (department Women (number of people) 18 23 22 managers and general managers) Ratio of women (%) 1.2 1.5 1.4 Men (number of people) 4,275 4,363 4,456 Managerial positions Women (number of people) 102 115 140 Ratio of women (%) 2.3 2.6 3.0 Men (number of people) 204 167 167 Management personnel Women (number of people) 1 4 5 (frontier leaders) Ratio of women (%) 0.5 2.3 2.9 Men (number of people) 160 180 215 Employees newly appointed to Women (number of people) 15 7 29 managerial positions Ratio of women (%) 8.6 3.7 11.9 Note: Data for fiscal 2018 is calculated based on current statistics as of June 2019. Prominence in Human Resources 178 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Age Composition of Permanent, Full-time Employees* in Fiscal 2018 (Sekisui Chemical) Less than 30 to 39 40 to 49 50 to 59 60 and 30 years old years old years old years old above Number of permanent, Men 449 540 1,031 1,018 33 full-time employees by age Women 162 104 142 119 5 Note: Employees with no determined period of employment (including workers on loan from the Group to other companies but excluding workers on loan from other companies to the Group) Employee turnover in Fiscal 2018 (Sekisui Chemical) Men Women Total Employee turnover (number of people) 42 13 55 Employee turnover rate (%) 1.4 2.4 1.5 Indicator Calculation method (Employee turnover (number of people) in Fiscal 2018 / Employee turnover rate Number of employees as of April 2018) x 100 Note: Excluding those who retired after reaching the mandatory retirement age and those who moved to another company of the Group Note: Employees with no determined period of employment (including workers on loan from the Group to other companies but excluding workers on loan from other companies to the Group) Prominence in Human Resources 179 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Pledge to Society Sekisui Chemical Group Is Engaged in Initiatives Relating to Safety, Compliance and Respect for Human Rights, and the Working Environment Management Approach Basic Concept Sekisui Chemical Group Will Fulfill Its “Pledge to Society” as Part of Its Responsibilities as a Company While Engaged in its Business Processes Sekisui Chemical Group believes that it has responsibilities that it must fulfill on behalf of society as it engages in business as a company. Sekisui Chemical Group considers these responsibilities to be its “Pledge to Society” and is engaged as part of business processes in initiatives relating to safety, compliance and respect for human rights, and the working environment. In terms of safety, Sekisui Chemical Group is engaged in creating a safe working place that provides peace of mind to employees and local communities. In terms of compliance and respect for human rights, the Group is involved in initiatives aimed at implementing compliance management and avoiding involvement in violations of human rights to promote fair, good-faith corporate behavior. In terms of the working environment, the Group strives to create workplaces that give employees a sense of purpose through their work by promoting work style reforms and health management. Pledge to Society 180 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Working Environment Management Approach Work Style Reforms In order to accelerate the pace of diversity management, Sekisui Chemical Group has positioned 2018 as its inaugural year of promoting work style reforms. After first putting in place a “Statement of Work Style Reforms,” the Group has initiated three reform activities, and it is steadily making improvements. It continues its efforts to address long working hours by improving productivity, and energies are being directed toward the creation of an invigorating and rewarding workplace. Statement of Work Style Reforms We determine work methods that promote growth over time to enable each and every individual employee to manifest their personal characteristics, and pursue highly productive work methods that maximize success. In order to improve productivity, the Company actively invests in management resources, and unifies managers and workers to coalesce their wisdom Companywide. We nurture work worth doing by improving the quality of the job, and promote workers’ diverse activities by returning the success of reforms to them. Three Reforms Improving productivity is essential to maximizing results in a limited time. With this in mind, Sekisui Chemical Group will push forward three reforms, specifically relating to “Business,” “HR system,” and the “Work environment.” Both management and employees will take up the challenge of promoting reform in line with the specific issues of each business. ＜ Three Reforms ＞ Business reforms: Identify the environment to be changed regardless of existing customs, and reform the work structure HR system reforms: Reform the HR system to improve the growth and performance of each and every employee, and expand employment support Work environment reforms: Reform the work environment by investing so that diverse employees can work in the optimal environment Pledge to Society 181 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Work Style Reforms Achievement Targets With endeavors to achieve work style reforms, we are setting targets through to fiscal 2020. Throughout Sekisui Chemical Group, we are taking up the challenge of building an organizational culture that (1) realizes total hours worked per year to be less than 2,000 hours; (2) allows employees to take at least 120 days off; and (3) maintains a paid leave take-up rate of at least 50%. Investment in Work Style Reforms Substantial capital investment and the introduction of systems are essential to continuously realizing the effects of business and work environment reforms. With this in mind, Sekisui Chemical Group has decided to invest 10 billion yen over the two years of 2018 and 2019 in an effort to reduce working hours Group-wide. In 2018, the first year of our efforts, we made investments of approximately 8 billion yen (including an amount intended for after 2020). With the goal of promoting reduction in working hours from which we will not backtrack, we have invested in a production management system and automated inspection equipment, as well as a video conferencing system and strategies aimed at improving the workplace environment. Regulation of Long Working Hours Work Hour Shortening Committee To create a working environment that allows each and every employee to work to their fullest, Sekisui Chemical Group engages in ongoing labor-management discussions about ways to shorten work hours, to encourage employees to utilize paid days off, and to introduce flexible work styles. With the Act on the Arrangement of Related Acts to Promote Work Style Reform set to go into effect, in fiscal 2018 we entered into further negotiations with labor union members. In terms of regulating the upper limit of long working hours, we consolidated 36 Group-wide protocols, and strengthened governance. Looking to make the taking of paid leave compulsory, from September 2018 we initiated a Group-wide trial of a planned annual leave system, and owing to the significant results obtained, we have decided to implement it as an official system from fiscal 2019. We continue to hold further discussions with regard to easy-to-work and flexible work styles, and are moving toward the creation of work sites that motivate employees. Notifications of Major HR-related Changes Major Changes with Significant Effects on Employees Are Implemented After Labor-management Meetings Based on the proposals submitted to the labor union and feedback received from each of the union branches, Sekisui Chemical has decided to move forward with HR system revisions and large-scale organizational reforms which will entail major changes and have significant effects on employees. The labor agreement specifies that when employees belonging to the labor union are to be seconded or transferred, the labor union is to be notified at least one month prior to the change and the applicable employee’s willingness to accept their new position is confirmed prior to assignment. Pledge to Society 182 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Health Management We Are Moving Forward on Five Initiatives to Promote Our Employees’ Health Sekisui Chemical Group strives to improve its employees’ physical and mental health based on the idea that employees are valuable resources entrusted to the Group by society. To further advance these initiatives, in March 2019 Sekisui Chemical formulated a philosophy regarding our goals for health and productivity management in a Declaration of Health, and establishing the Basic Policy for Health and Productivity Management. Sekisui Chemical Group positions health as the “Well-being” that is defined in the WHO Charter, aiming for health as a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being. Moreover, in line with this, we have organized our efforts into segments, and have newly formulated mediumand long-term goals in five segments. Note: “Health and Productivity Management” is a registered trademark of the NPO Kenkokeiei. Declaration of Health for SEKISUI CHEMICAL Group SEKISUI CHEMICAL Group has been engaged in health management initiatives for our employees based on our belief that employees are precious assets bestowed on us by society. SEKISUI CHEMICAL endeavors to take these initiatives to the next level by treating the promotion of the health of our employees as a management strategy that is aimed at achieving the physical, mental, and social well-being of all employees. SEKISUI CHEMICAL Group's Basic Policy for Health and Productivity Management Strive to achieve the well-being of all employees, and create workplaces where a diverse personnel can play an active role with vitality. ・Practice a comprehensive health promotion program that encompasses everything from health management (defense) to improving (offense) the fulfillment and rewards of working. ・ Focus on improving productivity by advancing the awareness and behavior of each and every employee. ・ Encourage employees to make a proactive and ongoing effort to strive for well-being now and in the future. ・ Strive to contribute to society by realizing the happiness of employees and their families, and our customers through the well-being of our employees. Pledge to Society 183 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Initiative 1. Health Checkups and Measures to Prevent Lifestyle Diseases Sekisui Chemical collaborates with Sekisui Health Insurance Association to facilitate health, and jointly carries out health checkups. In this way health checkups are conducted uniformly throughout the Group, and from October 2018 we have introduced a common Group-wide health management system. In addition, from 2015, we developed the Sekisui Health Network (SHN) that can respond to business sites of less than 50 people, so we are advancing better health among such small-scale work sites as well. As a measure to prevent lifestyle diseases, we have made the goal of having 50% of employees practice at least four of the seven health habits advocated by Dr. Lester Breslow, by 2021, and we are now planning for a health habit support program. Initiative 2. Mental Health Sekisui Chemical Group is taking the following initiatives as measures to support mental health. 1. Utilizing Stress Checks Sekisui Chemical Group strives to maximally leverage the stress checks that are provided for in law. Specifically, it undertakes obligatory efforts at population analysis and work environment improvements as an element of its Groupwide stress checks for employees, including those working at business sites with fewer than 50 employees. In fiscal 2018, the Group made it a requirement to conduct population analyses within the Group. With 86% of all business sites having participated in the population analyses, the submission of a report to management was completed. With the support of HR’s welfare and health support group, the Health Promotion Office, workplace environment improvements were made at 20 sites in 20 companies this fiscal year, up from four sites at four companies in the previous fiscal year. 2. Stress Management Training by Telephone We have conducted stress management training by telephone for newly appointed managerial staff, mid-career hires, and overseas assignees who may experience stress in line with considerable changes in their environments. This training has proven effective as stress self-control indicators appeared to rise compared to before the training was implemented. 3. Enhanced Consultation Centers Where Employees Can Comfortably Seek Advice We have established consultation centers that are available to any employee of Sekisui Chemical Group, regardless of employment format, thus strengthening a safety-net function. Initiative 3. Systems and Workplaces Where People Can Work with Peace of Mind There are a variety of existing factors at workplaces that may hinder health, including chemical substances, work approach, noise and others. To counter these factors, we are undertaking activities across the Group through the utilization of an occupational health and safety management system. In addition, not only for those employees who are healthy, we are also striving to enhance a range of internal systems that take into consideration an environment to work in with peace of mind for those with medical conditions as well. Pledge to Society 184 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Initiative 4. Group-wide Initiatives Health management promotion is a Group-wide effort at Sekisui Chemical, and for that reason, we are moving forward with Group application of the Health and Productivity Management Organization, in the large enterprise category. Our efforts with this increased the number of subsidiary companies to which this applied to, from five companies in fiscal 2017, to 20 in fiscal 2018. This recognition applies to groups where their companies have conducted a pre-assessment, and undertaken actual activities to increase the level of health. In cases where the pre-assessment indicates areas that are lacking, the Health Promotion Office provides support by building a framework, or through other measures. In addition, we have appointed people responsible for, and others in charge of health management at approximately 300 business sites, covering the entire Group. This represents our efforts to build a structure in which steady measures can be put in place to advance health management. Initiative 5. Increase Motivation and Productivity With the intent to achieve productivity indicators, together with the visualization of productivity increases made through health promotion, we are steadily implementing the four above initiatives with the aim of raising motivation and productivity. Pledge to Society 185 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Major Initiatives Stress Check Sekisui Chemical Group strives to maximally leverage the stress checks that are provided for in law. Therefore, we are also implementing the following three topics as obligatory efforts. ・Performed for all Sekisui Chemical Group employees, including at those work places with less than 50 employees ・Population analyses ・Improvement of the workplace environment As part of making population analyses mandatory, from 2016, we commenced the holding of workshops on how to read stress checks for approximately 400 people who have been appointed to be responsible for, or to be in charge of health management at all business sites. In this way these employees acquired knowledge on how to conduct population analysis, the proper way to read them, and how to share this information, in preparation for being able to utilize population analysis results in a positive manner. From fiscal 2018, we made it mandatory to conduct population analysis at all business sites with 10 employees or more. Furthermore, from fiscal 2016, we started to build models to improve workplace environments, and in fiscal 2017, with the support of the Health Promotion Office, undertook efforts to provide assistance to improve workplace environments at a total of four companies, two companies with high-risk workplaces with high overall health risks*, and two companies to create “vibrant workplaces.” Among these, three companies showed improvements to their stress check results in the following year. Essential support to improve workplace environments are being conducted by the Health Promotion Office at more than 120 workplaces identified as high-risk workplaces from an overall health risk perspective from fiscal 2018. Also, no matter what the overall health risk, regarding the creation of better workplaces and the creation of invigorating and rewarding workplaces as “creating vibrant workplaces,” we raise the aspirations of all Group companies and are actively supporting the creation of vibrant workplaces. Support was provided to high-risk workplaces at four companies as assistance to improve workplace environments, and 13 companies participated in facilitator–coordinator training courses to create vibrant workplaces. * In the stress check, the risk level from health problems (health risk) is shown as a value based on the average of the standard population, with 100 as the “overall health risk.” Research findings show that a variety of stress problems often appear in workplaces with a health risk of 120-130 or more. Pledge to Society 186 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Effects of workplace environment improvement efforts by the Health Promotion Office Company Fiscal year No. of relevant Overall health Improvement Effect Name implemented people risks (FY2017→ FY2018) Company A 2017 103 128 -6 (support for (improvement) high-risk workplaces) 2018 106 122 Company B 2017 158 121 -11 (support for (improvement) high-risk workplaces) 2018 196 110 Company C 2017 116 100 -6 (Create “vibrant (improvement) workplaces”) 2018 120 94 Company D 2017 97 90 (Create “vibrant 8 workplaces”) 2018 99 98 Stress check initiatives at Sekisui Chemical Group are being introduced as part of a section covering case studies (No. 12) on the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare’s “Kokoro-no-Mimi” portal site. http://kokoro.mhlw.go.jp/case/stresscheck/stresscheck012/ Participation rate for the workshop on accurate reading of population analyses 2017 2018 70.0% 92.6% Workshop on the creation of vibrant workplaces Pledge to Society 187 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Stress Management Training From 2015 the Group has been offering telephone-based stress management training (“Mindbics”) for newly appointed managerial staff, mid-career hires and overseas assignees, so that they can be able to control their own stress given that they may experience stress from the considerable change in their environments and as they are expected to actively engage in their new roles within short periods. The use of telephone-based training allows employees to participate from home and while away on business trips. It also reduces the burden on employees and facilitates their participation even when they are busy. Each year, around 400 employees participate in the sessions, which are considered required training at Sekisui Chemical Group. In fiscal 2018 we requested expert analysis of the results aggregated since 2015, accurately confirming effectiveness. Stress level change (K6) Degree of energy in the workplace Degree of energy outside the workplace 14 10 10 9 *** 9 *** 12 8 8 10 *** 7 7 7.883 Significant improvements 7.176 8 6 6.357 6 6.797 were seen in all items. 4.195 5 5 6 5.857 4 4 4 Effect size 0.37 3 Effect size 0.38 3 Effect size 0.53 2 n=567 2 n=566 2 n=566 * The effect was especially large 1 1 0 0 0 for degree of energy outside Before training After training Before training After training Before training After training the workplace and HPQ. Degree of mental energy Degree of physical energy Work performance (HPQ) ->Since training includes 10 10 10 content related to improvement 9 9 9 8 *** 8 *** 8 *** of work performance and 7 7.081 7 7.056 7 7.003 invigorating activities outside 6 6 6 6.034 6.393 6.041 the workplace, this could be 5 5 5 4 4 4 an effect of the training content. Effect size 0.44 Effect size 0.3 Effect size 0.51 3 3 3 n=567 n=567 n=566 2 2 2 1 1 1 ***p <.001 0 0 0 Before After Before After Before After training training training training training training Features of the Training Program Telephone-based Stress-management Training that Can Be Held Even in Far-flung Locations Pledge to Society 188 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities External Evaluations Recognized as a 2019 Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization Sekisui Chemical was recognized for its Companywide efforts to resolve issues relating to the health of its employees and was certified as a 2019 Health and Productivity Management Organization*2 by both the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi*1 for the third year in a row in the large enterprise category (“White 500”). *1 The Nippon Kenko Kaigi is an operation organized to allow effective action to be taken based on comprehensive support from government for expanding the healthy lifespans and offering adequate medical treatment to all people in Japan, undertaken in partnership with private-sector organizations and in a country with a declining birth rate and a rapidly aging population. *2 The “Health and Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program” awards large companies, smalland medium-sized business, and other corporations that practice health management especially well through initiatives tailored to local health issues and initiatives for improving health promoted by the Nippon Kenko Kaigi. Pledge to Society 189 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Name of company certified together with the Company Companies receiving certification described on the left Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Tohoku Co., Ltd. SEKISUI FAMIS TOHOKU Co., Ltd. Tohoku SEKISUI HEIM Real Estate Co., Ltd. Tokyo Sekisui Heim Co. Ltd. Tokyo Sekisui Famis Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Chubu Co., Ltd. SEKISUI FAMIS CHUBU Co., Ltd Sekisui Heim Kinki Co., Ltd. Sekisui Famis Kinki Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Chushikoku Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Kyushu Co., Ltd. Sekisui famis kyusyu Co., Ltd. Kyusyu SEKISUI HEIM Real Estate Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Nishinihon Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Hinomaru Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. SHIKOKU SEKISUI CO., LTD SEKISUI MEDICAL Co., Ltd. From the list of corporations certified as 2019 Health and Productivity Management Organizations in the Large Enterprises (“White 500”) category Pledge to Society 190 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Performance Data Amount of Overtime Work* (Sekisui Chemical) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Monthly average per employee (hours) 17.5 19.2 19.9 19.9 * Calculated on the basis of a prescribed number of working hours of 7.5 hours. Paid Vacation Day Utilization Rate (Sekisui Chemical) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Average per employee (%) 46.4 45.9 51.1 64.0 (Excluding managers) Average Number of Paid Vacation Days Taken (Sekisui Chemical) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Average per employee (days) 8.8 8.7 9.6 12.1 (Excluding managers) Stress-check Examination Rate FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Examination Rate (%) 72.0 81.9 87.1 Note: Scope of stress-check implementation: Companies that are members of the Sekisui Health Insurance Association (including some affiliates) Pledge to Society 191 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Safety Targeting Zero Occupational Injuries Through Risk Reduction by All Personnel, from Top Management to the Plant-floor Frontlines Management Approach Basic Concept Each and Every Employee Has the Ability to Identify Dangerous Situations At the core of safety, it is important that each and every employee has the ability to identify dangerous situations and take appropriate steps to protect themselves and fellow employees. Even if equipment can be made completely safe, it is necessary to recognize that work and actions taken by individuals can have hidden risks. For this reason, we are making concerted efforts at safety education and raising sensitivity to risks, while following rules and creating a protective corporate culture. At the same time, constructing a work environment in which employees can work with safety and security is our responsibility as a company and we consider it to be one of the most important priorities for management. Sekisui Chemical Group is implementing total safety activities (i.e. zero occupational injuries, zero equipment-related accidents, zero commuting-related accidents, and zero extended sick leave) based on five themes*. * Five themes: (1) Intrinsic safety of equipment; (2) safety management using OHSMS; (3) safety education of employees; (4) risk prevention through risk detection activities and other initiatives; and (5) auditing of health, safety, and accident prevention. Pledge to Society 192 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Activity Policy and Promotion System We Thoroughly Implement a Safety Policy That Includes Partner Companies Outside the Group In the case of the various efforts related to occupational health and safety, an activity policy is formulated by the Safety Committee established under the CSR Committee. These actual activities are promoted by the Total Manufacturing Management Center Safety & Environment Group. We have formulated the Sekisui Chemical Group Safety Policy, which forms our basic philosophy on occupational safety and is shared by all employees within the Group. In addition to collecting a range of occupational health and safety data such as incident frequency rates, we also collect data from partner companies outside the Group including those that occur during production and construction operations as well as any incidence of occupational health and safety issues during research activities. In fiscal 2018, two meetings of the Safety Committee were held in September and March. Safety-Promotion System Board of Directors CSR Committee Safety Sub-committee Sub-committee Chairperson : Hitoshi Kobayashi, Executive Officer, Head of Total Manufacturing Management Center Sub-committee Members : Managing executive officers and Executive officers at each Divisional Company, Directors, Managing executive officers at headquarters Office : Total Manufacturing Management Center, Safety & Environment Group Divisional Company Safety sections at each Divisional Company Production sites Sections in charge of safety Construction companies Sections in charge of safety Headquarters Total Manufacturing Management Center, Safety and Environment Group Occupational Safety Committee Held Management and Labor Work Together to Assess, Research and Propose Solutions for Occupational Safety The Occupational Safety Committee at each business site of Sekisui Chemical Group holds a meeting every month, as mandated by law. In addition, the Central Occupational Safety Committee, consisting of members from corporate headquarters and labor unions, meets once a year. The Central Occupational Safety Committee was created on the basis of collective labor agreements to conduct disaster-related investigations and make strategic proposals related to occupational health and safety. Every employee can potentially become a member of the Central Occupational Safety Committee. Based on the outcome of the Occupational Safety Committee’s deliberations, Sekisui Chemical Group aims to strictly comply with laws and regulations, including the Industrial Safety and Health Act, ensure the safety and health of employees at work, and create a comfortable workplace environment. The Central Occupational Safety Committee and the Occupational Safety Committees at each business site assess workplace environments, draw up and implement solutions to workplace problems, and decide rules with regard to various topics related to occupational safety and health. Pledge to Society 193 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Example in Safety Activities Leaders from Each Division Declared Their Commitment to Safe Business Practices Based on the recognition that it is of the utmost importance for the top managers at business sites to exercise leadership and take the initiative in safety activities, leaders from each division, including the president, declare their commitment to safe business practices each fiscal year, and their personally written declarations are published on the intranet. A safety declaration posted on the intranet Safety Audits Conducting Audits based on Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OHSMS) Audit Evaluation Reports OHSMS (Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems) audit evaluation reports are drafted and used in self-assessments and corporate audits at each business site. Evaluation items are revised annually, which include incorporating ISO 45001 requirements published in March 2018. In fiscal 2018, corporate audits were conducted at 32 business sites in Japan. Going forward, we will plan and conduct sharply focused audits to determine the status of safety management and accident prevention activities. Occupational Safety Assessments Implementation of Preliminary Safety Assessments When Launching a New Business Article 14 of the Group’s Safety Management Rules stipulates that a comprehensive preliminary occupational safety assessment must be undertaken by the business general manager concerned when launching a new business. Based on this stipulation, the relevant divisional company that is looking to launch a new business implements an assessment. Pledge to Society 194 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Major Initiatives Development of Human Resources to Take the Initiative in Safety Activities Encouraging the Gaining of Qualifications to Become Key Persons in Charge of Safety Activities In fiscal 2018, 18 employees (30 in total since fiscal 2017) were certified under the “safety leader” qualification to serve as personnel who take the initiative in safety activities. Safety leaders are tasked with identifying and mitigating risks at their respective workplaces, holding workshops with other safety leaders Group-wide, and promoting the standardization of safety training curriculum. In addition, we encourage employees to obtain the qualification called “safety sub-assessor,” holders of which play a role in promoting intrinsic safety in equipment. Since fiscal 2017, 81 employees in total have been certified as safety sub-assessors. We have deployed safety sub-assessors in Group-wide projects extending over several business sites, where they promote improved safety in areas such as elevated opening/closing fences, pinch rollers, and handcarts commonly used at these locations. Review of Equipment Safety Standards Reviewing Equipment Safety Standards in Conjunction with Providing Explanations to Equipment Manufacturers In fiscal 2017, we issued Equipment Design Safety Guidelines, which summarize the safety design standards necessary for production equipment used by Sekisui Chemical Group. Steps are taken to monitor the status of compliance on an ongoing basis. Safety specification checklists must be attached to equipment manufacturer estimates. Corporate audits are conducted to verify that equipment safety standards are actually being adhered to at workplaces and intrinsic safety is being promoted. Early Detection of Risks Training to Improve the Ability to Identify Risks We conduct practical risk assessment-improvement training in order to develop personnel able to identify and mitigate risks at their workplaces. In fiscal 2018, training sessions were conducted at the Musashi Plant, Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd., and the Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd.’s Kinki office. Training participants identify risks and monitor improvements at their workplaces. Since fiscal 2016, this training program has been held at a total of eight workplaces, with the number of participants reaching194 to date. In addition, the training program has resulted in over 1,600 risk items being identified and unacceptable risks being mitigated. Pledge to Society 195 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Measures to Prevent Fires and Explosions Initiated Emergency Audits, to Which Outside Experts Are Invited To prevent fires and explosions that, once they occur, have a major impact on the surrounding environment and on business continuity, in addition to the safety audits performed thus far, we implement emergency response audits, to which we invite outside disaster experts. We verify items such as the storage and handling status of hazardous materials as well as the recovery systems used following a disaster, including natural disasters, and promote the quick identification of disaster risks and the subsequent implementation of preventative measures. Of the 147 measures implemented to prevent a reoccurrence of the 20 fires (including small fires) between fiscal 2104 and fiscal 2017, we confirmed that 139 were still in place. We recommended further measures for strengthening the remaining eight measures and confirmed that these improvements had been made. Based on the accident prevention handbook issued in November 2017, we have worked to indentify fire and explosion risks at 48 workplaces nationwide. By fiscal 2018, 1,255 risks were identified, and 687 (74%) of 923 risks requiring improvement were mitigated as of the end of fiscal 2018. Type of audit Target / aim of audit ・Document review Checking of conditions relating to health and safety management activities ・On-site inspections Confirmation of the safety of people’s work, their working environments, the surfaces on which they walk, and so forth ・Essential safety measure compliance status Safety audit Includes accident-prevention measures at the facility design and installation stages ・Process examinations of facility management departments Facility installation management, construction management, maintenance management Note: At business sites that themselves implement safety audits only, auditing is performed nearly identically as previously, including “disaster-preparedness audits,” as outlined below. Primarily consists of audits for accident-prevention measures relating to business continuity Disaster-preparedness ・Checking of storage and handling conditions of dangerous articles and designated audit flammable materials ・Checking of fire-fighting equipment maintenance status ・Measures for responding to earthquakes and other natural disasters Pledge to Society 196 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Emergency Response Measures For the Purpose of Fine-tuning Unexpected Situation Response Skills in the Event of a Disaster We have established getting caught or entangled in machinery at a production facility, falling off equipment or falling over at a business site, and a fire or explosion in a chemical process as high-risk scenarios on which Sekisui Chemical Group should place a particular focus on preventing. The Company conducts “Heads-up Training” where chemical processes are integral to production. At Sekisui Chemical Group, we conduct “Heads-up training” to fortify the decision-making abilities of all our employees in the event that they encounter an emergency situation. More specifically, supervisors with years of experience will ask trainees what they would do if equipment designed to prevent danger fails and the trainees will be tasked with providing responses off the top of their heads. This training improves the skills needed to respond to unexpected situations in the event of a disaster by passing down to younger employees the on-site safety knowhow accumulated over many years by senior employees. Through this training, we were able to improve equipment countermeasures and revise operating procedures. In addition to teaching trainees how to handle potential problems, the training has been applied on various occasions, including evacuation drills and disaster prevention drills. In fiscal 2018, a total of 2,135 people participated in the training sessions that were held a total of 273 times in 98 departments at 17 business sites. Deployment of Basic Safety Principles Preparation of Basic Safety Principles Poster We are working to prevent occupational injuries caused by machines and equipment by making the equipment itself intrinsically safer while also preventing occupational accidents caused by worker operations. Based on the lessons learned from past occupational accidents that actually occurred on Group business sites, the “Six Basic Safety Principles,” which summarize compliance matters and matters prohibited during operations for each operational process, were established in fiscal 2017. In order to promptly disseminate these principles within the Company, we created and distributed to each workplace a poster that showed them in an easy to understand, illustrated format. We confirmed that these posters are being utilized at each business site through corporate audit inspection tours conducted in fiscal 2018. In addition, we implement safety activities at overseas business sites by distributing posters featuring similar information in English, Chinese, and other languages. Overseas Business Site Safety Audits Visualizing the Status of Safety Management Activities at Overseas Business Sites At our overseas production sites, which operate under the varying laws and regulations as well as differing cultural awareness of safety issues in each region, Sekisui Chemical Group has, since fiscal 2013, been deploying safety global standards to raise the level of safety activities. Having commenced safety audits based on these global standards in earnest in fiscal 2014, in fiscal 2018 we implemented audits at 12 business sites. We are also holding regional safety brainstorming sessions in North America and China to share regional issues and discuss countermeasures. Planning and implementation, which had been previously spearheaded in Japan, have been shifted to regional head office staff. The program is undertaken each fiscal year based on such themes as policy development, sharing workplace initiatives, lectures by experts, and methods to investigative the causes of accidents. Pledge to Society 197 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Safety & Environment Conference and Safety Awards Presidential Award Given to the Business Site with the Best Safety Record for the Fiscal Year Sekisui Chemical Group Safety & Environment Conference is usually held to coincide with National Safety Week in July of each year. In fiscal 2018, the president was among the total of 241 people, who also included other directors, business heads from domestic production business sites and laboratories, construction companies as well as those in charge of safety, etc. who attended the conference on July 13. During the conference, the fiscal 2017 presidential award was given to the business site with the best safety record for the fiscal year. Safety Management Along Supply Chains Sharing Safety Policies While Providing Training Opportunities Based on the idea of securing the safety of employees from partner companies involved in the on-site construction of housing, the Housing Company organizes the Sekisui Heim Cooperation Association with its partner companies and holds periodic meetings while utilizing other methods to share the Group’s safety policy. We also provide a variety of training opportunities related to occupational safety, such as safety education sessions. Pledge to Society 198 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Performance Data Safety Performance Japan Aggregate scope: 48 production sites and 5 research institutes in Japan Number of Occupational Accidents Number of Facility Accidents (Accidents) (Accidents) 60 4 4 48 3 40 42 38 34 36 2 20 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Indicator Calculation Method Indicator Calculation Method The number of occupational The number of incidents of Number of accidents (both those resulting in lost malfunctioning (fires, leaks, etc.) at occupational time and those not) occurring during facilities that fulfill at least one of the accidents a given fiscal year (April through the following criteria (Sekisui Chemical following March) Group criteria), from (1) to (3), Number occurring during a given fiscal year of Facility (April through the following March) Accidents (1) Human harm: An accident causing at least 30 days’ lost work (2) Material harm: 10,000,000 yen or greater (3) Opportunity loss: 20,000,000 yen or greater Pledge to Society 199 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Number of Long-term Sick Leave Number of Commuting Accidents (Accidents) (Accidents) 100 160 156 84 90 80 76 74 120 116 125 125 109 60 60 80 40 20 40 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Indicator Calculation Method Indicator Calculation Method Describes leave of 30 days or more The number of accidents occurring consecutively for sickness or injury during commutes to Japanese occurring in a Japanese production production sites and research institutes sites or research institutes during the during a given fiscal year (April to the Number of Number of given fiscal year (April to the following following March); includes injury to Cases of commuting March), and which is newly-occurring. others, injury to the commuter, him or Long-Term accidents Recurrences within 6 months of the herself, damage to the commuter’s own Sick Leave start of work attendance are not vehicle, and physical damage occurring counted. However, absences caused by while operating an automobile or other industrial accidents are not classified as vehicle long-term sick leave. Pledge to Society 200 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Frequency Rate Over Time Severity Rate Over Time 1.5 0.2 1.15 1.20 1.06 1.06 1.02 1.0 Average of domestic manufacturing industry* Average of domestic 0.1 manufacturing industry* 0.10 0.5 0.50 0.48 0.09 0.34 0.08 0.30 0.28 0.07 0.06 Sekisui Chemical 0.016 0.012 0.014 0.013 0.014 Group Sekisui Chemical 0 0 Group 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 *Source of information for Japanese manufacturing industry: Ministry of Health, Labour *Source of information for Japanese manufacturing industry: Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, Survey on Occupational Accidents and Welfare, Survey on Occupational Accidents Indicator Calculation Method Indicator Calculation Method The total number of injuries, illness The total number of days of work and fatalities in occupational accidents lost per 1,000 hours of total time with lost time per 1,000,000 hours worked during a given fiscal year (April of total time worked during a given Severity rate through the following March) fiscal year (April through the following Formula for calculation: (Number of Frequency March) days of work lost / total number of rate Formula for calculation: (Number man-hours worked) × 1,000 of injuries, illness and fatalities in occupational accidents with lost time / total number of man-hours worked) × 1,000,000 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Occupational Illness Frequency Rate (OIFR) 1.20 Company employees 1.20 Company employees Partner companies Partner companies 1.00 0.95 1.00 0.80 0.80 0.61 0.60 0.60 0.48 0.40 0.34 0.38 0.40 0.36 0.42 0.20 0.16 0.20 0.15 0.23 0.25 0.12 0.12 0.06 0.08 0 0 0.00 0.00 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Indicator Calculation Method Indicator Calculation Method Lost Time (Occupational illnesses / total number (Number of accidents causing sick Injury of man-hours worked) x 1,000,000 leave / total number of man-hours Occupational Frequency Occupational illnesses as defined worked) × 1,000,000 Illness Rate by the Ministry of Health, Labour Frequency and Welfare, including heat stroke, Rate lower back pain, and intoxication by chemical substances Pledge to Society 201 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Safety Performance In the Housing Company’s Safety Performance with Respect to Construction Sites Construction Sites in the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company (Accidents) (Accidents) 30 10 Number of occupational 26 accidents without lost time in the New Construction 8 8 22 sector 20 21 7 20 17 Number of occupational 6 6 18 10 16 8 accidents without lost time 5 Occupational 10 14 in the FamiS sector 4 accidents 13 4 without lost 11 4 Number of occupational time 10 11 12 10 1 3 6 accidents with lost time in 5 10 the New Construction sector 6 2 13 6 Occupational 10 12 2 accidents 8 Number of occupational 3 3 3 with 6 5 7 accidents with lost time 4 5 4 1 lost time 0 in the FamiS sector 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Indicator Calculation Method Indicator Calculation Method The number of occupational The number of occupational Safety accidents (both those resulting accidents (both those resulting in Safety Performance in lost time and those not) lost time and those not) occurring performance with Respect to occurring on construction sites on construction sites under on the Housing Construction under the jurisdiction of the the jurisdiction of the Urban Company’s Sites in the Urban Housing Company during a Infrastructure & Environmental construction sites Infrastructure & given fiscal year (April through Products Company or the Sekisui Environmental the following March) Chemical company headquarters Products during a given fiscal year (April Company through the following March) Pledge to Society 202 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Overseas Aggregate scope: 46 production sites and 1 research institute overseas Number of Occupational Accidents (Accidents) 80 64 4 10 47 2 45 40 17 4 33 China 18 2 13 27 10 3 10 13 6 Asia/Oceania 33 7 10 Europe 17 14 15 8 America 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 *Past fiscal year data has been partially revised in line with the details survey of overseas business sites. Indicator Calculation Method Occurrence of The number of occupational occupational accidents (both requiring and not accidents requiring time off from work) at overseas occurring at overseas production production sites sites and research institutes during and research a given fiscal year (April through institutes the following March) Japan and Overseas Aggregate scope: 48 production sites , 5 research institutes and 34 constraction offices in Japan 46 production sites and 1 research institute overseas Occurrence of fatalities due to occupational accidents (Number of people) FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 Employees 0 0 0 0 0 Japan 0 0 0 0 0 Overseas 0 0 0 0 0 Partner Companies 1 1 0 0 0 Japan 1 1 0 0 0 Overseas 0 0 0 0 0 Total 1 1 0 0 0 Pledge to Society 203 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Health and Safety / Accident Prevention Costs Aggregate Scope: 48 Domestic Japanese Production Sites and 5 Research Institutes, Headquarters, Back Offices of Division Companies Health and Safety / Accident Prevention Costs (Millions of yen) Item Sekisui Chemical Group Classification Details Expense amount Investment amount 1) Costs within business site areas Health and safety measures, rescue and protective equipment, measurement of work environment, health 946 2,676 management, workers’ accident compensation insurance, etc. 2) Administrative costs Establishment and implementation of OHSMS, safety education, personnel costs, etc. 1,814 − 3) Other Safety awards, etc. 6 − Total 2,766 2,676 Costs and Investments Over Time Loss Costs Over Time Costs and investment amounts (Billions of yen) Rate (%) 17.8 15.8 (Millions of yen) 6 15.0 Proportion of 15 800 health, safety 5.17 and accident prevention investments to 600 4 the total 10 10.1 3.79 9.0 investment 510.9 478.3 468.9 amount 3.15 400 393.7 2.71 2.81 2.77 2.68 375.1 2.59 2.29 2.32 2 5 Investment amount 200 Expense amount 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Indicator Calculation Method Indicator Calculation Method The amount invested in health and The costs of responding to, and safety and accident prevention-related the labor costs incurred due to, Investment measures authorized during a given occupational accidents, facility amounts fiscal year (April through the following Loss costs accidents, commuting accidents, and March) long-term sick leave due to illness occurring within a given fiscal year (April through the following March) Pledge to Society 204 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Compliance and Respect for Human Rights Giving Consideration to Human Rights on a Global Scale, Strengthening Compliance Management Compliance Management Approach Our Approach to Compliance Management Compliance Management Depends on the Good Intentions of Each Employee In Sekisui Chemical Group, we established our “Compliance Declaration” in 2003 based on principles such as “contributing to society,” “being a trusted company,” and “adherence to the letter and spirit of the law.” In keeping with the spirit of the Group Principles and our Corporate Code of Ethics, we defined our stance for the acquisition of high social trust through compliance. In April 2019, under the leadership of President Koge, compliance is management itself for Sekisui Chemical Group, and each and every one of our employees joined together to declare they will act in accordance with our compliance regulations. In order to ensure Sekisui Chemical Group will be widely trusted by society, we will continue to carry out initiatives for improving compliance awareness. Prevent Compliance Issues Prevent Major Compliance Issues In the CSR Medium-term Plan, which we started to implement in fiscal 2017, we carried over “zero incidents of major compliance issues” as a KPI target from the previous medium-term plan. From fiscal 2015 onward, Sekisui Chemical has continually achieved zero incidents of corruption and fraud. In fiscal 2018 as well, no cases of major compliance issues arose. We will continue strengthening our management of compliance and work to prevent compliance issues before they occur. Pledge to Society 205 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Growing Awareness Toward Compliance Compliance Manuals and Compliance Cards Distributed Sekisui Chemical Group has created and distributed the Compliance Manual, in which are described the matters with which each Group employee should comply, and also created a pocket version called the Compliance Card in order to instill awareness of compliance in each and every employee. The Compliance Manual includes information on topics such as the prohibitions on corruption and bribery, respect for human rights and the prohibition of discrimination, data management and protection, compliance with antitrust legislation, prohibitions on insider trading, conservation of the global environment and compliance with labor-related laws and regulations, and the internal whistleblowing system; it publicizes, and promotes thorough adherence with, these requirements among all employees. In addition to the existing Compliance Manual, we have created a Global Compliance Manual covering regulations around the world. To allow all overseas Group employees to understand this manual, we have created English, Chinese, Thai, Indonesian, German, and Korean editions, and are proceeding with translating the manual into more local languages. The Company’s The conveniently sized Compliance Manual Compliance Card Pledge to Society 206 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Putting Compliance Management Efforts into Practice Building an Effective Compliance Promotion System We are building a realistic and effective compliance promotion system to ensure that compliance management is fully put into practice. In addition to having established a Compliance Subcommittee—which reports to the CSR Committee and is chaired by the executive officer who heads the Legal Department—as an organization to oversee Group compliance and to put forward policies and implementation measures, we are also establishing compliance promotion subcommittees at headquarters and at each divisional company, appointing persons responsible for putting compliance promotion into practice and implementing and deploying each measure. In the unlikely event that a major compliance issue arises, we will hold a Compliance Advisory Board meeting to address any problems that have actually occurred and examine measures to prevent a recurrence. The Compliance Subcommittee met twice in fiscal year 2018, in March and September. Compliance Management Promotion System Board of Directors Development of CSR Committee countermeasures for Discussion of Sekisui Chemical Group's basic policies on individual compliance issues, compliance and formulation of measures to be implemented consideration of measures to in areas such as education and training prevent their reoccurrence, etc. Compliance Sub-committee Sub-committee Chairperson: Hiroyuki Taketomo,Director, Managing Executive Officer, Compliance Responsible for Legal Advisory Reporting Department, Head of Human Board Resources Department Sub-committee Members: Managing executive officers (to address and Executive officers at each problems that Divisional Company, General managers of Compliance Section have actually at each Divisional Company, Heads occurred) of Corporate Audit Department, Legal Department (Office) Promotion of policies and measuresdiscussed in the Instruction Reporting Sub-committee and other matters and Headquarters/ communication Divisional Company Promotion and developmentof measures Compliance Promotion Cyber Compliance Manager Security Promotion (person responsible Committee Committee Reporting for promotion) Compliance Training Ongoing Provision of Opportunities to Learn About Compliance As part of our efforts associated with putting compliance management into practice, we also focus on employee compliance education. We continuously provide opportunities for all Group employees to learn about the importance of compliance, such as by conducting e-learning sessions specific to compliance quarterly. These e-learning programs include information about compliance as training for new employees and as rank-specific training. Pledge to Society 207 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Upgrade of the Whistle-blowing Program We Are Promoting Knowledge of S.C.A.N.'s Existence and Its Effective Operation In 2002, Sekisui Chemical Group developed the Sekisui Compliance Assist Network (S.C.A.N.) intra-company whistle-blowing system, which is the mechanism that has been made available for use by all Sekisui Chemical Group employees and its business partners. Operated under the supervision of the executive officer in charge of the legal department, S.C.A.N. enables direct reporting not only to the Legal Department but also to an outside law firm. In addition to serving as a reporting system, S.C.A.N. also plays a role as a point of contact for consultations, such as whether a specific act would be classed as a compliance violation. In order to create an organizational culture that maintains full awareness of compliance, the system also prescribes the protection of the whistleblower and stipulates that information on the person who provided the information be kept secret from everyone other than at the point of contact and the prohibition of any prejudicial treatment toward that person. Regarding the report content, interviews are held to investigate the claims of both the informer and the informee, and eyewitnesses are interviewed as well when necessary. The truthfulness of these reports is confirmed in this way, ensuring intra-organizational issues are handled in a fair manner. Responses to External Notifications In accordance with the establishment of the Corporate Governance Code, we reconfigured the intra-company whistle-blowing system in fiscal 2015 as part of the strengthening of governance functions at each Sekisui Chemical Group company and newly put in place points of contact for consultations from, and whistleblowing by, suppliers. This consultation / notification point of contact is intended for use by the executive officers and employees of business partners in Japan who are continuously conducting business transactions with Sekisui Chemical Group companies. We occasionally accept requests for consultations and receive reports via a form made available on Group company websites and, while conducting consultations with business partners, proceed to confirm the facts and take corrective action concerning any alleged “law-violating conduct.” The content of consultations and reports is shared only among the minimum number of people necessary to resolve the “law-violating conduct concerned, and all parties that need to be involved are obliged to keep that content confidential. Prevention of Bribery and Corruption Guidelines in Place, Educational Programs Conducted for High-risk Divisions A signatory to and an approver of the UN Global Compact, which stipulates anti-corruption efforts under its voluntary action principles, Sekisui Chemical Group is promoting efforts to prevent acts of bribery and corruption in that spirit. As part of our internal regulations, we have put in place rules to prevent bribery and corruption and are promoting their introduction at all Sekisui Chemical Group companies. We have also formulated anti-bribery guidelines, which summarize matters concerning bribery and corruption, that employees should observe when doing business in Japan, the United States and China. We have worked to make these regulations and guidelines known via the intranet, so that Group employees can check them at any time. Pledge to Society 208 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Main Measures Relating to Bribery and Corruption In our efforts to prevent the breaking of any laws, we identify high risk cases regarding corruption and bribery, and put countermeasures in place. For example, when a government official is to be entertained or presented with a gift, a form must be submitted in advance to obtain approval from management. In the event that we appoint an agent or consultant in connection with business transactions, including those involving public officials from other countries, we stipulate that this can only be undertaken once we have confirmed that payments of remuneration to that agent or consultant could not be classed as bribes, that there are no reasonable grounds to suspect that payments could constitute bribes and only after a predetermined settlement procedure has been followed. Identification of High-risk Divisions and Employee Training In the sales and purchasing departments, which are especially at risk for bribery and corruption, we encourage them to learn about regulations and guidelines, such as by conducting training specific to countering graft and corruption, and to make full use of the relevant forms, among other measures. In fiscal 2018, we conducted continuing training for the prevention of bribery at domestic business sites, with a focus on departments at high risk. At overseas business sites as well, we conducted bribery prevention training linked to the “Compliance Reinforcement Month,” held yearly throughout the Group in October. In the United States, training sessions were held mainly for locations where no training was held in fiscal 2017, and training sessions in line with specific circumstances were also held at Group companies in China and Europe. In the Southeast Asia region as well, training visits were used in conjunction with e-learning to ensure the contents of the “Global Compliance Manual” were common knowledge among employees. Cases of Violations in Fiscal 2018 No cases of major violations of the laws governing bribery and corruption occurred in fiscal 2018. Protection of Intellectual Property Protecting Our Intellectual Property and Respecting the Intellectual Property Rights of Others The Company regards intellectual property (IP) that has resulted from its R&D activities to be an important management resource underpinning Sekisui Chemical Group's growth and profitability as well as efforts toward the maximization of corporate value. For that reason, Sekisui Chemical Group endeavors to secure strategic IP that supports our business activities, as well as to maintain and mange any acquired IP. Meanwhile, we conduct periodic investigations to avoid infringing upon the IP rights of others, and take appropriate measures to avoid and prevent others from infringing upon the IP rights of Sekisui Chemical Group. In order to thoroughly implement these measures, we have prepared several educational programs tailored to the level and needs of participants, from the acquisition of basic knowledge to strategy building, and conduct Group-wide educational activities relating to IP. Pledge to Society 209 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Reasonable Evaluations with Regard to R&D Paying Fair Monetary Incentives for Valuable Inventions In addition to paying monetary incentives for inventions made by employees, the Invention Grand Prize has been established as one part of our efforts to ensure researchers and engineers receive the evaluations and recognition they deserve. The Invention Grand Prize pays out monetary incentives to inventors employed by the company as compensation for those of their achievements that have made a particularly large contribution to profits. Major Initiatives Upgrade of Legal Affairs Structure Reinforcement of Global Legal Affairs Structure Sekisui Chemical Group has been reinforcing its legal affairs structure by developing and deploying legal personnel, strengthening collaboration among legal departments and enhancing legal functions. In fiscal 2017, employees responsible for legal affairs at Sekisui Europe B.V. and Sekisui Southeast Asia Co., Ltd., our regional headquarters in Europe and Thailand, respectively, took up new posts. Initiatives undertaken during the Compliance Reinforcement Month in Japan have also been extended to the US and China. In fiscal 2018, initiatives undertaken during the Compliance Reinforcement Month were extended to the Southeast Asian and European regions. Compliance Reinforcement Month Conducting Educational Programs in the Three Areas of Quality Fraud, Labor Management, and Information Management In fiscal 2014, we decided that October of each year would be Compliance Reinforcement Month, to give all employees the opportunity to reflect on their compliance awareness and actions. In fiscal 2018, we conducted educational programs covering the three areas of quality fraud, labor management, and information management. Pledge to Society 210 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Initiatives Taken During Compliance Reinforcement Month in Japan (FY2018) 1. Disseminated the President’s Top Message 2. Introduced the Compliance Reinforcement Month activities from the European and Southeast Asian regions in Group newsletters 3. Implemented all types of compliance training / Held an open-style legal seminar in which employees participated of their own accord (8 locations, 11 times in total) 4. Conducted e-learning / Implemented e-learning on the Company intranet (questions centered on quality fraud and information management) 5. Compliance Implementation Report by frontier leaders 6. Distributed Compliance Posters in 9 languages to business sites in Japan and overseas ＜ Other compliance training ＞ 1. Implemented education programs conducted by visiting staff at business sites where there had been several compliance issues 2. Provided educational opportunities at business sites in Japan where the opportunities were deemed insufficient Marketing Communications Legal Compliance with Regard to Advertising and Labeling When conducting business activities, Sekisui Chemical Group strictly adheres to laws and regulations while engaging in good-faith marketing activities. In fiscal 2018, there were no cases of serious violations of laws, regulations or internal rules to report within the context of marketing communications related to advertising and product labeling. Handling Measures for Antitrust Laws At Sekisui Chemical Group, we have been operating a business organization membership payment system, a pre-application and follow-up report system for competitor contact, and a price revision committee system since 2007 as a compliance program for antitrust laws. The implementation status of these systems is audited yearly, and the program is revised as needed. We are currently working to expand these systems to Group companies, and the introduction of the program was completed at domestic business companies with high cartel risk in fiscal 2018. There were no cases of major violations of antitrust laws in fiscal 2018. Pledge to Society 211 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Respect for Human Rights Management Approach Basic Concept Striving to Respect the Human Rights of All Individuals Affected by Business Activities At Sekisui Chemical Group, we consider it our duty to advocate for the human rights of all people affected by our business activities. Nowadays, the enaction of rules and laws related to human rights continues to progress both inside and outside of Japan, and human rights issues are getting increasing attention in society. In these conditions, we consider human rights initiatives for not only employees of the Group but also our business partners and other stakeholders to be essential for solidifying our sustainable management platform. Human Rights Policy Formulation Newly Formulating Sekisui Chemical Group “Human Rights Policy” Sekisui Chemical Group began formulating Sekisui Chemical Group “Human Rights Policy” in October 2018. Subsequently, we have established a new Human Rights Policy in June 2019 after implementing a human rights risk assessment and approval at a meeting of the Board of Directors. This policy has been disclosed on this CSR Report. Unlike the earlier Sekisui Chemical Group Personnel and Human Rights Policy, which mainly focused on Group employees, the new Human Rights Policy is different in that it proposes to firmly respect human rights across the board, including the value chain beyond the Group, in compliance with the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights adopted by the United Nations Human Rights Council. Going forward, we will work to achieve an understanding of and instill this new Human Rights Policy among all employees of the Group, as well as our suppliers and business partners. Note: For details regarding Sekisui Chemical Group “Human Rights Policy,” see page 18. Pledge to Society 212 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Identifying Human Rights Risks Within the Group Employing a Specialized Agency to Assess Human Rights Risks in Primary Business Activities In November 2018, we employed an external specialized agency (Verisk Maplecroft*1) to conduct a human rights risk assessment among the primary business activities of Sekisui Chemical Group. On the basis of 10 human rights issues, this agency calculated a human rights risk score for four industries, namely Homebuilder, Auto Parts, Industrial Machinery and Goods, and Pharmaceutical. Moreover, the results, which take into account the risks of each country in which Group companies are located, confirmed that Sekisui Chemical Group business activities, particularly overseas (China, India, Thailand, Brazil), held a potentially high risk of human rights violations in terms of occupational health and safety, etc. 10 Human Rights Issues in Primary Business Activities (1) Child labor (2) Fair wages, (3) Fair working hours, (4) Discrimination in the workplace, (5) Modern slavery*2 (6) Freedom of association and right to collective bargaining, (7) Rights of indigenous peoples, (8) Rights relating to property, assets, and housing, (9) Occupational health and safety, and (10) Right to privacy Industry Priority Country (Latent) Priority Issues ● Modern slavery Homebuilder Thailand ● Occupational health and safety ● Fair wages China ● Fair wages India Auto Parts ● Modern slavery Brazil Thailand ● Occupational health and safety Industrial Machinery China ● Occupational health and safety and Goods Thailand ● Occupational health and safety Pharmaceutical China ● Right to privacy *1 A risk analysis and research corporation with a global perspective and knowledge of human rights, economic, and environmental risks. *2 The definition of slavery in the modern era as established in the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. Primarily refers to (1) slavery, servitude, forced or compulsory labor, (2) human trafficking, and (3) exploitation (sexual exploitation, organ harvesting etc.). Pledge to Society 213 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Identifying Human Rights Risks within the Group Implementation of Internal Interviews Based on Risk Assessment Results Since February 2019, we have been implementing interviews of related internal staff with third parties (Caux Round Table Japan*). By carrying out these interviews regarding countries with high latent risks identified in human rights risk assessments and with staff at the Group who have experience stationed in Thailand, China, and India, as well as related internal departments, we confirmed whether there was any gap between the assessment results and actual business conditions at the Company. Interview Results ・Awareness of safety at overseas production companies is high and safety activities have taken hold ・Positive conditions such as a lack of discrimination toward immigrant laborers, foreigners, and women working there were identified at the Group companies involved in the interviews ・Although headquarters-led CSR procurement survey are implemented for suppliers, no supplier checks were performed from the perspective of human rights at the site level ・Some overseas production companies have factories that use a large number of temporary workers (fixed-term employees) As per above, some of the findings indicated issues requiring further confirmation of on-site conditions. Moving forward, Sekisui Chemical Group will identify possible human rights burdens which could be imposed on society and aim to build a human rights due diligence framework which can prevent and reduce the impact of these problems. * A non-profit organization with a network of a variety of CSR initiative organizations both inside and outside of Japan and extensive experience with support programs for initiatives to reduce human rights risks within corporate supply chains Business Activities That Respect Human Rights Deepening Understanding of Human Rights, Implementing Business Activities That Respect Human Rights Along with its suppliers, Sekisui Chemical Group engages in business activities that respect human rights as part of its obligation to all stakeholders. All Group employees are provided with a copy of the Company’s Compliance Manual. We have set strict standards for respecting human rights, prohibiting discrimination, preventing harassment, and protecting personal information. We conduct training and e-learning sessions for employees about the prevention of all forms of harassment. We work diligently to raise the understanding and awareness of such issues among all of our employees. Pledge to Society 214 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Preventing Harassment Conducting Educational Programs for the Purpose of Preventing Harassment In order to prevent power, sexual, maternity, and other forms of harassment, Sekisui Chemical Group continues to cover harassment prevention as part of its compliance educational programs during employee rank-based training, including new employee and newly appointed manager trainings. In this way, we provide knowledge for preventing harassment tailored to each rank and position. We also periodically provide harassment training as part of field-based educational programs. Assessing the Human Rights Situation at Our Suppliers Caring About Human Rights Issues Across the Entire Supply Chain Through CSR procurement with our suppliers, we make sure our business partners respect human rights. In order for our suppliers to understand the Group’s procurement policy, including respect for human rights, we have produced English and Chinese translated versions as well as the Japanese version and are promoting the process of making procurement policies available in a variety of languages, such as by posting them in Japanese and English on our websites. With regard to suppliers that do not meet the prescribed standards, a request is made to ensure that the necessary steps are taken to resolve any issues. Sekisui Chemical Group works together with suppliers in the implementation of appropriate measures. We are making progress with the development of mechanisms, designed specifically for our overseas business partners and suppliers, to encourage improvements via our regional headquarters. Major Initiatives Internal Deliberations During Human Rights Policy Formulation Inviting External Specialized Agencies to the Human Rights Policy Formulation Workshop As part of our initiatives related to formulating the new Human Rights Policy, in December 2018 we held the Human Rights Policy Formulation Workshop. This workshop was attended by each of the headquarters’ Group department managers. Under the guidance of external specialized agency (Caux Round Table Japan), participants considered the association between our mission (3S Principles/Group Vision, etc.) and human rights issues, the policy’s scope of application, and norms, laws, and ordinances that must be referenced during policy formulation, among others. In this way, participants confirmed that taking on the challenge of preparing a human rights policy must first consider a wide range of risks while taking the business characteristics and features of Sekisui Chemical Group into account. Scenes from the Human Rights Policy Formulation Workshop Pledge to Society 215 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Initiatives Geared Toward Suppliers Conducting CSR Procurement Surveys Guided by its procurement policy, Sekisui Chemical Group has been conducting surveys as a part of the process to select new suppliers in Japan since 2007. Through these surveys, the Company works to ascertain the stance of each supplier toward human rights and environmental protection as well as the status of each supplier’s CSR activities. In fiscal 2017, we formulated and put into effect CSR Status Survey Guidelines for Suppliers, which are geared toward the raw materials procurement departments at each divisional company. Following upon the survey implemented in fiscal 2017, in fiscal 2018 we assessed the status of human rights related initiatives among the major suppliers for Group Companies in the Asian and Oceania regions by implementing the CSR procurement survey. As a result, we confirmed that no major human rights infringements, including child labor and forced labor, occurred at our major suppliers. Initiatives Geared Toward Employees Implementing Human Rights Training and Education Sekisui Chemical Group conducts training and educational programs focusing on the theme of human rights for its employees. In this manner, the Group is endeavoring to engage in management that takes into consideration concerns regarding human rights. We incorporate content that raises awareness about human rights issues, such as forced labor, child labor, harassment, etc., in particular in training carried out at career milestones, such as when joining the Company or upon promotion. In fiscal 2018, we invited a lawyer with a strong background in harassment issues from outside the company to hold lectures on the theme of harassment during the Headquarters Compliance Training implemented at each headquarters business site. These training sessions were held at four business sites in Tokyo, Osaka, Tsukuba, and Kyoto, and were attended by a total of 191 employees. In addition, training programs that aim to prevent all forms of harassment are held every year. In fiscal 2018, 722 employees participated in these programs. Pledge to Society 216 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Addressing the Issue of Conflict Minerals “Conflict Minerals Survey Guidelines Put into Effect Sekisui Chemical is concerned about the conflict mineral problem, namely the mineral resources controlled by armed forces in the Democratic Republic of Congo and neighboring countries that commit human rights violations and destroy the environment. We conduct surveys on the use of conflict minerals at companies throughout our supply chain from a CSR perspective. We put our “Conflict Minerals Survey Guidelines” into effect in April 2017. These guidelines were newly formulated for each Group division* responsible for receiving survey requests for conflict minerals from suppliers and for conducting the surveys. In fiscal 2018, we conducted 569 conflict mineral surveys (as of June 18, 2019) at Sekisui Chemical's Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company, High Performance Plastics Company, and the Group companies of each. We were unable to identify any conflict minerals among the surveyed companies. However, there were some issues such as the smelting facility being unclear for 2 of these surveys. These surveys will continue to be implemented in fiscal 2019. In addition, we provided instructions and began implementation of the Conflict Minerals Survey Guidelines in fiscal 2018 at Sekisui Polymatech Co., Ltd., a member of Sekisui Group since August 2017. * For the quality control department of each divisional company factory and the quality control departments of affiliated companies or affiliated company factories Addressing the Procurement of Timber Materials Started Implementation of Timber Procurement Survey Guidelines We have been implementing Timber Procurement Surveys for Housing Company suppliers since fiscal year 2015, and Timber Procurement Survey Guidelines for the procurement departments of each divisional company were established in 2017. Implementation of the guidelines began in April 2018. In order to contribute to the eradication of deforestation as well as the sustainable use of timber resources, every effort is made to ensure that the timber used in products is logged in accordance with statutory and regulatory requirements (FSC etc.). In fiscal 2018, we conducted a survey based on the Timber Procurement Survey Guidelines for all companies. The results confirmed that all of the timber was logged in accordance with statutory and regulatory requirements for the business partners (39 companies) of the Housing Company. In addition, testing surveys were started for the paper products purchased by the High Performance Plastics Company (craft paper, release paper) at the same time, and the Timber Procurement Survey Guidelines were revised for applicability to paper product testing surveys. Pledge to Society 217 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Performance Data Employees Using the e-learning System Over Time Employees Using the e-learning System Over Time (Number of participants) 25,000 20,210 20,450 20,934 18,649 20,618 20,684 20,000 20,450 19,617 17,209 15,175 15,000 10,000 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 * Average values for four sessions conducted in each year. However, the third and fourth sessions were underway during fiscal year 2018 when this chart was created, so the average value for sessions one and two is provided for that year. * With the exception of overseas local hires, all Sekisui Chemical and Sekisui Chemical Group employees are required to take part in e-learning programs. List of Results Relating to Compliance Training Fiscal Year 2018 List of Results Relating to Compliance Training Trainees Trainees Training Training content Group companies Attendance Training Training content Group companies Attendance Sekisui Chemical Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Domestic Overseas Domestic Overseas Training for new Act against Delay in ○ ○ 143 Regular employees Payment of Subcontract ○ ○ 154 training Proceed, etc. to Training for new ○ ○ 210 Subcontractors training managers Bribery prevention Training for employees in ○ 48 ○ 19 training their 3rd year Training in Act against Newly appointed senior ○ ○ 48 Unjustifiable Premiums management training ○ 47 and Misleading Newly appointed assistant Representations ○ ○ 200 manager training Stamp Tax Act training ○ 30 Newly appointed ○ 4 Risk management executive officer training Area-specific ○ 257 training Executive officer training ○ 29 training Mental health training ○ ○ 26 Affiliated company Training ○ 48 for specific full-time directors training Accounting training ○ ○ 17 employee Training for new auditors ○ 11 Human rights training ○ 168 ranks at affiliated companies Contract fundamentals Training for those ○ ○ 40 responsible for ○ 14 training management Information management ○ 43 Training for those training ○ 29 responsible for compliance Training for prior to ○ ○ 29 Training for compliance overseas transfers Global training promotion committee ○ 19 Compliance training ○ 34 members Training for auditing Domestic training ○ ○ 1102 ○ ○ 58 office supervisors North America training ○ 711 Compliance training ○ ○ 1263 Compliance Reinforcement China training ○ 446 Area-specific Harassment preventing Month ○ ○ 722 training training Southeast Asia training ○ 275 Export controls training ○ ○ 240 Europe training ○ 40 Pledge to Society 218 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Number of Whistleblowing Cases and Consultations Fiscal Year 2018 Number of Whistleblowing Cases and Consultations Reports/consultations Number of cases Power harassment 44 Working conditions 34 Sexual harassment 6 Workplace environmental concerns 7 Misuse of expenses 5 Sales methods related 0 Misrepresentation of work performance 2 Incidents with business partners 0 Others 14 Total number of complaints 112 Donations Donations Relating to Governmental Policies Donations (made by Sekisui Chemical non-consolidated) to industry bodies and political groups for fiscal 2014 to fiscal 2018 are as follows: (Thousands of yen) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 18,681 18,936 19,050 22,909 23,596 Pledge to Society 219 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Stakeholder Engagement Improving Corporate Value Through Strengthening Dialogue with Stakeholders Management Approach Basic Concept Promoting Constructive Dialogue with Stakeholders To build relationships of trust with its five stakeholders—customers, shareholders, employees, business partners as well as local communities and the environment—Sekisui Chemical Group considers that it is important to improve corporate value through constructive dialogue. Positioning its stakeholders as partners in improving corporate value, having constructive dialogue with them, assessing their expectations and requests as well as resolving society-wide issues together with them, leads to great opportunities for Sekisui Chemical Group. We will create a relationship of mutual prosperity with our stakeholders while continuing to promote sustainable growth. Promoting Engagement with Stakeholders Reflecting Stakeholder Opinions in Corporate Activities The ESG Management Department, which falls under the purview of the Representative Director and Head of the Business Strategy Department, is responsible for promoting constructive dialogue with all stakeholders. The various assessments and opinions of all stakeholders are reported to the CSR Committee, which is chaired by the Company president and is composed of directors, and the Company strives to adequately reflect these views in its activities. There were no major concerns voiced by stakeholders through any of the engagements in fiscal 2018. Stakeholder Engagement 220 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Main Responsibilities, Communication Channels, and Communication Methods Sekisui Chemical Communication Stakeholders Contact Frequency Group’s Commitment Methods ・Customer ・Day-to-day Consultation Office (handles inquiries) ・CS surveys (customer ・As necessary (carried satisfaction surveys) out whenever needed at each divisional We take the voices of our ● Departments in company, business customers seriously, offer Charge of CSR site, or sales office) prominent products and ● Departments in Customers ・Sales activities ・Day-to-day services and strive to build Charge of Quality ・Website, social ・Day-to-day a long-term relationship of Control media trust with our customers. ● Sales Department ・exhibition spaces, ・As necessary expos / events (implemented through questionnaires and conversations at venues) ● Departments ・General Meeting of ・Once per year To meet the expectations of in Charge of Shareholders all our valued shareholders, General Affairs ・Management ・Twice per year we strive for highly efficient ● Departments in briefings use of capital, fair ethical Charge of IR ・Integrated reports ・Issued once per year Shareholders disclosure of information, ● Departments in ・Responding to ・As necessary (handled adequate returns from Charge of Public surveys from in order of inquiry) profit, and increasing Relations institutions that corporate value through ● Departments in evaluate ESG sustainable growth. Charge of CSR Stakeholder Engagement 221 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Sekisui Chemical Communication Stakeholders Contact Frequency Group’s Commitment Methods ・Individual boss ・Regularly and subordinate interviews ・Counseling ・As needed (counseling available upon request through an inhouse occupational counselor or external ● Departments in clinical psychologist) Charge of Human ・Labor-management ・Regularly We foster among our Resources meetings employees a spirit of taking ● Departments in ・Central Occupational ・Once per year on new challenges and are Charge of Safety Safety Committee actively creating workplaces ● Departments in ・Internal ・As needed (handling Employees where every employee Charge of Legal whistle-blowing for consultations and can stand out and diverse Affairs system reports) human resources can both ● Departments in ・Employee ・Once every three excel and feel that their Charge of CSR satisfaction surveys years work is worthwhile. ● Departments in ・Various employee ・As needed Charge of Public questionnaires (questionnaires Relations implemented for internal publications, various types of training sessions, etc.) ・Dialogues with ・Regularly management ・Intranet and internal ・As needed newsletter (information updated when necessary), four times per year Stakeholder Engagement 222 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Sekisui Chemical Communication Stakeholders Contact Frequency Group’s Commitment Methods When procuring materials, ・Purchasing activities ・Day-to-day we follow the fundamentals ・Explanatory meetings ・Regularly of being open, fair, with suppliers compliant with the law, ・CSR procurement ・Once per year engaged in relationships questionnaires ● Departments of mutual trust, and ・Points of contact for ・As needed (handling in Charge of environmentally conscious. consultations from, for consultations and Purchasing We aim to achieve and whistleblowing reports) Business ● Departments in coexistence and shared by, business partners partners Charge of Legal prosperity by building more ・Website ・As needed Affairs robust partnerships with (information updated ● Departments in our business partners and when necessary) Charge of CSR engaging in fair trade. We are also engaged in promoting CSR based on cooperation with our business partners. We emphasize a ・Volunteering by ・Regularly perspective that employees encompasses contributions ・Dialogues with NPOs ・As needed to the development of and NGOs (implemented as ● Departments in communities through necessary before and Charge of CSR our business, coexistence after activities) ● Factories and Local with communities, and ・Support for learning ・Regularly Offices communities environmental conservation. (dispatching of ● Departments in We think about how to instructors, factory Charge of Public make measures that are tours, etc.) Relations tailored to the needs of ・News releases ・As needed (latest each community and information posted practice business in ways as necessary) that engender trust. We are engaged in ・Volunteering by ・Regularly ● Departments in expanding and creating employees Charge of CSR the market for ・Dialogues with NPOs ・As needed ● Factories and Environment-Contributing and NGOs (implemented as Offices Global Products, reducing our necessary before and ● Departments in environment environmental impacts, after activities) Charge of Sales and conserving the natural ・ Sales operations ・Day-to-day ● Departments environment—all with the ・Purchasing activities ・Day-to-day in Charge of aim of realizing “earth with Purchasing maintained biodiversity.” Stakeholder Engagement 223 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Major Initiatives Dialogue with Stakeholders Dialogue through Various Methods of Communication Continuing from last fiscal year, we implemented conversation through the “CAT (Customer And Top” meeting (fiscal 2018: held 284 times, 2,125 participants), which features housing sales company executives listening to customer feedback directly, as well as initiatives such as communication with customers at the Eco Pro* event we participate in every year, interviews with investors and investigative organizations, and conversation with business partners at events such as the “Heim Mutual Prosperity Meeting.” As for employees, we set up opportunities for direct conversation with the company president and other high-ranking management officials and carried out information gathering activities to collect the opinions and requests of employees related to CSR activities. These internal opinions and requests, as well as the opinions and requests received from outside the company in response to CSR reports and other public information, are used for the promotion of CSR. * For more information about Eco Pro, see the “Environment-Contributing Products” on page 102. Dialogues with Employees Direct Communication between Management and Employees at “Town Hall Style Meeting with President / Top Management Believing that dialogue between management and employees is essential in resolving the problems faced by the Company as well as work-related issues, Sekisui Chemical Group has been providing opportunities for employees to have direct communication with top management since fiscal 2002. Sekisui Chemical Group in fiscal 2018 held “Town Hall Style Meeting with President / Top Management,” in which employees and management leaders were able to exchange views, in three domestic locations and one overseas location. Dialogue included discussion on “work style reforms,” a subject also highlighted in the Medium-Term Management Plan. The meetings brought in employees from the venue business as well as nearby locations, and participants from different companies and working environments engaged in an exchange of views from widely differing perspectives. Employees were able to interact directly with executive officers, asking questions in regard to work style reforms and voicing their expectations of management. Based on the opinions voiced in fiscal 2017, the Company in fiscal 2018 advanced efforts aimed at improving workplace productivity through investment in work style reforms, as well as improving paid leave utilization and reducing working hours. Among the opinions received, concerns were raised that the effects of such initiatives as awareness reform were not being felt. Every effort will be made to reflect these concerns in activities going forward. President Koge speaking directing with employees Stakeholder Engagement 224 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Dialogue with Investors Continuing to Engage in Direct Communication in an Effort to Enhance Understanding Interest in ESG investment, by which investments are actively made in companies that engage in CSR activities, has been mounting recently. At the same time, ratings agencies are increasingly undertaking surveys. As its business domains are so diverse, Sekisui Chemical Group believes it important to give explanations individually and carefully to ensure that the Group's overall business characteristics and CSR initiatives are sufficiently and correctly understood. We list “active engagement between investors and management” as one of the crucial tasks in which we are engaged in our CSR Medium-term Plan. To assess how our corporate value and sustainable growth are reflected in how we appear from an outside perspective, we have set a medium-term target of holding over 70 dialogues and are continuously engaged in direct dialogues with ESG investment assessment and ranking institutions, particularly in Europe, as well as with financial institutions and investors in Japan and throughout the world. During the fiscal 2018, we held 87 engagements. As we did in fiscal 2017, Sekisui Chemical Group in fiscal 2018 held management briefings for investors living in the Kanto region. We also held our first ESG Small Meeting, which we established to provide opportunities for direct dialog and discussions regarding Sekisui Chemical Group initiatives with domestic institutional investors with a focus on Group shareholders. With the investor and ESG investment assessment as well as SRI ratings agencies very much in mind, Sekisui Chemical discloses detailed information, including through CSR Reports, Notices of Convocation for the Annual General Meetings of Shareholders, and Integrated Reports on its website. Since 2016, the Group has published an integrated report that explains its economic value, the outcomes of activities to create social value, Group strategies, its medium-term vision, as well as to discuss its financial strategy, shareholder return policy and other measures that form the basis of corporate activities. Information in the CSR Report is provided in line with what is considered important to both society and Sekisui Chemical Group, is based on internal and external surveys as well as third-party reviews, and references various report-drafting guidelines. General Meeting of Shareholders in Tokyo Active Engagement Between Investors and Management FY2017 Results FY2018 Results Number of engagements 88 87 Note: The number of engagements represents the number of times company presidents and executives in charge of specific areas had dialogues with investors. Stakeholder Engagement 225 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Spreading Awareness of CSR Through Communication Various initiatives to deepen understanding among employees We are carrying out a variety of initiatives to deepen understanding of Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR among our employees. In fiscal 2018, we published and distributed to Sekisui Chemical Group employees the Sustainability Report, which aims to provide an “integrated story” for the Company’s businesses and CSR activities. The Sustainability Report was produced in both Japanese and English. Sekisui Chemical Group provides CSR training to new employees, newly appointed managers, and all Group company employees. The following communication tools also allow us to increase awareness and understanding of the Group CSR concepts. ● A variety of CSR materials on the intranet, including “Our CSR,” which explains the concepts of Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR, in seven languages (Japanese, English, Chinese, German, Spanish, Dutch, and Thai). ● CSR navigator email newsletter to employees to keep them up to date with the latest CSR topics at Sekisui Chemical Group. In addition to having reached the stage at which employees are able to freely download them via the intranet, these kinds of communications and CSR-related materials are also distributed to all target employees, regardless of whether they are regular or non-regular staff, on an as needed basis, for example when employees join the Company or when implementing CSR-related educational programs. In the US and Europe, regional headquarters distribute CSR-related information to employees working in each of the respecting operating areas. In Europe, information is posted on the intranet once a month, while information in the US is distributed via the News Wave booklet. Sustainability Report Our CSR Japanese English Chinese Japanese English German Dutch Spanish Thai Stakeholder Engagement 226 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Distribute Value to Stakeholders Calculating Economic Value Distribution Based on GRI Standards Sekisui Chemical Group calculates distribution status for each stakeholder based on its financial statements, using GRI and other accounting standards as a reference. We will accelerate CSR by quantifying, visualizing and assessing the business and social value brought about by engagement with our stakeholders. (Unit: Millions of yen) Stakeholders Method of Calculating Amounts FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Shareholders Dividends 16,063 19,064 20,615 Cost of Sales, Selling Costs / General Business partners Administrative Costs (Excluding 778,623 811,642 840,514 Personnel Costs) Labor costs, Salaries and allowances as part of sales costs and general Employees 190,676 196,554 206,511 administrative costs, Provisions for bonuses, Provisions for retirement pay Local communities Donations 186 150 165 Global environment Environmental conservation costs 16,506 22,569 21,882 Government and Corporate taxes, local taxes, business 23,396 23,393 22,261 administrative bodies taxes Interest paid as part of costs apart from Creditors 610 533 480 sales Stakeholder Engagement 227 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Governance and Internal Control Sekisui Chemical Group Has Put in Place Its Own Corporate Governance System That Reflects Its Divisional Company Organization System Management Approach Basic Philosophy Basic Philosophy and Framework for Corporate Governance Sekisui Chemical Group (the Group) has put in place a basic philosophy regarding corporate governance that lays out efforts for securing sustainable growth and increasing corporate value over the medium and long terms. To help achieve these goals, we are increasing the transparency and fairness of our management and pursuing swift decision-making and will do so while continuing to meet—through the creation of value for society that is part of our Corporate Philosophy—the needs of the five types of stakeholders the Group emphasizes: customers, shareholders, employees, business partners, and local communities and the environment. SEKISUI Corporate Governance Principles The Company has established and disclosed the Sekisui Corporate Governance Principles for the purpose of further evolving its corporate governance initiatives and communicating our corporate governance approach and initiatives to our stakeholders. In addition to the above Principles, the status of the Company’s initiatives and its approach with respect to all 78 items of the Corporate Governance Code, consisting of the General Principles, Principles and Supplementary Principles, are summarized and disclosed in the form of the Initiatives to Each of Principles of the Corporate Governance Code. ・Corporate Governance Report (June 21, 2019) https://www.sekisuichemical.com/about/outline/governance/pdf/20190621cgre.pdf ・SEKISUI Corporate Governance Principles (June 21, 2019) https://www.sekisuichemical.com/about/outline/governance/pdf/20190621cgpe.pdf ・Initiatives to Each of Principles of the Corporate Governance Code (June 21, 2019) https://www.sekisuichemical.com/about/outline/governance/pdf/20190621cgie.pdf Governance 228 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Corporate Governance Systems Organizational Structure As an organizational structure under the Companies Act, the Company has chosen to be a company with Audit and Supervisory Board. Under the Divisional Company Organization System, the Company has adopted the Executive Officer System in order to clearly distinguish the business execution function from the decision-making function in management. Initiatives Taken to Enhance Corporate Governance 2001 Divisional Company Organization System introduced 2008 Executive Officer system introduced Outside Director system introduced, two independent management executives invited to serve as Outside Directors 2015 Independence standards of Outside Directors formulated 2016 Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee (chaired by Outside Director) established 2018 Number of Outside Directors increased by one, change to three outside director system Corporate Governance System Chart Governance 229 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Board of Directors Roles and Responsibilities of the Board of Directors Positioned as the body responsible for decision-making concerning the Company's fundamental policies and upper-level management issues as well as for supervising the execution of business, the Board of Directors has in place a highly effective supervisory system for Directors by appointing three sufficiently experienced Outside Directors to ensure transparency in management and fairness in business decisions and operations. Composition of the Board of Directors The number of Directors shall not exceed 15, and two or more of them shall be Outside Directors. The Board of Directors of the Company shall consist of Directors who are of excellent character, have insight and high moral standards in addition to knowledge, experience, and competence. In addition, Audit and Supervisory Board Members, including Outside Audit and Supervisory Board Members, shall attend the meetings of the Board of Directors. The Company ensures diversity among board members and keeps the number of Directors at an optimal level for appropriate decision-making that is commensurate with the business domain and size. The presidents of the divisional companies, who are the top management of each business and senior corporate officers with significant experience and strong expertise, are appointed as inside Directors. Together with the independent Outside Directors, who have broad knowledge and experience, and Audit and Supervisory Board Members with strong expertise, the presidents of the divisional companies effectively perform the roles and responsibilities of the Board of Directors and maintain a balance with respect to diversity, optimal size, and capabilities. Governance 230 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Number of Number of Years Number of Attendance of (At the closing Attendance Nominating the Audit and of the Annual of the Board and Position in the Supervisory Name General of Directors Remuneration Company Board Meeting of Meetings of Advisory Meetings of Shareholders the Company Committee the Company held on June (Fiscal 2018) (Fiscal 2018) 20, 2019) President and 100% Teiji Koge Representative Director 14 years ― ● (17 out of 17) Chief Executive Officer Representative Director 100% Keita Kato Senior Managing 5 years ― (17 out of 17) Executive Officer Director 100% Yoshiyuki Hirai Managing Executive 4 years ― (17 out of 17) Officer Director 100% Hiroyuki Taketomo Managing Executive 3 years ― (17 out of 17) Officer Director Toshiyuki Kamiyoshi Managing Executive ― ― ― Officer Director Ikusuke Shimizu Managing Executive ― ― ― Officer Independent Outside 100% Yutaka Kase 3 years ― ● Director (17 out of 17) Independent Outside 100% Hiroshi Oeda 1 year ― ● Director (13 out of 13) Independent Outside Yoko Ishikura ― ― ― ● Director Corporate Audit and 100% 100% Moritoshi Naganuma Supervisory Board 2 years (17 out of 17) (18 out of 18) Member Corporate Audit and 100% 100% Yuichi Hamabe Supervisory Board 3 years (17 out of 17) (18 out of 18) Member Independent Outside 100% 100% Tetsuo Ozawa Audit and Supervisory 5 years ● (17 out of 17) (18 out of 18) Board Member Independent Outside 100% 100% Kazuyuki Suzuki Audit and Supervisory 4 years (17 out of 17) (18 out of 18) Board Member Independent Outside Ryoko Shimizu Audit and Supervisory ― ― ― Board Member Governance 231 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Directors’ and Audit and Supervisory Board Members’ Outstanding Expertise, Experience and Capabilities Human Name Corporate and Labor Financial Management / Quality Administration / International Research & Affairs/ Legal Affairs Management Control Human Mindset Development Accounting Strategy Resources Development Teiji Koge ● ● Keita Kato ● ● ● ● Yoshiyuki ● ● ● Hirai Hiroyuki ● ● ● Taketomo Toshiyuki ● Kamiyoshi Ikusuke ● ● ● ● Shimizu Yutaka ● ● Kase Hiroshi ● ● Oeda Yoko ● ● Ishikura Moritoshi ● Naganuma Yuichi ● Hamabe Tetsuo ● Ozawa Kazuyuki ● Suzuki Ryoko ● ● Shimizu * The list above does not reflect the full range of expertise possessed by the Directors and Audit and Supervisory Board Members. Governance 232 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities About the Age-group Composition of Corporate Officers Under 30 30〜39 40〜49 50〜59 60 or older Men 0 0 0 4 4 Number of Officers by Age Women 0 0 0 0 1 * As of the end of the General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 20, 2019. Outside Directors The Company appoints to the Board three Outside Directors with verified independence from the Company who contribute to the enhancement of corporate value by providing oversight and advice based on their extensive administrative experience and specialized knowledge gained in backgrounds different to those of the Company. Based on their diverse and objective perspectives, the Outside Directors provide counsel especially on priority management issues, such as global development strategy, business model revisions, and the strengthening of ESG management. Yutaka Kase, Outside Director Mr. Kase is taking office of Advisor of Sojitz Corporation. Mr. Kase has provided advice with respect to the business management of the Company and supervised business execution appropriately by leveraging his abundant experience and past achievements regarding global corporate management and business strategy fostered through his position as a corporate manager of a general trading company. Therefore, the Company has judged that he would be able to contribute to further enhancing the corporate value of the SEKISUI CHEMICAL Group and thus appointed him as Director. Hiroshi Oeda, Outside Director Mr. Oeda is taking office of Corporate Special Advisor of Nisshin Seifun Group Inc. As Mr. Oeda has been a management executive of the largest milling company in Japan, the Company expects him to provide advice with respect to the business management of the Company and supervise business execution appropriately by leveraging his abundant experience and skill regarding global corporate management, business strategies and M&A activities fostered through his positions. Therefore, the Company has judged that he would be able to contribute to enhancing the corporate value of the SEKISUI CHEMICAL Group and thus appointed him as Director. Yoko Ishikura, Outside Director Ms. Ishikura is the Professor Emeritus of Hitotsubashi University. Ms. Ishikura has advanced academic expertise in international politics/economics and international corporate strategy, and is well-versed in corporate management through her experience as outside director at multiple global enterprises. Furthermore, she has been actively involved in diversity management and promotion of greater participation of women, which are areas being addressed by the Group. Therefore, the Company has judged that she would be able to contribute to enhancing the corporate value of the Company and thus appointed her as Director. Governance 233 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Assessment Relating to the Board’s Effectiveness The Company evaluates the effectiveness of the Board of Directors every year. Having set an appropriate agenda, the Board of Directors engages in sufficient discussion with opinions and recommendations actively provided by Directors (including Outside Directors) and Audit and Supervisory Board Members. The Company has therefore determined that the current Board of Directors is contributing to enhancing the corporate value of the Group and functioning properly. In fiscal 2018, the Board of Directors thoroughly deliberated important management issues such as growth strategies, including R&D, M&A, investment, and large new businesses, and fundamental strategies, including work style reform and CS & quality. The Board also ensured that adequate time was provided to sufficiently discuss these issues and active participation and opinions and recommendations were actively provided by both outside and inside Directors as well as Audit and Supervisory Board Members. The Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee made recommendations to the Board of Directors on such matters as Director nominations, individual performance, and remuneration levels. The Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee met nine times, including to discuss the plan for the president’s succession, the composition and effectiveness of the Board of Directors, and initiatives for strengthening governance. In fiscal 2019, the Company will further enhance deliberations on important management issues and ensure fairness and transparency in the Company’s management by making what the Board of Directors deem to be appropriate decisions. Support for and Collaboration with Directors and Audit and Supervisory Board Members To enable the Outside Directors to enhance deliberations at Board of Directors’ meetings, the Company continuously provides opportunities for them to deepen their understanding of the Group’s businesses. This is done, for example, by the prior distribution of materials for Board of Directors’ meetings and explanations given beforehand by the executive officer in charge of the secretariat, orientation visits at the time Outside Directors are appointed, and inspections of business sites several times a year. To further enhance the effectiveness of management supervision by Outside Directors, the Company is making improvements to the deliberations that take place at the Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee, where the majority of the members are Outside Directors, and facilitating their dialog with Audit and Supervisory Board Members and corporate auditors. From the point of view of succession planning, the Company is strengthening contacts between current management and next-generation management candidates, for example by having Outside Directors give lectures at Executive Officers Liaison Meetings that are held on a quarterly basis and providing opportunities for Directors, Audit and Supervisory Board Members and Executive Officers to meet when the new management system is inaugurated following the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. Business Site Visits To deepen their understanding of the Company and the characteristics of the Group's wide-ranging businesses, Outside Directors conduct business site visits every year. In fiscal 2018, Outside Directors visited a Heim Museum development, which the Housing Company is focusing on rolling out nationwide, and the Group’s growth domain, Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Governance 234 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Consultations with Stakeholders on Economic, Environmental and Social Topics At the quarterly Executive Officers Liaison Meetings, the sharing of earnings announcements is combined with invited speakers from outside the company, so that stakeholders obtain the latest information on economic and social trends that are directly linked to management issues. Fiscal 2018 Executive Officers Liaison Meeting Lecture Topics ● 2025 – The Year Decoded As Third Super Economy Golden Cycle ● Purpose and Methods of Company-conducted Fraud Investigations ● Toward Execution of Strategic M&A ● Cyber Security Trends and Enhancement Measures Nominating and Remuneration Advisory Committee The Company has established an optional advisory committee concerning nomination and remuneration to further enhance the fairness and transparency of management. The Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee deliberates matters related to enhancing the effectiveness of the Board of Directors, including the nomination and non-reappointment of senior executives, including representative directors, the nomination of candidates for Director, and the system of remuneration and levels of remuneration for Directors. The Committee also discusses the commissioning of and dealings with advisors or executive advisors, including former representative directors and presidents, and submits recommendations and advice to the Board of Directors. The Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee comprises five members, the majority of whom are independent Outside Directors. The Chairperson is elected from the independent Outside Directors. Governance 235 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Remuneration and Other Compensation for Officers (1) Policy regarding determination of remuneration and other compensation (1) Basic policy The remuneration system policy for officers of the Company is defined as follows in keeping with the corporate philosophy of the Group. ・The policy should contribute to continuous growth and mediumto long-term improvement of corporate value for the Group ・Officers of the Company should share value with shareholders and increase their awareness of shareholder-focused management ・The remuneration policy should be highly-connected to business performance, providing motivation for officers of the Company to achieve management plan goals ・The policy should provide a framework and baseline which enables the Company to acquire and keep on staff with a diverse variety of management talent in order to increase the competitiveness of the Group (2) Remuneration mindset Remuneration and other compensation for executive directors of the Company is made up of basic remuneration, bonuses, and stock options. For Outside Directors and Audit and Supervisory Board Members, remuneration is made up of basic remuneration only. <Basic Remuneration> Basic remuneration within the framework of officer remuneration is a fixed payment determined by the roles and responsibilities of each Director. For executive directors, a portion of the basic remuneration is required to be used for the purpose of the Company’s stock through the Officers Stock Ownership Plan, increasing the emphasis on and awareness of stock prices in management. <Bonuses> The bonus represents the performance-based remuneration, the amount of which is determined based on the payment standards linked to the business performance of the Company and each divisional company, ROE (return on equity), and dividend policy. <Share-based compensation> The share-based compensation is an incentive plan aimed at further raising motivation to contribute to the improvement of midand long-term business performance and improve the Group’s corporate value, under which the number of shares to be granted is determined in accordance with the position of Directors (excluding Outside Directors). Said plan has a structure enabling Directors to receive a benefit at the time of retirement for the results for which they contributed to enhancing the Company’s midand long-term corporate value in the form of the Company’s shares reflecting such enhancement in share value, thereby enhancing the link with midand long-term shareholders’ value. Governance 236 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities (2) Determination Process for Officer Remuneration and Other Compensation In order to achieve the goals of the officer remuneration system, the Company has established a Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee as an advisory organization to the Board of Directors. This committee deliberates on the structure and levels of Director remuneration and verifies the validity of remuneration for individuals, carrying out these processes with objectivity and transparency. <Overview of Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee Activities> ● This committee is convened by the chairperson (an Outside Director). ● The agenda items of this committee are introduced by the committee members, and the secretariat compiles them and presents them to the chairperson. ● The deliberation results of this committee are reported to the Board of Directors by the chairperson. ● The Board of Directors carries out final policy determination, respecting the report of this committee. In addition, the Directors and members of this committee must carry out these decisions from the perspective of whether or not they contribute to the corporate value of the Company and providing benefit to shareholders. Decisions must never have the goal of providing individual benefit to the Directors or committee members themselves, management ranks, or any other third party. Officer Remuneration in Fiscal 2018 (Amount: Millions of yen) Share-based Basic remuneration Bonus Total compensation Number Number Number Number of eligible of eligible of eligible of eligible Amount Amount Amount Amount officers officers officers officers (persons) (persons) (persons) (persons) Directors 11 308 7 142 7 57 11 508 (Of which Outside 3 33 − − − − 3 33 Directors) Audit and Supervisory Board 5 85 − − − − 5 85 Members (Of which Outside Audit and 3 28 − − − − 3 28 Supervisory Board Members) Notes: 1. The number of eligible officers includes one Director who retired at the closing of the 96th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 27, 2018. 2. The amount paid to officers does not include the portion of employee’s salary (including bonus) amounting to 134 million yen for Directors who concurrently serve as employees. ⇒ Notice of Convocation of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders https://www.sekisui.co.jp/ir/document/invite/index.html Governance 237 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Director Company Stock Ownership Guidelines In addition to having introduced, for Directors (excluding Outside Directors) and divisional company Executive Officers, a share-based compensation plan to further raise motivation to contribute to the improvement of midand long-term business performance and improve the Group's corporate value, the Company has established Company Stock Ownership Guidelines for those who are holding more than a certain number of shares. Executive Officer System and Executive Committee To maximize corporate value, the Company has built its management structure based on the Divisional Company Organization System. Together with assigning to each divisional company Executive Officers specializing in business execution, an Executive Committee has been established to serve as the top decision-making body in each divisional company. Executive Committee members, whose term of office is deemed to be for one year, are appointed by resolution of the Board of Directors. By transferring authority to the divisional companies, the Board of Directors strives to achieve continual improvements in corporate value as an organization responsible for decisions on basic policies of Sekisui Chemical Group’s management as well as high-level management decision-making and supervision of business execution. Management System Governance 238 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Auditing System Approach to Appointment of Audit and Supervisory Board Members The Company is working to appoint talented people who possess exceptional corporate management as well as finance and accounting knowledge to Audit and Supervisory Board Member positions. In fiscal 2019, a total of five Audit and Supervisory Board Members, consisting of two full-time Corporate Audit and Supervisory Board Members and three part-time Outside Audit and Supervisory Board Members, were appointed. For the two Corporate Audit and Supervisory Board Member positions, the Company appointed the former heads of the Corporate Audit Department and Corporate Finance & Accounting Department. One of the Outside Audit and Supervisory Board Members appointed is Ms. Ryoko Shimizu, who possesses experience as a certified public accountant and from having worked for an auditing company. Internal Control System In May 2006, the Board of Directors resolved to adopt a fundamental policy regarding the establishment of an internal control system for ensuring the appropriateness of the Group’s business activities. Based on the Corporate Activity Guidelines set forth in accordance with the Group corporate philosophy, the Company seeks to realize collaborative interaction concerning the supervision, directives, and communications of Sekisui Chemical Group (the Company and its subsidiaries), and Sekisui Chemical’s duties include providing guidance and counsel, and undertaking evaluations of all Sekisui Chemical Group members to ensure that their business activities are being conducted in an appropriate manner. Compliance To further strengthen the Group’s compliance activities, the CSR Committee, chaired by the president, deliberates the Fundamental Compliance Policies, which are subject to approval by the Board of Directors. In addition, the Compliance Sub-committee supervises compliance activities Group-wide, and conducts activities to highlight the importance of compliance as a fundamental aspect of our corporate culture. Governance 239 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Risk Management Sekisui Chemical maintains a companywide risk management structure for integrated management of measures to prevent risk events from occurring (risk management) and to respond with risk events occur (crisis management). The Risk Management Group of the Human Resources Department maintains and refines the risk management structure and disseminates information to all Directors, Executive Officers, and employees of the Company and the Group companies. In fiscal 2018, 173 task forces are working to reduce and eliminate risk by analyzing and assessing conditions and implementing risk management measures followed by periodic reviews and implementation of the PDCA cycle of risk management for ongoing improvement. The Risk Management Group addresses risk expediently and systematically, reports to each subcommittee of the CSR Committee, and considers measures for implementation throughout the Company. Crisis management activities are carried out following Sekisui Chemical Group Crisis Management Guidelines. Risk management officers of each department regularly hold crisis management liaison meetings to research incidents and reinforce practices. The Company’s overseas crisis management activities are overseen by the Global Crisis Management Office and Regional Crisis Management Responsibility in each of the Company’s nine regions in line with Sekisui Chemical Group Global Crisis Management Guidelines. Information Disclosure and Communication with Stakeholders In order to deepen mutual trust with all of our shareholders, we believe it is important not only to actively disclose information in a timely and appropriate manner, but also to enhance two-way communications with our shareholders. To steadily put this belief into practice throughout the Group, we established the “Principle of Corporate Information Disclosure” in December 2005 and simultaneously, beefed up our internal information disclosure framework. For instance, we have set up the “Corporate Information Disclosure Regulations” which specify the content and system of disclosure. In order to pursue this principle further, that is to actively disclose more information, since fiscal 2006 we have been holding meetings with the staff who are responsible for information disclosure at the respective divisions. In Sekisui Chemical Group, the Investor Relations Group within the Business Strategy Department is working hard to strengthen two-way communications with our shareholders and investors, not only by disclosing financial statements in a timely and appropriate manner but also by actively reflecting our shareholders’ voice in our management. For example, we hold quarterly briefings on financial results where our management explains these figures. Also, we pay heed to the voice of capital markets by holding one-on-one meetings with analysts and investors. To ensure information is provided in a fair manner, the Group posts its financial statements and results briefings on the Company website in Japanese and English simultaneously and additionally provides audio recordings of the briefing and a transcript of the question and answer session. Governance 240 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Risk Management We Are Increasing Risk Sensitivity and Improving the Quality of Our Activities Through Further Strengthening of Our Risk-management Structures Management Approach Basic Philosophy A System That Can Be Brought to Bear on Ever-changing Risks and Crises Here at Sekisui Chemical Group, we are working to build a risk management structure that unifies “risk management,” which aims to prevent risks from occurring in the first place, and “crisis management,” which responds to serious risks that have manifested. Through this unification of concepts, we aim to build a system that can be brought to bear on ever-changing risks and crises. Concept of Risk Management in Sekisui Chemical Group Risk management Crisis management Normal management Emergency management Crisis Risk management in a wide sense Risk assessment Treatment for Prevent Confirming organization status secondary Prevent Emergency response likelihoods emergency reoccurence Identify important risks Risk management occurence (prevention) (identification/analysis/evaluation) Treatment for Prevent consequences damage Recovery expansion Preparation for crisis Preparation for crises Disaster prevention・BCP(Business continuity plan) Governance 241 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Management Structure Explicitly State Risk Management Policies in Writing and Share Them with All Company Employees In Sekisui Chemical Group’s risk management structure, the head of the HR department, who is also a Director and Managing Executive Officer, holds ultimate responsibility, and the Risk Management Group of the HR Department at headquarters handles day-to-day risk-management operations. We are striving to publicize and thoroughly install among the directors, executive officers, and employees of Sekisui Chemical and its Group companies the “Sekisui Chemical Group Risk Management Guidelines,” which were established based on the revised “Basic Philosophy on Internal Corporate Governance Systems” of April 2015, to identify significant risks and to prevent them from manifesting by centrally and comprehensively collecting and evaluating information about risks. In the event that a significant risk does become manifest, an Emergency Response Headquarters will be established based on the “Sekisui Chemical Group Crisis Management Guidelines,” creating a framework capable of swiftly and appropriately handling the situation. In preparation for such rare contingencies, a code of conduct regarding this framework, to be referred to by all employees, has also been shared with all group employees via the group intranet and other means. Bolstering Risk Management (Prevention) Structures Increasing Risk-sensitivity Using PDCA Cycles It is extremely difficult to accurately monitor for risks that could foreseeably occur at some point in the future, as our corporate activities become more complex. We at Sekisui Chemical Group believe that increasing risk sensitivity among employees is essential to handling such risks, and the Group continuously runs PDCA cycles in line with the international standard for risk management ISO 31000. These activities launched during fiscal 2011 among 27 organizations, primarily business units within the Company. The number of organizations engaged in these actions has increased each year, reaching 173 in total, including Japanese and overseas affiliates, in fiscal 2018. In fiscal 2019, we will bring the number of organization to 177 while aiming to cover around 93% of consolidated revenue. The Group is also working to improve the effectiveness of these actions through inter-organizational cooperation and linkages among specialist divisions. Risk management activity Sales organization total net sales （％） composition = ×100（％） 100 ratio Sekisui Chemical Group total net sales 90 89 *1 93 80 93 80 89 70 Enactment and 65 enforcement of group 60 regulations and risk 53 Revision of Basic 50 management 44 46 Philosophy on regulations 40 Internal Corporate Governance Systems 30 Establishment of Risk (compatible with Management Group revised Companies 20 Act) 10 Launch of risk management project 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019Plan *1 Temporary decline resulting from a large-scale M&A. Recovery is expected once new organizations begin participating in Risk Management Activities. Notes: The ratio of consolidate revenue for the entire Group accounted for by those organizations involved in Risk Management Activities serves as an indicator that considers the extent of impact on Sekisui Chemical Group. Governance 242 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Identifying Risks Listing of Risks for Which the Group Should Be Prepared, Including ESG Risks To make clear which risks the Group as a whole should prepare itself for, the scope of anticipated risks has been identified comprehensively, going beyond ESG risks alone, and these risks have been compiled into the “Sekisui Chemical Group Risk List.” In 2018, this list of risks was revised based on changes in the surrounding environment, and has been newly implemented after organizing the list into 120 categories. ●Major ESG Risks Faced by Sekisui Chemical Group ・Environmental risks (soil and air pollution / leaks of harmful substances / tightening of environmental regulations, etc.) ・Societal risks (worsening of relations with local communities / rumor-based reputational harm/spread of communicable diseases / breakdowns of functions provided by public bodies, etc.) ・Legal risks (unethical or criminal behavior / volitions of the Monopolies Act or fraudulent transactions / unauthorized overwriting of data / behavior constituting harassment / sudden changes to laws or regimes / infringements on intellectual property rights, etc.) ・Quality-related risks (responsibility for manufactured goods / product recalls / mistakes during construction, etc.) ・Human resources / labor risks (labor practices that violate the law / discrimination / changes to the composition of employees, etc.) ・Safety risks (employee health and safety / workplace accidents / the safety of employees stationed or traveling abroad, etc.) ・Financial risks (various risks relating to finances, accounting, and taxes) ・Information-management risks (information leaks / destruction or loss of electronic data, etc.)） ・Management decisionand business design-based risks (unclear vision and management policies / defects in work processes / product-related incidents, etc.) ・Affiliated company and supplier risks (scandals at affiliated companies / disasters or accidents affecting affiliated companies, etc.) Bolstering the Crisis-management System The Operating of the Crisis-management System Based on its experience during the Great East Japan Earthquake, Sekisui Chemical Group carried out a full-scale overhaul of its crisis management system in fiscal 2011 and has been refining that system ever since. Specifically, the Group, among other initiatives, has been conducting drills (at least twice yearly) based on the Emergency Response Headquarters Procedures Manual, annual education (for all employees) using the Emergency Situation Initial Response Procedures Manual, and organizing disaster-preparedness systems based on disaster-preparedness checklists in all offices (around 800 within Japan). As of January 2012, the rate of sufficiency regarding disaster-preparedness systems, in reference to the Cabinet Office’s “Table of Self-evaluation Items,” averaged 41% among all offices. Because of instituting concrete measures, however, the Group has, since fiscal 2015, reached a point where it has been able to maintain an average rate of over 90%. Governance 243 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities The Operating of the Crisis-management System In preparation for emergency situations, Sekisui Chemical Group implements Companywide response measures for emergencies as provided for in the Crisis Management Guidelines and the Emergency Response Headquarters Procedures Manual. Through training and providing the Emergency Situation Initial Response Procedures Manual to all employees, including temporary and other staff, who carry this manual at all times, we ensure that all employees can take the appropriate action in the event of an emergency. In 2018 we also prepared an English version of our Emergency Situation Initial Response Procedures Manual, which has been provided to those employees that require English. Emergency Response Headquarters Procedures Manual (April 2019 revised edition) Japanese edition English edition Initial Response Procedures in the Event of a Large-scale Earthquake Goal time for establishing (1) Large earthquake of seismic a mini head office intensity 6.0 or greater Time from earthquake During working within 1 hour hours During daytime (2) Establishing a mini head office on a holiday within 3 hours for information gathering Late night or by 9 a.m. early morning the next day (3) Information gathering Offices subject to Safety of employees safety confirmation Risk Management Status of damages to facilities Draft a list and transmit it Group and equipment Communication status Status of damages to surrounding infrastructure Disaster information Each location Public transportation status Unclear Minor conditions (4) damages (5) (6) Mini head Information Observation of progress and office aggregation Determination of closed conditions Major or wide area down damages Safety confirmation Company-wide complete assistance required Handling measures (9) Release of outside the company required information on (7) the company Proposal to establish a NO intranet company-wide crisis Notification of the center establishment of a YES company-wide crisis center (8) Establishing a company-wide crisis center Governance 244 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Emergency Response Headquarters Functions HQ General Manager Secretariat Situation Information Resource General Affairs Control Strategy Management and Financing Contact the Company/headquarters from the site immediately after the emergency occurs Immediately after taking action to secure safety When and implement emergency measures For business sites affiliated For business sites not affiliated with the Company with the Company Emergency Emergency Event Event Where Receiving department Receiving department at the Company at the headquarters Related departments President (Secretarial Group) Business Continuity Planning (BCP) Basic Philosophy Toward BCP BCP is the very essence of business strategy. Therefore, Sekisui Chemical Group, whose adoption of a Company system has made the range of the business in which it engages broad, has decided on a basic posture of having those in charge of each line of business (the heads of business units, the presidents of business companies, etc.) determine the necessity of BCP individually, based on the particulars of the business in which they are engaged. Because of this, the Group has created a support system, such as by establishing “Guidelines for Formulating BCP (BCM)” and drawing up a checklist for performing this formulation. Each person in charge of a line of business is recommended to formulate business-continuity plans and to implement business continuity management (BCM) based on these guidelines and on ISO 22301, a standard for methods of implementing BCM. Governance 245 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Crisis Management Systems Overseas A Support System Centered on Overseas Crisis-management Organizations Based on its corporate “Overseas Safety Management Regulations,” Sekisui Chemical Group supports employees traveling abroad, those stationed abroad, and locally based employees in a variety of ways. This includes classifying global activities into nine regions, sharing crisis management-related information spearheaded mainly by the Overseas Crisis-management Office, calling for caution and attention to important matters in a timely manner, instructing employees about travel restrictions, and implementing other emergency-response measures. As the number of Group locations increases with each passing year, crisis-management manuals have been organized at each factory, office, or other business location based on support provided by the Overseas Crisis-management Office and based on the Crisis Management Guidelines. The details of each correspond to the situation in which the individual overseas sites are positioned. In fiscal 2018, revisions were made to manuals at 140 sites (some manuals were newly prepared). Regarding risks particular to overseas sites, including civil unrest, terrorism, and infectious diseases, the Group has organized a support system based on signing contracts with crisis-management companies, such as those that provide security assistance and medical assistance. Additionally, the Group conducts training sessions for employees seconded overseas before they are dispatched abroad, provides pre-trip e-learning for employees sent on business trips, and explains its overseas crisis management system to its employees; it also issues warnings about risks overseas. In recent years, in particular, business trips and secondments to frontier regions have become more common, and thus the Group has stepped up its partnerships with Japanese diplomatic missions abroad and has created and distributed region-specific crisis management handbooks detailing the types of risks and levels of danger for each region, 20 in total. Global Crisis Management Guidelines Japanese edition English edition Chinese edition Governance 246 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Major Initiatives Improving the Effectiveness of Risk Management Activities Introducing the Digital Dashboard In fiscal 2018, we introduced the Digital Dashboard, a database covering the risk management implementation status for each Group company. This move has enabled us to make Group-wide assessments of the degree to which risk has been mitigated at each company, as well as the change in risk resulting from developments in the surrounding environment. This Digital Dashboard also helps to enhance risk awareness among employees through various measures including the preparation of risk matrices and heat maps. Enriching e-Learning We enriched the contents of our intranet-based e-Learning programs for those on overseas business travel. We also prepared quiz-format content that incorporates the circumstances, customs, and other aspects of each country and region. By including detailed explanations for answers, etc., we are working to provide those on overseas business travel with an insight into the types of acceptable behavior at each local site and to increase awareness toward safety. Conducting Risk Management Training Sessions for Risk Managers IIn fiscal 2018, risk management training was provided to 19 newly appointed risk managers. Governance 247 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Performance Data Data on the Number of Organizations Engaged in Risk-management Activities Number of Organizations Engaged in Risk-management Activities Number of organizations 180 177 173 165 148 120 123 92 Number of 72 organizations 60 42 27 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Forecast) Data Relating to the Sufficiency Rate for Disaster-preparedness Systems Disaster-preparedness Sufficiency Rate (Average for Japanese Business Sites) Over Time （％） 100 91 92 93 94 88 80 74 63 60 40 41 20 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Governance 248 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Cyber Security Maintaining an Effective Management System to Address Various Information-related Risks Management Approach Cyber Management System Building a Cyber Management System with Personnel Responsible Assigned to Each Business Site Headed by the CSR Committee, which is chaired by the president, the Network Management Center that has been established under the Cyber Security Committee has set up a monitoring system, carries out the monitoring and recording of information and, having also posted at least one cyber system administrator at each business site, has established a comprehensive Group-wide cyber management system. Even in the case of organizational changes or cyber system administrator reassignments, the Company is constantly aware of the presence or absence of the cyber system administrators at each of its business sites through its registry management system. Cyber Security Organizational Chart Roles of Cyber System Administrators (1) Cyber security measures in general including those relating to anti-viruses (2) Management and stable operation of information systems, personal computers, software, etc. (3) General network-related management (4) Giving of guidance on proper use of cyber systems to employees at each company / department (5) Acting as points of contact for, and responding to, other general matters relating to cyber systems Governance 249 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Measures to Address Information Leakage Risks Implementing Every Measure Possible from Both System and Human Aspects The Company takes every measure possible, from both system and human aspects, in order to maintain the security of customer (including personal) and internal (including confidential) information. As for external treats, the Company quickly identifies and responds in an appropriate manner to unknown viruses using SIEM (Security Information and Event Management) log analysis and next-generation anti-virus systems based on AI technologies. We are also taking measures aimed at preventing leaks information due to human error, including security audits and employee e-learning courses. The Company also holds an Information Security Committee meeting once every two months to evaluate risk countermeasures and our training for potential information security incidents allows us to be fully prepared for information security emergencies. Key System-related (Tangible) Measures (1) Establish firewalls to completely separate external networks from internal intranet and control networks (2) Monitor and record data through network management centers (3) Next-generation virus protection, as well as log collection and analysis for all servers and PCs. (4) Enhance BEC (business email compromise) countermeasures through the use of multiple e-mail filters and prohibit the use of personal devices in business Key Human-related (Intangible) Measures (1) Conduct security audits as needed at business sites in Japan and overseas (2) Adopt entry / exit ID authentication and secondary (photographic, etc.) verification when entering major domestic offices (3) Conduct regular e-learning programs (those who do not attain a pass grade will be unable to access the Internet → Japan only) (4) Conduct regular e-learning programs and incident-training programs by the network management center. Measures to Address Natural Disaster-related Risks Duplication and Dispersing of Systems, as well as Earthquake Resistance and Seismic Isolation Measures We have confirmed the adequate provision of fuel reserves for emergency power generators, as well as earthquake resistance, seismic isolation and other measures being applied to contracted data centers so that business operations can be continued even in the event that backbone systems are damaged by a major earthquake or other disaster. In addition, by dispersing data centers among multiple locations, we have established a system that will not cause work to be disrupted even if a particular data center becomes unavailable. By taking steps to completely duplicate mission-critical systems, the Company is working to shorten the lead-time needed up to the completion of repairs and recovery of business operations. Governance 250 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Protecting Personal Information Sekisui Chemical has formulated its Personal Information Policy, which is available on the Company’s website. Based on this policy, the Company complies with legal regulations and norms regarding personal information, and in the case of a security incident, the network management center conducts a thorough analysis of the effects from the incident while cooperating with the Emergency Response Headquarters established in line with criteria in Sekisui Chemical Group Crisis Management Guidelines. Note: Privacy Policy https://www.sekisuichemical.com/privacy/ Major Initiatives Improving the sophistication of our security measures Launching the creation of a CSIRT* entity With the goal of better understanding and improving the sophistication of our security measures, Sekisui Chemical Group uses third-party assessments and promotes the creation of rules and systemic processes aimed at maintaining operational continuity. Since cyber security is an issue requiring action throughout the Company, we conducted workshops for senior managers in fiscal 2018 that were focused on recent cyber security trends and reinforcement measures. In addition to these measures, we have launched efforts to create a CSIRT entity headed by the executive officer in charge of the Information Systems Group. The establishment of a CSIRT entity will allow us to provide accountability in our cyber security operations to our stakeholders and clarify the promotion of cyber security measures in line with the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry’s revised Cybersecurity Management Guidelines (Ver. 2). * CSIRT is an abbreviation of Computer Security Incident Response Team. This title is given to teams at organizations such as companies that specialize in receiving reports, conducting surveys and enacting response measures related to computer security incidents. Governance 251 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Social Contribution Activities Proactively Working to Contribute to the Society as a Company in Tune with Local Communities Management Approach Our Philosophy Contributing to the Achievement of a Sustainable Society Through the Promotion of Social Contribution Activities Leveraging the Distinctive Features of Our Company. Sekisui Chemical Group contributes to society not only through our business activities but also through a variety of social contribution activities which we promote through interactions with society leveraging the strengths and resources of the Group. In addition, these activities focus on the perspectives of “the environment,” “the next generation,” and “the local community” within their various fields, and we make efforts and promote them in order to contribute to the SDG directive of “creating a sustainable society.” For example, in terms of the “environment,” we carry out Environmental Management Policy in the form of proactive social contribution activities related to nature preservation and other local environmental factors. “The next generation” refers to our career training using the distinctive characteristics of our business. We carry out initiatives to help children acquire the knowledge, techniques, and way of thinking that they’ll need to be independent and productive members of society. In terms of “the local community,” in addition to deepening understanding of the problems faced by local communities in recent years, we are also expanding volunteer activities to move toward resolution of these issues. We are also involved in these initiatives aside from just as a company. Our employees are also involved on an individual basis, and with contributing to society at the core of these activities, we have created a framework for enabling larger numbers of employees to participate in social contribution activities. We have set up a system for accumulating time off with the goal of acquiring greater participation in volunteer work, and through support such as paying a portion of the expenses required for these social contribution activities, we are making efforts to create a system which will inspire greater number of employees to take part in social contribution activities of their own accord. Social Contribution Activities 252 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Major Initiatives Environment Sea Turtle Protection Activities in Thailand Forest Preservation Activities by our Housing Company Conservation of Local Biodiversity Environmental Education for the Next Generation “Children’s Nature Academies” Next Generation Houses and the Environment Learning Program Chemistry Classroom Project Chemistry Classroom for Children Science and Engineering Classroom Science Courses Promotion of Next-Generation Environmental Education through an Environment-Related Painting Contest Innovation Inspired by Nature Research Support Program Local Communities Contributions to Local Communities by Factories, Including Tours for Social Studies Classes Activities to Improve Civic Order in Regions Medical Services for Villages in India TABLE FOR TWO BOOK MAGIC Heart+Action Social Contribution Activities 253 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Performance Data Major Activities Contributing to the Environment Conducted or Participated in During Fiscal Year 2018 (Excerpt) Domestic Domestic Production Sites and Research Institutes Business site involved in Activity program contents Coordination / cooperation the activities Shimafukuro Environmental Research Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Life observation event at the Society, Ministry of the Environment Industry Co., Ltd. on-premises biotope Hokkaido Regional Environmental Office Tohoku Sekisui Heim The Society to Conserve Beeches & Minamizao beech tree-planting activities Industry Co., Ltd. Water of ZAO Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Greenery Trust, environmental Society for Preservation of Tokyo Office awareness and preservation activities Kurohamanuma Nature and Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. related to Kurohamanuma and the Surroundings, etc. Musashi Plant surrounding area Sekisui Children's Nature Academy Society for Consideration of the Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. (Aquatic Insect Observation and Water Environment in Kasama, Kasama Kanto Office Quality Survey) Municipal Minami Gakuen Ometahama environmental conservation Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. activities with the local children’s association Omotehama Network Chubu Office (sand-drift prevention) Kyushu Sekisui Heim Tidal life observation event with the Saga Wild Bird Society, Saga Industry Co., Ltd. local children's association Environmental Policy Division, etc. CHIBA SEKISUI INDUSTRY “Moist Forest” mountain ecosystemIchihara Municipal Urutsu Elementary CO., LTD. building project (nature observation event) School Eradication of invasive grasses in the SHIKOKU SEKISUI CO., LTD. Saijo Nature School Shinmachi River Higashinihon Sekisui Tree-planting activities in the Arahama The Society to Conserve Beeches & Industry Co., Ltd. Watari coastal forest areas Water of ZAO Office SEKISUI SEIKEI, LTD. Chiba Coastal forest tree-planting activities at NPO The Life style Research Institute of Plant Kujukurihama Forests Watarase Reservoir conservation SEKISUI SEIKEI, LTD. Kanto activities (flora and fauna observation Watarase Mirai Foundation Plant event) SEKISUI SEIKEI, LTD. Izumo Izumo Children's Nature Academy (flora Izumo Municipal Shutto Elementary Plant and fauna observation event) School Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Tree-planting activities at the site of the Forest’n People Project Organization Iwate Plant former Matsuo Mine ruins Social Contribution Activities 254 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Business site involved in Activity program contents Coordination / cooperation the activities “Ho-no-Kuni Everyone's Forest” SEKISUI NANO COAT conservation activities in the Toyo River Honokuni Forestry Association TECHNOLOGY, CO., LTD. headwaters Forestry Division, Agriculture, Forestry, TOKUYAMA SEKISUI CO., “Sekisui Forest” forest management and Fisheries Office, Shunan City, LTD. activities Yamaguchi Prefecture, etc. Agricultural and Rural Development Promotion Division, Department Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Yurikago Rice Paddy Project of Agriculture and Fisheries, Shiga Shiga-Ritto Plant Prefecture; Kurimidezaikecho, Higashiomi, Shiga Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Children’s Nature Academy Shimofuchina 6-ku Healthy Gunma Plant (autumn nature observation event) Development Society Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Higashiyama forest preservation Forestry Agency Kyoto Forest Kyoto Research activities (cleaning activities) Management Office Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Minase Children's Nature Academy (craftShimamoto Kankyo Mirai Network, etc. R&D Institute making with bamboo from the local area) Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tree-planting in the Kasumigaura Tsukuba Kankyo Forum Tsukuba Office headwaters in the Mt Tsukuba foothills Social Contribution Activities 255 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Housing Companies Business site involved in Coordination / cooperation Activity program contents the activities (outside the company) Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Forest conservation activities at Hokkaido Forestry and Greenery Group Mt. Shirahata Association Tohoku coastal forest restoration / Disaster Area Uncultivated Land Relief Sekisui Heim Tohoku Group coastal forest tree-planting activities and Regional Seedling Production with children Network Conservation of mountain ecosystem Arbor and Environment Network Tokyo Sekisui Heim Group around Tama Zoologoical Garden Association Kizugawa City, Kizugawa Area Woodland Conservation Activities at Sekisui Heim Kinki Group Coordinated Preservation Activity Kaseyama Support Team Conservation of human settlementNagoya Higashiyama Forest Creation Sekisui Heim Chubu Group adjacent mountain ecosystems in the Association Higashiyama neighborhood of Nagoya Sekisui Heim Chushikoku Forest conservation activities in the city Akaiwa City (Forest creation agreement Group of Akaiwa in coordination with businesses) Forest conservation activities involving Ukiha City, Ukiha Mountain Village Sekisui Heim Kyushu Group Sinomenium acutum around rice Preservation Association paddies in the city of Ukiha Removal activities for specific alien plant Sekisui Heim Tokai Co., Ltd. FUJISAN CLUB species at the foot of Mt. Fuji Other Business site involved in Coordination / cooperation Activity program contents the activities (outside the company) Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Participation in the Tokyo Bay Cleanup Minato Ward Sports Fureai Culture and Tokyo Headquarters Campaign (seaside cleaning) Health Foundation Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Yodo River Niwakubo river pond Yodogawa Water System Deepbody Osaka Headquarters conservation activities (river cleaning) Bitterling Preservation Citizen Network Social Contribution Activities 256 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Overseas Overseas Production Sites and Research Institutes Business site involved in the activities Activity program contents Coordination / cooperation SCG-SEKISUI SALES CO., LTD. SEKISUI-SCG INDUSTRY CO.,LTD. SEKISUI HEIM REAL ESTATE (THAILAND) CO.,LTD. SEKISUI S-LEC (THAILAND) CO.,LTD. SEKISUI SPECIALTY CHEMICALS (THAILAND) Marine and Coastal Resources CO.,LTD. Bureau, Ministry of Natural THAI SEKISUI FOAM CO.,LTD. Resources and Environment S AND L SPECIALTY POLYMERS CO.,LTD. Chonburi mangrove tree(Thailand) SEKISUI CHEMICAL (THAILAND) CO.,LTD. planting activities (Thailand) Sekisui Plastics (Thailand) SEKISUI SYSTEMBATH INDUSTRY (THAILAND) Co.,Ltd., CO.,LTD. SEKISUI JUSHI (THAILAND) SEKISUI SOUTHEAST ASIA CO.,LTD. CO.,LTD. SEKISUI POLYMATECH (THAILAND) CO.,LTD. SEKISUI POLYMATECH TRADING (THAILAND) CO.,LTD. SEKISUI PLANT (THAILAND) CO.,LTD. SEKISUI MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY (CHINA) LTD. SEKISUI (DALIAN) HOUSING TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. SEKISUI HIGH PERFORMANCE PACKAGING (LANGFANG) CO., LTD Tree-planting activities in Beijing Hemujia Forestry Youngbo HPP Co., Ltd. Beijing (China) Development Co., Ltd. SEKISUI (SHANGHAI) INTERNATIONAL TRADING CO., LTD. Beijing Branch SEKISUI TECHNO MOLDING CO., LTD. SEKISUI S-LEC (SUZHOU) CO., LTD. Beijing Branch SEKISUI CHEMICAL (CHINA) CO., LTD. Conservation of mountain Arbor and Environment Tokyo Sekisui Heim Group ecosystem around Tama Network Association Zoologoical Garden Kizugawa City, Kizugawa Woodland Conservation Area Coordinated Sekisui Heim Kinki Group Activities at Kaseyama Preservation Activity Support Team SEKISUI SPR AMERICAS, LLC. Cleanup activities (US) Chattahoochee Nature Center Alien species removal SEKISUI DIAGNOSTICS, LLC. Marcy Neighborhood Park activities (US) Social Contribution Activities 257 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Business site involved in the activities Activity program contents Coordination / cooperation SEKISUI DIAGNOSTICS P.E.I. INC. Tree-planting activities (USA) Island Nature Trust Tree-planting activities SEKISUI S-LEC MEXICO S.A de C.V. Anatani Foundation (Mexico) Tree-planting activities Bangpra water bird breeding SEKISUI S-LEC (THAILAND) CO.,LTD. (Thailand) station Major Activities Contributing to Society During Fiscal Year 2018 (“Next-Generation” and “Local Communities”) Programs FY2018 Results Achievements Up Until Now Total number Number of Three Number of Total number of Heart+Action 53 of times 57 998 implementations times participants participants implemented Total number of school lunches 210,386 Number of 12 Number of school Number of 12 provided to TABLE FOR TWO implementing business lunches provided to 28,513 implementing business developing countries business sites sites developing countries business sites sites Tohoku food 649,910 yen assistance* Number of One Number of school Number of One Number of school TABLE FOR TWO implementing business lunches provided to 5,983 implementing business lunches provided to 25,779 vending machines business sites site developing countries business sites site developing countries Houses and the Number of Total number of 18 Number of Total number of Approximately Environment implementing 1,544 implementing 156 schools participating students participating students 18,440 Learning Program schools schools Total number Chemistry Number of 25 Number of Total number of 2,538 of times 255 28,556 Classroom implementations times participating students participating students implemented Total number Number of Nine BOOK MAGIC Donation amount 67,021 yen of times 121 Amount of donation 1,095,024 yen implementations times implemented * Tohoku food assistance was provided from April 2013 to December 2014. Social Contribution Activities 258 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Details of Donation Activities in Fiscal 2018 (Sekisui Chemical Group) (Unit: thousands of yen) Type of Donation Total Amount Donations 165,363 Employee volunteers 122,068 Donations of goods 2,785 Administrative costs 23,764 Breakdown of Cash Donations in Fiscal 2018 Health, medicine, sports 5% Other 5% Environment 7% International exchange and cooperation 8% Donations 165 million yen Disaster relief 12% Local communities and social welfare 14% Academia, researchand education 49% Social Contribution Activities 259 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Environment Developing Personnel Who Engage in Environmental Activities as a Part of Efforts to Conserve the Natural Environment in Various Regions Around the World Management Approach Basic Concept Promoting Conservation of the Natural Environment Sekisui Chemical Group promotes environmental conservation to realize the “earth with maintained biodiversity” called for in “Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030.” Based on this policy, employees are now engaged in activities for conserving the natural environment around the world. These activities for conserving the natural environment by employees are considered by the group to be an effective means of achieving the vision, bolstering the organizations required to conduct the activities, and fostering human resources adept at engaging in environment-related activities. Since fiscal year 2013, the group has held “SEKISUI Environment Weeks,” which are meant to be attended by all employees at all business sites, has helped to raise the activities spearheaded by business sites to whole new levels, where they are conducted in partnership with local communities, and has otherwise expanded the range of activities engaged in. Social Contribution Activities 260 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Major Initiatives Initiatives of Sekisui Chemical Group Sea Turtle Protection Activities in Thailand Out of the 7 species of sea turtle currently living in the world today, 6 are said to be in danger of extinction due to factors such as overfishing and loss of habitat. In response to these conditions, the Sea Turtle Conservation Center run by the Royal Thai Navy is protecting sick and injured sea turtles until they are well enough to be reintroduced to the ocean. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (SSCT), which carries out business activities near the ocean, took part in cleaning the carapaces of sea turtles as well as a pond where they live at the protection center in hopes of contributing in some small way to the habitat of marine life in the area. On the day of the activities, 24 SSCT employees took part in the cleaning using tools such as sponges and brushes. As a result of their efforts, cleaning was completed for the pond area, where 50 sea turtles live, and the Sea Turtle Conservation Center also sent a letter of thanks. SSCT will continue to carry out activities which contribute to improvement of the habitat for sea creatures. SSCT employees performing cleaning Letter of thanks from the Sea Turtle Conservation Center Social Contribution Activities 261 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Forest Preservation Activities by our Housing Company Restoration of Yamamoto-cho, Miyagi Prefecture Coastal Forest Areas (Sekisui Heim Tohoku Group) The Sekisui Heim Group is engaged in regional woodland conservation activities in seven areas across Japan, from Hokkaido to Kyushu. As one of these initiatives, the Sekisui Heim Tohoku Group has been involved in activities in the Tohoku area for the restoration of coastal forest areas in Yamamoto-cho, Watari-gun, Miyagi Prefecture destroyed by the Great East Japan Earthquake since 2015, in cooperation with the Disaster Area Uncultivated Land Relief and Regional Seedling Production Network. In fiscal year 2018, the Group participated in the spring tree-planting festival and fall seedling-making activities. For the tree-planting activities on May 27th, a total of 54 members of the next generation, mainly Nagano University students but also including local elementary school students, participated along with 64 Sekisui Heim Tohoku Group employees (total participants: 118) and planted 120 hardwood seedlings which were raised over a 3-year period. In addition, company employees took part in acorn collection and cultivating new seedlings from the acorns at the Shonen no Mori (Boy's Forest) at the base of Mt. Shinzan in Yamamoto-cho in October. We hope that someday the area will be a lush coastal forest where various different creatures gather and live. We will continue to value interactions with many people and carry out activities which contribute to local society. “Tanepuru Tree-planting Festival” coastal tree-planting activities Making seedlings from acorns Social Contribution Activities 262 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Main Environmental Conservation Activities of Various Sekisui Heim Companies Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Group Tokyo Sekisui Heim Group Mt. Shirahata conservation activities Conservation of human settlement-adjacent (Sapporo City) mountain ecosystems in the Tama Region (Hino City) Sekisui Heim Chubu Group Sekisui Heim Kinki Group Conservation of human settlement-adjacent Mt. Kaseyama conservation activities mountain ecosystems in the Higashiyama (Kizugawa City) neighborhood (Nagoya City) Sekisui Heim Chushikoku Group Sekisui Heim Kyushu Group Woodland conservation activities in city-owned Conservation of rice paddy-adjacent mountain forests (Akaiwa City) ecosystems (Ukiha City) Social Contribution Activities 263 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Conservation of Local Biodiversity Conservation activities at Yadaijin Suigen in cooperation with the local area (Ota City, Gunma Prefecture) In order to preserve Yadaijin Suigen, the water source of the Ishidagawa River which runs adjacent to the plant site, the Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Ota Plant is conducting maintenance activities for the surrounding environment in cooperation with residents of the local area. The area around the water source is called Yadaijin Hotaru no Sato, and the spring water area in the northwest and Yadaijin swamp in the south are well-known in the local area. A rare species of red algae (endangered species type II) called Batrachospermum japonicum Mori lives in the spring water area, and the site is thought to have been located in the ocean in the past. In order to preserve the environment of Yadaijin Suigen, company employees cooperate with local residents to carry out weeding and garbage removal every year in July, replenishing fluids with local watermelon during break times and deepening their bonds through interaction. This fiscal year, there were participants from other Sekisui Chemical Group member companies as well (Gunma Sekisui Heim, Sekisui Board Gunma Office), and the event was also an opportunity for interaction within the Group. We hope to restore the site to a proper habitat for fireflies by continuing these activities in the future. Prior to maintenance activities After maintenance activities Social Contribution Activities 264 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Environmental Education for the Next Generation “Children’s Nature Academies” Observing living creatures in natural environments familiar to children (Isesaki City, Gunma Prefecture) Higashinihon Sekisui Industry (main plant) is located in the city of Isesaki, and the Company is carrying out “Gunma Children’s Nature Academy” activities in cooperation with the local Shimofuchina 6-ku Healthy Development Society to teach children about the importance of familiar creatures and natural environments. In October 2018, the Company carried out nature game and animal observation activities at a park adjacent to the plant with a total of 50 participants, mainly elementary school students from the Healthy Development Society and their guardians but also including family members of plant employees. Participants developed their observation and concentration abilities while enjoying the nature games and also found, observed, and learned about real living creatures such as dragonflies and frogs. All of the participants jointly experienced the diverse array of life in the familiar natural environment where the event was held and had a meaningful experience. We hope to continue creating opportunities for learning and experiencing nature together with children in the local area. Polishing nature observation skills through Finding living creatures along with the children nature games Social Contribution Activities 265 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Next Generation Fostering the Next Generation Through Programs Based on the Characteristics of Our Businesses. Management Approach Basic Concept Helping to Build Local Communities in Which Children Can Develop and Healthily Grow into Adulthood. Targeting communities where the children who will form the next generation can develop and healthily grow into adulthood, we provide educational programs for elementary, middle and high school students that leverage our business activities. Including field trip lessons, for example Science classes, given by Company employees as well as support and assistance for research based on innovations inspired by nature, the Company conducts a wide range of activities. Major Initiatives Initiatives of the Housing Company Houses and the Environment Learning Program At the Housing Company, we have run a “houses and environment” learning program since fiscal year 2007 in which employees make use of their knowledge to teach about homes and the environment at schools. This is a new type of class where Sekisui Chemical Group employees work alongside teachers. The classes are carefully designed to let the students experience the building of environmentally friendly homes using models while thinking about the layouts and other aspects of the homes through group discussions; and the students learn about the role that homes play in our lives and about the impact that our lives have on the environment. In fiscal year 2018, classes were offered at 18 junior high schools and high schools in the Kanto, Kansai, Chubu, and Kyushu areas. One of the students who took the class said, “When I build a house of my own in the future, I want it to be a house that prioritizes the environment and safety first, even over design or ease of use.” Another student said, “I was interested in construction work, and now I am even more interested after taking this class.” These were just two of the remarks we heard from those who took the classes. A teachers said, “The students were very interested in this assignment because they could use kits to build model homes, following on from a previous class that also used visual materials. I believe this is precisely the active learning that is being promoted by the Ministry of Education.” A total of 1,544 students participated in the classes in fiscal year 2018. Children assembling model housing kits Social Contribution Activities 266 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities High Performance Plastics Company Initiatives Chemistry Classroom Project At the High Performance Plastics Company, the “Children’s Experiment Classrooms” for elementary school students and “Experiment-based Support Class” for middle school students have been conducted using the Company’s products since fiscal year 2008. For the “Experiment-based Support Class” program, volunteers from the Minase Office developed the classes along with the middle school teachers and provided a program that was not just interesting but also easy to understand, by linking to the school’s curriculum units. In fiscal year 2018, a total of 2,538 elementary and middle school students experienced the fun and usefulness of science through these programs. In addition, the Company exhibited at the “Utaya no Mori Festival” sponsored by the city of Hasuda in Saitama Prefecture as a new initiative with employees from Musashi Plant, one of the Company’s main production facilities, taking on the main role. Using the “softron” polyolefin foam manufactured at this facility, we allowed the children who came to the exhibition to experience the cushioning and insulation properties of the material. The company plans to continue these activities to allow even more children to become interested in, and fascinated by, the field of chemistry. In-class explanations by employees of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. High Performance Plastics Company Social Contribution Activities 267 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities High Performance Plastics Company Initiatives Chemistry Classroom for Children At the Sekisui Minakuchi Kako Co., Ltd., the “Challenge! Chemistry Classroom for Children” initiative for elementary school students in the local city of Koka is being carried out with the goal of revitalizing the local area and supporting the development of the children. Although these activities have been held every year on a limited basis restricted to the families of employees since 2009, the Company partnered with a welfare organization in Koka, Shiga prefecture (Japan Workers’ Co-operative Union Center) starting in fiscal year 2016 and has included them in a children’s event hosted by this organization so that more children could participate and experience the depth of science and the fun of experiments for themselves. At the Company’s 3rd exhibition at the children’s event in fiscal year 2018, the concept was “conducting a fun and playful experiment using familiar materials that helps participants discover new things.” The activity implemented “making bouncy balls.” By adding salt to laundry starch (PVA* solution), the PVA was extracted and using a salting-out reaction, causing a solid to form from the solution via a chemical reaction. Many of the children shouted excitedly and asked lots of questions, and the experiment was well-received. The employees who participated as staff tried to come up with a way to explain the experiment content in a simple way that anyone could understand through trial and error, finally developing an explanation covering aspects ranging from the structure of the compounds on the molecular level to the salting-out reaction using lots of illustrations. Many of the employees stated that the experience of communicating with a different generation in this way gave them feelings of “achievement and satisfaction.” We hope to continue providing academic support through even better content in the future, encouraging the children who participate to take an interest in chemistry. * PVA: polyvinyl alcohol Explanation of the salting-out reaction with theme of “easy to understand and fun” Social Contribution Activities 268 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities High Performance Plastics Company Initiatives Science and Engineering Classroom At Sekisui Medical, we have been implementing a “Science and Engineering Classroom” for middle school students in the city of Ryugasaki, Ibaraki prefecture, the site of our diagnostic agent plant and laboratory, as part of our local contribution activities since fiscal year 2013. Classes have been implemented for a total of 2,022 students in the program since 2013 (185 of them in fiscal year 2018). We implemented a program for 9th grade students in fiscal year 2018 called “Blueprints of Life: Exploring the Secrets of DNA.” The “Exploring the Secrets of DNA” program was a developmental lesson from the textbook, and in addition to extracting real DNA from broccoli and viewing it with their own eyes, participants also learned about and understood the importance of DNA and genetic research and its link to society. The reagents that Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. researches, develops, and manufactures are bound to society through their use in medicine. The junior high school students thus saw how such societal contributions are direct extensions of the science classes they take at school. The company plans to continue these activities. Students performing experiments while being advised by employees from Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Social Contribution Activities 269 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Initiatives Science Courses At SHIKOKU SEKISUI, a science course on the theme of “substances around us” is being implemented for 7th graders at a neighboring middle school. This initiative has been implemented every year since fiscal year 2009 in response to a request from the local middle school in response to children’s decreasing interest in the sciences, “as professionals in the field, please help us increase students’ interest in science, even in a small way.” After an experiment using plastic conducted as part of the “substances around us” lesson for 7th grade students, they were also invited on a study tour of the plant. The participating students saw the actual production line for plastic products up close, felt the raw materials used for plastics as well as the finished products, and experienced the sight of a manufacturing facility for themselves, a rarity in their daily lives. 54 students participated in fiscal year 2018. We will continue these activities in the future with the goal of increasing the next generation of children’s interest in MONOZUKURI (manufacturing). SHIKOKU SEKISUI Co., Ltd. employee explaining the process for the experiment Social Contribution Activities 270 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Sekisui Chemical Initiatives Promoting Environmental Education for the Next Generation Through an Environmentrelated Painting Contest As one of its initiatives to promote environmental education for the next generation, Sekisui Chemical supported the “22nd National Elementary and Middle School Student Environmental Painting Contest” in fiscal year 2018. This is a painting competition sponsored by the National Elementary and Middle School Environmental Education Research Society based on the idea of “wanting to create opportunities which will drive individual children to face environmental problems and take initiative,” and all elementary and middle school students in Japan are eligible to take part. The themes for the paintings in fiscal year 2018 were “making a livable city together” and “protecting precious nature together.” The Company also selected “Sekisui Chemical Special Prize” winners to show approval for the ideas of the competition. * National Elementary and Middle School Environmental Education Research Society http://kankyokyoiku.jp/about/ “Sekisui Chemical Special Prize” winners Elementary School Division Middle School Division Isumi, Chiba Prefecture: Furusawa Katsushika Ward, Tokyo: Nakagawa Elementary School Middle School Hinata Kunito, 6th Grade Akane Ota, 9th Grade Award-winning paintings can be viewed on the page below. 22nd National Elementary and Middle School Student Environmental Painting Contest Prize Winners http://kankyokyoiku.jp/activity/296/ Social Contribution Activities 271 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Innovations Inspired by Nature Research Support Program Fostering the Next Generation Through Programs Based on the Characteristics of Our Businesses. To aid the utilization of scientific knowledge learned from nature and the workings of nature in invention, Sekisui Chemical Group has been running the “Sekisui Chemical Innovations Inspired by Nature Research Support Program” since fiscal year 2002 as a program in commemoration of the 55th year since Sekisui Chemical’s founding. In fiscal year 2018, there were 261 applications, with assistance granted for six “manufacturing” themes and six “fundamental research” themes, for a total of 12 grants. Examples of innovations inspired by nature research Research findings relating to themes granted support as part of the “Innovations Inspired by Nature Research Support Program” were published in preliminary form in the online edition of the British science journal Nature Communications. (Affiliations and positions are those at the time of receiving awards) FY2014 Support Themes Masayuki Endo (Associate Professor, Kyoto University) “Creation of an artificial signal transduction system inspired by the cellular receptors” Kyoto University press release http://www.kyoto-u.ac.jp/ja/research/research_results/2015/150827_1.html Article posted to Nature Communications website (released August 27, 2015) https://www.nature.com/articles/ncomms9052 FY2013 Support Themes Shu Seki (Professor, Osaka University) “Protein Nanowires with Ultra-High Aspect Ratio Produced by Single Particle Induced Chemical Reactions” Osaka University press release http://resou.osaka-u.ac.jp/ja/research/2014/20140429_1 Example of Innovations Inspired by Nature Research “Fabrication of enzyme-degradable and size-controlled protein nanowires using single particle nano-fabrication technique” https://www.sekisui.co.jp/csr/contribution/nextgen/bio_mimetics/1253869_27856.html Article posted on Nature Communications (released April 28, 2014) https://www.nature.com/articles/ncomms4718 Social Contribution Activities 272 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities FY2018 Support Themes Manufacturing Theme Affiliated institution Position (Affiliations, positions, and so forth Name Grant-Receiving Research Theme are those at the time of receiving the grant award) Invention of selective material separation technology Masaru Professor, Institute for Materials Chemistry based on lessons learned from the condition of Tanaka and Engineering, Kyushu University water on organism surfaces Development of freely-bendable wood materials Researcher, Structural Materials Research and their plasticity processing technology based Masako Seki Institute, National Institute of Advanced on lessons learned from the growth and maturity Industrial Science and Technology (AIST) strategies of bamboo Development of new supramolecular polymer Professor, Institute for Global Prominent Shiki Yagai materials based on lessons learned from protein Research, Chiba University topology Revival methods for areas with low levels of tsunami Professor, Faculty of Urban Environmental Shin Aiba damage based on lessons learned from existing Sciences, Tokyo Metropolitan University vegetation Development of a painless blood collection Professor, Faculty of Engineering Science, and medicine administration method based on Seiji Aoyagi Kansai University lessons learned from the puncture mechanism of mosquitoes Associate Professor, Graduate School of Research related to the development of a weather Kazuo Life and Environmental Sciences, Kyoto forecasting method expressed through actions of Nagano Prefectural University daily life Social Contribution Activities 273 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Fundamental Research Theme Affiliated institution Position (Affiliations, positions, and so forth Name Grant-Receiving Research Theme are those at the time of receiving the grant award) Yoshifumi Professor, Institute of Low Temperature Skeletal muscle maintenance structures learned Yamaguchi Science, Hokkaido University from hibernating animals Solving the mystery of the red tide phenomenon: Associate Professor, Institute of Plant clarifying the control mechanism for the Shoko Ueki Science and Resources, Okayama propagation speed of the algae which cause red University tide Principal Researcher, Research Center for Yuka Invention of two-dimensional organic metals with Functional Materials, National Institute for Kobayashi anisotropic optical and electron properties Materials Science Associate Professor , Graduate School Clarifying the gliding principles of a restiform body Motoyasu of Informatics and Engineering, The based on lessons learned from flying snakes and Tanaka University of Electro-Communications applying these principles to a restiform flying robot Senior Lecturer, Graduate School of Kosuke Advanced Science and Technology, Material design learned from the macro fiber Okeyoshi Japan Advanced Institute of Science and structure of polysaccharides Technology Professor, Division of Biological Science, Controlling growth without gene recombination Motomu Laboratory of Plant Physiology, Nara through the use of a season recognition mechanism Endo Institute of Science and Technology of the biological clock of plants The recipients of the Fiscal Year 2018 Innovation Inspired by Nature Research Support Program Social Contribution Activities 274 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Holding of the Innovations Inspired by Nature Forum Sekisui Chemical Group has considered the environment to be a core aspect of management ever since its founding and is contributing to the development of a sustainable society with the goal of resolving environmental problems and the social problems which result from them. The Innovation Inspired by Nature Forum is held to report the results of the Innovation Inspired by Nature Research Support Program, which gives grants to research that utilizes foundational science knowledge learned from nature and the functioning of nature in innovation, as well as to promote research exchanges among the involved researchers, the graduate students who will be the researchers of tomorrow, and others. At the fiscal year 2018 Innovation Inspired by Nature Forum, there were lectures based on examples of innovation inspired by nature and presentation sessions for posters created by fiscal year 2017 research grant recipients and others. Innovations Inspired by Nature Forum 2018 Social Contribution Activities 275 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Lectures Expectations for automobile material Learning from nature grant research development moving toward a Manufacturing learned from development examples sustainable society nature and the world of functional ~Surprising conjugate polymer ~Lessons in manufacturing learned polymers coating methods and their from nature and their application to application~ automobiles~ Professor, Tokyo University Toyota Motor Corporation Associate Professor, Keio University Graduate School Advanced Technology Development Yuya Oaki Takashi Kato Company (Chairman of the Society of Polymer Masahiko Ishii Science, Japan) Poster Presentation Sessions and Research Exchanges A valuable opportunity to come into contact with the forefront of “innovations inspired by nature” ・Announcement of grant research theme results (fiscal year 2017 grant themes) ・Introduction of Sekisui Chemical’s business and research and development structure, environmental initiatives Social Contribution Activities 276 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Local Communities As a Company, We Aim to Engage with the Local Communities Which We Are a Part of. Management Approach Basic Concept Contributing to the Creation of a Sustainable Society as a Corporate Citizen As a member of the local communities in which it operates, Sekisui Chemical Group proactively deploys social contribution activities and thereby hopes to contribute to the creation of a sustainable society. The Group engages in social contribution activities to help solve issues faced by local communities, such as creating safe and secure cities in collaboration with local communities and support programs that assist developing countries. Major Initiatives Housing Company Initiatives Contributions to Local Communities by Factories, Including Tours for Social Studies Classes Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd., located in Saga Prefecture, aims to help bring joy to its customers and regularly conducts activities rooted in the local community to that end. In recent years, the numbers of people choosing to find employment within Saga Prefecture have been low, and companies in the prefecture face an ever-worsening situation in terms of labor shortages and difficulties securing talent. This has become an issue to resolve if the region is to be revitalized. In response to these issues in the region, the Company has been accepting students, primarily in elementary and middle school, for programs in which they tour factories as part of a series social studies field trips with the aim of conveying to the local community what manufacturing companies there are locally and the joys of manufacturing. Although we have implemented factory tours in the past, we participated in a meeting with school principals in Saga Prefecture in fiscal year 2018 and carried out promotional activities such as factory tour PR. As a result, we were able to welcome a total of 2,107 people to our factory tours. In addition, our experience recreation of the Kumamoto earthquake was praised, with participants sharing comments such as “it was a truly precious experience that made me more conscious and aware of disaster prevention.” The company will continue to increase its collaboration with the local community so as to make its contribution to it. Learning about “creating things” through factory tours Social Contribution Activities 277 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Initiatives of the Housing Company Activities to Improve Civic Order in Regions The Housing Company believes that it is essential that it contribute to resolving societal problems, such as by offering housing that is robustly built to survive natural disasters and decked out in ways that help prevent crime, and working on urban-development initiatives that allow residents to leave in peace, as well as on initiatives to deter crime. The Housing Company is thus engaged in activities that contribute to society in cooperation with prefectural police forces throughout Japan. The main action pursued is to create agreements for support and cooperation between Sekisui Heim sales companies throughout the country and local police forces. The Housing Company also participates in various events, distributes goods themed around crime prevention and traffic safety, and donates to groups that offer assistance to victims of crimes. We are carrying out specialized initiatives for each local area. Some specific examples include distribution of materials such as specialized fraud damage prevention flyers, the use of residential exhibition areas as “#110 Emergency Homes for Children,” donation of phone fraud repelling equipment (automatic audio recorders) to police stations, and traffic safety education activities in the streets. The company has created a pamphlet describing these activities and makes use of it as a communication tool both within the Company and for the general public. Distribution of specialized fraud damage Supporting the printing of “Bike Safety prevention flyers Classroom” pamphlets (Japan Traffic Safety Association) Calls for traffic safety using surging Donation of phone fraud repelling equipment crowd panels Sekisui Heim Kyushu Sekisui Heim Chubu, Gifu Branch Social Contribution Activities 278 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Installation of vending machines (for drinking Pamphlet describing the Housing Company’s water) to support victims of crimes social contribution activities Sekisui Heim Sanyo (Issued in April 2018) Initiatives of Sekisui Chemical Group Providing Medical Services to Villagers in India In the areas of India where SEKISUI DLJM MOLDING PRIVATE LTD. (DLJM) does its business, the lack of availability of medical care for residents is a social problem. In response to these conditions, an NGO called PHD Rural Development Foundation is engaged in activities which provide mobile medical services (medical camps) by loading small trucks with medicine, stretchers, diagnostic equipment, and other medical supplies and traveling to areas where medical facilities are insufficient. In fiscal year 2018, DLJM supported these activities by both providing financial aid and taking part in processes such as selection of sites for medical camp visits and scheduling. For example, when a site for setting up a medical camp was being determined, DLJM shared its opinions based on survey data with the NGO, and the two organizations worked together to choose villages with comparatively low medical facility access and awareness of sanitation and hygiene. As a result of these efforts, medical camps were set up at 4 of the villages near DLJM’s offices. At these 4 villages, 3 different types of medical camps (general, women and children focused, and specialized eye care camps) have been set up a total of 23 times as of January 2019, and approximately 2,300 people have been able to receive examinations, medication, and other treatment free of charge. DLJM will continue to carry out activities which contribute to the local community in the 3 fields of health, education, and livelihoods. Villagers receiving examinations at a medical camp Social Contribution Activities 279 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Initiatives of Sekisui Chemical Group TABLE FOR TWO As a social contribution activity that allows easy participation by individual employees, Sekisui Chemical Group has continued to implement the TABLE FOR TWO* (TFT) initiative since FY2008, a program in which 20 yen is added to the cost of a meal in employee cafeterias, with this amount donated to support the provision of lunches to children in developing countries. Furthermore, TFT was expanded, from April 2013 to December 2014, to “TABLE FOR TWO+Tohoku,” in order to support the provision of food to roughly the equivalent of 650,000 yen to victims of the Great East Japan Earthquake in the Tohoku region. In fiscal 2018, 12 locations participated in the program, including the Sekisui Chemical headquarters in Tokyo and Osaka, the Gunma Plant, the Musashi Plant, the Tsukuba Office, the Shiga-Minakuchi Plant, the Kyoto Research and Development Laboratories, the Research and Development Institute, Kinki Sekisui Heim, Co., Ltd., Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry, Co., Ltd., Sekisui Board, Co., Ltd., and the Ota Plant of Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. In fiscal 2018, approximately 570,000 yen was donated for food assistance to countries in Asia and Africa, bringing the total amount donated since the program began to more than roughly 5.4 million yen. * TABLE FOR TWO A social contribution activity implemented through everyday meals by the specified nonprofit corporation, TABLE FOR TWO International. The program not only feeds hungry children in developing countries by providing them with school lunches, but it also contributes to boosting attendance at schools, and improving academic performance and physical fitness. TABLE FOR TWO+Tohoku was enacted from 2013 to 2014 to provide food support to not only children in developing countries, but also to those impacted by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Meal support activities for Asia and Africa were launched in January 2015. Initiatives of Sekisui Chemical Group Installation of TABLE FOR TWO Vending Machines In order to enable as many employees as possible to participate in the TABLE FOR TWO (TFT) initiative, Sekisui Chemical Group installed the first vending machine linked to the TFT program at its Osaka Headquarters in July 2013. For each TFT-linked product purchased through this vending machine, 10 yen is donated to help fund meals and catering to schools in developing countries. Donations collected totaled around 60,000 yen in fiscal 2018. Social Contribution Activities 280 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Initiatives of Sekisui Chemical Group BOOK MAGIC As a social contribution activity that allows easy participation by individual employees, Sekisui Chemical Group has been implementing BOOK MAGIC* since September 2009. Through this program, money made from selling unneeded books and CDs is used to help fund education support programs through JEN, an NPO, in various countries throughout the world. Poster to raise awareness about BOOK MAGIC (created by JEN) * BOOK MAGIC A recycle and donate program hosted jointly by the specified nonprofit corporation, JEN, and BOOKOFF CORPORATION, LTD. Books, DVDs and CDs that people have finished reading, watching or listening to are sold instead of being thrown away, and the money is donated to JEN to help provide educational support (school support program) in regions scarred by natural disasters or wars. Initiatives of Sekisui Chemical Group Heart＋Action As social contribution activities that allow easy participation by individual employees, Sekisui Chemical Group has been implementing programs such as TABLE FOR TWO and BOOK MAGIC. In fiscal 2012, we further expanded these programs by promoting a new initiative known as Heart+Action. This program is based on activities involving international cooperation to help children and infants living in developing countries and those who are suffering from pediatric cancer. People only need about an hour to take part in the one of the many programs. Feedback received from participants included comments such as “It was easy to take part in” and “I’m glad to have been able to contribute to society through such a simple activity.” Social Contribution Activities 281 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Overview of Each Program Send a Picture Book An activity involving international cooperation in which stickers are stuck on Japanese picture books with translations of the text in languages of countries or regions where almost no children’s books are published. They are then delivered to children through Education Sponsorship in Asia, a specified non-profit corporation. Stickers being affixed to Japanese picture books Sort the Coins An activity in which coins of foreign currencies collected in donation boxes set up at international airports are sorted into the main countries of origin and used to help improve living standards in developing countries and in restoration efforts after the Great East Japan Earthquake through the authorized NPO, Japan Habitat Association. Coins of various countries being sorted Social Contribution Activities 282 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Send the Sounds Through the NPO The Lifestyle Research Institute of Forests, we give African calimba musical instruments that are made out of thinned out trees from forests in Japan to young children suffering from pediatric cancer. Making a calimba with the SEKISUI logo carved into it Send a Textbook Participating in international cooperative activities by creating handmade teaching materials in the Bengali numbers and having them delivered to the children of Bangladesh through the NPO ESA (Education Sponsorship in Asia). A homemade textbook displaying Bengali numerical characters Social Contribution Activities 283 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities External Evaluation Major External Evaluations Conducted During Fiscal 2018 CSR in General Earned selection to the “World” category of the DJSI Earned sustainability rating of “Bronze Class” by Robeco SAM Earned selection to the FTSE4Good Index series Earned selection to the FTSE Blossom Japan Index Earned selection to the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes Earned selection to the MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index Earned selection to Ethibel PIONEER and Ethibel EXCELLENCE Ranked 71st in Toyo Keizai CSR Ranking Selected as one of the “2019 Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World index” Earned selection to the S&P / JPX Carbon Efficient Index Composite THE INCLUSION OF SEKISUI CHEMICAL CO.,LTD. IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF SEKISUI CHEMICAL CO.,LTD. BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. External Evaluation 284 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Environment Ranked 62nd in the Nikkei “Environmental Management Ranking” Acquired certification from the “SBT (Science-Based Targets) Initiative” (June 2018) Earned selection to the 2018 “CDP Climate Change A-List” Awarded the 28th “Annual Global Environment Awards” Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Minister Award Acquired 3-star certification from the Shiga Biodiversity Initiative Certification System Awarded the “Biodiversity Action Award Japan 2018” in the “Let’s Show Division” Awarded the “2018 Award for Advanced Human Resource Development for Global Environment” outstanding performance award Awarded the 13th Japan Chemical Industry Association Responsible Care Award Human Resources Recognized as a “2019 Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization” by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi Kofu Sekisui Sangyo Co., Ltd.: Received the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry’s New Diversity Management Selection 100 in fiscal 2016 Earned selection to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry’s Diversity Management Selection 100 for fiscal 2013 External Evaluation 285 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities GRI Context Index The CSR Report 2019 of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. was written following the Core options of the GRI Standards. General Standard Disclosures 1. Organizational Profile Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting 102-1 Name of organization ・Outline of SEKISUI ・Our Company ・Products Activities, brands, products, and services (During the period a. A description of the organization’s activities. covered by the 102-2 b. Primary brands, products, and services, report, there were no including an explanation of any products or products or services services that are banned in certain markets. whose sale were banned in specific markets.) 102-3 Location of headquarters ・Outline of SEKISUI Location of operations a. Number of countries where the organization ・Sekisui Chemical 102-4 operates, and the names of countries where Group Worldwide it has significant operations and that are ・SEKISUI Worldwide relevant to the topics covered in the report. ・Financial Information 102-5 Ownership and legal form ・Corporate Governance Report Markets served i. Geographical locations where products and ・Outline of SEKISUI 102-6 services are offered. ・Business Introduction ii. Types of industries served. iii. Types of customers and beneficiaries. GRI Context Index 286 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Scale of the organization i. Total number of employees. ・Outline of SEKISUI ii. Total number of operations. ・Our Company iii. Net sales (for private sector organizations), ・Securities Report 102-7 net revenues (for public sector organizations). (Japanese) iv. Total capitalization broken down in terms ・Fact Book of debt and equity (for private sector ・Data on Employees organizations). v. Quantity of products or services provided. Information on employees and other workers a. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender. b. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region. c. Total number of employees by employment type (full-time and part-time), by gender. d. Whether a substantial portion of the organization’s activities are performed 102-8 ・Data on Employees by workers who are not employees. If applicable, a description of the nature and scale of work performed by workers who are not employees. e. Any significant variations in the numbers reported in Disclosures 102-8-a, 102-8-b, and 102-8-c (such as seasonal variations in the tourism or agricultural industries). f. Explanations of the methods used to compile data (if any assumptions are made, including those). Supply chain a. A description of the organization’s supply 102-9 chains. Including its major components of the ・Our Company supply chains for the organization’s activities, major brands, products, and services. GRI Context Index 287 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Significant changes to organizations and supply chain i. Changes in the location of the organization or its operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions). ii. Changes in the share capital structure and Not applicable for the 102-10 other capital formation, maintenance, and fiscal year under review alteration operations (for private sector organizations). iii. Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination. ・Our Approach to CSR ・CSR Medium-term Plan ・Long-term Environmental Management Vision Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030 ・Environmental Medium-term Plan Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Plan: 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Accelerate (fiscal 2017-2019) ・Integrated Index Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index ・Environmental Management System ・Chemical Substance Management ・SEKISUI Corporate Governance Principles ・Risk Management ・Corporate Governance GRI Context Index 288 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Declaration of Support for Initiatives and Organizations External initiatives in Which Sekisui a. A list of externally-developed economic, Chemical Group 102-12 environmental and social charters, principles, Participates or other initiatives to which the organization ・SDGs Initiatives subscribes or which it endorses. ・Conserving the Natural Environment -Biodiversity・Declaration of Memberships of associations Support for Initiatives List of the major memberships of industry or and Organizations 102-13 other associations, and advocacy organizations in Which Sekisui in Japan and overseas. Chemical Group Participates GRI Context Index 289 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities 2. Strategy Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Statement from senior decision-maker a. A statement from the highest-ranking decision-maker of the organization (CEO, 102-14 chairman, or an equivalent top-level ・Top Message executive) concerning the relationship of the organization to sustainability and concerning strategies for working toward sustainability. ・Top Message ・Our Approach to CSR ・Key CSR Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan ・SDGs Initiatives ・Climate Change / Climate Change and Our Business ・Conservation of Water Resources 102-15 Crucial impacts, risks, and opportunities ・Safety ・Risk Management / Identifying Risks ・Cyber Security / Measures to Address Information Leakage Risks ・Cyber Security / Measures to Address Natural Disasterrelated Risks ・Business Risks GRI Context Index 290 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities 3. Ethics and Integrity Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Group Principles ・Our Approach to CSR ・Basic Policies Regarding CSR ・Compliance and Respect for Human Rights / Growing Organization’s values, principles, standards, and 102-16 Awareness Toward norms of conduct Compliance ・Stakeholder Engagement / Dialogue with Investors, Spreading Awareness of CSR Through Communication Systems for advice and concerns regarding ・Compliance and ethics Respect for Human i. Systems that call for advice concerning ethical Rights / Upgrade of behavior, legal behavior, and the integrity of 102-17 the Whistle-blowing the organization. Program, ii. Systems for reporting unethical behavior Responses to External or illegal behavior and concerns about the Notifications integrity of the organization. GRI Context Index 291 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities 4. Governance Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Governance structure a. Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest ・Corporate Governance 102-18 governance body. ・CSR Promotion System b. Committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social topics. ・Corporate Governance ・CSR Promotion System ・Environmental Management System / System for Promoting Environmental Management ・Prominence in CS & Quality / CS & Quality Management Delegating authority Promotion System a. Process for delegating authority for ・Building a Diverse 102-19 economic, environmental and social topics Organizational from the highest governance body to senior Structure / executives and other employees. Diversity Management Promotional Structure ・Safety / Activity Policy and Promotion System ・Compliance and Respect for Human Rights / Putting Compliance Management Efforts into Practice Executive-level position responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics a. Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with 102-20 ・CSR Promotion System responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics. b. Whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. GRI Context Index 292 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Consultations with stakeholders on economic, environmental and social topics a. Processes for consultations between ・Stakeholder Engagement / stakeholders and the highest governance Dialogues with body on economic, environmental and social 102-21 Employees, topics. Dialogue with b. If consultation is delegated, describe to Investors whom it is delegated and how the resulting feedback is provided to the highest governance body. Composition of the highest governance body and its committees i. Executive or non-executive ii. Independence iii. Terms of members of governance bodies iv. Number of each individual’s other significant ・Corporate Governance positions and commitments, and the nature 102-22 ・Corporate Governance of the commitments Report v. Gender vi. Membership of under-represented social groups vii. Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts viii. Stakeholder representation Chairs of highest governance bodies a. Whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer in the ・Corporate Governance organization. Report 102-23 b. If the chair also serves as an executive officer, ・Securities Report describe his or her function within the (Japanese) organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement. GRI Context Index 293 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Nominating and selecting members of the highest governance body a. Nomination and selection processes of the members of the highest governance body and its committees. b. Standards used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including ・Corporate Governance whether and how: 102-24 ・Corporate Governance i. Whether and how stakeholders (including Report shareholders) are involved ii. Whether and how diversity is considered iii. Whether and how independence is considered iv. Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental, and social topics are considered Conflicts of interest a. Processes conducted by the highest governance body to avoid and handle conflicts of interest. b. Whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to ・Corporate Governance 102-25 stakeholders, including, as a minimum: ・Corporate Governance i. Cross-board membership Report ii. Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders iii. Existence of controlling shareholder iv. Related party disclosures Highest governance body’s role in establishing goals, values, and strategy a. Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in developing, approving, ・CSR Promotion System 102-26 and updating the organization’s purpose, ・Corporate Governance value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social topics. GRI Context Index 294 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Collective knowledge of highest governance ・Corporate Governance / body Support for and a. Measures taken to develop and enhance Collaboration with 102-27 the highest governance body’s collective Directors and Audit knowledge of economic, environmental, and and Supervisory Board social topics. Members Evaluation of the performance of highest governance body a. Processes for evaluating the performance of the highest governance body in relation to governance of economic, environmental and social topics ・Corporate Governance / b. Whether such evaluation is independent or Assessment Relating 102-28 not, and its frequency. to the Board s c. Whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. Effectiveness d. Measures taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. Identifying and managing impacts on economy, environment, and society a. Highest governance body’s role in identifying and managing economic, environmental and social topics, as well as their impacts, risks, ・CSR Promotion System and opportunities including its role in the ・Key CSR Issues 102-29 implementation of due diligence processes. ・Risk Management / b. Whether consultations with stakeholders Identifying Risks are used to support the identification and management of economic, environmental and social topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities. Effectiveness of risk management processes a. Highest governance body’s role in reviewing ・Corporate Governance / 102-30 the effectiveness of the organization’s risk Internal Control management processes for economic, System environmental and social topics. GRI Context Index 295 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・CSR Promotion System ・Environmental Management System / System for Promoting Environmental Management ・Prominence in CS & Quality / CS & Quality Management Promotion System Review of economic, environmental and social ・Building a Diverse topics Organizational a. Frequency of the highest governance body’s 102-31 Structure / Diversity review of economic, environmental and Management social topics and their impacts, risks, and Promotional Structure opportunities. ・Safety / Activity Policy and Promotion System ・Compliance and Respect for Human Rights / Putting Compliance Management Efforts into Practice ・Corporate Governance Report Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting a. The highest-ranking committee or position 102-32 that fulfills the functions of conducting formal ・CSR Promotion System reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability reports and confirming that all material topics have been covered. Communicating critical concerns a. rocesses established for communicating ・CSR Promotion System 102-33 critical concerns to the highest governance ・Stakeholder Engagement body. We regard that Nature and total number of communicated there is a risk in the critical concerns disclosure of this a. Total number and nature of critical concerns information from 102-34 that were communicated to the highest ― the perspectives of governance body. Sekisui Chemical b. Mechanisms used to handle and resolve Group’s management critical concerns. strategies and confidentiality. GRI Context Index 296 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Remuneration policies a. Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration: i. Fixed pay and variable pay, including performance-based remuneration, equity-based remuneration, bonuses, and deferred or vested shares) ii. Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive ・Corporate Governance / payments Nomination and iii. Termination payments Remuneration 102-35 iv. Clawbacks Advisory Committee v. Retirement benefits, including the ・Corporate Governance difference between benefit schemes Report and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees b. How performance standards in the remuneration policies relate to the highest governance body’s and corporate officers’ objectives for economic, environmental and social topics. Process for determining remuneration a. Process for determining remuneration. ・Corporate Governance / b. Whether remuneration consultants are Nomination and involved in determining remuneration Remuneration 102-36 and whether they are independent of Advisory Committee management. ・Corporate Governance c. Other relationships that exist between Report remuneration consultants and the organization. ・Corporate Governance / Nomination and Stakeholder’ involvement in remuneration Remuneration a. How stakeholders’ views are sought and Advisory Committee 102-37 taken into account regarding remuneration. ・Corporate Governance b. If applicable, the results of votes on Report remuneration policies and proposals. ・Securities Report (Japanese) ・Notice of Convocation GRI Context Index 297 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Annual total compensation ratio We regard that a. Ratio of the annual total compensation for there is a risk in the the organization’s highest-paid individual disclosure of this 102-38 in each country of significant operations to ― information from the median annual total compensation for the perspective of all employees (excluding the highest-paid employment contract individual) in the same country. confidentiality. Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio a. Ratio of the percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country 102-39 ― of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. GRI Context Index 298 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities 5. Stakeholder Engagement Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 102-40 ・Stakeholder Engagement organization ・Basis for Fostering Collective bargaining agreements Personnel / 102-41 a. Percentage of total employees covered by Labor-management collective bargaining agreements. Relations Standards for identifying and selecting the 102-42 stakeholders with which the organization ・Stakeholder Engagement engages Approach toward stakeholder engagement ・Stakeholder Engagement / a. The organization’s approach toward Main Responsibilities, stakeholder engagement, include frequency Communication 102-43 of engagement by type and by stakeholder Channels, and group. Additionally, indicate whether any of Communication the engagement was undertaken specifically Methods as part of the report preparation process. Critical topics and concerns raised i. How the organization has responded to those ・Stakeholder Engagement / critical topics and concerns, including those Promoting 102-44 responded through reporting). Engagement with ii. Stakeholder groups that raised critical topics Stakeholders and concerns. GRI Context Index 299 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities 6. Reporting Practices Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Entities included in the consolidated financial ・Environmental statements Management System a. A list of all entities included in the ・Scope of the CSR organization’s consolidated financial Report 2019 102-45 statements or equivalent documents. ・Securities Report b. Whether any entities included in the (Japanese) organization’s consolidated financial ・Basic Corporate statements or equivalent documents is not Information covered by the report. Defining report content and topic Boundaries ・Editorial Policy a. Explanations of the processes for establishing ・Scope of the CSR the report content and topic Boundaries. 102-46 Report 2019 b. Explanations of how the organization has ・Key CSR Issues implemented the reporting principles for ・GRI Context Index defining report content. List of material topics identified in the process ・Key CSR Issues 102-47 for defining the report content ・CSR Medium-term Plan Report the effect of any restatements of Not applicable for the 102-48 information provided in previous reports, and fiscal year under review the reasons for such restatements Significant changes from past reporting periods Not applicable for the 102-49 concerning material topics and topic Boundaries fiscal year under review ・Scope of the CSR 102-50 Reporting period for information provided Report 2019 The date of the most recent previous report (if ・Scope of the CSR 102-51 applicable) Report 2019 ・Scope of the CSR 102-52 Reporting cycle Report 2019 Contact point for questions regarding the 102-53 ・Contact Regarding CSR report Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Content Index a. A claim that indicates that the organization ・GRI Context Index followed the GRI Content Index and chose ・Declaration of one of the following options when writing a Support for Initiatives 102-54 report. and Organizations i. “This repo rt was written based on the in Which Sekisui Core option of the GRI Content Index.” Chemical Group ii. “This report was written based on the Participates Comprehensive option of the GRI Content Index.” GRI Context Index 300 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Content index a. An index of GRI content, which specifies each of the GRI Standards used and lists all disclosures included in the report. b. For each disclosure, the content index shall include: i. The numbers for the items disclosed (for disclosures covered by the GRI Content 102-55 ・GRI Context Index Index) ii. The page number(s) or URL(s) where the relevant information can be found, included in the report or other published materials iii. If applicable, and where permitted, the reasons for omission when a required disclosure cannot be made External assurance a. Explanations of the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If the report has been externally assured: i. A reference to the external assurance report, statements, or opinions. If not included in the assurance report ・Editorial Policy accompanying the sustainability report, a ・Scope of the CSR description of what has and what has not Report 2019 102-56 been assured and on what basis, including ・Independent the assurance standards used, the level of Practitioner s assurance obtained, and any limitations of Assurance Report the assurance process ii. The relationship between the organization and the assurance provider iii. Whether and how the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking external assurance for the organization’s sustainability report GRI Context Index 301 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Management Approach Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Explanations of material item and its boundary a. An explanation of why the topic is material. b. The boundary for the material topic, including description of: i. Where the impacts arise ii. The organization’s involvement in any 103-1 impacts. For example, whether the ・Key CSR Issues organization’s involvement with an impact is direct or indirect, or whether the impact became relevant via the organization’s business relationships c. Any specific limitation relating to the topic boundary. ■ Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR ・CSR Promotion System ・Basic Policies Regarding CSR ・Key CSR Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan ・SDGs Initiatives Management approach and its components ■ Prominence in a. An explanation of how the organization Environment manages the topic. ・Prominence in b. A statement of the purpose of the Environment management approach. ・Long-term c. A description of the following, if the Environmental management approach includes that Management Vision component: Sekisui Environment 103-2 i. Policies Sustainability Vision ii. Commitments 2030 iii. Goals and targets ・Environmental iv. Responsibilities Medium-term v. Management resources Plan Sekisui vi. Complaint-processing mechanisms Environmental vii. vii.Specific measures (processes, projects, Sustainability Plan: programs, initiatives, etc.) Accelerate (20172019) ・Integrated Index Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index ・Environmental Management System GRI Context Index 302 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Environmental Education ・Environmental Accounting ・Climate Change ・Efficient Use of Resources ・Conservation of Water Resources ・Chemical Substance Management ・Environmental Impact Assessment ・Conserving the Natural Environment-Biodiversity■ Prominence in CS & Quality Management approach and its components ・Prominence in CS & a. An explanation of how the organization Quality manages the topic. ・Medium-term Plan b. A statement of the purpose of the ・Creating Attractive management approach. Products and Services c. A description of the following, if the ・Improving Quality management approach includes that ■ Prominence in Human component: Resources 103-2 i. Policies ・Prominence in Human ii. Commitments Resources iii. Goals and targets ・Building a Diverse iv. Responsibilities Organizational v. Management resources Structure vi. Complaint-processing mechanisms ・Allowing Diverse vii. vii.Specific measures (processes, projects, Human Resources to programs, initiatives, etc.) Excel ・Basis for Fostering Personnel ■ Pledge to Society ・Pledge to Society ・Working Environment ・Safety ・Compliance and Respect for Human Rights ■ Governance ・Governance and Internal Control ・Risk Management ・Cyber Security GRI Context Index 303 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR ・CSR Promotion System ・Basic Policies Regarding CSR ・Key CSR Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan ・SDGs Initiatives ■ Prominence in Environment ・Prominence in Environment ・Long-term Environmental Management Vision Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision Evaluation of management approach 2030 a. An explanation of how the organization ・Environmental evaluates the management approach, Medium-term including: Plan Sekisui i. The mechanisms for evaluating the Environmental 103-3 effectiveness of the management Sustainability Plan: approach Accelerate (2017ii. The results of the evaluation of the 2019) management approach ・Integrated Index iii. Adjustments made in relation to Sekisui management approach Environmental Sustainability Index ・Environmental Management System ・Environmental Education ・Environmental Accounting ・Climate Change ・Efficient Use of Resources ・Conservation of Water Resources ・Chemical Substance Management ・Environmental Impact Assessment ・Conserving the Natural Environment-BiodiversityGRI Context Index 304 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Prominence in CS & Quality ・Prominence in CS & Quality ・Medium-term Plan ・Creating Attractive Products and Services ・Improving Quality ■ Prominence in Human Resources ・Prominence in Human Evaluation of management approach Resources a. An explanation of how the organization ・Building a Diverse evaluates the management approach, Organizational including: Structure i. The mechanisms for evaluating the ・Allowing Diverse 103-3 effectiveness of the management Human Resources to approach Excel ii. The results of the evaluation of the ・Basis for Fostering management approach Personnel iii. Adjustments made in relation to ■ Pledge to Society management approach ・Pledge to Society ・Working Environment ・Safety ・Compliance and Respect for Human Rights ■ Governance ・Governance and Internal Control ・Risk Management ・Cyber Security GRI Context Index 305 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Economic Performance Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Direct economic value generated and distributed a. Direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) on an accruals basis including the basic components for the organization’s global operations as listed below. If data is presented on a cash basis, report the justification for this decision and report the basic components as listed below: i. Direct economic value generated: revenues ・Stakeholder Engagement / 201-1 ii. Economic value distributed: operating Distribute Value to costs, employee wages and benefits, Stakeholders payments to capital providers of capital, payments to governments by country, and community investments iii. Economic value retained (calculated as ‘Direct economic value generated’ less ‘Economic value distributed’) b. Report EVG&D separately at country, regional, or market levels, where significant. Report the criteria used for defining significance. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change a. Risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential to generate substantive changes in operations, revenue or expenditure, including: i. A description of the risk or opportunity and its classification as either physical, ・Climate Change / 201-2 regulatory, or other Climate Change and ii. A description of the impact associated with Our Business the risk or opportunity iii. The financial implications of the risk or opportunity before action is taken iv. The methods used to manage the risk or opportunity v. The costs of actions taken to manage the risk or opportunity GRI Context Index 306 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans a. Where the plan’s liabilities are met by the organization’s general resources, report the estimated value of those liabilities. b. Where a separate fund exists to pay the plan’s pension liabilities, report: i. The extent to which the scheme’s liabilities are estimated to be covered by the assets that have been set aside to meet them ii. The basis on which that estimate has been arrived at ・Securities Report 201-3 iii. When that estimate was made (Japanese) c. Where a fund set up to pay the plan’s ・Fact Book pension liabilities is not fully covered, explain the strategy, if any, adopted by the employer to work towards full coverage, and the timescale, if any, by which the employer hopes to achieve full coverage. d. Percentage of salary contributed by employee or employer. e. Level of participation in retirement plans (such as participation in mandatory or voluntary schemes, regional or country-based schemes, or those with financial impact). GRI Context Index 307 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Financial assistance received from government a. Total monetary value of financial assistance received by the organization from any government during the reporting period, including: i. Tax relief and tax credits ii. Subsidies iii. Investment grants, research and development grants, and other relevant We regard that there types of grants is a risk that this iv. Awards information could 201-4 ― v. Royalty holidays contain business vi. Financial assistance from Export Credit strategies and Agencies (ECAs) confidential content. vii. Financial incentives viii. Other financial benefits received or receivable from any government for any operation b. The information in 201-4-a by country. c. Whether, and the extent to which, any government is present in the shareholding structure. GRI Context Index 308 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Presence Within Regional Economies Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage a. When a significant proportion of the workforce is compensated based on wages subject to minimum wage rules, report the ratio of the entry level wage by gender at significant locations of operation to the minimum wage. b. When a significant proportion of other Because the scope of workers (excluding employees) performing tabulation is vast and the organization’s activities are compensated 202-1 ― complex, we have based on wages subject to minimum wage not disclosed these rules, describe the actions taken to determine figures. whether these workers are paid above the minimum wage. c. Whether a local minimum wage is absent or variable at significant locations of operation, by gender. In circumstances in which different minimums can be used as a reference, report which minimum wage is being used. d. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. Proportion of senior management hired from the local community a. Percentage of senior management at Because the scope of significant locations of operation that are tabulation is vast and hired from the local community. 202-2 ― complex, we have b. The definition used for ‘senior management’. not disclosed these c. The organization’s geographical definition of figures. ‘local’. d. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. GRI Context Index 309 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Indirect Economic Impacts Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Infrastructure investments and services supported a. Extent of development of significant infrastructure investments and services supported. 203-1 b. Current or expected impacts on communities ・Integrated Report and local economies, including positive and negative impacts where relevant. c. Whether these investments and services are commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagements. Significant indirect economic impacts a. Examples of significant identified indirect economic impacts of the organization, Because the scope of including positive and negative impacts. tabulation is vast and 203-2 b. Significance of the indirect economic impacts ― complex, we have in the context of external benchmarks and not disclosed these stakeholder priorities, such as national and figures. international standards, protocols, and policy agendas. Procurement Practices Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Proportion of spending on local suppliers a. Percentage of the procurement budget used for significant locations of operation that is Because the scope of spent on suppliers local to that operation tabulation is vast and (such as percentage of products and services 204-1 ― complex, we have purchased locally). not disclosed these b. The organization’s geographical definition of figures. ‘local’. c. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. GRI Context Index 310 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Anti-corruption Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Key CSR Issues Reporting management approach relating DMA ・Compliance and to combating corruption using “GRI 103: (103-1) Respect for Human Management Approach” Rights Operations assessed for risks related to corruption ・Compliance and a. Total number and percentage of operations Respect for Human 205-1 assessed for risks related to corruption. Rights / Prevention of b. Significant risks related to corruption Bribery and Corruption identified through the risk assessment. Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures a. Total number and percentage of governance body members that the organization’s anticorruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by region. b. Total number and percentage of employees that the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by employee category and region. ・Compliance and c. Total number and percentage of Respect for Human 205-2 business partners that the organization’s Rights / Prevention of anticorruption policies and procedures have Bribery and Corruption been communicated to, broken down by type of business partner and region. Describe if the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to any other persons or organizations. d. Total number and percentage of governance body members that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by region. e. Total number and percentage of employees that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by employee category and region. GRI Context Index 311 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken a. Total number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption. ・Compliance and b. Total number of confirmed incidents in which Respect for Human employees were dismissed or disciplined for Rights / Prevention of corruption. Bribery and Corruption 205-3 c. Total number of confirmed incidents when ・Compliance and contracts with business partners were Respect for Human terminated or not renewed due to violations Rights / Cases of related to corruption. Violations in Fiscal d. Public legal cases regarding corruption 2018 brought against the organization or its employees during the reporting period and the outcomes of such cases. Anti-competitive Behavior Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Key CSR Issues Reporting management approach relating to DMA ・Compliance and anti-competitive behavior using “GRI 103: (103-1) Respect for Human Management Approach” Rights Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices a. Number of legal actions pending or ・Compliance and completed during the reporting period Respect for Human regarding anti-competitive behavior and 206-1 Rights / Handling violations of anti-trust and monopoly Measures for Antitrust legislation in which the organization has Laws been identified as a participant. b. Main outcomes of completed legal actions, including any decisions or judgments. GRI Context Index 312 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Materials Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Key CSR Issues ・Environmental Medium-term Plan Sekisui Reporting management approach relating to Environmental DMA raw materials using “GRI 103: Management Sustainability Plan: (103-1) Approach” Accelerate (fiscal 2017-2019) ・Efficient Use of Resources / Basic Concept Materials used by weight or volume Because the scope a. Total weight or volume of raw materials used of tabulation is vast to produce and package the organization’s and complex, we major products and services during the have not disclosed 301-1 ・Material balance reporting period, in accordance with the these figures. This following classifications: is an issue we must i. Non-renewable raw materials used consider and deal ii. Renewable raw materials used with in the future. ・Efficient Use of Because the scope of Resources / Recycling tabulation is vast and Construction Materials complex for ratios, Proportion of recycled materials used in the ・Conserving the we have not disclosed 301-2 production of the organization’s major products Natural Environment these figures. This and services -Biodiversity/ is an issue we must Procurement of consider and deal Sustainable Raw with in the future. Materials Because the scope of tabulation is vast and Recycled products and packaging materials complex for ratios a. Proportion of recycled products and ・Efficient Use of and other data, we 301-3 packaging materials by product category. Resources / Reducing have not disclosed b. How the data for this disclosure have been Packaging Materials these figures. This collected. is an issue we must consider and deal with in the future. GRI Context Index 313 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Energy Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Key CSR Issues ・Environmental Medium-term Plan Sekisui Environmental Reporting management approach relating Sustainability Plan: DMA to energy using “GRI 103: Management Accelerate (fiscal (103-1) Approach” 2017-2019) ・Climate Change / Basic Concept ・Climate Change / Combating Climate Change Energy consumption within the organization a. Total fuel consumption from non-renewable sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. b. Total fuel consumption from renewable fuel sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. c. Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the Because the scope total: of tabulation is i. Electricity consumption vast and complex ii. Heating consumption ・Climate Change / for some data, we iii. Cooling consumption Renewable Energy Use 302-1 have not disclosed iv. Steam consumption ・Climate Change / these figures. This d. Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the Performance Data is an issue we must total: consider and deal i. Electricity sold with in the future. ii. Heating sold iii. Cooling sold iv. Steam sold e. Total energy consumption in joules or multiples. f. Standards, methods, assumptions, and calculation tools used. g. Source of the conversion factors used. GRI Context Index 314 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting We regard that Energy consumption outside of the organization monitoring the a. Energy consumed outside of the organization, amount of energy in joules or multiples. used in supply chains 302-2 ― b. Standards, methods, assumptions, and (Scope 3) is an issue calculation tools used. which we must c. Source of the conversion factors used. consider and deal with. Energy intensity a. Energy intensity ratio for the organization. b. Organization-specific metric (the ratio denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. ・Climate Change / 302-3 c. Types of energy included in the intensity Performance Data ratio: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all. d. Whether the ratio uses energy consumed within the organization, outside of it or both. Reduction of energy consumption a. Amount of reductions in energy consumption ・Climate Change / achieved as a direct result of conservation Combating Climate and efficiency initiatives, in joules or Change multiples. ・Climate Change / b. Types of energy included in the reductions: Environment-contributing 302-4 fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or Investments all. ・Climate Change / c. Basis for calculating reductions in energy Renewable Energy Use consumption such as base year or baseline, ・Climate Change / and the rationale for choosing it. Performance Data d. Standards, methods, assumptions, and calculation tools used. Reductions in energy requirements of products and services ・Climate Change / a. Reductions in the energy requirements of Greenhouse Gases sold products and services achieved during emissions at the the reporting period, in joules or multiples. 302-5 Supply Chain Stage b. Basis for calculating reductions in energy (SCOPE 3) consumption such as base year or baseline, ・Environment-Contributing and the rationale for choosing it. Products c. Standards, methods, assumptions, and calculation tools used. GRI Context Index 315 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Water Resources Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Key CSR Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan ・Environmental Medium-Term Plan Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Plan: Reporting management approach relating to DMA Accelerate (fiscal water resources using “GRI 103: Management (103-1) 2017-2019) Approach” ・Conservation of Water Resources / Basic Concept ・Conservation of Water Resources / Activity Policy and Reduction Targets Water withdrawal by source a. Total volume of water withdrawn from the following sources: i. Surface water, including water from wetlands, rivers, lakes, and oceans ・Conservation of ii. Ground water 303-1 Water Resources / iii. Rainwater collected directly and stored by Performance Data the organization iv. Waste water from another organization v. Municipal water supplies or other public or private water utilities b. Standards, methods, and assumptions used Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water ・Conservation of a. Total number of water sources significantly Water Resources / affected by withdrawal by type: Assessment of i. Size of water source Water-related Risks ii. Whether or not the source is designated ・Conservation of Water as a protected area (nationally or 303-2 Resources / Ongoing internationally) Monitoring of Water iii. Biodiversity value (such as species diversity Risks and endemism, total number of protected ・Conservation of species) Water Resources / iv. Value or importance of water source to Performance Data local communities and indigenous peoples b. Standards, methods, and assumptions used. GRI Context Index 316 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Recycled and reused water a. Total volume of water recycled and reused by the organization. ・Conservation of Water 303-3 b. Total volume of water recycled and reused as Resources / Water a percentage of the total water withdrawal Recycling specified in Disclosure 303-1. c. Standards, methods, and assumptions used. Biodiversity Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Key CSR Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan ・Environmental Medium-term Plan Sekisui Reporting management approach relating to DMA Environmental biodiversity using “GRI 103: Management (103-1) Sustainability Plan: Approach” Accelerate (fiscal 2017-2019) ・Conserving the Natural Environment -BiodiversityGRI Context Index 317 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas a. For each operational site owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas, the following information: i. Geographic location ii. Subsurface and underground land that may be owned, leased, or managed by the organization ・Conserving the iii. Position in relation to the protected area Natural Environment (in the area, adjacent to, or containing -Biodiversity/ Rare portions of the protected area) or the high Species Confirmed 304-1 biodiversity value area outside protected at Sekisui Chemical areas Group Business Sites iv. Type of operation (office, manufacturing and Surrounding Areas or production, or extractive) Through Fiscal 2018 v. Size of operational site in km2 (or another unit, if appropriate) vi. Biodiversity value characterized by the attribute of the protected area or area of high biodiversity value outside the protected area (terrestrial, freshwater, or maritime ecosystem) vii. Biodiversity value characterized by listing of protected status (such as IUCN Protected Area Management Categories, Ramsar Convention, national legislation) GRI Context Index 318 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity a. Nature of significant direct and indirect impacts on biodiversity with reference to one ・Efficient Use of or more of the following: Resources / Social i. Construction or use of manufacturing Responsibility plants, mines, and transport infrastructure Regarding Waste ii. Pollution (introduction of substances that ・Conservation of Water do not naturally occur in the habitat from Resources / Impact of Because the scope point and non-point sources) Water-related Risks on is vast for some iii. Introduction of invasive species, pests, and Business information, we pathogens ・Conservation of Water have not disclosed 304-2 iv. Reduction of species Resources / Ongoing all figures. This is v. Habitat conversion Monitoring of Water an issue we must vi. Changes in ecological processes outside Risks consider and deal the natural range of variation (such as ・Conserving the with in the future. salinity or changes in groundwater level) Natural Environment b. Significant direct and indirect positive and -Biodiversity/ negative impacts with reference to the Wastewater WET following: ・Environmental Impact i. Species affected Assessment ii. Extent of areas impacted iii. Duration of impacts iv. Reversibility or irreversibility of the impacts GRI Context Index 319 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Conserving the Natural Environment -Biodiversity/ Initiatives to Improve Green Space Quality ・Conserving the Natural Environment -Biodiversity/ Example of Green Space Quality Improvement Habitats protected or restored ・Conserving the a. Size and location of all habitat protected Natural Environment areas or restored areas, and whether the -Biodiversity/ success of the restoration measure was Because the scope Park-like Production or is approved by independent external is vast for some Plant in the Middle of a professionals. information, we Forest Rich with Nature b. Whether partnerships exist with third parties have not disclosed 304-3 ・Conserving the to protect or restore habitat areas distinct all figures. This is Natural Environment from where the organization has overseen an issue we must -Biodiversity/ and implemented restoration or protection consider and deal Promoting Biodiversity measures. with in the future. in Our Housing Business c. Status of each area based on its condition at ・Conserving the the close of the reporting period. Natural Environment d. Standards, methods, and assumptions used. -Biodiversity/ Environmental Contribution Activities in Collaboration with Local Communities ・Conserving the Natural Environment -Biodiversity/ Cooperation with External Organizations IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations ・Conserving the a. List species and national conservation list Natural Environment species with habitats in areas affected by the -Biodiversity/ Rare operations of the organization, by level of Species Confirmed 304-4 extinction risk: at Sekisui Chemical i. Critically endangered IA (CR) Group Business Sites ii. Endangered IB (EN) and Surrounding Areas iii. Vulnerable II (VU) Through Fiscal 2018 iv. Near threatened (NT) v. Least concern GRI Context Index 320 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Emissions Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Key CSR Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan ・Environmental Medium-Term Plan Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Plan: Accelerate (fiscal 2017-2019) ・Climate Change / Basic Concept Reporting management approach relating to ・Climate Change / DMA emissions into the atmosphere using “GRI 103: Combating Climate (103-1) Management Approach” Change ・Climate Change / Acquisition of SBT Certification ・Climate Change / Environmentcontributing Investments ・Chemical Substance Management / Preventing Air and Water Pollution GRI Context Index 321 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) a. Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. b. Gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all) c. Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. ・Climate Change / d. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, Combating Climate Because the scope is including: Change vast for some data, i. The rationale for choosing the base year ・Climate Change / we have not disclosed 305-1 ii. Emissions in the base year Environmentall figures. This is iii. The context for any significant changes in contributing an issue we must emissions that triggered recalculations of Investments consider and deal base year emissions ・Climate Change / with in the future. e. Source of the emission factors and the global Performance Data warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP source. f. Consolidation approach for emissions (equity share, financial control, or operational control). g. Standards, methods, assumptions, and calculation tools used. GRI Context Index 322 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) a. Gross location-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. b. If applicable, gross market-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. c. If available, the gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, Because the scope is PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. ・Climate Change / vast for some data, d. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, Combating Climate we have not disclosed including: 305-2 Change all figures. This is i. The rationale for choosing the base year ・Climate Change / an issue we must ii. Emissions in the base year Performance Data consider and deal iii. The context for any significant changes in with in the future. emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions e. Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP source. f. Consolidation approach for emissions; whether equity share, financial control, or operational control. g. Standards, methods, assumptions, and calculation tools used. GRI Context Index 323 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) a. Gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. b. If available, the gases included in the calculation whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. c. Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 ・Climate Change / equivalent. Combating Climate Because the scope is d. Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Change vast for some data, categories and activities included in the ・Climate Change / we have not disclosed calculation. Greenhouse Gases 305-3 all figures. This is e. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, emissions at the an issue we must including: Supply Chain Stage consider and deal i. The rationale for the base year (SCOPE 3) with in the future. ii. Emissions in the base year ・Climate Change / iii. The context for any significant changes in Performance Data emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. f. Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP source. g. Standards, methods, assumptions, and calculation tools used. Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity a. GHG emissions intensity ratio for the organization. Because the scope is b. Organization-specific metric (the ・Climate Change / vast for some data, denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. Combating Climate we have not disclosed 305-4 c. Types of GHG emissions included in the Change all figures. This is intensity ratio; whether direct (Scope 1), ・Climate Change / an issue we must energy indirect (Scope 2), and / or other Performance Data consider and deal indirect (Scope 3). with in the future. d. Gases included in the calculation whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. GRI Context Index 324 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions a. GHG emissions reduced as a direct result of reduction initiatives, in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. Because the scope is b. Gases included in the calculation whether ・Climate Change / vast for some data, CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. Combating Climate we have not disclosed 305-5 c. Base year or baseline, including the rationale Change all figures. This is for choosing it. ・Climate Change / an issue we must d. Scopes in which reductions took place; Performance Data consider and deal whether direct (Scope 1), energy indirect with in the future. (Scope 2), and / or other indirect (Scope 3). e. Standards, methods, assumptions, and calculation tools used. ・Chemical Substance Management / Controlling VOC Emissions Emissions of Ozone-Depleting Substances (ODS) ・Chemical Substance Because the scope is a. Production, imports, and exports Management / vast for some data, of ODS in metric tons of CFC-11 Disposal and we have not disclosed (trichlorofluoromethane) equivalent. 305-6 Storage of Devices all figures. This is b. Substances included in the calculation. Containing PCBs an issue we must c. Source of the emission factors used. and Management of consider and deal d. Standards, methods, assumptions, and Equipment That Uses with in the future. calculation tools used. Fluorocarbons ・Chemical Substance Management / Performance Data Nitrogen oxide (NOx), sulfur oxide SOx, and other critical atmospheric emissions a. Significant air emissions, in kilograms or multiples, for each of the following: i. NOx Because the scope is ii. SOx vast for some data, iii. Persistent organic pollutants (POP) ・Chemical Substance we have not disclosed 305-7 iv. Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Management / all figures. This is v. Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) Performance Data an issue we must vi. Particulate matter (PM) consider and deal vii. Other standard categories of air emissions with in the future. identified in relevant regulations b. Source of the emission factors used. c. Standards, methods, assumptions, and calculation tools used. GRI Context Index 325 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Effluents and Waste Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Key CSR Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan ・Environmental Medium-term Plan Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Plan: Accelerate (fiscal 2017-2019) ・Efficient Use of Resources / Basic Concept ・Conservation of Water Resources / Basic Reporting management approach relating DMA Concept to effluents and waste using “GRI 103: (103-1) ・Conservation of Management Approach” Water Resources / Assessment of Waterrelated Risks ・Conservation of Water Resources / Impact of Water-related Risks on Business ・Conservation of Water Resources / Activity Policy and Reduction Targets ・Chemical Substance Management / Preventing Air and Water Pollution ・Conservation of Water Water discharge by quality and destination Resources / Ongoing a. Total volume of planned and unplanned Monitoring of Water water discharges by: Risks i. Destination ・Conservation of Water 306-1 ii. Quality of the water, including treatment Resources / Water method Recycling iii. Whether it was reused by another ・Conservation of organization Water Resources / b. Standards, methods, and assumptions used. Performance Data GRI Context Index 326 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Waste by type and disposal method a. Total weight of hazardous waste, by the following disposal methods: i. Reuse ii. Recycling iii. Composting iv. Recovery, including energy recovery v. Incineration (mass burn) vi. Deep well injection vii. Landfill viii. On-site storage ・Efficient Use of ix. Other (to be specified by the organization) Resources / Thermal b. Total weight of non-hazardous waste, by the Recycling Initiatives following disposal methods: ・Material Balance i. Reuse ・Efficient Use of 306-2 ii. Recycling Resources / iii. Composting Performance Data iv. Recovery, including energy recovery ・Chemical Substance v. Incineration (mass burn) Management / vi. Deep well injection Performance Data vii. Landfill viii. On-site storage ix. Other (to be specified by the organization) c. How the waste disposal method has been determined: i. Disposed of directly by the organization or otherwise directly confirmed ii. Information provided by the waste disposal contractor iii. Organizational defaults of the waste disposal contractor GRI Context Index 327 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Significant spills a. Total number and total volume of recorded significant spills. b. The following additional information for each spill that was reported in the organization’s financial statements: i. Location of spill ・Soil Surveys 306-3 ii. Volume of spill Not applicable for the iii. Material of spill, categorized by: oil spills fiscal year under review (soil or water surfaces), fuel spills (soil or water surfaces), spills of wastes (soil or water surfaces), spills of chemicals (mostly soil or water surfaces), and other (to be specified by the organization). c. The impacts of significant spills. Transportation of hazardous waste a. Total weight for each of the following: i. Hazardous waste transported ii. Hazardous waste imported ・Chemical Substance 306-4 iii. Hazardous waste exported Management / iv. Hazardous waste treated Performance Data b. Percentage of hazardous waste shipped internationally. c. Standards, methods, and assumptions used. Water bodies affected by water discharges and / or runoff a. Water bodies and related habitats that are Because there are significantly affected by water discharges a vast number of and / or runoff, including information on: business sites and 306-5 i. Size of water body and related habitat ― data collection is ii. Whether the water body and related difficult, we have not habitat is designated as a protected area disclosed these figures (nationally or internationally) for fiscal 2018. iii. Biodiversity value (such as total number of protected species) GRI Context Index 328 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Environmental Compliance Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Key CSR Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan Reporting management approach relating ・Environmental DMA to compliance with laws and regulations Management System / (103-1) concerning the environment using “GRI 103: Complying with Management Approach” Environmental Laws and Regulations Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations a. Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws ・Environmental and / or regulations in terms of: Management System / i. Total monetary value of significant fines 307-1 Complying with ii. Total number of non-monetary sanctions Environmental Laws iii. Cases brought through dispute resolution and Regulations mechanisms b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. GRI Context Index 329 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Assessments of Suppliers in Environmental Terms Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Key CSR Issues ・Environmental Reporting management approach relating to DMA Management System / suppliers’ environmental assessments using (103-1) Environmental “GRI 103: Management Approach” Management across the Supply Chain ― When selecting new suppliers, Sekisui Chemical Group New suppliers that were screened using comprehensively environmental criteria evaluates candidate 308-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened companies from the using environmental criteria. perspectives of quality, environmental factors, health and safety, and compliance with laws, regulations, and social standards. As a result, all new suppliers now clear every environmental standard required by the Group. GRI Context Index 330 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken a. Number of suppliers subject to environmental impact assessments. b. Number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts. Because each c. Significant actual and potential negative Company has environmental impacts identified in the different suppliers supply chain. 308-2 ― and data collection is d. Percentage of suppliers identified as difficult, we have not having significant actual and potential disclosed these figures negative environmental impacts with which for fiscal 2018. improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. e. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. GRI Context Index 331 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Employment Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Key CSR Issues ・Prominence in Human Resources / Our Philosophy ・Prominence in Human Reporting management approach relating to DMA Resources / Building a employment using “GRI 103: Management (103-1) Diverse Organizational Approach” Structure ・Prominence in Human Resources / Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel New employee hires and employee turnover a. Total number and rate of new employee hires during the reporting period, by age group, ・Prominence in Human 401-1 gender and region. Resources / Data on b. Total number and rate of employee turnover Employees during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees a. Benefits which are standard for full-time employees of the organization but are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of ・Prominence in Human operation. These include, as a minimum: Resources / Basis for 401-2 i. Life insurance Fostering Personnel / ii. Healthcare Benefits iii. Disability and invalidity coverage iv. Parental leave v. Retirement provision vi. Stock ownership vii. Others b. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. GRI Context Index 332 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Parental leave a. Total number of employees that were entitled to parental leave, by gender. b. Total number of employees that took parental ・Prominence in Human leave, by gender. Resources / c. Total number of employees who returned to Allowing Diverse work in the reporting period after parental Human Resources to 401-3 leave ended, by gender. Excel / Main Systems d. Total number of employees who returned to and Uses for Various work after parental leave ended who were Workstyles and Their still employed twelve months after their Use return to work, by gender. e. Return to work and retention rates of employees who took parental leave, by gender. Labor / Management Relations Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes a. Minimum number of weeks’ notice typically provided to employees and their representatives prior to the implementation ・Workplace Environment / of significant operational changes that could 402-1 Notifications of Major substantially affect them. HR-related Changes b. For organizations with collective bargaining agreements, report whether the notice period and provisions for consultation and negotiation are specified in collective agreements. GRI Context Index 333 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Occupational Health and Safety Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Key CSR Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan ・Safety / Basic Concept ・Safety / Activity Policy and Promotion System ・Safety / Safety Audits Reporting management approach relating to ・Safety / Measures DMA Occupational Health and Safety using “GRI to Prevent Fires and (103-1) 103: Management Approach” Explosions ・Safety / Overseas Business Site Safety Audits ・Safety / Safety Management along Supply Chains Workers representation in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees Although not a. The level at which each formal joint disclosed in fiscal management-worker health and safety ・Safety / Occupational 2019, we regard this committee typically operates within the 403-1 Safety Committee as an issue which we organization. Held must consider and b. Percentage of workers whose work, or deal with for future workplace, is controlled by the organization, disclosure. that are represented by formal joint management-worker health and safety committees. GRI Context Index 334 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities a. Types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational diseases rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), Because the scope absentee rate (AR) and work-related fatalities, of tabulation is vast for all employees, by: and complex, we i. Region ・Safety / have not disclosed 403-2 ii. Gender Performance Data these figures. This b. Types of injury, injury rate (IR) and workis an issue we must related fatalities for all workers (excluding consider and deal employees) whose work, or workplace, is with in the future. controlled by the organization, by: i. Region ii. Gender c. The system of rules applied in recording and reporting accident statistics. The Group compiles lists of risks, including outbreaks of communicable diseases, for which the Group should Workers with high incidence or high risk of prepare, and these diseases related to their occupation lists are shared a. Whether there are workers whose work, or globally with those 403-3 workplace, is controlled by the organization, ― in charge of lines of involved in occupational activities who have business and local a high incidence or high risk of specific sites. Going forward, diseases. we intend to discuss methods of tabulating and disclosing risks uncovered by those with such responsibilities. Health and safety topics covered in formal Although not agreements with trade unions disclosed in fiscal a. Whether formal agreements (either local or ・Safety / Occupational 2019, we regard this global) with trade unions cover health and 403-4 Safety Committee as an issue which we safety. Held must consider and b. If so, the extent, as a percentage, to which deal with for future various health and safety topics are covered disclosure. by these agreements. GRI Context Index 335 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Training and Education Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Key CSR Issues Reporting management approach relating ・CSR Medium-term Plan DMA to training using “GRI 103: Management ・Prominence in Human (103-1) Approach” Resources / Basis for Fostering Personnel ・Prominence in Human Resources / Basis for Average hours of training per year per Fostering Personnel / employee Training Systems a. Average hours of training that the to Support Our 404-1 organization’s employees have undertaken Businesses during the reporting period, by: ・Prominence in Human i. Gender Resources / Basis for ii. Employee category Fostering Personnel / Performance Data GRI Context Index 336 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Prominence in Human Resources / Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel / Developing Business Leaders ・Prominence in Human Resources / Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel / Follow-up Training for New, Mid-career Hires ・Prominence in Human Resources / Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel / Support System Programs for upgrading employee skills and for Diverse Career Paths transition assistance programs ・Prominence in Human a. Type and scope of programs implemented Resources / Allowing and assistance provided to upgrade employee Diverse Human Resources 404-2 skills. to Excel / Fostering b. Transition assistance programs provided to Women s Candidacy for facilitate continued employability and the Management Positions management of career endings resulting from ・Prominence in Human retirement or termination of employment. Resources / Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel / Career Plan Training by Age (Sekisui Chemical Group) ・Prominence in Human Resources / Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel / Global Talent Employee System ・Prominence in Human Resources / Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel / Global Trainee Program ・Prominence in Human Percentage of employees receiving regular Resources / Basis for performance and career development reviews Fostering Personnel / a. Percentage of total employees by gender and 404-3 Periodic Evaluation of by employee category who received a regular Individual Performance performance and career development review and Career during the reporting period. Development GRI Context Index 337 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Diversity and Equal Opportunity Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Prominence in Human Report management approach relating to DMA Resources / Building a diversity using “GRI 103: Management (103-1) Diverse Organizational Approach” Structure Diversity in governance bodies and among employees a. Percentage of individuals within the organization’s governance bodies in each of the following diversity categories: i. Gender ・Prominence in Human ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 Resources / Data on years old, over 50 years old Employees iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant 405-1 ・Corporate Governance / (such as minority or vulnerable groups) About the Age-group b. Percentage of employees per employee Composition of category in each of the following diversity Corporate Officers categories: i. Gender ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups) In part because the number of employees Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of is large and was women to men difficult to collect ・Prominence in Human a. Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of data during this Resources / Basis for 405-2 women to men for each employee category, fiscal year, we have Fostering Personnel / by significant locations of operation. not disclosed figures Benefits b. The definition used for ‘significant locations concerning ratios of operation’ for total amounts of compensation for fiscal 2017. GRI Context Index 338 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Non-discrimination Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken a. Total number of incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. b. Status of the incidents and actions taken with reference to the following: Not applicable for the 406-1 i. Incident reviewed by the organization fiscal year under review ii. Remediation plans being implemented iii. Remediation plans have been implemented and results reviewed through routine internal management review processes iv. Incident no longer subject to action Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk a. Operations and suppliers in which workers’ rights to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining may be violated or at ・Compliance and Because it is difficult significant risk either in terms of: Respect for Human to acquire supplier 407-1 i. Type of operation (such as manufacturing Rights / Identifying data, we have not plant) and supplier Human Rights Risks disclosed these figures ii. Countries or geographic areas with Within the Group for fiscal 2018. operations and suppliers considered at risk. b. Measures taken by the organization in the reporting period intended to support rights to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. GRI Context Index 339 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Child Labor Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor a. Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of: ・Compliance and i. Child labor Respect for Human ii. Young workers exposed to hazardous work Rights / Identifying b. Operations and suppliers considered to have Human Rights Risks significant risk for incidents of child labor Within the Group 408-1 either in terms of: ・Compliance and i. Type of operation (such as manufacturing Respect for Human plant) and supplier Rights / Initiatives ii. Countries or geographic areas with Geared Toward operations and suppliers considered at risk Suppliers c. Measures taken by the organization in the reporting period intended to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Forced or Compulsory Labor Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor ・Compliance and a. Operations and suppliers considered to have Respect for Human significant risk for incidents of forced or Rights / Identifying compulsory labor either in terms of: Human Rights Risks i. Type of operation (such as manufacturing Within the Group 409-1 plant) and supplier ・Compliance and ii. Countries or geographic areas with Respect for Human operations and suppliers considered at risk Rights / Initiatives b. Measures taken by the organization in the Geared Toward reporting period intended to contribute to Suppliers the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. GRI Context Index 340 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Security Practices Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures a. Percentage of security personnel who have received formal training in the organization’s 410-1 human rights policies or specific procedures ― and their application to security. b. Whether the same training requirements also apply to third-party organizations providing security personnel. Rights of Indigenous Peoples Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples a. Total number of identified incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples during the reporting period. ・Compliance and b. Status of the incidents and actions taken with Respect for Human 411-1 reference to the following: Rights / Identifying i. Incident reviewed by the organization Human Rights Risks ii. Remediation plans being implemented Within the Group iii. Remediation plans have been implemented and results reviewed through routine internal management review processes iv. Incident no longer subject to action GRI Context Index 341 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Human Rights Assessment Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Key CSR Issues ・Compliance and Respect for Human Rights / Respect for Human Rights / Basic Concept ・Compliance and Reporting management approach relating to DMA Respect for Human human rights assessments using “GRI 103: (103-1) Rights / Human Rights Management Approach” Policy Formulation ・Compliance and Respect for Human Rights / Assessing the Human Rights Situation at Our Suppliers Because it is difficult to ascertain the total Operations that have been subject to human number of business ・Compliance and rights reviews or impact assessments sites, due to such Respect for Human a. Total number and percentage of operations factors as M&A and 412-1 Rights / Identifying that have been subject to human rights organizational reforms Human Rights Risks reviews or human rights impact assessments, as well as the diversity Within the Group by country. of business, we have not disclosed the percentage. GRI Context Index 342 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Compliance and Respect for Human Rights / Internal Deliberations on Human Rights Policy Because the total Formulation Employee training on human rights policies or number of hours ・Compliance and procedures of training and Respect for Human a. Total number of hours in the reporting period the proportion of Rights / Initiatives devoted to training on human rights policies employees who have Geared Toward or procedures concerning aspects of human undergone training 412-2 Employees rights that are relevant to operations. are, at the time of this ・Compliance and b. Percentage of employees trained during the writing, difficult to Respect for Human reporting period on human rights policies acquire information Rights / Performance or procedures concerning aspects of human regarding, we have Data / List of rights that are relevant to operations. not disclosed anything Results Relating to on this matter. Compliance Training ・Prominence in Human Resources / Basis for Fostering Personnel / Performance Data Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening a. Total number and percentage of significant 412-3 investment agreements and contracts ― that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening. b. The definition used for ‘significant investment agreements’. GRI Context Index 343 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Local Communities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Reporting management approach relating ・Key CSR Issues DMA to local communities using “GRI 103: ・Social Contribution (103-1) Management Approach” Activities Operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs a. Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs, including the use of: i. Social impact assessments, including gender impact assessments, based on participatory processes ii. Environmental impact assessments and ongoing monitoring We are currently iii. Public disclosure of results of considering evaluation 413-1 environmental and social impact ― methods for assessments measuring impacts on iv. Local community development programs local communities. based on local communities’ needs v. Stakeholder engagement plans based on stakeholder mapping vi. Broad based local community consultation committees and processes that include vulnerable groups vii. Works councils, occupational health and safety committees and other employee representation bodies to deal with impacts viii. Formal local community grievance processes Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities We are currently a. Operations with significant actual and considering evaluation potential negative impacts on local 413-2 ― methods for communities, including: measuring impacts on i. The location of the operations local communities. ii. The significant actual and potential negative impacts of operations GRI Context Index 344 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Key CSR Issues ・Compliance and Respect for Human Rights / Assessing Reporting management approach relating to DMA the Human Rights society-focused assessments of suppliers using (103-1) Situation at Our “GRI 103: Management Approach” Suppliers ・Basic Policies Regarding CSR / Basic Procurement Policy ― Sekisui Chemical Group selects new suppliers after evaluating them comprehensively New suppliers that were screened using social from the perspectives criteria of quality, the 414-1 a. Percentage of new suppliers that were environment, screened using social criteria. compliance with laws and regulations and with societal norms, and health and safety. Therefore, all new suppliers have fully cleared the societal standards on which Sekisui Chemical Group insists. GRI Context Index 345 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken a. Number of suppliers assessed for social impacts. b. Number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts. c. Significant actual and potential negative social impacts identified in the supply chain. 414-2 ― d. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. e. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. Public Policy Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting We have decided not Reporting management approach relating to disclose information DMA public policy using “GRI 103: Management ― on this topic for (103-1) Approach” reasons of business strategy. Political contributions a. Total monetary value of financial and inkind political contributions made directly and ・Compliance and 415-1 indirectly by the organization by country and Respect for Human recipient / beneficiary. Rights / Donations b. If applicable, how the monetary value of inkind contributions was estimated. GRI Context Index 346 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Customer Health and Safety Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Prominence in CS & Quality / Quality Management Reporting management approach relating to ・Prominence in CS & DMA customer health and safety using “GRI 103: Quality / Formulating (103-1) Management Approach” Three Quality Guidelines ・Prominence in CS & Quality / Product Safety Since it is currently Assessment of the health and safety impacts of difficult to calculate product and service categories ・Prominence in CS & values for proportions 416-1 a. Percentage of significant product and service Quality / Preventing in this area; we are categories for which health and safety Quality Fraud examining methods impacts are assessed for improvement. for disclosing information. Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services within the reporting period, by: i. Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty ii. Incidents of non-compliance with ・Prominence in CS & regulations resulting in a warning Quality / Preventing iii. Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary Quality Fraud 416-2 codes ・Prominence in CS & b. If the organization has not identified any Quality / Product non-compliance with regulations and Safety voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. c. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. d. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. GRI Context Index 347 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Marketing and Labeling Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Key CSR Issues ・Prominence in CS & Reporting management approach relating Quality / Improving DMA to marketing using “GRI 103: Management Quality (103-1) Approach” ・Compliance and Respect for Human Rights Requirements for product and service information and labeling a. Whether each of the following types of Because it is information is required by the organization’s currently difficult procedures for product and service to ascertain various information and labeling: types of information i. The sourcing of components of the product concerning all or service products and ii. Content, particularly with regard to 417-1 ― to calculate the substances that might produce an percentage values for environmental or social impact procedure compliance iii. Safe use of the product or service evaluations, we are iv. Disposal of the product and environmental examining methods / social impacts for disclosing v. Others (Explain in detail) information. b. Percentage of significant product or service categories covered by and assessed for compliance with such procedures. Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by: i. Incidents of non-compliance with ・Prominence in CS & regulations resulting in a fine or penalty Quality / Products 417-2 ii. Incidents of non-compliance with Information Disclosure regulations resulting in a warning and Labeling iii. Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. GRI Context Index 348 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by: ・Compliance and i. Incidents of non-compliance with Respect for Human 417-3 regulations resulting in a fine or penalty Rights / Marketing ii. Incidents of non-compliance with Communications regulations resulting in a warning iii. Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Customer Privacy Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Key CSR Issues Reporting management approach relating to DMA ・Cyber Security customer privacy using “GRI 103: Management (103-1) ・Protecting Personal Approach” Information Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data a. Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer privacy, categorized by: i. Complaints received from outside parties Not applicable for the 418-1 and substantiated by the organization fiscal year under review ii. Complaints from regulatory bodies b. Total number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data. c. In the event that there are no substantiated complaints, we will simply state that fact GRI Context Index 349 Sekisui Chemical Group's Prominence in Prominence in Prominence in Top Message Pledge to Society CSR Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Stakeholder Social Contribution Governance External Evaluation GRI Context Index Engagement Activities Socioeconomic Compliance Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Key CSR Issues ・Compliance and Respect for Human Rights / Our Approach to Compliance Management ・Compliance and Respect for Human Rights / Growing Awareness Toward Reporting management approach relating to DMA Compliance compliance in relation to socioeconomic matters (103-1) ・Compliance and using “GRI 103: Management Approach” Respect for Human Rights / Putting Compliance Management Efforts into Practice ・Compliance and Respect for Human Rights / Compliance Training Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area a. Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area in terms of: i. Total monetary value of significant fines ii. Total number of non-monetary sanctions Not applicable for the 419-1 iii. Cases brought through dispute resolution fiscal year under review mechanisms b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. c. The context against which significant fines and non-monetary sanctions were incurred. GRI Context Index 350 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Procedures Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Step 6 Check of final edition Submittal of Formulation of plan Performance Reporting of CSR Report Quality control check assurance report ・Confirmation of scope of assurance, subject items, information ・Assurance procedures ・Reporting results of ・Follow-up on items such ・A professional outside ・Obtaining management collection methods, etc. carried out at Sekisui completed procedures, as matters pointed out the assurance engagement confirmation letter ・Decision on assurance Chemical Headquarters matters for comment, in Step 3 team checks appropriateness ・Submittal of Independent procedures, schedule and visited business sites etc. of the assurance procedures Practitioner’s Assurance (Headquarters, business Report sites to be visited for verification), etc. Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report 351 References Top Message We are making every effort to prepare a stage on which everyone in their diversity can excel. Let us drive a “revolution” together so that all of those working for Sekisui Chemical Group and our many partners can feel pride in our diversity and our working environment, and continue to shine. Accelerating Diversity Management Through “Work Style Reforms” In working toward a “new phase of growth,” Sekisui President & CEO Chemical Group is accelerating diversity management, SEKISUI CHEMICAL Co., Ltd. the motive power for this growth. How will we employ the unique characteristics and Teiji Koge strengths that everyone holds in their diversity? How will we maximize the outcomes as Sekisui Chemical Group? We are taking diversity management, which we first embarked upon in earnest during the latter half of 2015, to a new stage and accelerating the related initiatives. Tackling Priority Areas Starting with empowerment of women, Sekisui Chemical Group has advanced initiatives geared towards generating results and utilizing the unique characteristics of the diverse group of human resources that supports our business activities. These initiatives have led to a certain degree of success, including changing the organizational culture and expanding opportunities to excel, and are now recognized as a new strength of Sekisui Chemical Group. As we aim to enter a new phase of growth that is also sustainable, we will undertake “Work Style Reforms” as the foremost area of importance within diversity management in order to transform the capabilities of everyone into an even greater driving force. As a means of indicating the seriousness with which we take these efforts and to share them with everyone, we formulated the “Statement of Work Style Reform.” Upon fully considering the meaning of the goals incorporated within this Statement, namely “demonstrating unique characteristics,” “improving quality of work,” “improving productivity,” “maximizing outcomes,” and “allowing diverse human resources to excel,” I ask everyone to change how you work. This will transform into a major strength that suits the times. References 352 Aiming for a “New Phase of Growth” The policies in the Medium-term Management Plan “SHIFT 2019-Fusion-” that we are currently implementing aim to achieve a “new stage of growth” and SHIFT the group as a whole onto a path of growth. Having defined the first step towards a “new stage of growth,” we have opened the door to new challenges in aims of “maintaining our strong corporate presence for 100 years and beyond” and of doubling business capacity during the 2020s (net sales of 2 trillion yen, operating income of 200 billion yen). “SHIFT” refers to changing the quality of growth, in other words “quantitative growth” and “qualitative transition,” as well as achieving sustainable growth that comes hand in hand with “social responsibility.” Each letter in the term SHIFT refers to the first letter of five key words (Sustainable/Human resources/Innovation/Frontier/Transformation). Among these, H (Human resources) serves as the Company’s most important management resource. By enabling a diverse group of human resources to utilize their unique characteristics and excel, we are aiming to contribute to society through our business activities. “Forward-looking investments” and “Constant structural reform” are essential for realizing these plans and visions. We are therefore making strategic investments for quantitative growth and advancing structural reforms in anticipation of changes in demand from 2020 and beyond. Evolution of Diversity Management Sekisui Chemical Group is developing an unusually diverse range of businesses, from housing to social infrastructure materials such as water supply and sewage pipes, to electronics, automotive and transportation products, residential infrastructure materials, and life science-related products. In order for Sekisui Chemical Group to generate synergies through the use of this wide range of businesses, a diverse group of employees with different personalities, experiences, and characteristics must be allowed to demonstrate their individual capabilities, personalities, and characteristics to the greatest extent possible. After formulating our “Diversity Management Policy” in 2015, we launched full-scale diversity management initiatives throughout the Group. We have since moved forward with initiatives that both correspond to gender, age, disability, nationality, and other “attributes” and “build an organizational structure” geared towards realizing diversity. Having launched the empowerment of women as the first step, we have undertaken initiatives aimed at expanding opportunities to excel by actively hiring women and offering career training programs, where the ratio of women to total hires, the retention rate, and the number of women in management positions have shown steady change. In fiscal 2016, we were selected as a “Nadeshiko Brand.” Moreover, the subsidiary company Kofu Sekisui Sangyo Co., Ltd. received the “New Diversity Management Selection 100” in recognition of its aggressive initiatives aimed at employing people with disabilities. References 353 Work Style Reforms Despite these efforts, diversity management is still a work in progress. In order for our diverse group of people, the Group’s most important management resource, to demonstrate its unique characteristics to the greatest extent possible, we must shift away from our current work style, which requires long hours to achieve results, and towards a highly productive work style that maximizes results in a limited time. We are undertaking “Work Style Reforms” for the express purpose of accelerating diversity management. Part of the backdrop for undertaking “Work Style Reforms” is a future with a declining working population, which means the SEKISUI CHEMICAL Group will require employees with diverse values in order to achieve sustainable growth. Our customers have also become more diverse, while the expectations and demands of our customers have been changing. For example, in the past it was normal to work day and night to receive a contract, but today these old ways of business and rules no longer apply. In order to address the changes in our customers, we must go beyond simply revamping how we sell, and shift to products that are easy to sell and make. In addition to the demand for “Work Style Reforms” from the government, compliance related to working hours has become an issue of society, which has required us to take the initiative in addressing this issue as a Group. References 354 Three Reforms Work Style Reforms must be undertaken by the management and the employees as a single whole. We will advance the “Three Reforms” through the fusion of “Top-down and Bottom-up” and “Management and Plant floor.” The first set of reforms is “Business reforms.” We will identify the environment to be changed regardless of existing customs, and reform the work structure. In this respect, we must begin our efforts by making improvements from everyone’s worksite, including taking inventory of individual jobs to determine if there are wasteful tasks, meetings, and business trips; to determine the areas that must truly be engaged; and to determine if inefficient approaches to work are still being taken. I ask that everyone adopt the perspective of our stakeholders and verify and improve your work from various viewpoints. On the management side, we will naturally shift to high profitability products, but will also develop high efficiency products. The second set of reforms is “HR system reforms.” We will implement system reforms designed to maintain and expand employment, including revising everyone’s salaries and the number of annual holidays. I ask that everyone work to enhance your growth and abilities through on-the-job experience and opportunities for training. The third set of reforms is “Work environment reforms.” We will make investments and reform the work environment so that everyone in their diversity can work easily, feel motivated, and work with a sense of security and enthusiasm. For example, we will pursue the optimal work environment by utilizing video conferencing systems and other information and communications technologies, expanding the remote work environment, and investing in manufacturing equipment and systems. “Three Reforms” is not a slogan. We will invest 10 billion yen over the next two years in order to achieve concrete outcomes from these reforms. We will establish common Group-wide objectives for working hours and endeavor to improve productivity towards building an invigorating environment. Our “Work Style Reforms” are designed to increase productivity, rectify long working hours, and generate the maximum outcome within the limited time. These reforms are not designed to reduce personnel and overtime costs. Rather, the outcomes of reducing overtime will be actively returned to everyone. References 355 This Is a Revolution In 2015, I told everyone that there would be no future without diversity management. This sentiment has only grown stronger with each passing day. And it is my belief that the future of Sekisui Chemical Group does not exist as an extension of the 70 years of history we have travelled thus far. Against the backdrop of changing social norms and industrial structures, as well as increasingly diverse lifestyles, we must find a balance between offering solutions to the problems faced by society and achieving economic growth. Given rapid changes in the business environment, diversity management has become essential for taking advantage of opportunities, addressing threats, and surpassing the competition. In order to create a new future, I am convinced that the only path to the future is for us to shift to work and work styles that utilize everyone’s unique characteristics, personalities, and orientations. For this reason, this is not “reform,” this is “revolution.” Currently, Sekisui Chemical Group expects to achieve record high profits for five consecutive terms and profit growth for nine consecutive terms, but we are still faced with the demand to meet the expectations of our stakeholders and continue sustainable growth into the future. We will continue to generate “maximum outcomes” within the “limited time”. Balancing this seemingly contradictory condition is a new work style and will provide the potential to identify new opportunities. We are also making every effort to prepare a stage on which everyone in their diversity can excel. Let us drive a “revolution” together so that all of those working for Sekisui Chemical Group and our many partners can feel pride in our diversity and our working environment, and continue to shine. References 356 4-4 Nishitenma 2-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8565, Japan (Dojima Kanden Bldg.) URL http://www.sekisuichemical.com/ For further information contact: ESG Management Department 2-3-17 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8450, Japan (Toranomon 2-chome Tower) TEL.: +81-3-5521-0839 E-mail: csr@sekisui.com “CSR Report 2019 PDF Edition” has been reviewed for assurance by an independent third party and as a result has been granted the sustainability report review and registration logo. This demonstrates that this report satisfies the necessary criteria established by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information (J-SUS;http://www.j-sus.org/) for the use of this logo, intended to assure the reliability of sustainability information. Date of issue: July 2019; 1st printing (Previous report published July 2018/Next report scheduled to be published in July 2020)
