Sustainability at Posti / What is Posti like today? / Highlight and challenges during the year / Why is digitalization so important to Posti? / How is Posti combatting Climate Change? / POSTI’S SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data content 1 About this report 4 8 24 Digitality 2 Posti in brief 26 Q/A Why is digitalization Sustainability at Posti People important for Posti? 4 Sustainability at Posti 27 Sorting machines 6 Areas of sustainability 29 OmaPosti Posti in your pocket 7 Highlights and challenges 31 Street Data service 8 People 33 Climate change 18 24 10 People in figures 35 Q/A Why does it say 11 Q/A What do you do for living? climate-friendly transport Services Digitality 12 Q/A Non-discrimination in in the vehicles? everyday life? 36 Pioneer in green logistics 13 Over 80 different nationalities 14 Occupational safety 38 Tax footprint 16 Well-being at work 33 38 44 GRI Index 18 Services 51 Reporting principles Climate change Tax footprint 20 Q/A Why are post 52 KPI Data: People offices being closed? 54 KPI Data: Environment About this report: Welcome to read Posti Group’s 21 Q/A Why isn't mail delivery Sustainability Report 2018. what it used to be? As usual, the report has been 22 Q/A How is Posti 44 made according to the GRI measuring quality? guidelines, but in this year’s 23 Q/A Incorrectly delivered report customer perspective is GRI letter what to do? emphasized in the structure. Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 1 About this report You are reading Posti Group’s sustainability report for these themes using 2018. This report describes the actions taken by Posti a Q&A structure. The during the year to make progress towards its targets questions are based in the areas of economic, social and environmental on feedback received responsibility. As in previous years, this report is based from customers and on the international Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) other stakeholders. The framework, but the structure of this year’s report answers were written by emphasizes the customer perspective. Posti’s reporting team. In Finland alone, Posti comes into contact with nearly 2.8 million consumers on a daily basis and serves some We hope you enjoy 200,000 business customers each year. The results reading this report! of stakeholder and brand surveys indicate that, from Providing an excellent customer the customer perspective, responsibility is primarily experience is at the heart of associated with the quality of operations, keeping everything we do at Posti. In addition promises, reliability and continuity. In addition to issues to speed, quality and reliability related to environmental and social responsibility, the significance of the personal service experience is also environmental values play an highlighted. increasingly significant role in the daily life of our customers. Sometimes, customer views regarding Posti’s Heikki Malinen responsibility can even be contradictory with Posti’s President and CEO Today, all of our services in Finland are objectives: for instance, securing Posti’s future by 100% carbon neutral for our customers. developing new businesses and digital services is Going forward, we want to remain perceived as irresponsible behavior by some consumers. the first choice of our customers as an This report presents answers to questions related to environmentally friendly transport and delivery partner. Briefly / Sustainability / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 2 What is Posti today? Sustainability / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 3 Posti in brief Posti is Finland’s leading postal and logistics Posti renewed its organization and operating model to better correspond to market needs and e-commerce growth. Posti Group’s business service provider. Our core business operations was divided into five business groups, three of which are new. The include postal services, parcel and eCommerce new business groups became operational on January 1, 2019. as well as logistics solutions. We have the most comprehensive service network in Finland, and on weekdays we visit around three million Postal Services Parcel & eComLogistics households and businesses. We manage the merce Solutions flow of everyday life in 11 countries. Our net sales in 2018 amounted to EUR 1.6 billion. Letter volumes are declining while parcel Itella Russia OpusCapita volumes are breaking records. The change is clear to see: last year, we delivered more parcels The former business groups were Postal Services, Parcel and Logistics Services, Itella Russia and OpusCapita.. and goods than ever before – some 44 million parcels in all. Posti’s net sales mount to EUR Employees We visit the front door of about We delivered some 1.6 billion 18,500 3 million Finns every day 44 million parcels Briefly / Sustainability / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 4 Sustainability at Posti Posti’s sustainability is based on the company’s values, shared values: succeeding with the customer, driving for also issued a social sustainability commitment of its commitments and the decision-in-principle of its owner, improvement and innovation, taking responsibility, and own as part of Finland’s national objectives related to the the state, indicating that state-owned companies should winning together. implementation of the UN Agenda 2030. Furthermore, be held as examples of a high standard of corporate the company is committed to promoting five sustainable social responsibility and sustainability. Posti is committed to the fundamental principles of development goals as part of the industry cooperation of the UN Global Compact initiative with regard to labor, the International Post Corporation (IPC). At Posti, sustainability is part of day-to-day work, the environment, anti-corruption and human rights. management and risk management. The company’s In addition, Posti is committed to observing human Posti’s values and sustainability principles take concrete decision-making takes into account not only financial rights in its own operations and in its subcontractor form in the Code of Conduct, which sets out the factors, but also the social and environmental impacts supply chain in accordance with the UN principles appropriate procedures for various situations. Posti’s of its operations. Posti’s management is based on pertaining to businesses and human rights. Posti has subcontractors and suppliers are required to observe the same procedures and principles, and they are documented in more detail in the Supplier Code of Indicators and targets of sustainability Conduct, which applies to all suppliers without exception. Area of corporate Realized Target in responsibility Indicator Description in 2018 2020 Posti’s sustainability function was moved from the Operating result as a percentage of net sales. The operating communications unit to the cross-organizational Sustainable business Adjusted operating result equals the result reported in the income statement after the 2.8% 4% Operational Excellence unit as part of the renewal of result, %* deduction of all expenses and depreciation and amortization, but Posti’s operating model, which entered into effect on before the deduction of financial items and taxes. January 1, 2019. In the new Operational Excellence unit, Posti aims to be the number one service provider for postal and logistics customers. Accessible and reliable services are in the sustainability is managed and developed as part of Responsible service Number of Posti’s provider service points core of Posti’s business. The indicator includes the service points 1,933 2,700 the development of the Group’s quality, environmental maintained by Posti and its partners, parcel points, delivery pickup and occupational safety management systems. The locations and business service points. Operational Excellence unit is under the leadership of the Engaged multi-skilled Personnel Engagement index contains four items: pride, satisfaction, employees engagement index** willingness to recommend, and engagement. n/a Executive Board member in charge of the Postal Services The primary goal of Posti’s environmental program is to reduce business group. Environmental Carbon dioxide carbon dioxide emissions by 30% by 2020 (compared to 2007; -17.7% -30% responsibility emissions emissions in relation to net sales). Sustainability-related issues are discussed at least twice a * Non-IFRS = excluding non-recurring items year by the Executive Board and the Audit Committee of ** The company did not conduct a Group-wide job satisfaction survey during the reporting year due to the change of service provider. the Board of Directors. Briefly / Sustainability / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 5 The UN Sustainable Development Goals Promote sustained, inclusive Ensure sustainable in the postal and logistics industry and sustainable economic consumption and growth, full and productive production patterns Posti is an active employment and decent participant in the work for all sustainability efforts of the International Post Build resilient infrastructure, Take urgent action Corporation (IPC). In promote inclusive to combat climate and sustainable change and its impacts 2017, IPC conducted industrialization and foster an extensive stakeholder survey to innovation. determine stakeholder views and expectations regarding the postal Make cities and and logistics industry’s potential human settlements contribution toward achieving the UN inclusive, safe, resilient and Sustainable Development Goals. Five sustainable SDGs were highlighted by the survey as the most relevant to the industry: In a summit held in New York on September 25–27, 2015, UN member states agreed on the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the agenda that will guide sustainable development efforts until 2030. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development aims at eradicating extreme poverty and promoting sustainable development in a manner that balances the environmental, economic and social dimensions. Briefly / Sustainability / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 6 Areas of sustainability Posti updated its material areas and targets of sustainability in 2016. Areas of sustainability The materiality analysis consisted of an information collection stage based on interviews with key individuals, stakeholder perspectives, and an analysis of the megatrends and peer companies. Based on the results of this work, the corporate responsibility steering group updated Responsible service provider Sustainable business • Ethical business practices in the • Long-term profitability Posti’s material sustainability aspects in a workshop, the results of which whole network • Operational efficiency were confirmed by the Executive Board. • Energy efficient operations • Customer-driven innovations • Responsible restructuring as • Transparent reporting Posti’s sustainability is divided into four themes: responsible service employer provider, sustainable business, creating value for stakeholders, and • Nationwide, secure services engaged multi-skilled employees. The figure below describes the content of each area in more detail. Trustworthy and Renew and reliable partner grow As a work community, Posti is equal, international and diverse. We respect people of all kinds. Posti’s goal is to provide healthy and safe work and a healthy and safe working environment for its employees. Posti’s environmental program aims to reduce our carbon-dioxide Creating value for stakeholders Engaged multi-skilled employees emissions by 30 percent by 2020, in relation to net sales (compared to • Safety and well-being at work 2007). Since 2011, Posti has provided its customers with carbon neutral • Creating value for stakeholders through sustainability, for example • Performance management mail delivery in Finland at no extra cost. Today, all of Posti’s services through climate-friendly Posti Green • Competence development in Finland are carbon neutral Posti Green services that also include services • Diversity and equality emissions reporting for business customers. Attract, The focus of Posti’s financial responsibility is on transparency and Forerunner in retain, profitability, as only a financially sound company can realize its green logistics develop responsibilities in terms of society, personnel, the environment and all stakeholder groups. Posti reports on its tax footprint in accordance with the guidelines issued by its owner, the Finnish state. Briefly / Sustainability / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 7 Highlights and challenges Achievements during the year Another gold-level rating for Posti’s sustainability Positive developments in safety at work Posti was awarded a gold-level rating by the international Posti’s strong focus on the development and management research company EcoVadis for its sustainability performance. of safety at work is starting to be reflected in improved key With a score of 73/100, Posti ranked among the top one percent indicators of occupational safety. In 2018, the LTA1 measuring of companies assessed by EcoVadis in all industries worldwide. the accident frequency dropped to 43. Serious occupational accidents decreased by 12% compared to the previous year. EcoVadis is a responsible sourcing network for buyers and The number of safety observations rose to over 13,000. suppliers. It includes 50,000 suppliers representing 190 different industries and 150 countries. The system assesses and scores the overall sustainability performance of suppliers annually in the areas of environmental responsibility, social responsibility, Development areas business ethics and sustainable sourcing More work needed to achieve the emissions reduction target Smarter and greener delivery with By the end of 2018, Posti’s total emissions relative to net sales new light electric vehicles have decreased by 17.7%. Further improvement is needed to achieve the target of a 30 % eduction by 2020. In 2018, Posti significantly expanded its fleet of electric vehicles with 200 new electric freight scooters and 250 electrically assisted delivery carts. The vehicles can be used to deliver mail Monitoring subcontractor sustainability as well as small e-commerce items. The purchase of the new light We require our suppliers to commit to Posti’s sustainability vehicles is a part of Posti’s environmental program that aims to criteria, which are documented in the Supplier Code of decrease carbon-dioxide emissions by 30% by 2020 in relation Conduct. In 2019, we aim to develop tools for monitoring the to net sales (compared to 2007). sustainability of suppliers and subcontractors. The tools will be used in parallel with the existing self-assessment practices. Briefly / Sustainability / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 8 Who help Finns in everyday life? People / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 9 People Posti is one of the largest and most international employers in Finland. Our employees in Finland represent more than 80 nationalities. As a work community, Posti is equal, international and diverse. Skilled and motivated personnel are an essential starting We respect people of all kinds. point for success and good results. Professional development is supported by providing employees with opportunities for Posti’s goal is to provide a healthy and safe working on-the-job learning, support for self-motivated study and environment for employees and to promote the personnel’s access to a range of training courses. At the supervisor and well-being at work. Work ability and well-being at work are expert level, special focus is placed on supporting change supported by diverse wellness services, such as a sports management. Good management is reflected not only in program, events organized by the Foundation for Well-being higher productivity, but also the commitment, well-being and at Work, occupational health care services and support for competence development of Posti’s personnel. workplace meals. In the face of constant changes in the business environment, new competence requirements emerge all the time. Posti continuously develops the competence of its personnel in new services and their ability to address the opportunities of digitalizing business. Needs are assessed in personal target and development discussions. Job applications New permanent employment Summer jobs to Seasonal assistants 36,400 1,400 2,200 people 3,400 Data / People / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 10 Posti’s people in figures At the end of the 2018 financial year, the company’s number of personnel was about 18,500. In Finland, the company employed about 16,500 people at the end of the financial year. Of the company’s entire personnel, 86 percent are covered by collective agreements. In Finland, 99 percent of the personnel are covered by collective agreements. The employees represented by the labor protection committee make up 85 percent of Posti’s total personnel. 1. Women made up 40 percent and men 60 percent of the Group’s employees. In 2. Finland, the ratio between the basic salaries of women and men was 96 percent. 5. 3. With production employees, the performance over the previous year as well as the 4. objectives and targets for the coming year are discussed in groups once a year. 6. 7. In addition, a personal discussion is held in relation to personal development and 8. well-being at work. The proportion of the personnel within the scope of regular performance reviews is approximately 2,000 people. 1. Lapland 469 Posti received more than 36,000 job applications during the year. In Finland, Posti 2. Northern Ostrobothnia and Kainuu 886 3. Ostrobothnia, Southern and Central Ostrobothnia 1,139 signed 1,406 new permanent employment relationships. Posti provided summer 4. Central Finland, Pirkanmaa, Päijänne Tavastia and Tavastia Proper 2,939 jobs to 2,230 people and employed about 3,400 seasonal assistants across 5. North Karelia and Northern Savonia 916 6. South Karelia and Southern Savonia 621 Finland in the run-up to Christmas. Most of the seasonal assistants worked in mail 7. Finland Proper and Satakunta 1,344 8. Uusimaa and Kymenlaakso 7,362 delivery, sorting and transportation. Posti OpusCapita Employees in Women 3 40% Itella generations Data / People / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 11 Q: What do you do for living? Who are you and what do you Who are you and what do you do for Who are you and what do you do for a do for a living? Richard Walburn, a living? My name is Jani Rahja and I living? My name is Katja Vuorenheimo, and I Head of Partnerships, Alliances & am responsible for putting Intelligent work as a Process Manager in the Continuous Posti Scandinavia International Automation into practice in Posti. Improvement & Technology team of the e-Commerce. I divide my work time Intelligent automation means software Supply Chain Outsourcing unit belonging to between Scandinavian office and bots and virtual assistants. the Logistics Solutions business group. My area Postintaival in Helsinki. of responsibility includes matters related to How long have you worked at Posti? quality and certificates. Richard Walburn How long have you worked at Posti? Jani Rahja I have worked at Posti for over a year. Katja Vuorenheimo I have worked at Posti for 3,5 years. How long have you worked at Posti? I have What is the last thing a customer asked worked at Posti since January 2004. I started What is the last thing a customer you? My customers include all of Posti’s as a part time worker who helped out in couple asked you? Do you requiere your units and businesses. The most common of days a week. subcontractors to adhere to a “Code of question I get: How could automation help Conduct”? us solve this problem? What is the last thing a customer asked you? The most recent question I was asked by a customer was about last year’s emissions reporting. Who are you and what do you do for a Who are you and what do you do for a Who are you and what do you do for a living? My name is Merja Vilppula. I work living? My name is Elina Malkamäki and I living?My name is Anna Piela and I work as a in early-morning delivery in Helsinki. work as a nurse at Posti’s home services in producer for Posti Next. My job is diverse and Helsinki. Posti’s home services include home varies between developing agile procedures How long have you worked at Posti? care, home-based healthcare, personal and innovation processes to communications, I have worked at Posti over 30 years. assistance services and remote care marketing and event production. I am now 73 years old and I will continue services. to work as long as I am healthy. How long have you worked at Posti? I have Elina Malkamäki How long have you worked at Posti? Anna Piela been at Posti for only four months Merja Vilppula What is the last thing a customer I have worked at home services for 1.5 asked you? One customer asked if I years. The best thing about my work is my What was the last piece of feedback you could do snowclearing for them. customers. got from a customer? My customers are mainly internal customers, and the last piece What is the last thing a customer asked of feedback was a thank you for an interesting, you? My customer asked me who would energizing and well-organized event. visit him during the next shift. Customer in focus / People / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 12 Q: How is non-discrimination realized in Posti’s day-to-day operations? A: Posti’s goal is to realize gender equality and general nonPosti’s senior management is committed to promoting equality discrimination among personnel in all areas of working life. and non-discrimination as well as the implementation and Posti promotes and monitors a management culture that monitoring of the equality and non-discrimination program. fosters equality and non-discrimination in various ways, including regular equality and non-discrimination surveys. The objectives set out in the equality and non-discrimination program for 2016–2018 include, among other things: In practice, the realization of equality means that everyone • the balanced distribution of duties and workload is guaranteed equal opportunities, regardless of gender, for • equal treatment related to age pursuing training, career advancement and diverse tasks at • active intervention against harassment, workplace bullying work. Employees receive the same pay for work of equal value. and sexual harassment (zero tolerance) • promoting the use of family leave by men Non-discrimination includes the prohibition of discrimination based on gender, age, ethnic or national origin, citizenship, language, political views, religion, personal convictions, opinions, health, disability, gender identity or other personal grounds. Letterboxes decorated with rainbows to celebrate equality CASE: A number of Posti’s letterboxes in central Helsinki were decoratThe theme of Helsinki Pride 2018 was voice and giving a voice ed with rainbows for Helsinki Pride week from June 25 to July 1, to those whose voices are rarely heard in society. To celebrate 2018. It is important for Posti to promote equality, non-discrimithis theme, we brought the correspondence of Touko Laaknation and human rights in daily life and in society as a whole. It sonen, better known as the artist Tom of Finland, to the eyes of is essential to Posti that each employee is accepted as they are. the public again. Laaksonen’s correspondence was first placed on public display at the exhibition “Sealed with a Secret – Correspondence of Tom of Finland” at Vapriikki museum in Tampere in 2014. Customer in focus / People / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 13 Posti’s employees represent more than 80 different nationalities Posti has a long track record of employing people with immigrant Recruitment hub established in Pasila backgrounds. Posti regularly has job vacancies that do not To make the process for recruiting immigrants as smooth as require Finnish language proficiency or a specific educational possible, Posti established a recruitment hub in Pasila last year. background. One example of such jobs is the early-morning The hub is staffed by five recruiters who are used to working with delivery of newspapers. people with foreign backgrounds. Recruitment events for target audiences such as asylum seekers are regularly organized at the Delivering newspapers is the first step to Finnish working life for hub. many people. In 2018, Posti hired about 1,950 people in earlymorning delivery operations in the capital region alone, with Posti engages in effective cooperation with the Finnish immigrants representing 85 percent of this total. Immigration Service to manage permit-related issues. Even for Lately, we have started to immigrants who have entered Finland without identification “The Finnish economy is doing well right now and there are lots of documents, we can get their permits verified and employment increasingly think about jobs available, so it isn’t easy to find employees for early-morning contracts signed. Soon we will have access to a web service that ways to create career paths. delivery work. It’s a job that requires an independent approach, enables us to check an asylum seeker’s information right away in In early-morning delivery, for good physical condition and the ability to work at night. For order to draw up an employment contract,” Salmela explains. example, the next step is to people who meet these requirements, early-morning delivery is an excellent path to employment,” says Recruitment Manager Sari Orientation before work become a supervisor of the Salmela. One important step on the path to employment is a delivery room, or a delivery comprehensive employee orientation that includes a detailed captain as we call it. According to Salmela, the immigrants who work in early-morning review of occupational safety. Posti has carried out various pilot delivery come from very diverse backgrounds. Some are highly projects related to the training of employees from immigrant educated and may have migrated to Finland due to marriage, backgrounds. In 2018, training was organized with the aim for example. As the number of asylum seekers has increased, Posti of helping employees obtain a Finnish driving license. Finnish has also employed a growing number of people from that group. language classes have also been part of the training offering. Data / People / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 14 Strong focus on occupational safety is starting to produce results Posti’s goal is to provide healthy and safe work In promoting safety at work, Posti’s focus is on proactive as measured by the LTA1 indicator, was 43 (46) in and a healthy and safe working environment for its measures and the development of operating culture. The Finland, representing a year-on-year improvement of 7 employees. Occupational safety has been systematically shift from a reactionary occupational safety culture to a percent. Serious occupational accidents leading to an developed at Posti over the past few years, and the proactive approach means that promoting occupational absence of more than a month decreased by 12 percent results are starting to show in the form of improved safety no longer depends on monitoring, but rather from the previous year. key indicators. The efforts take place in three areas: stems from the individuals themselves. systematic occupational safety management, increasing In spite of the positive development, occupational competence and awareness, and the development of The number of safety observations related to proactive accidents still occurred during the year. A total of 899 working methods and tools. safety improvement increased by 15 percent at Posti, to accidents were logged in 2018 (1,145). These figures 13,463 observations (11,699). The accident frequency, include occupational accidents at the workplace as well as commuting accidents that led to an absence. The circumstantial factors influencing occupational Occupational safety risks at Posti accidents are illustrated by the risk map below. For example, Posti’s delivery operations involve physical tasks in changing conditions, which Bicycles Forklifts Handling Rolltainers Parcel cages Traffic Delivery vehicles Electric freight of transport Publication Pallets increases the risk of accidents. Heavy equipment scooters cages Cardboard units Moving by foot outdoors/indoors Cold Slipperness Moving Moving in staircases Environmental Hot Rain Moving by bicycle conditions Darkness Wind Lifting Ergonomics Indoor work in delivery Threat of violence Driving car/forklift Data / People / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 15 Occupational safety highlights in 2018 Good safety management, the competence of In 2018, occupational safety was promoted Finland won bronze at the postal personnel and maintaining awareness of occupational by the following means, for instance: industry’s international driving skills safety issues help us improve our best practices and develop our culture. Appropriate tools and methods competition • The promotion of a proactive workplace culture led to ensure a smooth workflow. more than 13,000 safety observations, 9,800 safety updates and 1,700 logged measures related to Deliverer Seppo At Posti, we are committed to the following Uusikorpi and Head investigations. occupational safety principles: • Early in the year, Posti campaigned to prevent of Safety Marjo 1. Safety comes first accidents involving slipping, resulting in: a reduction Rehn finished in 2. The responsibility for safety management belongs to of more than 100 slipping incidents compared to the third place as Posti’s Posti’s leadership and managers previous winter. representatives at the 3. Safety starts with me • A Facebook group with 1,200 members comprising International Post Corporation’s Driver’s 4. Posti is committed to working together throughout the Posti’s employees, supervisors and specialists actively Challenge in Portugal. The competition organization to develop our safety campaigned to promote occupational safety and 5. Workplace safety improvement at Posti is consistent well-being as well as climate-related issues. tested the participants’ vehicle handling and systematic skills as well as their ability to drive in • In the summer, an “Accident-free days” competition was held with the aim of having accident-free days in an economical, environmental and safe delivery operations. manner and provide good customer • Occupational Safety Card training was provided service. to employees working in transport as well as to supervisors working in operations unit. Posti received the best score among • Weekly Power BI reporting was introduced in the area all teams in the test of energy-efficient of occupational safety. driving, which is a testament to the success of our efforts to promote an eco-friendly driving style. Data / People / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 16 Good results achieved through work ability management Posti aims to promote well-being for its personnel and their ability to cope with work to ensure that employees are motivated and healthy. Ensuring well-being at work at the practical level is part Everyone is responsible for their own well-being and Alternative duties help employees of the daily work of supervisors. All Posti employees have for maintaining their work ability. At the workplace, get back to work the opportunity to influence their own well-being as well the supervisor is always responsible for ensuring work as the well-being of the work community. ability. Measures that are mutually agreed on by the Posti offers supervisor and employee play a key role in supporting The postal industry is undergoing a major transformation, work ability. Employees can agree with their supervisors various which is why Posti invests continuously in maintaining and on solutions such as the use of assistive tools, short-term arrangements supporting the work ability of its personnel. Supervisors, work arrangements or the acquisition of new skills. In to employees work ability experts and occupational health care addition to the supervisor, the HR managers, the Work with partial work play a key role in successful work ability management. Ability Manager, work ability expert, occupational health ability, ranging Posti’s Well-being at Work Team aims to increase the and safety personnel and occupational health care also work ability-related competencies of supervisors and provide support in ensuring work ability. from temporary work to alternative incorporate work ability management into their daily duties. Delivery employee Jari management routines. In addition to occupational health care services, Posti Haaranen was offered less strenuous provides a diverse range of well-being services to work at the postal center because he employees. They include various sports and fitness suffered from chronic hip ailment. services, support for independent physical exercise as well as support for workplace meals. Data / People / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 17 Posti cooperates with several higher education institutions in order to ensure the availability of competent employees now and in the future. The aim of the cooperation is bilateral sharing of knowledge and further development of the industry. The forms of cooperation include for example lectures, case studies and student projects. In the picture Posti employyes are at the Aalto University ARENA fair in 2018. Highlights of well-being at work in 2018 • Several measures related to ensuring work ability Sick leave due to shoulder, knee and back pain was examinations for employees in the relevant age produced good results in 2018, leading to a continued reduced by as much as 30–50% during the one-year groups. slight decline in Posti’s sick leave rate, to 5.8 percent follow-up period. • Posti Group’s Foundation for Well-being at Work spent from the previous year’s level of 5.9 percent. • Work ability specialists participated in 680 EUR 950,000 on promoting employee well-being by • With support from the Foundation for Well-being at occupational health negotiations during the year. As organizing activities such as fitness overhauls and wellWork and in cooperation with Mehiläinen, Posti carried a new procedure, some 50 work ability clinics were being coaching as well as recreational and cultural out Taming Pain, a project aimed at providing some organized for supervisors during the year. events with more than 3,000 participants in total. 5,500 employees with early and effective intervention • Posti partnered with representatives of the Funding was also allocated to development programs to manage musculoskeletal symptoms and support occupational health care provider and Ilmarinen aimed at promoting well-being at work. their treatment by occupational physiotherapy, among to organize a training day with more than 100 other things. This led to an 18% decrease in physician’s participants. visits related to musculoskeletal complaints in the • New operating models introduced for personnel municipalities where the project was carried out. included a digital clinic and electronic health Data / People / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 18 Services Services / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 19 Services Posti has a strong presence in the daily life of For consumers: Finns through its mail delivery services, but its • Posti service points: shops, partner outlets, pop-up outlets range of services is much broader than that. E-commerce is rapidly • Parcel lockers developing • Letter and mailboxes Door-to-door delivery • Mail delivery, door-to-door delivery Did you know that Posti can manage logistics outsourcing solutions, from transport to For businesses: warehousing as well as in-house logistics on • Freight services customers’ premises? • Logistics Parcel lockers In-house logistics • In-house logistics Elsewhere, Posti’s home services provide comfort and assistance to help people live at home For municipalities: longer. Posti also offers comprehensive solutions • Food logistics • Home services related to the digital sending and receiving of Freight Home services invoices and documentation. Meal deliveries in A total of Christmas meals shipped A total of service points Parcel lockers approximately through food terminals 1,900 1,000 100 municipalities 20 million kilograms Briefly / Services / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 20 Q: Why are Posti offices being closed? A: Many people might think that Posti’s services have deteriorated. in the late 1990s, leading to a decrease in the number of However, the good news is that postal services are now available postal offices providing banking services. This was in line at more locations than before. Posti’s retail network currently with the general development of the financial industry. includes more than 1,900 outlets and parcel lockers. The number of postal agency shops has remained largely unchanged As the years went by, banks reduced the number of in recent years, but the number of parcel lockers has been branches serving private customers while introducing increased substantially in response to the growth of e-commerce. more online and mobile services. At the same time, the number of Posti’s service points has seen an upward trend “We expect continued growth in e-commerce. We want to and increased to the same level it was at in the 1990s. keep up with these developments and provide the most comprehensive network of pickup points in Finland to ensure Bringing services closer to daily life that our customers can receive their items conveniently. We have With letter volumes falling, customers increasingly increased the number of parcel lockers considerably in recent visit a Posti service point for the purpose of sending or years. We reached a thousand in 2018 and we are aiming to receiving a parcel. This is why Posti’s retail network consists hit 1,500 in 2019,” says Lasse Huttunen, of not only Posti’s own outlets, but also service points Director, Retail Network. managed by Posti’s partners as well as parcel lockers. ”Digital services, such as the The number of Posti service Posti operates on market terms and is the only national OmaPosti application, combined points has increased to equal postal service in the Nordic region not to receive any public with a dense network of parcel the level seen in the 1990s subsidies. The size and density of the local population and A look at the history of postal offices in the demand for services determine the number and type lockers bring Posti close to the Finland reveals that the number of Posti’s of service points. The development of Posti’s retail network routes people take in their daily service points decreased particularly in the late 1980s. The reason for this was also adheres to the criteria specified in the Postal Act and the Government Decree on the Location of Postal Services. life. With these services, people no that Postipankki’s banking services were longer need to be tied down to a offered not only at the bank’s branches but also at postal offices. The bank Posti’s retail network is regularly reviewed. In response to the growth of e-commerce, it is important to provide quick and particular Posti.” scaled back its cooperation with Posti flexible services in locations frequented by customers. Customer in focus / Services / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 21 Q: Why isn’t mail delivery what it used to be? A: Posti’s core businesses are mail, parcel and logistics services. In In a sense, it’s true that mail delivery isn’t what it used to be. In line with our strategy, Posti will continue to focus on these core fact, customers are now served faster than ever. In 2018, we businesses, which accounted for as much as 90 percent of the introduced same-day e-commerce deliveries six days per week Group’s total net sales in 2018. and launched Sunday delivery of parcels in 12 cities. These services will be expanded further in 2019. The opening hours In the coming years, the focus of Posti’s operations will of Posti’s service points have also been extended. increasingly shift to parcel and logistics services, as the popularity of e-commerce will create strong growth in In general, mail delivery in Finland remains very reliable and the demand for parcel services. Posti invests in building a punctual. Posti handles more than eight million items daily on comprehensive and quick delivery network and providing a firstaverage. class service experience. In addition to our efforts in e-commerce and Pursuant to the Postal Act, at least 50% of domestic stamped logistics, preserving the strong position letters must be delivered on the fourth weekday following the ”Posti’s high-speed deliveries of the traditional print medium for as mailing of the item at the latest, and at least 97% by the fifth give Finnish online retailers an long as possible is very important to weekday at the latest. In 2018, 99.5% were delivered by the Posti. fourth day and 99.7% were delivered by the fifth day. advantage over their foreign rivals. With our new express deliveries, Posti’s strong operating capacity While mistakes do happen occasionally, Posti frequently is underscored by the fact that we receives complaints regarding delivery errors committed by people can have their online delivered more parcels than ever other delivery operators. Many mail recipients are not yet used purchases delivered to their front before in 2018, a total of 44 million to the idea that there are now 15 other delivery operators items. We have expanded our network carrying letters in addition to Posti. In 2018, some 117,000 door within 1–2 hours of placing of parcel lockers, with the 1,000th Posti letters incorrectly delivered by other operators were returned to the order,” says Head of Sales Parcel Locker opened late in the year. Posti. With more than 1,900 service points, Henrik Hahtovirta from Posti’s Parcel Posti has the most comprehensive Services. service network in Finland. Customer in focus / Services / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 22 Q: How does Posti measure quality? A: Posti monitors mail deliveries in many different ways, manages are doing in our delivery and transport operations. delivery operations based on information gathered from If we detect any deviations, we take immediate action,” says various sources and takes immediate action when deviations Marko Enberg, ead of Quality & Efficiency at Posti. are observed. Precise daily reporting is used to manage work and resources as needed. Internal indicators are a way to Posti operates at a good quality level highlight problems and take immediate action in response “I would argue that Posti’s quality better than its reputation. to them. Posti also evaluates its services on an ongoing basis Our quality is very good compared to our domestic and using external surveys. international peers, for example,” Enberg says. One concrete example of monitoring production quality is Quality monitoring starts from the moment an item is mailed. the universal service letter delivery speed survey, which is Each day, Posti collects items from over 5,000 letterboxes, 900 conducted by an independent external research institute. The service points, 1,000 parcel lockers, several printing facilities institute sends universal service letters on a regular basis to and the operating locations of Posti’s corporate customers. addresses in different parts of Finland to collect data on their Indicators and observations quickly reveal the efficiency of delivery speed. Some 10,000 test letters are sent throughout collection and mailing operations in Finland. the country each month. “Posti’s Quality Managers are Letter delivery speed is a concrete indicator of mail processing, responsible for quality in their but perceptions of quality are equally important. Recognizing Post monitors quality continuously. respective areas. Every day, this, Posti conducts many surveys to gauge the views of its In addition to internal metrics, Posti we review every step of the customers, stakeholders, members of the public and the process with them, using internal decision-makers of Finnish society. Some of these surveys are uses external research institutes to performance indicators and broad in scope and they assess Finns’ perceptions of Posti in a measure, for example, the speed of observations. This gives us general sense. The surveys are also used for evaluating more an overall picture of how the detailed aspects of the customer experience, such as receiving mail delivery. process is going, whether sorting parcels via parcel lockers. is going smoothly and how we Customer in focus / Services / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 23 Q: I received an incorrectly delivered letter. How did this happen and what should I do? A: If you receive an incorrectly delivered letter, first find out According to the Postal Act, each postal company must arrange a which company delivered it. For many mail recipients, it is still service for returning mail items that they have delivered incorrectly. surprising that mail is delivered by companies other than Posti. If you receive a letter delivered by Posti that is intended for someone else (e.g. for a former resident), you can write “delivered Corporate letters, i.e. letters sent by contract customers, such incorrectly” on the item and then drop it off in the nearest Posti as invoices, are delivered throughout Finland by up to 14 other letterbox. Posti will then deliver it to the correct recipient. You must delivery companies in addition to Posti. These other companies never open or destroy an incorrectly delivered letter. deliver letter mail in early-morning newspaper delivery areas in connection with newspaper delivery during the night time, “This year, 117 000 incorrectly delivered mail items have been whereas Posti delivers letters in its daytime delivery. returned to Posti, even though these items were delivered by companies other than Posti. The company responsible for the Unfortunately, many consumers are not aware that mail delivery is always responsible for any delivery errors, too. delivery is now open to free competition in Finland. This is In general, mail delivery in Finland is very reliable and punctual. confirmed by the fact that, each week, consumers drop off Posti handles more than eight million items daily on average, thousands of incorrectly delivered letters in Posti’s yellow with some 13,000 postal industry professionals managing their letterboxes. However, these letters were actually transport, sorting and delivery. Posti works constantly to ensure delivered by other delivery companies. that letters are delivered without errors and disruptions. In general, mail delivery in Finland is very reliable “If a letter recipient has received another recipient’s The delivery of letters from senders to recipients involves more letter, the first thing to do is to check which delivery processing steps than larger batches of letters sent by businesses. and punctual. Posti works company is responsible for the delivery. The Individually mailed letters are usually left in letterboxes and then constantly to ensure that delivery company can be identified from the letter picked up to be transported to sorting centers. In sorting centers, combination on the envelope. If you have not stamped letters go through processing and stamping steps. While letters are delivered without received a letter you are expecting, in practice, you quality is a high priority, mistakes do happen. The usual reason for errors and disruptions. have to ask the sender about it,” says Kaj Kulp, Vice President, Mail and Direct Marketing Services at Posti. the incorrect delivery of a letter is human error. Customer in focus / Services / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 24 Why is digitalization important for Posti? Digitality / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 25 Digitality Our daily life is changing. While digitalization is Posti’s mobile applications already have hundreds of thousands of active users each month. The dramatically reducing the delivery volumes of application allows users to track and redirect their letters and publications, it also presents many items; for instance, to route a parcel to a conveopportunities for Posti. niently located parcel locker. Posti proudly presents: one of our key digital proWe take advantage of digitalization to ensure jects, Posti Mobile, known around here as PoMo. Today, almost all of our delivery personnel have that everyone wins: for our customers, it creates a PoMo device. Posti’s drivers and subcontractors an even better service experience. For Posti, new won’t have to wait much longer to get theirs. technology and automation provide greater Mail tracking: tracking and redirecting has been efficiency and help maintain high quality. possible for registered items for several years. Now, as one of the first postal operators in the world, we are developing digital tracking for all addressed items. OmaPosti Mobile app has over Online puchaces delivered within Sorting machines can get OCR machines can through about recognize postal codes in 250,000 monthly users 1–2 hours 48,000items per hour 65% hand-written cards Briefly / Digitality / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 26 Q: Why is digitalization so important to Posti? A: Posti has nearly 400 years of history in mail delivery. While The use of technology enables us to improve the costthis heritage comes with a significant responsibility, we also effectiveness of our operations and keep rising delivery recognize that digitalization is rapidly changing society, costs under control. We are currently investing in new sorting commerce and customer needs. This means that Posti must technology that allows us to combine digital services with engage in a process of renewal, to respond to these changes traditional products, thereby extending the lifecycle of printed and invest in digitality, state-of-the-art technological solutions products. and artificial intelligence. In order to improve delivery efficiency and quality, Posti has While digitalization dramatically reduces the delivery volumes digitized all of its delivery route data. This means that Posti of letters and publications, we believe it also presents many now has one of the world’s most advanced digital delivery opportunities for Posti. One of the four main objectives of our information systems. Posti has also acquired Posti Mobile strategy is to take advantage of digitalization in improving smart devices for more than 8,000 delivery employees. The Posti’s services. We innovate new digital services and improve devices include electronic delivery books, map applications our existing functions with the help of digitalization. This and delivery routes. The electronic delivery book ensures that enhances the customer experience. delivery employees know exactly where to deliver items. Posti has equipped its One concrete example of a new digital service that makes Posti has also equipped its entire fleet with driving habit vehicles with driving daily life easier for consumers is Posti’s monitoring devices to collect data that is analyzed with habit monitoring OmaPosti mobile application released in June 2018. It can be used for the administration of invoices as well as tracking and respect to routes, speeds and kilometers driven. The collection of data on fleet operations is part of Posti’s environmental devices. Fewer kilometers redirecting items. The OmaPosti electronic mailbox already has responsibility. More advanced algorithms and optimization driven means less fuel, more than a million registered users. allow us to plan our routes even better than before, reducing unnecessary driving and increasing the fleet utilization rate. reduced emissions and We are currently building a tracking solution for addressed Fewer kilometers driven also means less fuel consumed, mail to allow our customers to track the process from start to reduced CO2 emissions and lower costs. lower costs. finish. Posti has also worked with Telia on piloting a new smart letterbox based on NB-IoT technology. The letterbox is able to communicate when it needs to be emptied. Customer in focus / Digitality / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 27 Sorting machines improve quality and speed The number of traditional letter deliveries has halved during the last decade. However, print is not dead and it is still important alongside digital services. Fast and efficient sorting of items is an important part of mail No other company in the postal sector in Finland has the same deliveries. Seasonal variation in mail volumes and quickly level of sorting service as Posti. It is an important competitive changing needs of sending customers are part of the modern advantage whose impact is reflected in the speed and world. This requires new technologies and efficient utilization accuracy of our delivery services. of automation. Sorting machines are an important part of the picture, and Posti has decided to acquire more of them. “The customers of our parcel services are accustomed to tracking their items. We are currently building a tracking “By utilizing technology and developing our services together solution for addressed mail to allow our customers to connect with our customers, we can slow down the increase in costs and to our systems and track the process from start to finish in the extend the lifecycle of print, although digitalization inevitably near future.” Posti is building a tracking will decrease delivery volumes,” says Yrjö Eskola, Senior Vice solutions for addressed mail President, Postal Services. – customers can track the process just like they do in parcels. Customer in focus / Digitality / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 28 CASE: How can sorting machines read hand-written cards? Personal hand-written cards are still part of the Christmas and Valentine’s Day traditions of millions of Finns. The majority of these cards are written by hand. The handwriting ranges from elaborate cursive script to clear block letters and sometimes shaky writing. Who could possibly read all of these addresses? A machine can. At Posti, the majority of the addresses on cards and letters are read fully automatically, without any help from the human eye. OCR, or optical character recognition, is a feature of all of Posti’s letter sorting machines. Machine sorting is extremely fast. When Posti’s fastest and most experienced employees can sort approximately 1,000 items per hour, a machine can get through about 48,000 items in the same amount of time. At the same time, it automatically checks Posti’s address database to confirm whether the recipient resides at the address given. If not, a new address label is printed for the item. The sorting machines can easily be called In spite of their impressive capabilities, there are limits to what the heart of Posti. They sort the mail quickly the machines can do. In the run-up to Christmas, when Posti processes a particularly large number of handwritten cards, the and securely. They can even read handwritten machines are assisted by some 90 video coders on each shift. addresses fully automatically, without any help Posti introduced its first OCR machines 25 years ago. Over from the human eye. the years, they have developed in terms of their speed and accuracy. Today’s OCR solutions use machine learning based on neural networks, which allows them to learn new skills, such as new fonts or different types of handwriting. Customer in focus / Digitality / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 29 OmaPosti – Posti in your pocket OmaPosti is a digital service for managing parcels, letters and invoices. It is available as a mobile application and via a browser-based interface. OmaPosti allows customers to easily manage mail from their smartphones, regardless of where they are. OmaPosti is a service that makes daily life easier by managing invoices, customers can direct letters from Case: introducing a social media providing a range of features for managing parcels, companies and the public authorities to OmaPosti. customer service employee letters and invoices. For parcels, OmaPosti allows Examples of such letters include payslips, appointment customers to pay for shipping and track items. Customers confirmations and laboratory test results. can also use the service to choose a default pick-up We help point for all parcels. OmaPosti also notifies customers From the customer’s perspective, the biggest advantage customers with when their parcels are ready for pick-up. of OmaPosti is its speed and convenience: OmaPosti is issues related always with you, right in your back pocket. to individual In addition to parcel information, OmaPosti can be used for managing electronic invoices. Invoices sent to The OmaPosti mobile application is popular among items as well as Netposti accounts can be automatically forwarded to Posti’s customers and the number of users is growing Posti’s services OmaPosti. OmaPosti notifies customers of due dates and steadily. At the time of writing, the mobile application in general. On social media, we archives their invoices. OP Bank customers can even pay had as many as 250,000 active monthly users. OmaPosti also ensure that discussions remain their invoices directly in OmaPosti via the Pivo payment can be accessed by a Posti username created on the appropriate and protect our customers’ application. The aim is to continue the development of Posti website. The OmaPosti mobile application is OmaPosti to allow all users to pay their invoices via the available on the Android and iOS platforms. The webinformation security where necessary. application, regardless of which bank they use. based version can be accessed by mobile phones as well No service fees are charged for the payment of any as tablets and desktop computers. invoices via the OmaPosti application. In addition to Customer in focus / Digitality / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 30 Posti’s delivery employees use Posti Mobile, better known as the PoMo phone. It lists addresses in the order of delivery. The device also includes other information, such as How does digitalization speed up services? using electric scooters as fast as 1–2 hours from the publishers’ subscription details, time of purchase,” says Ville Vasaramäki, Head of How can customer wishes be fulfilled by e-Commerce Concepts at Posti. updated once a day. If a offering quick deliveries while minimizing the impact on the environment? Delivery route planning and optimization customer has suspended their benefits customers and the environment subscription, the mail carrier Delivery routes haven’t been spared the effects of the How to find an efficient solution to the complicated transformation of the postal industry. The volumes of puzzle of delivery operations? The answer is the can see it on the device. letter mail may have declined, but delivery employees optimization of delivery routes using digital data and now deliver smaller parcels to mailboxes, larger parcels optimization algorithms. Route optimization benefits customers, the environment to parcel lockers and meals to people’s doors. At and Posti’s employees. When the routes are determined, the same time, Posti’s fleet has grown more diverse Posti has combined publicly available road data we can easily calculate how many apartment buildings and customer wishes have changed. To improve the with Posti’s own data. The outcome is the world’s most without elevators there are on the route, for instance. e-commerce customer experience and respond to accurate street data that includes information on various This makes it possible to assess the route’s workload consumer needs, Posti has launched new express delivery potential modes of transport, different types of roads accurately, which has helped increase job satisfaction services. ranging from motorways to small residential roads as among our delivery personnel. well as more than three million mail delivery points. “Studies show that consumers want even faster delivery “Through efficient route planning, the combination of of their online purchases, and express delivery is seen This data gives us access to accurate estimates of the transports, a high degree of fleet utilization and an ecoas important. In response to this trend, we are piloting distance and time needed for delivery routes. We can friendly driving style we can improve the environmental express deliveries of e-commerce items in Helsinki. Orders then decide how—and with what type of vehicle—the efficiency of our transport operations,” Huhtamäki says, can be delivered to customers’ homes or workplaces delivery should be made,” says production planner describing the benefits of route optimization. Hannu Huhtamäki. Customer in focus / Digitality / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 31 Posti’s delivery vehicles collect data that benefits Finns Every weekday, Posti’s fleet of approximately 3,700 delivery vehicles traverses Finland’s roads, chalking up a total distance that corresponds to more than six times around the world. How does this benefit Finns, other than ensuring that items get delivered? Posti Street Data is a service that collects information on the The service can be used to generate up-to-date information condition of streets and roads during Posti’s routine delivery on the condition of streets, roads and traffic signs, weather and transport operations. Technology designed to observe the conditions and exceptional circumstances related to traffic. The environment helps monitor road conditions, prevent property data to be analyzed is collected and processed anonymously. damage and personal injuries and increase traffic safety. As the service is based on Posti’s comprehensive delivery and Posti’s vehicles use a system developed by Vaisala to generate transport network, the collection of data does not require data on road conditions. The system is based on accurate any additional driving or cause any increased impact on the optical sensors and modern machine vision that reads road environment. conditions, imitating human understanding. Is it slippery outside, are The service was first introduced in Espoo, where Posti collects data on the road network and urban environment while the traffic signs OK, and carrying out normal delivery operations. what about the condition of streets and roads? Posti street data collects information that can be used by the cities. Customer in focus / Digitality / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 32 Artificial intelligence and machine vision are gaining ground at work, at home, and also behind the wheel. Connected to Posti’s vehicles, the machine vision application also brings safety to traffic, as “Up-to-date remote monitoring gives the city better “We are always looking for new ways to reduce machine vision can be visibility into road conditions, allowing us to perform repairs faster,” says Toni Korjus, Infrastructure Services accidents.” The goal of this project is to reduce slippingrelated injuries as well as traffic accidents caused by harnessed to serve road Manager at the City of Espoo. winter conditions,” says Jukka Kinnunen, Managing Director for the capital region at LocalTapiola. and street maintenance. LocalTapiola also uses the road data collected by Posti to reduce accidents and damage incidents. In the pilot Posti’s Street Data service won the New Business stage, LocalTapiola warns its customers in Kivenlahti, Diversification of the Year category in 2018 in a Espoo, of especially slippery or difficult road conditions competition organized by Postal and Parcel Technology and provides information on road conditions in the International. residential area with the help of a map service. Customer in focus / Digitality / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 33 How is Posti combatting Climate Change? Climate / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 34 Climate change Climate change is a global issue, and traffic MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY accounts for 20% of Finland’s greenhouse gas Mobility Food Home Consuming General emissions. Posti wants to do its part in mitigating climate change and act as an example to others. Posti’s successful environmental management also helps its customers reduce their environmental impact through the use of Posti’s services. As a large transport and delivery company, Posti plays an important role in CLIMATE WORKOUT promoting environmentally-friendly logistics. Posti had a climate theme week in the autumn, with 2,000 employees practicing more climate-friendly day-to-day action with regard to mobility, food, housing and consumption. Target to reduce emissions by Relative emissions decreased by Absolute emissions have decreased by ISO14 001 covers 30% by 2020 18%from 2007 42,000 tCO e from 2007 2 77% of the Group personnel Data / Climate / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 35 Q: Why does it say ”ilmastoystävällinen kuljetus” (“climate-friendly transport”) on Posti’s vehicles? A: In 2011, Posti won an award as the world’s first postal service Posti is involved in international climate projects to increase with 100% carbon neutral postal delivery. Today, all of Posti’s energy efficiency and renewable energy, such as a project services in Finland are carbon neutral Posti Green services; that to develop more efficient cooking plants in Ghana and the is why it says “climate-friendly transport” on our vehicles and construction of a local biomass power plant in the state of our payment indications include the mark “Posti Green”. As Punjab in India. The renewable energy generated replaces part of Posti Green, we also provide corporate customers with fossil fuels and reduces emissions. The projects also have a emissions reporting free of charge. regional job creation effect. In practice, carbon neutrality means that the emissions arising from transport are reduced through efficient combinations of transport AVOID and use of route planning, smooth and safe avoiding business travelling During 2018, Posti driving styles and the renewal of the fleet. The acquired 200 new remaining emissions are compensated for by participating in certified climate projects. REDUCE sustainable driving, decreasing car electric freight emissions, energy efficient buildings, combining transportation scooters, powered If transporting a letter produces 30 grams of carbon dioxide, or transporting a parcel REPLACE by electricity generproduces approximately 600 grams, we use green energy in buildings, renewable fuels, for example biogas ated using renewable Gold Standardor VCU-certified climate projects to ensure that an equal amount of emissions is energy sources. reduced somewhere else. OFFSET offsetting carbon emissions, carbon neutral services Customer in focus / Climate / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 36 A pioneer of green logistics As the largest transport and delivery company in Finland, by 18 percent. Absolute carbon dioxide emissions have agreement for properties, aiming to reduce the energy Posti plays a major role in promoting sustainable been reduced by more than 40,000 metric tons of consumption of business premises by 10.5 percent logistics. Posti’s environmental management is based on carbon dioxide equivalent (20%) from 2007 to 2018. between 2014 and 2025. In 2018, electricity generated environmental management standards, particularly ISO Transport and emissions from vehicles represent with renewable hydropower accounted for 37 percent of 14001, as well as legal and official requirements and over 90% of greenhouse gas emissions in Finland. the electricity consumption of the properties. the UN’s Global Compact principles and Sustainable In order to reach the goal for 2020, we will improve Development Goals (SDGs). Posti’s quality and the environmental efficiency of transport operations All of Posti’s own vehicles have driving style monitoring environmental policy covers all countries of operation, primarily by planning routes efficiently, ensuring a high systems in use. The scope of the monitoring now covers and its certified management systems cover 77% of the utilization rate, combining deliveries, and driving in an approximately 3,700 vehicles and 8,000 people. Each Group’s personnel. environmentally responsible manner. driver is regularly provided with a report on their driving style, allowing them to monitor and develop their Posti aims to reduce its carbon dioxide emissions by 30% In addition to vehicles, Posti has also focused on economic and safe driving styles. by 2020, in relation to net sales (compared to 2007). By buildings in its systematic efforts to improve energy 2018, Posti’s emissions relative to net sales had declined efficiency. Posti is party to the voluntary energy efficiency CO2=0g Kilometers driven and Mail delivery The energy consumpPostal items Service points and Warehouses Freight E-commerce Meal deliveries fuel consumption tion of properties Approx. 8 million per day parcel points 2,4 million freight Parcel volume, 100 municipalities By bicycle: 2,2 million 13 service warehouses kilometers Electricity: 78 GWh shipments per year incl. e-commerce: Own vehicles: Approx. 2 billion per year 1,856 service points Total service warehouse 1 million home-delivered On foot: 0,8 million Heating: 42 GWh 37 million 110 million km 1,002 parcel points area: 296 352 m2 meals per year kilometers Number of properties: 514 Subcontracting: 109 million km Data / Climate / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 37 Posti added two new LNG combination trucks to the fleet in 2018. The use of LNG reduces greenhouse gases by up to 24%. Vehicles do matter New vehicle technology and fuels have a significant Posti added two full-trailer combination trucks powered impact on reducing emissions from traffic. Posti is actively by liquefied natural gas (LNG) to its fleet during 2018. engaged in testing new vehicles using alternative energy According to a life cycle analysis of fuels, the use of LNG sources, with the aim of adopting the best vehicle reduces greenhouse gases by up to 24% in comparison solutions for our normal work use. to fossil diesel. Posti will have the new LNG-powered combination trucks in demanding and efficient use. Posti’s fleet of alternative vehicles includes some 40 biogas vehicles that run on the 100-percent renewable Moreover, the company already has an ethanol diesel Finnish Gasum biogas. Its use does not generate truck in use. The purchase of the 18-ton truck powered fine particulate matters harmful to health, and the by an ethanol diesel engine is related to Posti’s aim greenhouse gas emissions during the fuel’s life cycle are of testing alternative fuel vehicles and adopting the minor. best vehicle solutions in day-to-day operations. RED95 ethanol diesel reduces the fossil-based CO2 emissions In 2018, Posti commissioned 200 new electric freight of heavy transport by as much as 90 percent and scooters and 250 new electric maxi-delivery carts around local emissions by as much as 80 percent. RED95 Finland. The majority of delivery carts and bicycles are ethanol diesel is produced from Finnish waste at Finnish electric, and the company also has electric delivery production plants. vehicles. Data / Climate / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 38 What is Posti’s Tax Footprint? Tax footprint / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 39 Tax footprint 2018 In its tax footprint reporting, Posti adheres to the country-specific tax reporting guidelines for companies of which the state is the majority shareholder, provided by the Ownership Steering Department on October 1, 2014. Tax strategy FROM CUSTOMERS All companies in the Group have committed to operating Net sales responsibly and to meeting all obligations and requirements defined by the valid legislation of each country. Posti Group companies pay 1,610.3 (2017: 1,647.0) their taxes in the countries in which their actual business operations EUR million take place. All taxes are to be paid on time without delay. The Group’s long-term target is to ensure that the Group’s effective tax rate is at the same level as the corporate income tax rate valid in Finland at any given time. TO PERSONNEL TO SUPPLIERS Social security Salaries and fees expenses Pension expenses Material and services Other operating expenses According to the Group’s tax strategy, taxation is always a consequence of business operations, which means that tax solutions 552.1 30.1 92.9 514.0 331.3 (2017: 564.3) (2017: 38.5) (2017: 93.8) (2017: 508.0) (2017: 374.1) must also be based on business needs. Posti does not practice tax planning that would aim at artificially decreasing the Group’s taxable income. In tax-related issues, the Group operates within the framework of legislation and legal practice in planning the taxable TO PUBLIC SECTOR TO OWNER profit of Group companies. This can include the utilization of tax Income tax on profit Dividends for profit for the for the period* period* losses accrued in a subsidiary or the granting of group contributions, for example. In transfer pricing between subsidiaries, Posti aims to 5.2 28.4** (2017: 7.5) (2017: 40.0**) always ensure that the prices are market-based. To clarify taxation * more information from the section Tax footprint ** Board of Directors' proposal to the Annual General Meeting Data / Tax footprint / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 40 practices, some situations may involve contacting the systems. Taxes refers to taxes or tax-like fees paid to perspective, the amount of information reported is not tax authorities for either verbal guidance or a written public sector entities, whether they are paid or remitted of material importance when the taxes payable for an decision on the taxation treatment of the planned action by the company. The nature and amount of taxes vary individual country do not exceed EUR 5 million. significantly from country to country. Taxes payable refers Management of tax-related issues to taxes paid by the Group companies which are, as a The Group operates in 11 countries. In addition, Posti The management of tax-related issues is centralized rule, expensed in the company’s financial statements. has companies in countries where the Group no to the Group Finance unit, which is responsible for Taxes remitted refers to taxes or fees collected by the longer has business operations. When assessing the managing and monitoring tax-related issues at the companies which are remitted to tax collectors, often on materiality threshold, net sales of EUR 1 million for each Group level. Decisions related to taxation are made behalf of parties other than the company itself. individual subsidiary is considered the threshold for at the Group level. Significant matters of principle are non-materiality. Non-material companies are excluded presented to the parent company’s Board of Directors for The company has restricted its tax reporting to only cover from the reporting, as the amount of taxes paid by the decision-making. The Group’s CFO reports regularly on substantial operating countries. Based on this decision, companies is minor in proportion to the figures disclosed taxation-related issues to the Group’s Audit Committee. country-specific tax information is only presented by the Group. These companies are in the categories The key task of the management of tax-related issues for Finland and Russia. Approximately 87 % of Posti Scandinavia and Other countries. Posti does not have is to ensure that all Group companies comply with Group’s net sales come from these countries. According any operations or companies in countries classified the regulations of tax legislation in all countries of to the Group’s strategy, these countries are its main as tax havens, where the corporate income tax rate is operation. Tax risk management is part of the Group’s risk markets. Other operating countries are grouped under significantly lower than the Finnish corporate tax rate. The management process. Scandinavia and Other countries. Posti also uses the information presented below is based on the financial same geographical categorization in its consolidated statements of separate companies and the information Principles observed in tax reporting financial statements. has not been consolidated. Posti reports its tax footprint openly and transparently. The Group highlights potential decisions by the tax For countries other than Finland and Russia, information authorities and appeals concerning decisions by the tax is presented on a country group-specific basis as the authorities where such decisions and appeals have a information reported is not of material importance and material impact on the Group’s tax position. the presentation of country-specific information might jeopardize the non-disclosure of confidential information, The information presented in this report is based on such as customer or pricing details. From the Group’s information collected from the Group’s accounting Data / Tax footprint / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 41 The Group’s tax footprint The Group’s tax position in 2018 In 2018, the Group’s effective tax rate was 85.0 % (2017: Finland 2018 2017 –20.0%). The effective tax rate is calculated based on accrualNet sales EUR 1,296.3 million EUR 1,289.2 million based income taxes and changes in deferred taxes. The tax rate Result before taxes EUR 8.7 million EUR –34.5 million was significantly affected by non tax-deductible impairment on Number of personnel 13,224 employees 13,599 employees goodwill. The Group’s accrual-based income taxes for the financial Paid taxes EUR 26.7 million EUR 29.0 million year, excluding the effect of changes in deferred taxes, amounted Remitted taxes EUR 229.2 million EUR 238.8 million to EUR 5.2 million. Received public support EUR 0.0 million EUR 0.0 million Posti Group has several pending tax disputes in Finland. The most Russia 2018 2017 significant disputes are mainly related to the utilization in Finland Net sales EUR 103.0 million EUR 118.8 million of losses recognized by foreign subsidiaries that were merged into Result before taxes EUR 4.8 million EUR –20.1 million Posti Group Corporation in 2014 and 2015. The losses amount to Number of personnel 1,780 employees 2,243 employees approximately EUR 59 million in total. The Board of Adjustment Paid taxes EUR 6.6 million EUR 7.8 million rejected the company’s appeals concerning these disputes after a Remitted taxes EUR 9.0 million EUR 10.7 million vote. Furthermore, the Board of Adjustment approved the appeal submitted by the tax recipients’ representative. The company Public support received EUR 0.0 million EUR 0.0 million considers the Board of Adjustment’s decisions to be erroneous and Scandinavia 2018 2017 has petitioned the Supreme Administrative Court for the right to Net sales EUR 105.9 million EUR 124.9 million appeal. Result before taxes EUR 2.5 million EUR 2.4 million Number of personnel 176 employees 195 employees Posti Group’s Finnish companies were subject to a tax audit in Paid taxes EUR 3.4 million EUR 4.1 million 2016, which was completed in January 2018. Based on the audit reports, the Group’s Finnish companies were found liable to pay Remitted taxes EUR 8.8 million EUR 13.6 million approximately EUR 1.1 million in value added taxes, penalty Public support received EUR 0.0 million EUR 0.0 million interest and punitive tax increases. Posti considers the findings Other countries 2018 2017 to be erroneous for the most part and submitted appeals to the Net sales EUR 105.1 million EUR 114.2 million Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment approved a small Result before taxes EUR 1.8 million EUR –1.8 million minority of Posti’s demands and rejected a majority of the appeals Number of personnel 801 employees 795 employees after a vote. One appeal is still pending. Posti lodged appeals with the Administrative Court regarding the appeals rejected Paid taxes EUR 3.2 million EUR 3.0 million by the Board of Adjustment. Based on the audit reports, Posti Remitted taxes EUR 6.6 million EUR 5.6 million recognised EUR 0.1 million in expenses arising from paid penalty Received public support EUR 0.0 million EUR 0.1 million interest and punitive tax increases in the 2018 financial year. Data / Tax footprint / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 42 Taxes paid by category and by geographical area in 2018 and 2017: Paid taxes 2018 thousand EUR Total Finland Russia Scandinavia Other countries Income taxes 6,515 5,998 489 8 20 Real estate taxes 2,246 1,384 862 0 0 Employer taxes 16,131 4,380 5,208 3,389 3,154 Environmental taxes 13,204 13,189 0 0 35 Other taxes 1,812 1,810 0 0 2 Paid taxes 2017 thousand EUR Total Finland Russia Scandinavia Other countries Income taxes 6,798 6,368 414 15 1 Real estate taxes 2,338 1,331 1,007 0 0 Employer taxes 19,092 5,648 6,397 4,132 2,915 Environmental taxes 13,838 13,799 0 0 39 Other taxes 1,830 1,830 0 0 0 Remitted taxes by category and by geographical area: Remitted taxes 2018 thousand EUR Total Finland Russia Scandinavia Other countries Value added taxes 143,037 130,860 6,118 4,995 1,064 Salary taxes 109,721 98,356 2,653 3,759 4,953 Other taxes 867 30 259 0 578 Remitted taxes 2017 thousand EUR Total Finland Russia Scandinavia Other countries Value added taxes 153,761 137,577 7,176 7,965 1,043 Salary taxes 114,683 101,260 3,246 5,677 4,500 Other taxes 336 19 309 0 8 Data / Tax footprint / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 43 Tables and graphs Paid taxes and fees Remitted taxes by geographical area, Paid taxes by type total MEUR total 253.6 MEUR * and geographical area, total MEUR 30 25 20 15 10 5 Income taxes 6.0 MEUR 0 Finland Russia Scandinavia Other Finland 229.2 MEUR countries Real estate taxes 1.4 MEUR Employer taxes 4.4 MEUR Russia 9.0 MEUR Other taxes Scandinavia 8.8 MEUR Environmental taxes Environmental taxes 13.2 MEUR Other taxes 1.8 MEUR Other countries 6.6 MEUR Employer taxes Real estate taxes * of which value added taxes 143.0 MEUR, salary taxes 109.7 MEUR and other taxes Income taxes 0.9 MEUR. Data / Tax footprint / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 44 GRI and KPI Data Data / GRI and KPI Data / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 45 GRI Index Disclosure number GRI Standards 2016 Location ORGANIZATION 102-1 Name of the Organization Posti Group Corporation 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Board of Directors’ Report 2018 102-3 Location of headquarters Posti Group’s head office is located in Helsinki, Finland. Posti Group operates in 11 countries: Finland, Russia, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, 102-4 Location of operations Poland, Germany, Switzerland and the United States. 102-5 Ownership and legal form Share capital and shareholding 102-6 Markets served Board of Directors’ Report 102-7 Scale of the organization Posti Group had approximately 18,500 employees at the end of 2018. 102-8 Information on employees and other workers People responsibility indicators 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Board of Directors’ Report 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach The precautionary principle has been observed in compliance with the legal requirements. 102-12 External initiatives p. 4–5 Managing responsibility Posti engages in active dialogue with its partners and networks regarding the industry and the focus areas of sustainable development. These partners and networks include the international postal industry associations PostEurop, UPU (Universal Postal Union) and IPC (International 102-13 Membership of associations Post Corporation), Service Sector Employers PALTA, the Finnish Business & Society (FIBS) network, Diversity Charter Finland and the Global Compact network. Posti is a member of the aforementioned associations and networks. STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker p. 1, About this report 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Statement of non-financial information, Board of Directors’ Report 2018 Data / GRI and KPI Data / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 46 Disclosure number GRI Standards 2016 Location ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior p. 4–6 Sustainability Code of Conduct: https://www.posti.com/en/sustainability/managing-responsibility/code102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics of-conduct/ GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement: https://www.posti.com/en/governance/reports-and102-18 Governance structure presentations/Corporate-Governance-Statements/ 102-19 Delegating authority p. 4–6 Sustainability Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and 102-20 p. 4–6 Sustainability social topics Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental and social Corporate Governance Statement: https://www.posti.com/en/governance/reports-and102-21 topics presentations/Corporate-Governance-Statements/ Composition of the Board of Directors: https://www.posti.com/en/governance/corporate102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees governance/board-of-directors-and-its-committees/ The Chair of Posti’s Board of Directors is not an executive officer in the organization. More 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body information on the Board and its committees: https://www.posti.com/en/governance/ corporate-governance/board-of-directors-and-its-committees/ Corporate Governance Statement: https://www.posti.com/en/governance/reports-and102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body presentations/Corporate-Governance-Statements/ Corporate Governance Statement: https://www.posti.com/en/governance/reports-and102-25 Conflicts of interest presentations/Corporate-Governance-Statements/ Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values and Corporate Governance Statement: https://www.posti.com/en/governance/reports-and102-26 strategy presentations/Corporate-Governance-Statements/ Corporate Governance Statement: https://www.posti.com/en/governance/reports-and102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance presentations/Corporate-Governance-Statements/ Identifying and managing economic, environmental and social Corporate Governance Statement: https://www.posti.com/en/governance/reports-and102-29 impacts presentations/Corporate-Governance-Statements/ Corporate Governance Statement: https://www.posti.com/en/governance/reports-and102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes presentations/Corporate-Governance-Statements/ Corporate Governance Statement: https://www.posti.com/en/governance/reports-and102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social topics presentations/Corporate-Governance-Statements/ 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting p. 4 Sustainability at Posti Code of Conduct: https://www.posti.com/en/sustainability/managing-responsibility/code102-33 Communicating critical concerns of-conduct/ Remuneration Statement: https://www.posti.com/en/governance/corporate-governance/ 102-35 Remuneration policies remuneration-statement/ Data / GRI and KPI Data / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 47 Disclosure number GRI Standards 2016 Location STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Posti’s closest stakeholders are customers, employees, employee and employer organizations, 102-40 List of stakeholder groups the owner, political decision-makers, the authorities, business partners, interest groups, environmental organizations, postal industry organizations and the media. In Finland, 99% of Posti’s personnel are covered by collective labor agreements. The 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements corresponding figure for the Group as a whole is 86%. It is important for Posti to actively engage its stakeholders. Posti keeps in contact with its 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders stakeholders through open communication and dialog. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder relations are managed with confidentiality, integrity and fairness. 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised https://www.posti.com/en/sustainability/stakeholders/ REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Board of Directors’ Report 2018, Group companies 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries p. 51 Reporting principles 102-47 List of material topics p. 4 Sustainability at Posti 102-48 Restatements of information p. 51 Reporting principles 102-49 Changes in reporting p. 51 Reporting principles 102-50 Reporting period January 1–December 31, 2018 102-51 Date of most recent report 22.3.2018 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report p. 51 Reporting principles 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards 2016. 102-55 GRI content index p. 45 GRI index 103 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 51 Reporting principles 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 4 Sustainability at Posti Data / GRI and KPI Data / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 48 Disclosure number GRI Standards 2016 Location 200 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY 201 Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p. 39 Tax footprint 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Defined benefit pension plan obligations, Financial statements 2018 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Public assistance, Financial statements 2018 203 Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Financial statements 2018 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts p. 39 Tax footprint Procurement Practices Posti purchases services and products from Finnish companies for more than EUR 600 million 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers each year. In 2018, about 96 percent of all of Posti’s purchases in Finland were from domestic suppliers. 205 Anti-corruption The assessment of corruption risks is part of the Group’s risk assessment procedure, which covers 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption all business units and countries of operation. Posti has an Employee Code of Conduct and a Supplier Code of Conduct. They address Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and topics including anti-corruption practices. All Posti employees are required to complete training 205-2 procedures related to the Code of Conduct. As of December 31, 2018, 74% of the Group’s employees had completed the training. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken There were no confirmed incidents of corruption during the reporting period. 206 Anti-competitive Behavior Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and As of December 31, 2018, Posti had five cases related to competition law pending with the 206-1 monopoly practices Finnish Competition and Consumer Authority. Data / GRI and KPI Data / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 49 Disclosure number GRI Standards 2016 Location 300 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS 302 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization p. 54 Key indicators of environmental responsibility 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization p. 54 Key indicators of environmental responsibility 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption p. 34–36 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services p. 34–36 305 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions p. 54 Key indicators of environmental responsibility 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions p. 54 Key indicators of environmental responsibility 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions p. 54 Key indicators of environmental responsibility 305-4 GHG emissions intensity p. 54 Key indicators of environmental responsibility 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions p. 34–36 306 Effluents and Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method p. 54 Key indicators of environmental responsibility 307 Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No fines or sanctions during the reporting period. 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment Posti has a Sourcing Portal that is mandatory for all suppliers. Registration on the Sourcing Portal is a precondition for being approved as a Posti supplier. When registering on the portal, the 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria supplier agrees to comply with Posti’s Supplier Code of Conduct and provides the requested information regarding its quality and environmental management systems. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 401 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover p. 10, p. 52 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 401-2 p. 16 temporary or part-time employees 402 Labor/Management Relations The minimum notification time is between 14 days and 6 months depending on the duration 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes of the employment relationship, and it is included in most of the collective agreements that are applied in the Group. 403 Occupational Health and Safety The employees represented by the labor protection committee make up 86% of Posti’s total 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system personnel. 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment and incident investigation p. 14, p. 52 Data / GRI and KPI Data / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 50 Disclosure number GRI Standards 2016 Location 404 Training and Education Average training hours per employee in Finland were 1.6 h. The figure includes training lasting 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee over an hour. Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance 404-2 p. 16–17 programs Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 404-3 p. 10 career development reviews 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees p. 52 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men p. 10 406 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken There were no confirmed incidents of discrimination at Posti during the reporting period. 412 Human Rights Assessment Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or Corporate responsibility and compliance risks are assessed as part of the Group’s risk 412-1 impact assessments management process. Employee Code of Conduct training is mandatory for all employees. As of December 31, 2018, 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 74% of the Group’s employees had completed the training. 414 Supplier Social Assessment Posti has a Sourcing Portal that is mandatory for all suppliers. Registration on the Sourcing Portal is a precondition for being approved as a Posti supplier. When registering on the portal, the 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria supplier agrees to comply with Posti’s Supplier Code of Conduct and provides the requested information regarding its quality and environmental management systems. 415 Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions Posti Group does not make political contributions to individuals or parties. 416 Customer Health and Safety Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety No significant incidents of non-compliance with regulations and principles during the reporting 416-2 impacts of products and services period. 417 Marketing and Labeling Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing No significant incidents of non-compliance with regulations and principles during the reporting 417-3 communications period. 418 Customer Privacy Posti has not received any privacy related complaints from regulatory bodies in 2018. Total Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 418-1 number of registered and investigated cases related to data privacy was 37. The number of privacy and losses of customer data cases concerning breaches of customer privacy notified to the data protection authorities was 5. Data / GRI and KPI Data / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 51 Reporting principles Posti’s sustainability reporting complies with the GRI guidelines and the reporting srequirements of its owner, the Finnish State. This corporate responsibility report is based on the responsibility are taken from the consolidated (equivalents) contributing to climate change and follow Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and it has financial statements. Posti’s financial reports follow the the market-based approach in accordance with the been prepared in accordance with the Core level. AreaInternational Financial Reporting Standards. GHG protocol. At the same time, the emission factors specific standards have been reported for the areas of were updated to match most recent information, such economic, social and environmental responsibility, which For figures related to personnel, the key indicators have as the newest country-specific statistics of emissions are essential to Posti. This is the company’s first report been calculated in accordance with the Accounting from the energy network. Therefore, the results of the prepared in accordance with the GRI standards. The Standards Board’s general guidelines on annual reports. accounting for 2018 are not directly comparable report has not been subject to third-party assurance. A with previously reported results. In order to facilitate summary of the comparison between the report contents The indicators for environmental responsibility cover comparison, the results of the 2007 and 2017 baseline and the reporting guidelines is presented in the GRI the Group’s operations with the greatest environmental were adjusted to match the changes in the accounting content table. impact in all of its countries of operation. The method. Due to the change in the accounting method, environmental impacts of transport subcontracting are the company will update all of its climate objectives to Reporting boundary taken into account with regard to Finland, Russia and the cover all greenhouse gases in 2019. Posti’s sustainability aspects, environmental indicators Baltic countries. The environmental accounting applies and HR indicators are reported annually for the same the WBCSD (World Business Council for Sustainable Contact details period as the financial figures (January 1–December Development) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) protocol and the Noomi Jägerhorn, Head of Sustainability, 31). Unless otherwise mentioned in context, the reporting GHG Inventory Standard for the Postal Sector protocol, noomi.jagerhorn (at) posti.com covers all operations of the parent company and which includes more detailed instructions for the postal subsidiaries in all countries of operation. The coverage industry. Tiina Niemi, Senior Communications Manager, of the indicators is reported in connection with the tiina.niemi (at) posti.com indicators. The environmental accounting method was developed in 2018 to cover all significant greenhouse gas emissions The data and key indicators pertaining to financial Briefly / GRI and KPI Data / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 52 KPI Data: People Personnel per country on December 31, 2018 Employee leaving rate in Finland 2018 2017 2016 2015 Permanent employments, Finland* permanent employments Leaving rate, Finland Leaving rate Finland 15,676 16,595 16,052 16,874 Females 35% Females 13.9% Russia 1,873 2,493 2,553 2,809 under 25 years 6% under 25 years 39.9% Poland 108 128 620 568 25–34 years 18% 25–34 years 18.0% Sweden 142 147 229 260 35–44 years 23% 35–44 years 13.4% Estonia 408 337 378 419 45–54 years 28% 45–54 years 9.8% Norway 36 38 144 157 55 years or older 26% 55 years or older 10.6% Denmark 0 0 0 0 Males 65% Males 17.2% Latvia 95 81 94 164 under 25 years 5% under 25 years 62.0% Lithuania 93 92 278 259 25–34 years 21% 25–34 years 30.8% Germany 89 100 146 88 35–44 years 22% 35–44 years 15.5% Other (USA) 2 3 3 0 45–54 years 28% 45–54 years 6.9% 18,522 20,014 20,497 21,598 55 years or older 24% 55 years or older 9.7% *Total leaving rate 16,1 % without seasonal employees Total 16.1% Sickness related absences, accidents and retirement, Finland 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Sickness related absences (%) 5.8 5.9 6.6 6.2 6.2 Lost time accidents (number) 899 1,145 982 1,046 1,089 Accident frequency, LTA1 43 46 43 43 41 Disability pensions 63 55 77 68 78 Part-time disability pensions 82 55 80 80 62 Total disability pensions 145 110 157 148 140 Average age for retiring on disability pension 57.6 55.4 56.2 56 56.3 Average retirement age 62.1 61.3 61.4 62.5 62.5 Retired 271 269 281 320 301 Data / GRI and KPI Data / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 53 People Breakdown of employment contracts*, Length of employees' career*, Age distribution of personnel*, 100% 100% 100% 100 80 60 40 20 0 13 122 5 400 16 466 2 056 Less than 1 year, 17% Full-time employees 1 – 5 years, 23% Under 25 years, 10% Part-time employees 6 – 10 years, 15% 25 – 34 years, 22% Permanent employees 11 – 15 years, 12% 35 – 44 years, 22% Fixed-term employees 16 – 20 years, 8% 45 – 54 years, 24% more than 20 years, 25% 55 years or older, 22% *Group *Group *Group Data / GRI and KPI Data / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 54 KPI Data: Environment 302 1-2: Energy consumption within and outside of the organization 306-2: Waste by type and disposal method, Finland Terajoules (TJ) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 DIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION Properties included in Renewable waste management 2018 2017 2016 agreement, tons* Biogas 1 2 2 1 4 2 Recycle and reuse 9,133 8,272 8,308 Non-renewable – facilities and own vehicles Other recover 4,529 4,180 3,779 Natural gas 194 139 157 158 267 165 Inceneration 494 484 489 Fuel oil 0 0 0 0 1 1 Final disposal 55 65 82 Other heating fuels 2 Traffic fuel 714 786 766 730 778 879 INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION Hazardous waste 462 1,043 537 Renewable Recycle and reuse 355 943 462 Electricity, Finland 104 292 306 313 337 265 Final disposal 107 100 74 Non-renewable Electricity, other countries 126 167 187 204 207 303 Total 14,674 14,044 13,194 Electricity, Finland 178 District heating 196 244 271 278 324 352 Recovery rate, % 99% 99% 99% Traffic fuel – outsourced, Finland 949 1,121 804 805 913 951 * Excluding properties where waste management is included in the rent. 305 1-3: The Group’s GHG Emissions Tons, CO2e 2018* 2017* 2016 2015 2014 2013 *In 2018, the calculation method was developed to cover all significant Fuel use in transport – Posti's vehicles, Scope 1** 50,094 54,680 52,532 50,014 53,396 60,406 greenhouse gas emissions (equivalents) affecting climate change, not Fuel use in buildings – energy generation, Scope 1 10,968 7,229 8,818 8,900 15,020 9,268 only carbon dioxide and to follow the market-based method according to Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Additionally, emission factors were updated to Electricity and heat use in buildings, Scope 2 42,357 34,935 39,068 40,266 44,199 38,272 reflect the latest information, such as the latest country-specific statistics on Subcontracted transport by vehicles and air, Scope 3** 118,116 107,049 62,524 65,298 70,801 73,490 energy network emissions. As a result, the results of 2018 are not directly comparable with the old published results. To enable comparison the result Business travel flights, Scope 3 1,153 1,405 1,358 1,512 2,139 2,190 for 2017 was adjusted to reflect the changes in calculation method. Total 222,689 205,297 164,300 165,991 185,555 183,625 **Biogenic emissions Scope 1: 2.1 tonnes of carbon dioxide, Scope 3: 3147.4 tonnes of carbon dioxide. Data / GRI and KPI Data / Posti’s sustainability 2018 Sustainability People Services Digitality Climate Tax footprint GRI and KPI Data 55 Environment Carbon dioxide emissions, Carbon dioxide emissions 1,000 tn relative to net sales in Finland, kg/EUR 250 0,15 200 0,12 150 0,09 100 0,06 50 0,03 0 2016 2017 2018* 0,00 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018* Finland Russia Other countries Target at –30% by 2020 (compared to *In 2018, the calculation method was developed to 2007) cover all significant greenhouse gas emissions (equivalents) affecting climate change. Emissions in Absolute CO2 emissions have decreased by 2018 are reported in carbon dioxide equivalents over 42,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide and are not directly comparable with the old results. equivalent (20%) from year 2007 to 2018. Data / GRI and KPI Data / Posti’s sustainability 2018
