UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Landsvirkjun’s UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 Explanatory Note and Index In recent years Landsvirkjun has issued a specific report outlining its Communication on Progress (CoP) for the UN Global Compact (UNGC). In the interest of clarity and streamlining of communication, Landsvirkjun’s annual report 2018 serves as the UNGC CoP. The annual report is a web-based report available under the following link https://annualreport2018.landsvirkjun.com/ In 2018 Landsvirkjun started working on the implementation of the GRI Standards in order to further strengthen reporting on the company’s CSR work. The use of the GRI Standards will also help in short and long-term target setting connected to Landsvirkjun’s CSR strategy as well as in defining CSR-related projects. The UNGC Index below outlines the sections of the annual report that relate to the 10 principles of the UNGC. The index also includes links to relevant reference material on Landsvirkjun’s website. Once the GRI Standards have been implemented these will be added to a joint UNGC/GRI index, associated with future annual reports. UNGC Index Human and Labour Rights UNGC Principles Relevant material Principle 1: Businesses should support Relevant material in Annual Report 2018 and respect the protection of SDG 5 Equality internationally proclaimed human Three-year action plan for gender equality, rights. embedding 17 projects. Review of the human resource policy, now Principle 2: Businesses should make entitled ‘Human Resources and Equality sure that they are not complicit in Policy’. The new name reflects the importance human rights abuses. of ensuring gender equality in all company operations. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold Focus on improving the workplace culture the freedom of association and the with respect to gender equality. effective recognition of the right to Equal pay certification collective bargaining. Reference documents Principle 4: Businesses should uphold Code of conduct the elimination of all forms of forced and https://www.landsvirkjun.com/Media/Landsvirkjun%E2%8 compulsory labour. 0%99sCodeofConduct.pdf Principle 5: Businesses should uphold Code of Conduct for Suppliers the effective abolition of child labour. https://www.landsvirkjun.com/Media/code-of-conductlv-ensk.pdf Principle 6: Businesses should uphold Human Resources Policy the elimination of discrimination in https://www.landsvirkjun.is/fyrirtaekid/mannaudur (in respect of employment and occupation. Icelandic) Environmental Protection UNGC Principles Relevant material Principle 7: Businesses should support a Relevant material in Annual Report 2018 precautionary approach to Green accounts in annual report 2018 environmental challenges. https://annualreport2017.landsvirkjun.com/environment/gr een-accounts Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater SDG 7 Sustainable Energy environmental responsibility. Involvement in SEforALL Exporting expertise – Landsvirkjun Power Principle 9: Businesses should SDG 13 Climate Change encourage the development and Katowice Climate Change Conference (COP 24) diffusion of environmentally friendly Green Bonds technologies. Energy transition in transport Reference documents Environmental Policy https://www.landsvirkjun.com/societyenvironment/environ ment Anti-Corruption UNGC Principle Relevant material Principle 10: Businesses should work Code of Conduct against corruption in all its forms, https://www.landsvirkjun.com/Media/Landsvirkjun%E2%8 including extortion and bribery. 0%99sCodeofConduct.pdf Code of Conduct for Suppliers https://www.landsvirkjun.com/Media/code-of-conductlv-ensk.pdf Landsvirkjun Háaleitisbraut 68 103 Reykjavík Sími: 515 9000 landsvirkjun.is landsvirkjun@lv.is Apríl 2019 Ljósmynd: Hreinn Hjartarson
