REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 INCLUDING THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CEO 2 2017 KEY FIGURES 4 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP 7 5 RISK FACTORS 83 1.1 History 8 5.1 Risks related to the economic environment 84 1.2 Business overview and Group strategy 11 5.2 Risks related to the Group's operations 85 1.3 Simplified organisation chart of the Group 5.3 Liquidity and market risks 86 at 31 December 2017 14 5.4 Employee-related risks 87 5.5 Risks related to information systems 87 5.6 Legal, regulatory and tax risks 87 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 15 5.7 Industrial and environmental risks 88 2.1 Board of Directors 17 5.8 Risks related to acquisitions 88 2.2 Compensation and benefits in kind allocated by 5.9 Insurance strategy 89 the Company and other Group entities in 2017 to members of the administrative and management bodies in office 30 2.3 Additional information 36 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 91 6.1 Consolidated financial statements 92 6.2 Statutory Auditors report on the consolidated financial statements 137 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT 37 6.3 Parent company financial statements 142 3.1 Business overview 38 3.2 Group results 40 3.3 Assystem SA parent company financial statements 43 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY 3.4 Compensation of company officers 44 7 AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL 167 contents 3.5 Information concerning administrative bodies 44 7.1 General information about the issuer 168 3.6 Information about the Company's capital 44 7.2 Information about the Company’s share capital 171 3.7 Description of main risks and uncertainties 45 7.3 Statutory audit and fees paid by the Group to the 3.8 Internal control and risk management procedures Statutory Auditors and members of their networks 180 put in place by the Company relating to the preparation and processing of accounting and 7.4 Special report on awards of free shares financial information 45 and performance shares 181 3.9 Anti-corruption measures 52 7.5 Special report on stock options 182 3.10 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 53 3.11 Related-party agreements and commitments 53 3.12 Statutory Auditors' fees 53 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 3.13 Five-year financial summary for Assystem SA 54 8 OF 16 MAY 2018 183 8.1 Agenda 184 8.2 Purpose of the proposed resolutions 185 8.3 Text of the proposed resolutions 191 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL 4 RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) 55 8.4 Statutory Auditors’ reports 202 4.1 CSR vision and strategy 56 4.2 Stakeholder mapping 61 4.3 Human resources information: hr development 9 APPENDICES 203 as a driver of performance 63 9.1 Statement by the persons responsible 4.4 Environmental information: reducing the Group’s for the 2017 Registration Document 204 carbon footprint 73 9.2 Cross-reference tables 205 4.5 Socio-economic information: acting as a responsible corporate citizen 75 4.6 Methodology note 78 4.7 Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as independent third party, on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information included in the management report 81 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 INCLUDING THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT An international engineering and innovation consultancy group operating in 15 countries with some 5,000 employees. For 50 years Assystem has been a partner of choice for the largest global industrial groups. The original French language version of this Registration Document was fi led with the AMF, the French Financial Market Authority, on 11 April 2018 in compliance with Article 212-13 of the AMF's General Registrations. I t may be used in support of a fi nancial operation if accompagned by a prospectus validated by the AMF. The original version of this document was prepared by the issuer and under the responsability of its signatories. The English-language version of this document is a free translation from the original, which was prepared in French. All possible care has beentaken to ensure that the translation is an accurate representation of the original. However, in all matters of interpretation of information, views or opinions expressed therein, the original language version of the document in French takes precedence over this translation. A N E W PAT H T O G R O W T H ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 1 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN & CEO MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN & CEO DOMINIQUE LOUIS 2017: STRATEGICALLY REFOCUSING ON THE NUCLEAR SECTOR – THE HISTORIC CORE OF OUR EXPERTISE 2017 marked a turning point for Assystem, with the separation of our two engineering businesses: on the one hand, our specialised activities in the nuclear and infrastructure markets (our historic core business areas), and on the other, our more recent outsourced R&D business, operating in the automotive and aeronautical industries. Outsourced R&D is a high-growth sector which has undergone deep-seated transformation in recent years due to the emergence of new technologies, the increasing importance of sustainability, and measures taken by several industrial players to streamline their procurement policies by reducing the number of their suppliers. The rapid organic and acquisition-led growth of market participants such as Altran, Alten and Akka is both driving and being driven by these changes. Although Assystem’s global size represented close to one billion euros, our business volumes in outsourced R&D meant that we were one of the smallest of the large players. We had better organic growth levels than our competitors but we were hampered by not having the critical mass required in the outsourced R&D market. 2 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN & CEO In order to stay in the race for size in outsourced R&D, we therefore The stake we have acquired in Framatome sends a strong message had two options: either give ourselves the resources to accelerate the about our refocusing on our historic core business, demonstrates our business’s build up by going it alone as Assystem, a listed company, strategic positioning in the French nuclear industry and heightens or applying a build-up strategy on another scale via a private partner our international credentials. Our vision for the future – which is with the necessary expertise and financial clout. I decided on the underpinned by our joint ventures and agreements with major second route, in the interests of both Assystem and its shareholders. international players – is rooted in our conviction that nuclear power This meant transferring control of our outsourced R&D business to a has an essential role to play in energy transition. It is this vision that partner with the credentials we were looking for while ensuring that will help us achieve our goal of cementing our position as one of Assystem could remain closely associated with the future success the world’s leading players in nuclear engineering. of the new group created from this move – Assystem Technologies. One of the major sources of the CO2 causing climate change is the massive use of fossil fuels – particularly coal, but also gas – to Outsourced R&D needs produce electricity, and we won’t be able to address this crisis on a are growing rapidly planetary scale by using renewable energies alone. Nuclear energy – which, like renewables, has the advantage of not producing in a globalised market CO2 – is on the cusp of a renaissance, whose success will hinge on being able to reduce costs and improve plant safety. Serving We chose the private equity firm, Ardian, to accompany us in this these objectives is our raison d’être at Assystem. new adventure as it represented the best fit in terms of investor profile and offered attractive financial conditions as well as the opportunity to keep an ownership interest in the new group. By reinvesting We are seeing robust growth just over 20% of the sale price in a 39% interest in Assystem in our core markets Technologies we have put in place a strong earn-out potential. In 2018, our strategy will once again be structured around the three In early 2018, Assystem Technologies successfully carried out a main areas where we are experiencing robust growth: our flagship major build-up transaction by acquiring the German group SQS. nuclear business, of course – thanks to our leading position in the This added over €300 million to Assystem Technologies’ annual French nuclear industry and our international partnerships, as well revenue, which means that it already tops the €1 billion mark. as transport infrastructure and life sciences. Assystem participated in the financing of the acquisition, giving it a 38% interest in the merged outfi t. Thanks to the success of Dominique Louis this business combination, together with Assystem Technologies’ robust revenue momentum (over 13% like-for-like growth in 2017) and clients’ rapidly-growing needs in a globalised market, we are confident that we made the right choice. There were two other key events for Assystem in 2017. First, we launched an offer on the open market to buy back 28.4% of Assystem’s outstanding shares at a per-share price of €37.50, giving shareholders the opportunity to directly benefit from a portion of the net proceeds generated from the transfer of control of the outsourced R&D business. And second, we purchased a 5% interest in Framatome (formerly Areva NP). ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 3 2017 KEY FIGURES 2017 KEY FIGURES AVERAGE PRICE AND MONTHLY TRADING VOLUMES OF THE ASSYSTEM SHARE IN 2017 Euros Number of shares 40 800 000 35 700 000 30 600 000 25 500 000 20 400 000 15 300 000 10 200 000 5 100 000 0 0 J17 F17 M17 A17 M17 J17 J17 A17 S17 O17 N17 D17 TRADING VOLUME (IN NO. OF SHARES) AVERAGE SHARE PRICE NYSE Euronext Compartiment B ISIN: FR0000074148 Share included in the CAC All-Tradable index DIVIDEND PAR SHARE (IN €) OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 1.00 1.00* 3.25% 0.80 0.75 35.41% 61.34% HDL DEVELOPMENT(1) FREE FLOAT(2) TREASURY SHARES 2014 2015 2016 2017 * Dividend that will be recommended at the (1) HDL Development is a holding company controlled by 16 May 2018 Annual General Meeting Dominique Louis (Assystem’s Chairman & CEO), notably through HDL, which itself holds 0.22% of Assystem’s capital. (2) Including 0.22% held by HDL. 4 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 2017 KEY FIGURES BREAKDOWN OF REVENUE BREAKDOWN OF REVENUE BY DIVISION BY BUSINESS SECTOR (in millions of euros) 395.2 380. 22% 7% 71% 2016 2017 ENERGY & INFRASTRUCTURE – NUCLEAR ENERGY (including Nuclear: 52%) ENERGY & INFRASTRUCTURE – ET&I LIFE SCIENCES STAFFING OTHER (including Building: 9%) OTHER EBITA FREE CASH FLOW* (in millions of euros) (in millions of euros) ▲ i.e. 5.3% of revenue 26.0 20.8 22.1 Free cash flow figure for 2016 not available for the 2017 scope of consolidation 2016 2017 2016 2017 * Free cash flow = Net cash generated from operating activities less capital expenditure, net of disposals. EMPLOYEE NUMBERS EMPLOYEE NUMBERS EMPLOYEE NUMBERS BY GEOGRAPHIC REGION BY DIVISION BY COUNTRY 4,832 4,603 26 707 1,054 3,504 3,285 274 4,099 3,504 1,318 1,328 2016 2017 ENERGY & INFRASTRUCTURE FRANCE FRANCE STAFFING UK/BELGIUM/SWITZERLAND OUTSIDE FRANCE OTHER AFRICA/MIDDLE EAST/ASIA ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 5 6 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP 1.1 HISTORY 8 1.3 SIMPLIFIED ORGANISATION CHART OF THE GROUP AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 14 1.2 BUSINESS OVERVIEW AND GROUP STRATEGY 11 1.2.1 Energy & Infrastructure 11 1.2.2 Staffing 12 1.2.3 Assystem Technologies 13 1.2.4 The Group’s strategy 13 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 7 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP HISTORY 1.1 HISTORY 1966 TO 1995: THE NUCLEAR INDUSTRY YEARS Since then, Assystem has strengthened its operating presence in the Middle East through the following: The Assystem Group's history began in 1966, when a team of nuclear engineers and technicians in France created Atem, a company ● In September 2013 it based the Executive Management Department specialised in the commissioning of industrial units. The Group's business for the Energy & Infrastructure division in Dubai. development was subsequently driven by the major nuclear equipment ● In January 2015 it acquired Radicon – an engineering company with programme put in place by the French State after the first oil crisis in 400 employees based in Al Khobar and Riyadh in Saudi Arabia – 1973. which enabled Assystem to double its size in the Arabian Gulf region and win market share in the infrastructure, energy and transport In the 1980s, Atem began to diversify into project management, mainly sectors. in industrial automation and IT, and working with clients in sectors such as automotive, steel, space and defence. ● In June 2016 it acquired a 51% interest in the Turkish engineering company Envy – a well-established player in Turkey's engineering In 1989, Atem teamed up with Cogema to form Alphatem, a company services market, operating primarily in the energy and transport that was dedicated to testing and commissioning equipment and sectors. Envy is involved in two nuclear power station construction facilities purchased under Cogema's capital expenditure programmes projects: Akkuyu (a Rosatom project) and Sinop (an Atmea project). (an irradiated fuel reprocessing plant in the Hague and the Melox plant Rosatom – which is a leading operator and vendor of nuclear in the Gard region of France which produces MOX fuel assemblies). power stations – is a major client for Envy. The acquisition of Envy In 1994, Atem and Alphatem merged to create Assystem, which was was strategically important for Assystem in view of the expansion floated on the Paris stock exchange (Second Marché) in 1995. opportunities it offers in numerous geographic regions. In 2016, several strategic partnerships and acquisitions were finalised: 1996 TO 2003: BUSINESS DIVERSIFICATION ● Momentum – a consortium equally owned by Amec Foster Wheeler, Assystem Energy & Infrastructure (E&I) and KEPCO E&C) – which From 1996, the end of the investment cycle in the construction of new was named construction management-as-agent contractor for industrial facilities (nuclear power stations and reprocessing plants) an international project involving the assembly of over a million in the nuclear industry in France and the rest of the world marked the components for the world's largest fusion reactor. Momentum will play start of a new era for Assystem, which diversified into product design a key role in the international effort to make fusion a viable source and development for the aeronautics and automotive sectors (with the of almost limitless carbon-free energy. acquisition of Studia in France), whilst retaining its specific skills and expertise in the nuclear sector. ● T he acquisition of the entire capital of Onyx Promavi, a Francebased company specialised in project planning, cost control, deadline management and risk management for major French and 2003 TO 2016: INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT international infrastructure projects, which has a high-quality portfolio In 2003, the merger with Brime Technologies allowed Assystem to of clients in the energy, environment, transport and defence sectors. penetrate the new technologies sector and opened the way for the Through this acquisition, Assystem's Energy & Infrastructure division Group to go global. (E&I) has enhanced the business processes and client portfolio of its Project Management Consultancy (PMC) business, which is dedicated The Group then carried out several significant acquisitions in 2004 and to supporting complex projects subject to signifi cant regulatory 2005, which changed its structure and enabled it to expand its client constraints. portfolio: Inbis Ltd in the United Kingdom (an industrial engineering ● The acquisition of a controlling interest in Aerotec Concept, a wellgroup working in the aeronautics, automotive and nuclear industries) established player in the airplane/helicopter refurbishment and and SKI Team and Atena in Germany. customisation market which has carved out a strong presence in the In 2008, Assystem consolidated its presence in India by creating Silver fast-growing markets for bespoke cabin fittings, avionics modifications Atena which brought together Silver Software (a company based in and connectivity. This acquisition strengthened the Aerospace services India specialised in embedded safety-critical systems) and the German offering of Assystem's Global Product Solutions division (GPS). company, Atena. ● T he acquisition of the entire capital of BATIR Group, a French In 2010, Assystem joined forces with the UK engineering company, engineering company specialised in nuclear civil engineering and Atkins, to create N.triple.a, an engineering fi rm specialised in the technical and architectural synthesis using BIM (Building Information nuclear sector and dedicated to international projects. Modelling). This acquisition has broadened the construction engineering offering of Assystem E&I for complex industrial and In 2011 and 2012, Assystem acquired Berner & Mattner (embedded nuclear buildings, and is helping promote the use of BIM. systems for the automotive industry in Germany) and the MPH Group (nuclear engineering in France and staffing of consultants specialising in Oil & Gas and Industry in the Middle East and Africa). 8 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP HISTORY ● The acquisition of all of the shares of Edison Technical Recruitment In line with these same objectives: Limited (“Edison”), a company based in Birmingham in the UK. Edison is a leading specialist engineering recruitment agency with ● I n early February 2018, through a public tender offer launched on 15 December 2017 on the Alternative Investment Market of 1 a particular focus on electronics, electrical systems and software the London Stock Exchange, Assystem Technologies acquired a engineering and is a preferred partner for the UK's main automotive controlling interest of over 95% in the German Group, SQS. SQS industry players. Edison offers expert recruitment services to blue has 4,500 employees in 19 countries (including 2,000 in India) chip OEMs and Tier One suppliers in the UK, in areas such as R&D, and generates over €320 million in annual revenue. It has built up product development, electrical/electronics engineering and chassis solid and widely-recognised expertise in providing digital strategy and powertrain engineering. consulting services to its clients and carrying out tests for software applications, systems, processes and networks. With some 14,000 2017: A MAJOR STRATEGIC TURNING POINT – employees, the merged outfi t will generate around €1 billion in TRANSFER OF CONTROL OF THE GPS DIVISION revenue (based on 2017 business volumes), of which approximately TO ARDIAN AND ACCELERATION OF BUSINESS 60% will derive from outside France and over 15% from the bank/ EXPANSION FOR THE E&I DIVISION insurance sector in which Assystem Technologies was not present before the acquisition. In 2017, Assystem made two key strategic moves, with the aim of speeding up the growth of its two core businesses – GPS and E&I. These ● On 31 January 2018, Assystem invested €60.7 million in an equity moves have clear advantages for both businesses, giving our clients financing round carried out by Assystem Technologies Groupe (ATG, solutions that closely meet their needs while opening up opportunities the parent of Assystem Technologies) for the purpose of helping for our people and creating value for our shareholders. fi nance the acquisition of SQS. Following this fi nancing round, Assystem’s interest in the newly-configured ATG was a slightly lower TRANSFER OF CONTROL OF THE GPS DIVISION 38.16%. Assystem’s participation in the financing – which brought As announced on 11 May 2017, on 28 September 2017, Assystem its total investment in ATG to €185 million – was funded by credit SA transferred its outsourced R&D division – Global Product Solutions facilities arranged with Assystem’s banks in addition to its existing (GPS) – to a special-purpose acquisition company 60.77% owned by facilities so that it could retain the financial resources it needs to grow an investment fund managed by the private equity firm, Ardian, and Assystem Energy & Infrastructure. 39.23% owned by Assystem. Out of the €530 million sale proceeds REFOCUSING ON THE ENERGY & INFRASTRUCTURE DIVISION (ASSYSTEM E&I) (after costs and taxes related to the transaction), Assystem reinvested €124.3 million in equity and quasi-equity issued by the parent of the The transfer of control of its GPS division has meant that Assystem can acquisition company. This investment has been consolidated by the now refocus on the growth of the division that it still wholly controls equity method in Assystem’s financial statements since 1 October 2017. – Energy & Infrastructure. In line with this objective, in late 2017, Assystem acquired a 5% stake in Framatome, strengthening its longThe acquisition company was then named Assystem Technologies standing partnership with EDF, the key client of the E&I division's Nuclear Groupe. At 31 December 2017, Assystem Technologies Groupe and business. It also carried out two other strategic acquisitions towards the its subsidiaries had more than 9,000 employees working in a dozen end of the year. The first of these strengthens its position in life sciences countries. It partners clients in the aeronautics, defence, automotive, – which is a priority development sector for the E&I division’s Energy transport and industry sectors, from the design through to marketing of Transition & Infrastructures business – and the second benefits both of their products and services. Its business is highly technical and it draws the division’s businesses by giving it a leading position in the project on proven expertise in complex and critical systems. management field in France. The aim of the overall operation was twofold: (i) to enable Assystem Strengthening Assystem’s long-standing partnership with EDF – Technologies to remain one of the leading players in the consolidation Acquisition of a 5% stake in Framatome process currently taking place in the outsourced R&D market by giving it As a leading nuclear engineering player, Assystem is well placed to access to the resources and expertise that Ardian deploys to support the leverage the anticipated rapid growth in demand for nuclear engineering growth of its holdings (particularly in terms of identifying, financing and throughout the world as fossil fuels are replaced by low-carbon sources integrating acquisitions), therefore helping it to diversify its geographic of electricity. presence and client portfolio, and (ii) to enable Assystem to retain an interest in the new entity’s value creation thanks to the stake in its capital. With this in mind, in late 2017 Assystem took part in the reconfiguration of the French nuclear industry by purchasing from Areva NP a 5% ownership interest in Framatome, for €123.7 million. Consequently, Framatome – which generates annual revenue of around €3 billion – is now 75.5% owned by EDF, 19.5% by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd and 5% by Assystem. It is the Company to which Areva NP transferred its assets and activities related to (i) the design and supply of nuclear reactor equipment, (ii) the design and supply of fuel assemblies and (iii) services provided to a large worldwide installed base of nuclear reactors. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 9 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP HISTORY This investment forms part of a broader agreement between Assystem biotech industries in Europe and at further developing its Life Sciences and EDF aimed at consolidating their partnership, particularly concerning engineering activities. In order to leverage commercial, technical and maintenance services carried out on civilian nuclear reactors in France organisational synergies between BQG’s activities and Assystem’s and the United Kingdom to ensure they remain in proper operating existing operations in the Life Sciences sector, it is planned that all condition. It also opens up opportunities for Assystem in the new-build of BQG's and Assystem's Life Sciences operations will be brought market in the French nuclear industry. At the same time, it should enable together into a single entity, which will be 88.7% owned by Assystem. Assystem to strengthen its ties with France’s key nuclear participants ● T he purchase of the entire capital of the French company, Euro while leaving it entirely free to continue its projects with other major Contrôle Projet (“ECP”) from its founder, Bruno Sucré, and its other international players. shareholders. Acquisitions in the life sciences and project management sectors Highly-respected for its project management skills, ECP generates Drawing on the expertise it has built up in managing complex projects annual revenue of around €21 million and has 220 employees. It is subject to significant regulatory constraints as well as the advances a specialist in the Project Management Office (PMO) concept and made in robotics and digitisation of engineering services, in 2017 covers the entire spectrum of corresponding services, i.e. planning and Assystem continued to expand its business through both organic and cost optimisation as well as risk, contract and quality management. acquisition-led growth in the following high-growth markets: transport ECP has a diverse portfolio of clients operating in a wide range of infrastructure, life sciences, energy efficiency of buildings and security sectors (defence, transport, nuclear, Oil & Gas and chemicals) and systems. its acquisition has already propelled Assystem's PMO business into Consequently, in late 2017 Assystem made two new acquisitions: the ranks of the market’s leaders, with 350 specialised engineers and forecast annual revenue of €30 million for 2018. ● T he purchase of a 72.7% interest in The Biotech Quality Group (BQG) – a Belgian consulting firm that specialises in performance Assystem now intends to accelerate the development of its PMO management and improving regulatory compliance within Europe's offering for all of its French and international clients (particularly those pharmaceutical and biotech industries. operating in the nuclear, transport and life sciences sectors), in order to meet their growing requirements for managing complex projects, BQG currently employs some 100 people and generates a total and particularly to factor in the increasing digitisation of project of €11 million in annual revenue across Belgium, France and management processes. Its overall aim is to strengthen the PMO Switzerland. Since it was founded in 2011 it has developed a business’s leadership position, increasing its workforce to 500 and range of bespoke methods and tools aimed at increasing the maturity its annual revenue to €50 million by 2020. and transforming the practices of the (bio)pharmaceutical industry, reducing time to market and production stoppages, and effectively managing and remedying crisis situations. BQG provides its clients ASSYSTEM TODAY: 50 YEARS OF SERVING with the necessary expertise to ensure that their projects meet the INNOVATION highest standards in terms of compliance, quality and performance. BQG’s skills and client portfolio form an excellent strategic fit with Our business: industrial engineering those of Assystem in the Life Sciences sector as Assystem is specialised Assystem is the engineering partner of choice for leading global in the operational aspects of commissioning, certifying and validating industrial groups. Having worked at the core of the industry for the past drug and biopharmaceutical production lines allowing manufacturers fifty years, our teams of engineers design and develop the products and to comply with the most stringent regulatory requirements, both in services of the future, build and ensure the optimal use of our clients' Europe and the USA. The combined skills and expertise of BQG and equipment and facilities throughout their life cycle, and coordinate and Assystem will enable us to propose to the market a unique offering see through the completion of their projects and infrastructure. encompassing quality, regulatory compliance and performance at all stages of a drug’s life cycle, from the creation phase right up until We have over 4,800 highly-committed employees who contribute their it is introduced on the market. specific talents, know-how and values to help our clients meet the range of challenges they face on a daily basis, such as producing cleaner As a result of the acquisition of BQG, the number of Assystem's energy and making electric transport widely available. engineers, pharmacists and academics specialised in commissioning, certification, validation and regulator y compliance in the Our teams are trained to master and build skills whilst being able to pharmaceutical and biotech industries in Europe has increased adapt to the challenges inherent in innovation, risk management and to nearly 400. The merged outfit is expected to generate around complex projects. Operating in 15 countries, they work hard every day €40 million in revenue in 2018. across the globe to share their expertise, optimise their know-how and Through this move, Assystem has taken another major step forward in bring our clients' and partners' projects to fruition. implementing its Life Sciences strategy, which is aimed at making the Group a European leader in the areas of commissioning, certification, validation and regulatory compliance in the pharmaceutical and 10 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP BUSINESS OVERVIEW AND GROUP STRATEGY 1.2 BUSINESS OVERVIEW AND GROUP STRATEGY 1 Assystem now operates in the engineering market through two divisions: new Grand Paris Express transport network), (iii) CEA (in the areas of defence, decommissioning and waste processing), and (iv) the ITER ● Energy & Infrastructure (86.4% of 2017 revenue); project based in Cadarache, France. ● Staffing (11.4% of 2017 revenue). Assystem is still closely associated with the growth of its former GPS Engineering Procurement and Construction division as a result of its ownership interest in Assystem Technologies management (EPCm) (39.20% at 31 December 2017 and 38.16% since 31 January 2018). This investment is accounted for by the equity method in Assystem’s Assystem provides EPCm services across all project phases, from design consolidated financial statements. through to decommissioning. Our expertise in this area covers new projects as well as decommissioning and waste recovery and processing programmes. 1.2.1 ENERGY & INFRASTRUCTURE The main EPCm projects we are currently working on concern (i) Assystem's Energy & Infrastructure (E&I) division works with nuclear buildings and electrical easements for ITER, (ii) the automation of lines utilities companies and contractors, players in the conventional and and the renewal of trains for the underground rail network in Marseille, renewable energy sectors, designers and operators of transport (iii) ancillary buildings for EPRs in the UK, and (iv) the nuclear portion infrastructure and other complex infrastructure, and life sciences of the CIGEO radioactive waste storage project. companies, providing them with the expertise it has built up through its long experience in the nuclear industry and infrastructure engineering Design engineering in environments with complex operating conditions and/or stringent safety requirements. This business area covers design, assistance with configuration management, logistical support, customisation and research into the E&I operates in France and internationally in the Nuclear, Energy, related risks. In the nuclear sector, the focus of our design engineering and Infrastructure (collective and industrial) markets and its clients are work is on demonstrating how operators can meet their safety objectives, generally large prime contractors. It specialises in research instruments, which we do by analysing risks and verifying the resistance of systems electricity production plants and the fuel cycle, urban and regional based on scenarios of attacks and internal failures. transport systems, site decommissioning and waste processing. It is a well-established player in both infrastructure transformation (new methods For its operations and design support services, Assystem has in-depth of producing and storing electrical energy) and digital transformation multi-sector expertise and its wealth of experience includes signalling (project development and providing secure solutions for users). designs for SNCF Réseau, mechanical and fl uids systems designs, Balance of Plant analyses for the energy sector, detailed designs for the E&I's engineering operations are structured around technical and conventional turbine islands of EDF's nuclear power plants, designs of project departments and its business areas include project management elementary and command/control systems, and materials classification consultancy, engineering procurement and construction management, analyses. design engineering, and systems integration. Systems integration Project Management Consultancy (PMC) Systems integration services are used for complex projects, for which E&I's PMC teams use project management methods put in place by Assystem draws on its expertise in automation and the construction of Assystem based on an international PMC model that is suitable for buildings intended for complex processes. These services not only cover complex installations. PMC services generally include assistance with the installation phase but continue right through to the commissioning the construction and start-up phases as well as for commissioning tests, tests for the processes themselves. They are provided in a wide range with the design and performance of safety tests forming a particularly of fields and our experience in this area includes projects related to the important aspect. cybersecurity of an energy transmission network, the energy efficiency Assystem's main PMC projects are currently being carried out for (i) of the Paris High Court and the command and control systems for EDF (assistance for power plant activities such as on-line maintenance nuclear power plants. and outages, as well as for the construction of the EPR at Flamanville, France), (ii) Société du Grand Paris (concerning the creation of the ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 11 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP BUSINESS OVERVIEW AND GROUP STRATEGY Update on 2017: an important year for E&I as a source of power. The scale and scope of the ITER project rank it as the most ambitious energy project in the world. A STRONGER POSITION IN THE NUCLEAR INDUSTRY ROBUST MOMENTUM FOR TRANSPORT SYSTEM PROJECTS The Group is now focusing its business development efforts on its E&I division, as illustrated by (i) its acquisition of an ownership interest Eole project: Assystem selected for a key project management role in Framatome, which will boost the division’s Nuclear business (see As part of the “Eole” project to extend Line E of the Paris RER suburban page 9), and (ii) its recent acquisitions in the life sciences and project rail link out to the west of the city, SNCF Réseau – which is in charge management sectors (see page 10). of the project – has selected Assystem to be responsible for Scheduling, Construction Management and Coordination (SCMC) for all of the civil FORGING PARTNERSHIPS FOR SERVING INTERNATIONAL PROJECTS engineering and systems contractors involved in the line extension from Partnership between PreussenElektra and Assystem Haussmann-Saint-Lazare station in central Paris to Nanterre La Folie In May 2017, Assystem signed a memorandum of understanding with station in the business district. the German company, PreussenElektra GmbH, to work together in the A specialist in project management and systems integration, Assystem areas of nuclear engineering and consulting. This nuclear alliance will has teamed up with the Louis Berger Group for its work on this project. benefit the global civil nuclear market by combining the operating and The new RER Line E will be the most interconnected of Paris’s suburban maintenance capabilities of PreussenElektra (one of the world’s top rail links and will offer a new quality of service for mass transit. Planning performers in nuclear generation) and the nuclear engineering and and coordination will be absolutely vital for creating the extension – project expertise of Assystem. The project’s primary focus will be to whose central section is in an extremely densely populated area – as help implement the nuclear programme in the United Emirates and its it will require the construction of 8 km of new infrastructure and an geographic scope of operations may subsequently be extended. exceptional level of works. Joint venture with AxisCades AN INNOVATIVE AND DIGITAL COMPANY In June 2017, Assystem E&I and the Indian company AxisCades Engineering Technologies Ltd. signed a memorandum of understanding Assystem Energy & Infrastructure launches its “Imagine” program to partner its clients in new engineering challenges to form a joint venture in India. This joint venture – whose underlying The engineering industry is currently undergoing an unprecedented aim is to partner the growth of India’s nuclear programmes – will offer period of change, with new cross-functional solutions such as Building engineering services in the energy sector for Indian and international Information Modelling (BIM) and Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) electricity utilities and their equipment manufacturers, in accordance with affecting the entire business chain, in areas as varied as project terms and conditions that will be set in the final joint venture agreement. management, installation and maintenance programmes, industrial Memorandum of cooperation with the Rosatom Group transfers and architectural design. At the International Forum Atomexpo 2017 held in Moscow, the ASE Spearheaded by Assystem E&I's Chief Technology Officer, the Imagine Group (the engineering arm of the Russian State-owned corporation, programme will act as a catalyst for all types of innovations, both Roscom) signed a memorandum of cooperation with Assystem for technological and process-based and those developed in-house and promoting and implementing solutions based on the development of externally, in partnership with diverse players including universities, ASE’s Multi-D technology. These solutions will be offered to nuclear schools, incubators, research clusters, start-ups, clients, and suppliers. power plant operators across the globe, but particularly in Europe and It will also enable Assystem E&I to identify joint-development projects so the Middle East. The signature of this memorandum marks the start of that it can be ahead of the curve when it comes to meeting its clients’ active cooperation between ASE and Assystem for joint participation future needs for skills and solutions. in the design, construction and commissioning of new nuclear power plants outside Russia. It will also allow the two companies to work The programme has two main objectives: first, to reinforce the Group's together in the fields of engineering and supply chain management, long-standing skills in project management and security and safety, including equipment for nuclear power plants and thermal power plants. and second, to develop new digital transformation solutions that are In addition, the two groups will collaborate in the fields of research adapted to the latest challenges facing players in the energy, transport reactors and nuclear power plant decommissioning. and healthcare sectors. The Imagine programme is ultimately intended to lead to the creation of a collaborative, open-source platform accessible A prestigious award by all contributors, including Assystem E&I’s clients. The Engage consortium team (jointly controlled on an equal basis by Assystem, the French company Egis, the UK company Atkins, and 1.2.2 STAFFING the Spanish company Empresarios Agrupados) has won the Industry and Technology Consulting Award for its work on the International The Staffi ng division – which operates through the MPH Group – Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER) project. Launched ten years provides specialist consultants to companies in the Oil & Gas and ago at Cadarache in the south of France, the ITER project – which other industrial sectors, primarily in the Middle East, Africa and Asia. is bringing together numerous nations across the world – is aimed at MPH is a well-established player in the field of technical and engineering demonstrating the scientific and technological feasibility of nuclear fusion recruitment services for the Oil & Gas, energy, aerospace, defence, 12 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP BUSINESS OVERVIEW AND GROUP STRATEGY telecommunications, railway, mining, metallurgy, environmental and 1.2.4 THE GROUP’S STRATEGY nuclear industries. In recent years the MPH Group has been significantly affected by lower capital spending in the Oil & Gas sector – the world’s The Group's expansion drive is now focused on its E&I division, for 1 largest market for staffing – and is therefore gradually building up its which the strategy is to: client portfolio in other markets. ● combine organic and external growth in a balanced way; ● consolidate the globalisation of its activities; 1.2.3 ASSYSTEM TECHNOLOGIES ● develop new services for existing clients and enlarge the client Until the acquisition of SQS, the Assystem Technologies group – in portfolio, in particular by gaining additional skills through hiring which Assystem SA holds a 38.2% interest (see Sections 1.1 and 1.3 employees and/or acquiring companies that possess those skills; above) – was specialised in outsourced research and development for ● ensure that client offerings remain competitive by using an appropriate industrial clients operating in the Aerospace, Automotive, Transport (rail) mix of resources based in Western Europe and elsewhere in the and Industry sectors. The acquisition of SQS (see Section 1.1 above) world. has broadened the group’s field of expertise and diversified its client The objective for the Staffing division is to grow its portfolio of clients in portfolio, particularly by adding the bank/insurance sector. the Industry sector in order to mitigate the effect of the morose market for staffing in the Oil & Gas sector. 50 YEARS OF EXPERTISE SOME 5,000 EMPLOYEES A GLOBAL PRESENCE WITH SUBSIDIARIES IN 15 COUNTRIES (Belgium, France and French overseas territories, India, Malaysia, Morocco, Nigeria, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Switzerland, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom) €395.2 MILLION IN REVENUE REGISTERED OFFICE: PARIS (FRANCE) LISTED ON EURONEXT PARIS ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 13 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP SIMPLIFIED ORGANISATION CHART OF THE GROUP AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 1.3 SIMPLIFIED ORGANISATION CHART OF THE GROUP AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 100% HDL France 0.22% 26.12% Dominique Louis 41.67% TIKEHAU GROUP 0.39% HDL DEVELOPMENT France 31.82% Holding companies 61.34% controlled by Dominique Louis and managers ARDIAN (including managers) ASSYSTEM SA 60.77% 39.23% 100% 100% ASSYSTEM TECHNOLOGIES ASSYSTEM ENGINEERING ASSYSTEM ENERGY & GROUPE AND FRENCH AND & OPERATION SERVICES INFRASTRUCTURE FOREIGN SUBSIDIARIES France United Kingdom France 100% ENVY ENERJI 51% INSIEMA VE CEVRE YATIRMIARI France Turkey ALPHATEST 49.96% ASSYSTEM SOLUTIONS DMCC 100% ENERGY & INFRASTRUCTURE France United Arab Emirates HOLDING COMPANY STAFFING ENGAGE SNC 25% EUROSYN DEVELOPPEMENT 53.68% TRANSFER IN PROGRESS TO AEOS France France ASSYSTEM TECHNOLOGIES GROUPE MOMENTUM SNC 33.33% SCI DU PONT NOIR 100% France France 50% ASSYSTEM BELGIUM 100% N.TRIPLE.A SNC France Belgium 100% N.TRIPLE.A South Africa ASSYSTEM SWITZERLAND 100% Switzerland ASSYSTEM POLYNÉSIE 100% France 100% EURO CONTRÔLE PROJET France ASSYSTEM 100% EURO CONTRÔLE 100% NOUVELLE-CALÉDONIE PROJET UK LTD France Switzerland 49% EURO CONTRÔLE PROMAFRI 100% PROJET (QATAR) WLL Morocco Qatar 75% ASSYSTEM AND ALI HARBI 72.20% FOR ENGINEERING BIOTECH QUALITY GROUPE CONSULTANCY (RADICON) Belgium Saudi Arabia 100% BIOTECH QUALITY GROUPE FRANCE MPH GLOBAL SERVICES 100% France and French and foreign subsidiaries 100% BIOTECH QUALITY GROUPE SWITZERLAND Switzerland 5% FRAMATOME France 14 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2.1 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 17 2.2 COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS IN 2.1.1 Members of the Board of Directors 17 KIND ALLOCATED BY THE COMPANY AND OTHER GROUP ENTITIES 2.1.2 Conditions for the preparation and organisation IN 2017 TO MEMBERS OF THE of the work of the Board of Directors 28 ADMINISTRATIVE AND MANAGEMENT BODIES IN OFFICE 30 2.2.1 Compensation of members of the Board of Directors 30 2.2.2 Compensation of the Company's executive officers 31 2.3 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 36 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 15 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Assystem Group has chosen to apply the recommendations power. This balance is enhanced by the fact that the powers of the contained in the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code for Listed Chairman & CEO and the CFO & Deputy CEO are delineated by the Companies, as revised in November 2016 (the AFEP-MEDEF Code). Rules of Procedure and the appointment decisions that fall within the remit of the Board. Under the “Comply or Explain” rule set out in Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code and Article 27.1 of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, Assystem's governance structure is also intended to simplify the decisionthe Company hereby states that, in general, its corporate governance making process, accelerate the implementation of the Group's strategy, practices comply with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code strengthen the Board's accountability, and create closer ties between but that a number of the recommendations have not been applied. The the Board and Management. recommendations it has decided not to apply as well as the reasons In addition, the Board has two specialised Committees – an Audit for that decision are set out at the beginning of each sub-Chapter Committee and a Nominations and Compensation Committee, each concerned. with its own rules of procedure. The existence of these two Committees, On 22 May 2014, Assystem was converted into a société anonyme whose meetings are not attended by the Chairman & CEO, further (public limited company) with a Board of Directors chaired by Dominique strengthens the balance of power. Louis, Chairman & CEO. At 31 December 2017, the Group’s executive management team was The Board is guided in its work by its Rules of Procedure which headed by Dominique Louis (Chairman & CEO) and also comprised define its modus operandi and include the Securities Trading Code of Philippe Chevallier (CFO & Deputy CEO) and Stéphane Aubarbier Conduct. The Board regularly reviews its Rules of Procedure in order (Executive Vice-President, Energy & Infrastructure). to ensure that they are continually in compliance with the applicable This report is made up of three main sections: one concerning the laws and regulations. The latest update was carried out by the Board Board of Directors (Section 2.1), one concerning the compensation on 1 February 2017 in order to align the Rules with European Union of Company officers (Section 2.2) and one describing the terms and Regulation No. 596/2014 dated 16 April 2014 on market abuse and conditions applicable for participating in General Shareholders’ its implementing legislation, which entered into force on 3 July 2016. Meetings as well as related-party agreements (Section 2.3). The Group's governance structure – which was adopted based on All of the information making up the corporate governance report the industry benchmark – is in line with the recommendations of the is shown in the related cross-reference table in Chapter 9 of this AFEP-MEDEF Code and with SBF 250 best practices. It offers a form of Registration Document. governance that is tightly structured around Management, acting under the oversight of three independent directors who ensure a balance of 16 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2.1 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2.1.1 MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2.1.1.1 General information MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 Dominique Louis 2 Chairman & CEO and a director Tikehau Capital Gilbert Lehmann (Vincent Favier) Independent Director director X4 X4 Virginie Calmels Miriam Maes Independent Independent director director X4 X Audit Committee 4 Nominations and Compensation Committee ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 17 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS SUMMARY TABLE OF THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND BOARD COMMITTEES Nominations and Male/ Start of first term End of current Number of years Audit Compensation Age Female of office term of office on the Board Committee Committee Dominique Louis Chairman & CEO 66 M 4 February 1994 2020 AGM 23 Chairman Gilbert Lehmann 72 M 3 May 2004 2020 AGM 13 x x Tikehau Capital (Vincent Favier) 49 M 22 May 2014 2020 AGM 4 x x Chair Miriam Maes 61 F 12 May 2011 2020 AGM 7 x x Virginie Calmels 46 F 9 March 2016 2020 AGM 2 Number of meetings in 2017 12 7 1 Average attendance rate 93.33% 95.23% 100% NUMBER OF DIRECTORS than 12 members, and (ii) set the terms and conditions for appointing In accordance with paragraph 1 of Article L. 225-17 of the French the employee representative director(s) (in Assystem's case, appointment Commercial Code, the Board comprises a minimum of three and a by the Group Works Council). maximum of eighteen members elected for a renewable three-year term. The director representing employees was supposed to take up office At 31 December 2017, the Board comprised five members: within six months of the 16 May 2017 Annual General Meeting. ● Dominique Louis, Chairman & CEO. However, in view of the transfer of control of the GPS division that took place on 28 September 2017, the existing Group Works Council ● Gilbert Lehmann, independent director (1), Chairman of the Audit was automatically dissolved on 13 September 2017. A new Group Committee and member of the Nominations and Compensation Works Council is currently being formed and its scope will include ECP Committee. and BQG which were acquired in late 2017 (see Chapter 1). The ● Miriam Maes, independent director(1), member of the Audit Committee Company plans to have an employee representative director on the and Chair of the Nominations and Compensation Committee. Board by 30 June 2018. ● Tikehau Capital (whose permanent representative is Vincent Favier), GENDER BALANCE ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS a corporate director and member of the Audit Committee and the Nominations and Compensation Committee. On 30 November At 31 December 2017, at least 40% of the Board's members were 2017, the Board of Directors appointed Tikehau Capital to replace women, in compliance with the requirement of French Act 2011-103 Salvepar as a director (as Salvepar had been merged into Tikehau of 27 January 2011 relating to gender equality in the workplace and Capital), for the remainder of Salvepar’s term of office, expiring at the in particular to gender balance on Boards of Directors. Annual General Meeting to be called to approve the 2019 financial INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS statements. The shareholders will be invited to ratify this appointment The AFEP-MEDEF Code states that in order for a director to be deemed at the Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2018 (see Chapter 8 of independent they must not: this Registration Document). ● Virginie Calmels, independent director(1). ● be – or have been in the past five years – an employee or executive officer of the Company, or an employee, executive officer or director The Company does not currently have any directors representing of its parent or an entity that is consolidated by its parent; employees. However, as a result of the French Act dated 17 August 2015 (the Rebsamen Act), public limited companies in France are now ● be an executive offi cer of an entity in which the Company is a required to have employee representatives on their management bodies. corporate director, either directly or indirectly, or in which an Consequently, following the issue of the Group’s Works Council’s employee or executive officer of the Company (currently in office or opinion on this matter on 10 March 2017, during the extraordinary having held such office in the past five years) holds a directorship; session of the 16 May 2017 Annual General Meeting, the shareholders ● be a customer, supplier, investment banker or commercial banker: amended the Company's Articles of Association in order to (i) provide for ● that is significant for the Company or the Group, or the Board to include one or more employee representatives, depending ● for which the Company or the Group represents a signifi cant on the size of the Board, i.e. one employee representative director if proportion of the entity's business. the Board has fewer than 12 members (which is currently the case for Assystem) or two employee representative directors if the Board has more (1) As defined in Article 8.5 of the November 2016 version of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. 18 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board discusses and assesses whether or not directors have a do not have a controlling interest in the Company. If a shareholder owns significant relationship with the Company or the Group. It sets out in 10% or more of the Company's capital or voting rights, the Board should the Registration Document the criteria leading to its final assessment, systematically review whether the director representing that shareholder namely that an independent director must not: may be deemed independent in view of the Company's capital structure and any potential conflicts of interest. ● have any close family ties with a company officer; ● have been a Statutory Auditor of the Company in the past five years; At its meeting on 15 March 2018, based on the recommendation of the Nominations and Compensation Committee issued following the ● have been a director of the Company for more than 12 years. Committee Meeting held on that same day, the Board assessed the The AFEP-MEDEF Code further specifies that directors who represent major shareholders of the Company may be deemed independent if they independence status of its members based on each of the above criteria. 2 The Board’s conclusions are set out in the table below: Dominique Gilbert Tikehau Capital Virginie Louis Miriam Maes Lehmann (Vincent Favier) Calmels Is not – and has not been in the past five years – an employee or executive officer of the Company, or an employee, executive officer or director of its parent or an entity that is consolidated by its parent. x x x Is not an executive officer of an entity in which the Company is a corporate director, either directly or indirectly, or in which an employee or executive officer of the Company (currently in office or having held such office in the past five years) holds a directorship. x x x x x Is not a customer, supplier, investment banker or commercial banker: • that is significant for the Company or the Group; or • for which the Company or the Group represents a significant proportion of the entity's business. x x x x Has no close family ties with a company officer. x x x x x Has not been a Statutory Auditor of the Company in the past five years. x x x x x Has not been a director of the Company for more than 12 years. x * x x Does not represent a shareholder with a controlling interest in the Company or in its parent. x x x Not Not Director’s independence status independent Independent Independent independent Independent * As Gilbert Lehmann has been a director of the Company since 3 May 2004, he has not met this criterion since 31 December 2016. In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, his independence status, along with that of all of the directors, was reviewed by the Board on 7 March 2017, particularly as the Board planned to put him forward for re-election at the 16 May 2017 Annual General Meeting, at which he was accordingly re-elected. Mr. Lehmann’s independence status was once again reviewed by both the Nominations and Compensation Committee and the Board on 15 March 2018. As in 2017, the Board considered that the fact Mr. Lehmann has been a director for more than 12 consecutive years does not mean he should lose his classification as an independent director. The aim of this criterion is to ensure that as a result of their time spent on the Board, the director concerned does not lose their financial and professional independence or their capacity to be critical with respect to the Company’s executive management team. In reaching its decision the Board took into account not only Mr Lehmann’s expertise in key accounting and financial matters related to the nuclear sector – which is Assystem’s core business – and his extensive experience in general, but also the fact that he has always taken a completely objective stance in Board discussions and decisions and has demonstrated his ability to express his opinions and form a balanced judgement about the Company’s executive management team in all circumstances. The Board also considers that Mr. Lehmann is financially independent from the Group as the directors’ fees that he receives from the Company only represent a low proportion of his overall income. The membership structure of the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee independent (Tikehau Capital is not independent), i.e. the majority and the Nominations and Compensation Committee therefore complies of the Committee. with the AFEP-MEDEF Code which specifies that: RESPONSIBLE DIRECTORS ● Independent directors must represent at least one third of the Board Conflicts of interest members of companies that have a controlling shareholder and at The Company is not aware of any potential conflicts of interest between least one half for other companies. At 31 December 2017, three the directors' and executive managers' duties to Assystem and their own of the Company's five directors were independent, i.e. at least one personal interests and/or other obligations. third of the Board. ● A t least two thirds of the Audit Committee's members must be Furthermore, to the best of the Company's knowledge, none of its independent directors. At 31 December 2017, two of this Committee's officers: three members (Gilbert Lehmann and Miriam Maes) were independent ● has been convicted of fraud in the past five years; (Tikehau Capital is not independent), i.e. at least two thirds of the ● has been associated with a bankruptcy, receivership or liquidation Committee. in the past five years; ● T he majority of the Nominations and Compensation Committee members must be independent. At 31 December 2017, two of this Committee's three members (Gilbert Lehmann and Miriam Maes) were ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 19 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS ● has been publicly and officially incriminated and/or sanctioned by DIVERSITY POLICY statutory or regulatory authorities (including professional bodies); The Board regularly assesses whether its own membership and that of its ● has been disqualified by a court from acting as a member of an Committees is balanced in view of the Company’s ownership structure administrative, management or supervisory body of an issuer or from and in terms of the diversity of their members’ profiles. Currently, two taking part in the management or conduct of the business of any out of the Board’s five members are women, corresponding to 40%. issuer in the past five years. Going forward, the Board intends to keep at least the same proportion Lastly, there are no family ties between the members of the Board. of female members and independent directors as it currently has. In addition, the Board has one non-French member (Miriam Maes) and Securities Trading Code of Conduct all of its members have international experience. In compliance with the recommendations of the AMF's General The Board’s structure is aimed at achieving a balance in terms of Regulations, members of the Board are required to disclose any trades experience, independence and gender, while reflecting the Group’s they carry out in the Company's securities and to refrain from trading in international profile and avoiding conflicts of interest. The directors are any Assystem securities they hold personally during the closed periods selected based on the above criteria, and notably for their experience specifi ed in the applicable laws and set out in the AMF's General and skills (particularly in terms of managing large international groups, Regulation. understanding of specific issues related to Assystem business, knowledge The procedures for applying these trading rules are described in the of the Company’s markets, and financial skills). Company's Securities Trading Code, which was revised by the Board on Thanks to this balanced structure, the Board’s discussions and decision1 February 2017 in order to align it with European Union Regulation no. making processes are of the highest quality. 596/2014 dated 16 April 2014 on market abuse and its implementing legislation, which came into force on 3 July 2016. Each company CHANGES ON THE BOARD officer is required to declare in writing that they have read this Code. Apart from the changes described in Section 2.1.1.1 above, no In addition, each year the Company informs its directors and officers changes on the Board occurred in 2017 and none are expected to of the dates on which it intends to publish quarterly and half-yearly occur in 2018. financial information and the associated closed periods. This process has been extended to all of the Group's key personnel who have access to inside information. 2.1.1.2 Information about the Company's directors and officers Recommendation of the AFEP-MEDEF Code not applied by Assystem Explanations The AFEP-MEDEF Code recommends staggering directors’ terms of office in Members of the Board of Directors of Assystem are elected for a three-year term order to avoid re-electing all directors at the same time and to ensure a smooth but these terms are not staggered. Consequently, all of the Board’s members were re-election process. re-elected on 16 May 2017. The Company's decision not to apply this recommendation was based on the underlying principles of the Articles of Association and the Rules of Procedure governing the Board's membership structure. As Assystem has a majority shareholder, these principles guarantee fair and collective representation of all shareholders and the best interests of the Company, particularly in view of the presence of independent directors. It was therefore not considered useful to stagger directors' terms of office. 20 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS DOMINIQUE LOUIS Chairman & CEO, Chairman of the Board of directors and a director of Assystem Born in 1951 Profile A French national • A qualified engineer (ENSEM), Dominique Louis began his career as a test engineer with Atem, a company specialised in industrial and nuclear engineering. Business address: Several years later he created the company R'Data and subsequently, Alphatem, a subsidiary formed jointly with Cogema. Assystem came into Assystem – 70, boulevard de Courcelles, 75017 Paris, France being in 1994 following the amalgamation of Atem, R'Data and Alphatem. Dominique Louis oversaw Assystem's IPO in 1995 and has continuously served 2 Date appointed as Chairman & CEO and elected a director: as the Chairman of the Management Board or the Board of directors since the 16 May 2017 Company’s formation. End of current term of office: Annual General Meeting to be held in • Dominique Louis is a Knight of the French Legion of Honour. 2020 to approve the 2019 financial statements As 31 December 2017, Dominique Louis held an indirect interest in the Company's share capital as described in Chapter 1, Section 1.3 of this Registration Document. LIST OF OFFICES AND POSTS HELD BY DOMINQIUE LOUIS AT LIST OF FORMER OFFICES AND POSTS HELD BY DOMINIQUE LOUIS 31 DECEMBER 2017 IN THE PAST FIVE YEARS Offices and posts Group companies Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France Chairman & CEO and a director Assystem* Chairman of the Management Board Assystem* Offices and posts held outside France Offices and posts held outside France Director Assystem Solutions DMCC None Offices and posts Non-Group companies Offices and posts Non-Group company Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France Permanent representative of HDL as Chair HDL Development None Chairman HDL SAS Offices and posts held outside France Entreprises en Croissance SAS Director Samuel Créations (Switzerland) Chairman (EEC) * Listed company. Chairman CEFID SAS Joint Legal Manager – Chairman of the Management Board H2DA Sarl Legal Manager SCI Les Grives Comtadines Member of the Supervisory Board Assystem Technologies Groupe Offices and posts held outside France None * Listed company. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 21 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS PHILIPPE CHEVALLIER CFO & Deputy CEO Born in 1958 Profile A French national • A graduate of ESSEC Business School and Sciences Po, Philippe Chevallier began his career at Usinor (later ArcelorMittal) where he was director of financing and Business address: director of mergers & acquisitions. Assystem – 70, boulevard de Courcelles, 75017 Paris, France • Mr. Chevallier subsequently held the post of Chief Financial Officer at Elior for 12 years, managing refinancing and equity transactions as well as acquisitions Date appointed as CFO & Deputy CEO: 5 June 2015 and divestments. After working as a senior advisor at the financial consulting firm June Partners, he was appointed CFO and General Counsel at Assystem End of current term of office: Annual General Meeting to be held on 5 January 2015. in 2020 to approve the 2019 financial statements. • Since 5 June 2015, Philippe Chevallier has been CFO & Deputy CEO of At 31 December 2017, Philippe Chevallier did not hold any Assystem. Assystem shares. LIST OF OFFICES AND POSTS HELD BY PHILIPPE CHEVALLIER AT LIST OF FORMER OFFICES AND POSTS HELD BY PHILIPPE CHEVALLIER 31 DECEMBER 2017 IN THE PAST FIVE YEARS Offices and posts Group companies Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France CFO & Deputy CEO Assystem* None ASG Assistance Sécurité et Offices and posts held outside France Chairman Gardiennage None Non-voting Board member Assystem Technologies Groupe Offices and posts Non-Group companies Offices and posts held outside France Offices and posts held in France Director Assystem Solutions DMCC Member of the Supervisory Board Elior Participations Offices and posts Non-Group companies Legal Manager Elior Concessions Services Offices and posts held in France Chairman Elior FA3C None Chairman Elior Trésorerie Offices and posts held outside France Chairman Elior Gestion None Chairman Elior Concessions Marketing Chairman Elior Data Concessions * Listed company. Chairman Elior Data Chairman Bercy Services I Chairman Bercy Services II Chairman Bercy Services XX Chairman Elior Services à la Personne ESP Société de Conception et de Chairman Réalisation de Restaurants Chairman Ansamble Investissements Chairman Assystem International Offices and posts held outside France Chairman and a director Assystem Canada Assystem Talent International Director Management Director Assystem Group UK Assystem Engineering Consulting Director (Shanghai) Director Assystem GmbH Director Elior Ristorazione Director Elior Investimenti Director Gemeaz Elior Director Grande Vitesse Catering MyChef Ristorazione Director Commerciale Director Areas Director Serunion 22 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS GILBERT LEHMANN A director of Assystem, Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of the Nominations and Compensation Committee Born in 1945 Profile A French national • After obtaining a degree in economics and graduating from Sciences Po, Gilbert Lehmann worked in a number of positions in the public banking sector Business address: before joining the Framatome Group in 1983, where he served as director of financing and corporate treasury, and then CFO (from 1990 to 1996) Assystem – 70, boulevard de Courcelles, 75017 Paris, France and Deputy CEO (from 1996 to 2001).He was subsequently appointed Deputy CEO of Areva when the Company was incorporated in 2001, a post 2 Date elected as a director: 16 May 2017 he held until 2008. End of current term of office: Annual General Meeting to be held in • Gilbert Lehmann has held several directorships in listed companies in France and the United States. 2020 to approve the 2019 financial statements. • Mr. Lehmann is also a director and Chairman of the Audit Committee At 31 December 2017, Gilbert Lehmann held two Assystem shares. of Cadogan Plc. He was a member of Assystem's Supervisory Board from 2003 to 2014. LIST OF OFFICES AND POSTS HELD BY GILBERT LEHMANN AT LIST OF FORMER OFFICES AND POSTS HELD BY GILBERT LEHMANN 31 DECEMBER 2017 IN THE PAST FIVE YEARS Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Member of the Supervisory Board Assystem* and member of the Nominations and Compensation Committee Assystem* Offices and posts held outside France Offices and posts held outside France None None Offices and posts Non-Group companies Offices and posts Non-Group companies Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors and member of the Audit Committee Eramet* Managing Partner Gilbert Lehmann Conseil Director Framapar* Offices and posts held outside France Director CNS Chairman of the Audit Committee and a director Cadogan Plc (London)* Chairman of the Supervisory Board Lina's Developpement * Listed company. Offices and posts held outside France Director St Microelectronics Holding BV Chairman and a director Sepi – Switzerland * Listed company. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 23 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS MIRIAM MAES A director of Assystem, member of the Audit Committee and Chair of the Nominations and Compensation Committee Born in 1956 Profile A Dutch national • Miriam Maes holds a Business Administration degree from Nyenrode Business Universiteit in the Netherlands. She has 30 years' experience of working for Business address: multinationals, more than 20 of which spent managing national and international profit centres. Assystem – 70, boulevard de Courcelles, 75017 Paris, France • She began working in the energy sector in 2002, initially at Texas Utilities Date elected as a director: 16 May 2017 (TXU) as a member of the European Executive team and later at EDF where she worked as Chief Operating Officer in charge of non-regulated networks and End of current term of office: decentralised energy business. Annual General Meeting to be held in 2020 to approve the • In 2007 she took on the role as Chair of Foresee, a consulting firm specialising 2019 financial statements. in sustainable development and energy management for businesses. At 31 December 2017, Miriam Maes did not hold any Assystem • In 2010 she was appointed as an adviser to the UK Secretary of State for Energy & Climate Change with the specific task of supporting the UK government's public shares. sector energy and carbon emissions reduction programmes • Miriam Maes is currently Chair of Elia Group, Chair of the Supervisory Board of the Port of Rotterdam and a director of Naturex, Vilmorin & Cie and Eramet. LIST OF OFFICES AND POSTS HELD BY MIRIAM MAES AT LIST OF FORMER OFFICES AND POSTS HELD BY MIRIAM MAES IN 31 DECEMBER 2017 THE PAST FIVE YEARS Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France Director, member of the Audit Committee and Member of the Supervisory Board Assystem* Chair of the Nominations and Compensation Committee Assystem* Offices and posts held outside France Offices and posts held outside France None None Offices and posts Non-Group companies Offices and posts Non-Group companies Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France None Director Eramet Offices and posts held outside France Director and member of the Compensation Sabien Technology Group Committee Naturex* Chair Ltd (UK) Director and Chair of the Audit Committee Vilmorin & Cie* Non-executive director Elia System Operator NV Offices and posts held outside France Non-executive director Elia Asset NV Elia Asset BV – Brussels Non-executive director Kiwi Power Ltd Chair (Belgium)* * Listed company. Chair Foresee – London (UK) Chair Elia System Operator Bv Non-executive director and member of the Audit Committee Urenco and Ucn * Listed company. 24 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS TIKEHAU CAPITAL, REPRESENTED BY VINCENT FAVIER Public limited company (société anonyme) with a share capital of €1,237,754,976 – Registered office located at 32, rue de Monceau, 75008 Paris – Registered with the Paris Trade and Companies Registry under no. 477 599 104. A director of Assystem, member of the Audit Committee and the Nominations and Compensation Committee, represented on Assystem’s Board of Directors and Board Committees by Vincent Favier. Business address: Profile Assystem – 70, boulevard de Courcelles, 75017 Paris, France • Tikehau Capital is a private equity firm listed on Euronext Paris stock exchange 2 (Code SY). It supports mid-cap companies with the aim of reinforcing the stability Date appointed by the Board as a director: 30 November 2017 of their shareholder structure and accelerating their growth. Tikehau Capital seeks to acquire minority interests in both listed and unlisted companies, favouring End of current term of office: companies with international projects or international growth prospects. Annual General Meeting to be held in 2020 to approve the 2019 financial statements. As 31 December 2017, Tikehau Capital held an indirect interest in the Company's share capital as described in Chapter 1, Section 1.3 of this Registration Document. LIST OF OFFICES AND POSTS HELD BY TIKEHAU CAPITAL AT LIST OF FORMER OFFICES AND POSTS HELD BY TIKEHAU CAPITAL IN 31 DECEMBER 2017 THE PAST FIVE YEARS Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France Director, member of the Audit Committee Member of the Supervisory Board Assystem* and member of the Nominations and Compensation Committee Assystem* Offices and posts held outside France Offices and posts held outside France None None Offices and posts Non-Group companies Offices and posts Non-Group companies Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France Member of the Supervisory Board Aviation Latécoère* Director HDL Development SAS Member of the Supervisory Board Touax* Afica – Affinage Champagne Non-voting Board member Le Noble Age* Director Ardennes Member of the Supervisory Board Lohr SA Director Eren Renewable Energy SA Offices and posts held outside France Member of the Supervisory Board Financière Spie Batignolles None Director Favi – Le Laiton Injecté * Listed company. Member of the Supervisory Board and the Audit Committee Spie Batignolles Director Lippi Management Member of the Supervisory Board Asten Santé Derives Resiniques et Director Terpéniques Chair Zéphyr Investissement Salvepar Sequoia Chair Investissement Offices and posts held outside France Director Just Group Holdings Pte Ltd * Listed company. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 25 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS VINCENT FAVIER Permanent representative of Tikehau Capital on the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee and the Nominations and Compensation Committee of Assystem Born in 1968 Profile A French national • A graduate of École Centrale de Lyon and HEC Paris, Vincent Favier began his career as a strategy consultant with Olivier Wyman, where he worked until 1999. Business address: • Mr. Favier subsequently became director of business development and equity Assystem – 70, boulevard de Courcelles, 75017 Paris, France interests and a member of the Management Committee at Worms & Cie until 2005 before joining Amber Capital as managing director with responsibility for At 31 December 2017, Vincent Favier did not hold any Assystem investment in listed companies and private equity in France. shares. • From January 2013 to March 2015 Vincent Favier was director of investments and equity interests at Tikehau Capital Advisors. Since April 2015 he has been CEO of Ecoslops, a firm that transforms marine oil residues into fuel. LIST OF OFFICES AND POSTS HELD BY VINCENT FAVIER LIST OF FORMER OFFICES AND POSTS HELD BY VINCENT FAVIER AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 IN THE PAST FIVE YEARS Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France Permanent representative of Tikehau Capital Assystem* Permanent representative of Salvepar Assystem* Offices and posts held outside France Offices and posts held outside France None None Offices and posts Non-Group companies Offices and posts Non-Group companies Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France Permanent representative of Tikehau Capital HDL Development SAS Director Salvepar CEO and a director Ecoslops Director Groupe Flo SA* Legal Manager Croissance et Finances Permanent representative of Salvepar as a member of the Supervisory Board and Offices and posts held outside France member of the Audit Committee Spie Batignolles None Permanent representative of Salvepar as a * Listed company. member of the Supervisory Board Financière Spie Batignolles Director Financière Flo Sas Offices and posts held outside France None * Listed company. 26 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS VIRGINIE CALMELS A director of Assystem Born in 1971 Profile A French national • Virginie Calmels began her career as an auditor with Salustro Reydel before becoming Chief Financial Officer of the Dutch start-up Sky Gate BV in 1999. Business address: She then joined the Canal+ Group where she successively held the positions of Chief Financial Officer, Deputy CEO and joint Chief Operating Officer between Assystem – 70, boulevard de Courcelles, 75017 Paris, France 2000 and 2002. 2 Date elected as a director: 16 May 2017 • In 2003, Ms. Calmels was appointed CEO of Endemol France and was subsequently named Chair and CEO in 2007. She then became Chief Operating End of current term of office: Officer of the Endemol Group in 2012. She left the Endemol Group in 2013. Annual General Meeting to be held in 2020 to approve the • Virginie Calmels is Deputy Mayor of Bordeaux in charge of the Economy, 2019 financial statements. Employment and Sustainable Growth and Vice-President of the Bordeaux Metropolitan Area. She is also a regional councillor and heads a parliamentary At 31 December 2017, Virginie Calmels did not hold any Assystem Group for the Aquitaine-Limousin-Poitou-Charentes region. shares. • As well as holding these elected offices, Ms. Calmels is Chair of the Supervisory Board of Euro Disney and a director of Iliad (Free) and Chair of Iliad's Nominations and Compensation Committee. • Virginie Calmels is also the founder and Chair of SHOWer company and Vice-President of the Centre for Strategic and Prospective Studies (CEPS). LIST OF OFFICES AND POSTS HELD BY VIRGINIE CALMELS AT LIST OF FORMER OFFICES AND POSTS HELD BY VIRGINIE CALMELS 31 DECEMBER 2017 IN THE PAST FIVE YEARS Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France None Director Assystem* Offices and posts held outside France Offices and posts held outside France None None Offices and posts Non-Group companies Offices and posts Non-Group companies Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France Director MEDEF Paris Chair Endemol France Chair SHOWer company SASU Chair Endemol Fiction Director Iliad Chair Endemol Productions Aéroport de Bordeaux Chair Mark Burnett Productions France Director Mérignac Chair NAO BGI Bordeaux Gironde Chair DV Prod Director Investissement Chair Endemol Jeux Director Aerospace Valley Chair Tête de Prod Director Bordeaux Aéroparc SPL Chair Orevi Deputy Mayor of Bordeaux Member of the Executive Committee Formidooble Syndicat des producteurs et Vice-President of the Bordeaux Metropolitan Area Vice-President créateurs d’émissions de télévision Regional councillor for the Aquitaine-Limousin-Poitou-Charentes region Centre for Strategic and Offices and posts held outside France Vice-President Prospective Studies (CEPS) Member of the Board of Directors Technicolor SA None Director SAEML Régaz * Listed company. Offices and posts held outside France Chief Operating Officer Endemol Group Director Endemol Holding BV Director Endemol Denmark A/S Director Endemol Italia SpA Director Endemol Espana SL Substitute member of the Board of Directors Endemol Finland OY Chair and a director Endemol Nordic AB Chair and a director Endemol Norway AS Chair and a director Endemol Sweden AB Member of the Supervisory Board Nijenhuis & de Levita Holding BV ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 27 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2.1.2 CONDITIONS FOR THE PREPARATION Furthermore, the Nominations and Compensation Committee makes AND ORGANISATION OF THE WORK recommendations to the Board on the amount of directors' fees to be OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS submitted for approval at the Annual General Meeting and how these fees should be allocated among Board members. It may also submit proposals to the Board on the compensation of certain company 2.1.2.1 General information on the duties and work of officers and, at the request of the Chairman of the Board, may issue the Board of Directors an opinion on which methods to use for calculating compensation In accordance with the Company's Articles of Association and the Board for company executives. of Directors' Rules of Procedure, the Board meets as often as required In order for the Board to properly perform its duties, prior to its meetings in the interests of the Company and at least four times a year. it is regularly and fully advised of matters submitted to it covering all The Board determines the strategic, economic and financial agendas for agenda items, and particularly the running of the Company. In this Assystem's business activities and oversees their implementation. On the respect, the Board's Rules of Procedure specify that: initiative of its Chairman, it examines all matters relating to the proper ● it is the responsibility of the Chairman of the Board to decide on running of Assystem and makes all decisions – notably of a strategic the agenda for each Board Meeting and to send this agenda to all nature – regarding the Company, within the limits of the corporate Board members in a timely fashion and by any appropriate means; purpose and subject to the powers expressly vested in shareholders ● information about the agenda items must be sent on a timely basis in General Meetings. In particular, this covers all Assystem's strategic to members prior to Board and Committee Meetings; decisions. ● in exceptional cases the Board is authorised to hold its meetings by The Board has sole discretion for deciding how Assystem's executive videoconference or any other means of telecommunication. management should be carried out and who should head the executive In compliance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Board conducts an management team. This person, who is accountable to the Board, may annual assessment of its operating procedures, its organisation and its be the Chairman of the Board or another individual appointed by the membership structure. A formal assessment must also be carried out at Board as Chief Executive Officer. least once every three years. As stated at the beginning of this Chapter, the Board has set up two Accordingly, on 6 February 2018, a self-assessment questionnaire specialised Committees with consultative powers tasked with studying about the Board was submitted to its members. The questionnaire and preparing issues to be discussed and decided on by the Board. covered the Board's organisation and operating procedures, the These Committees are: relationship between the Board and the executive management team, ● An Audit Committee, responsible for assisting the Board in carrying an appraisal of the Company's governance, and an evaluation of out its fi nancial and audit-related duties and responsibilities. In individual contributions to the work of the Board and its Committees. particular, this Committee's duties include: In general, all of the directors thought that the Board's organisation ● examining the interim and annual parent company and consolidated was appropriate and in line with market practices. They felt that the financial statements, management reports and trading and earnings presentations given and the discussions held demonstrated the Board's statements, spirit of cooperation and its collegiate nature. All of the directors ● verifying compliance with the accounting standards used in the considered relations between executive management and the Board to be parent company and consolidated financial statements, good and most of the directors felt that they had a good understanding of ● ensuring that the internal procedures for compiling and verifying the Company's business activities, goals and challenges. They believed data are properly applied, that there were good-quality, regular discussions and contacts outside of Board Meetings between the directors themselves and between the ● inspecting the quality and relevance of the information disclosed Board and the executive management team. to shareholders, ● examining the Company's procedures for selecting its Statutory A number of areas for improvement were identified, however, such as Auditors, and particularly concerning how the auditors are chosen holding more frequent discussions with E&I operations staff to more and the conditions applicable to their fees, and ensuring that effectively monitor the Group's performance and strategy, as described they maintain their independence throughout the term of their in Chapter 1 of this Registration Document. engagement, 2.1.2.2 Work of the Board of Directors and the Board ● analysing the annual audit plans drawn up by the Statutory Auditors, Committees in 2017 ● reviewing the Board's annual report on the Group's risk exposure, particularly concerning financial and litigation risks, and significant THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS off-balance sheet commitments. The Board met 12 times in 2017 with an average attendance rate ● A Nominations and Compensation Committee, responsible for of 93.33%. The main topics addressed by the Board during these submitting proposals to the Board on the election and re-election of meetings were as follows: Board members and the appointment or re-appointment of any future ● recurring matters, including the parent company and consolidated CEO and members of the Audit Committee. It is kept informed by the financial statements, the interim financial statements, quarterly revenue, Chairman of the Board of the appointment of other Group executives. earnings and trading forecasts, the budget, the compensation 28 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS packages of executives, the appointment of a director, the selfIn accordance with Article 10.3 of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the assessment of Board members, the allocation of directors' fees, Company’s non-executive directors meet at least once a year without sureties, deposits and guarantees and reviewing related party any of the executive directors being present. agreements; THE AUDIT COMMITTEE ● changes in the Group's strategy and planned external growth The Audit Committee met seven times in 2017 with a 95.23% transactions. attendance rate. During these meetings the main topics addressed by The Board’s work particularly covered the following: the Committee were as follows: on 25 January 2017, the Board authorised the Chairman & CEO ● to redeem in advance of maturity all of the outstanding Odirnane ● recurring matters including the forecast budget for the year, the parent company and consolidated financial statements, an analysis of risks 2 bonds issued by the Company in 2014; and the corresponding provisions and the interim financial report ● on 9 May 2017, the Board approved: for 2017; ● an agreement on transferring the control of the GPS division to ● the review of all draft financial press releases and analyst presentations. an investment fund managed by Ardian (a private equity fi rm), During its meetings the Committee’s work specifi cally covered the following which it called a General Meeting for the Company's following: shareholders to be consulted on the transaction, ● on 26 January 2017, it examined the 2017 budget; ● the filing of a binding offer to invest approximately €125 million in the capital of New Areva NP (renamed Framatome in January ● on 1 February 2017, it reviewed the draft financial press release 2018), giving it a 5% ownership stake in this company, on 2016 revenue and examined the developments relating to the tax reassessment notice received by the Company in 2014 for tax ● the principle of a public share buyback offer, involving the research credits relating to 2010, 2011 and 2012; repurchase of at least 25% of the Company’s outstanding shares (corresponding to at least €200 million), to be launched by the ● on 7 March 2017, it examined (i) the presentation of the parent Company in the fourth quarter of 2017 subject to the completion company and consolidated financial statements for 2016 and the of the transfer of control of GPS; related accounting options selected, (ii) the Board of Directors' draft management report for 2016 and significant events after the reporting ● on 16 May 2017, the Board renewed Dominique Louis’ term of date, (iii) the draft report of the Chairman of the Board on the work office as Chairman & CEO for a further three years and decided to of the Board of Directors and internal control procedures, and (iv) keep the same members of the Board’s Committees; the draft press release for the Group's 2016 results and the related ● on 26 July 2017, the Board decided to grant free shares to 89 slideshow; Group managers and authorised the refinancing of Assystem’s bank ● on 26 April 2017, it examined the draft financial press release on Q1 borrowings in connection with the transfer of control of GPS to Ardian; 2017 revenue as well as the related business review and reporting ● on 7 September 2017, the Board decided to grant free shares to 12 schedules at 31 March 2017; Group managers and, because a provisional date of 28 September ● on 29 July 2017, it reviewed the draft financial press release on H1 2017 had been set for the transfer of control of the GPS division, it 2017 revenue and the related business review; appointed an independent valuer for the share buyback offer; ● on 7 September 2017, it (i) examined the Group’s consolidated ● on 16 October 2017, the Board placed on record the independent financial statements and interim financial report at 30 June 2017 as valuer’s statement that the terms and conditions of the share buyback well as the draft press release and related slideshow, and (ii) offer were fair, approved said terms and conditions and called a renewed the annual authorisation for the Chairman & CEO and the General Meeting in order for the shareholders to vote on the resolution CFO & Deputy CEO to each decide on behalf of the Company to relating to reducing the Company’s capital by way of repurchasing assign specific engagements to the audit firms KPMG and Deloitte shares through a public buyback offer with a view to cancelling them; or any entities in their network or to any other service providers; ● on 21 December 2017, the Board authorised the Company to (i) ● on 8 November 2017, it examined the draft financial press release invest up to €60.72 million in a potential equity financing round to on Q3 2017 revenue as well as the related business review and be carried out by Assystem Technologies Groupe in order to help fund reporting schedules at 30 September 2017. the potential acquisition of SQS by an Assystem Technologies Groupe subsidiary, (ii) sign a rider to the revolving credit facility agreement, THE NOMINATIONS AND COMPENSATION COMMITTEE raising the amount of the facility to €150 million from €120 million, The Nominations and Compensation Committee met once in 2017 (on and (iii) set up a €30 million investment loan. 7 March) with 100% attendance. During this meeting, it: ● calculated and approved the variable compensation payable to the Company's executive management team for 2016; ● determined the criteria for setting the variable compensation of the Company's executive management team for 2017; ● drew up the information to be included in the shareholders’ say on pay votes; ● examined the succession plan for executives; ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 29 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS IN KIND ALLOCATED BY THE COMPANY AND OTHER GROUP ENTITIES IN 2017 TO MEMBERS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AND MANAGEMENT BODIES IN OFFICE ● studied the principle of putting in place a performance share plan for The Board has decided not to place any restrictions on the powers of 2017 and the related terms and conditions, and assessed whether the Chairman & CEO other than the applicable legal and regulatory the performance target for Tranche 1 of the July 2016 plan had restrictions and those set out in its Rules of Procedure. The Rules of been achieved; Procedure state that for internal procedural purposes the Chairman & ● examined the implementation of France’s “Rebsamen” Act; CEO must obtain the Board’s prior authorisation before (i) carrying out any acquisition or disposal or forming a joint venture where the value ● set the directors' fees budget for 2017; of the transaction exceeds €20 million, and (ii) carrying out any major ● examined the independence criteria applicable to the members of internal restructuring(s). The Company’s Articles of Association do not the Board of Directors as set out in the AFEP-MEDEF Code. provide for any additional restrictions on the Chairman & CEO’s powers. Restrictions on the powers of the Chairman & CEO and the On 5 June 2015, the Board decided that in his role as CFO & Deputy CFO & Deputy CEO CEO, Philippe Chevallier would have the same powers vis à vis third The Company’s executive management team is headed by Dominique parties as the Chairman & CEO. However, for internal procedural Louis, who was re-appointed as Chairman & CEO by the Board of purposes, Mr. Chevallier has the powers set out in the Board’s Rules of directors at its meeting on 16 May 2017. At that same meeting the Procedure, it being specified that his scope of responsibility is limited Board re-iterated its decision not to separate the roles of Chairman and to the Company’s financial and legal matters. Chief Executive Officer. 2.2 COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS IN KIND ALLOCATED BY THE COMPANY AND OTHER GROUP ENTITIES IN 2017 TO MEMBERS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AND MANAGEMENT BODIES IN OFFICE Recommendation of the AFEP-MEDEF Code not applied by Assystem Explanations Defined benefit supplementary pension plans should be subject to the condition that Not applicable. the beneficiary must be an officer or employee of the Company when he or she claims their pension pursuant to the applicable rules and regulations. No hedging of risks related to performance shares. Performance shares whose vesting conditions have been met are allocated to the beneficiaries out of treasury stock. 2.2.1 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS OF THE would be remunerated. However, at its meeting on 29 April 2015, BOARD OF DIRECTORS after closely studying the situation of Salvepar, the Board authorised Salvepar (now Tikehau Capital) to also receive directors' fees. The compensation of directors takes the form of directors' fees and is based on (i) directors' actual attendance at Board and Committee At the Annual General Meeting of 16 May 2017, the Company's Meetings and (ii) their level of responsibility. shareholders set the maximum total amount of directors' fees at €215,000 for 2017. Following the change of governance structure approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 22 May 2014, at its fi rst At its 8 November 2017 meeting, the Board approved the allocation meeting on 22 May 2014 the Board of Directors indicated that the rules of directors' fees for 2017 proposed by the Nominations and previously governing the allocation of attendance fees for Supervisory Compensation Committee on 7 March 2017. These fees were paid Board members would remain unchanged under the Company's new on 16 November 2017. governance structure and specifi ed that only independent directors 30 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS IN KIND ALLOCATED BY THE COMPANY AND OTHER GROUP ENTITIES IN 2017 TO MEMBERS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AND MANAGEMENT BODIES IN OFFICE A breakdown of the fees paid in 2016 and 2017 to members of the Board of Directors is provided in the following table: Paid in 2016 Paid in 2017 for 2016 for 2017 Name Title (in euros) (in euros) Gilbert Lehmann Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of the Nominations 69,231 74,423 and Compensation Committee Miriam Maes Director, Chair of the Nominations and Compensation Committee and member 53,846 57,885 of the Audit Committee Tikehau Capital Director, member of the Audit Committee and member of the Nominations and Compensation Committee 46,154 49,615 2 Vincent Favier Permanent representative of Tikehau Capital – – Virginie Calmels Director 24,615 28,943 Total 193,846 210,866 At its 7 March 2017 meeting, in accordance with Articles 19 and 22 of year. There has to be a separate resolution for the Chairman & the November 2016 version of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Board of CEO and the CFO & Deputy CEO. The ex-post vote provided for Directors decided that: in Article L. 225-100 of the French Commercial Code will only be applicable as from the 2018 Annual General Meeting. ● all of the Company's directors – except Dominique Louis and Tikehau Capital, who are already indirect shareholders of Assystem – would In accordance with the November 2016 revised version of the AFEPbe required to invest a portion of their directors' fees in Assystem MEDEF Code, at their Annual General Meetings companies are required shares over the following three years (i.e. by the end of 2019) until to present the compensation due or paid to each executive offi cer the total amount invested corresponds to 10% of their annual directors' for the previous year. This presentation is broken down into various fees received; components, including fixed, variable and exceptional compensation, stock options, performance shares, benefits payable on taking up or ● Philippe Chevallier would be required to invest a portion of his annual leaving office, supplementary pension benefits, and benefits in kind. compensation in Assystem shares over the following two years (i.e. In all cases this presentation has to be followed by a shareholder vote. by the end of 2018) until the total amount invested corresponds to 10% of his annual compensation. 2.2.2.2 Principles and components of the compensation and benefits of executive 2.2.2 COMPENSATION OF THE COMPANY'S officers for 2018 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS GENERAL PRINCIPLES APPLICABLE TO EXECUTIVE OFFICERS’ COMPENSATION At 31 December 2017, the Company's executive officers were: The Board of Directors determines the general principles of the ● Dominique Louis, Chairman & CEO since 22 May 2014; Company's compensation policy for executive offi cers, based on ● Philippe Chevallier, CFO & Deputy CEO since 5 June 2015. proposals issued by the Nominations and Compensation Committee. This compensation policy takes into account the following principles 2.2.2.1 Presentation of the say on pay procedure as set out in the AFEP-MEDEF Code, which the Company uses as its Following the introduction of the “Sapin II” Act in France, the non-binding corporate governance framework: say on pay vote provided for in Article 26 of the AFEP-MEDEF Code ● Achieving a balanced structure between the various compensation has been replaced by a binding system that requires shareholders to components. In line with this, the Nominations and Compensation give their approval through two different types of vote: Committee must ensure that each compensation package is in the ● A forward-looking (ex-ante) vote on the compensation policy Company's interests and that the underlying reasons for its components applicable to executive officers. In accordance with Article L. 225are disclosed. 37-2 of the French Commercial Code, once a year – and each time ● Ensuring that the compensation determined by the Board of Directors an executive officer's term is renewed – a resolution must be submitted is comprehensive, with all components of compensation taken into at the Annual General Meeting concerning the principles and criteria account when setting the overall compensation package. used for determining, allocating and awarding the fixed, variable ● T he Board of Directors and the Nominations and Compensation and exceptional components making up the total compensation and Committee must take care to ensure that the interests of the executive benefits of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer(s) and Deputy Chief management team are aligned with those of the Company's Executive Officer(s). shareholders in order to encourage shared value creation. ● A backward-looking (ex-post) vote on the implementation of the above● Respecting the concept of comparability, which means that the Board mentioned compensation policy, whereby shareholders at the Annual and the Nominations and Compensation Committee must align General Meeting are asked to approve the actual amounts of the executive officers’ compensation packages with market practices, fixed, variable and exceptional components making up executive taking into account each officer’s specific roles and responsibilities, officers' total compensation and benefits for the previous financial the work they actually carry out and their performance. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 31 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS IN KIND ALLOCATED BY THE COMPANY AND OTHER GROUP ENTITIES IN 2017 TO MEMBERS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AND MANAGEMENT BODIES IN OFFICE ● Creating a clear framework. This means that the Nominations and or Chairman of the Board of Directors appointed, the compensation Compensation Committee and the Board must ensure that the rules are principles described below in relation to the CFO & Deputy CEO would straightforward, consistent and transparent and that the performance apply temporarily until a new compensation policy is approved by the criteria used correspond to the Company’s objectives and are clear, shareholders in accordance with the applicable legislation. exacting and – wherever possible – cover a suitably long period. CFO & Deputy CEO – Philippe Chevallier ● Complying with the principle of proportionality, namely striking the At its meeting on 15 March 2018, the Board of Directors decided that right balance between the various compensation components and Philippe Chevallier's fixed compensation for his role as CFO & Deputy taking into account the best interests of both the Company and its CEO would remain unchanged at a gross annual amount of €315,000. stakeholders, as well as market practices and the performance of the executive officers. If one or more new Deputy CEOs were to be appointed the principles applicable to the CFO & Deputy CEO would apply for determining their STRUCTURE OF THE EXECUTIVE OFFICERS’ COMPENSATION PACKAGES compensation policy, although the amount could vary depending on FOR 2018 the profile, experience and level of responsibility of the new executive The compensation packages of the Company's executive offi cers officer. comprise annual fixed and variable compensation, both of which are cash-settled (see below for details). Assystem's executive officers do VARIABLE COMPENSATION not receive any directors' fees or other forms of compensation for their Chairman & CEO – Dominique Louis duties carried out within the Company. As an exception to this general Dominique Louis does not receive any variable compensation for his rule, the Chairman & CEO's compensation package is exclusively made role as Chairman of the Board of Directors or Chief Executive Officer. up of fixed compensation. For the purposes of completeness, it should be noted that on 1 April The Company's compensation policy for its executive officers is regularly 2014, HDL and HDL Development signed a services agreement under adapted in line with market practices for listed companies. The structure which HDL undertook to provide services to HDL Development involving of the executive officers' compensation packages is reviewed each strategy definition, management, organisation and oversight for the year by the Board of Directors – which sets their various components Assystem Group. based on the recommendations of the Nominations and Compensation Committee – and will be submitted for shareholder approval at the An addendum to this agreement provides for the payment of variable 16 May 2018 Annual General Meeting (in the seventh and eighth compensation for 2018 representing up to €800,000, based wholly resolutions) in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article L. 225-37-2 of on Asssytem’s consolidated EBITA margin, i.e. EBITA (including the the French Commercial Code. share of profi t of equity-accounted investees apart from Assystem Technologies Groupe) expressed as a percentage of revenue. The FIXED COMPENSATION amount payable in relation to this criterion will be determined on a Chairman & CEO – Dominique Louis straight-line basis between a fl oor (i.e., the level below which the Dominique Louis receives an annual amount of fi xed compensation criterion is deemed not to have been met) and a cap (i.e. the level at for his role as Chairman of Assystem’s Board of Directors, which is set which the criterion is deemed to have been fully met), it being specified by the Board of Directors based on recommendations issued by the that EBITA corresponds to profit (including the share of operating profit Nominations and Compensation Committee. This fixed compensation of equity-accounted investees whose business is directly related to the totals €50,000 (gross), unchanged since 2014. He does not receive business of the Company’s fully-consolidated entities) before shareany specific compensation for his duties as Chief Executive Officer. based payment expense (free shares/performance shares and stock options), acquisition costs, capital gains and losses arising on business For the purposes of completeness, it should be noted that: divestments, and non-recurring items (i.e. income and expenses related (i) HDL, represented by Dominique Louis, receives gross annual to unusual, atypical and infrequent events). compensation of €200,000 in its capacity as Chair of HDL Based on the recommendation of the Nominations and Compensation Development; Committee issued on 15 March 2018, the Board considered that this (ii) On 1 April 2014, HDL and HDL Development signed a services was the most appropriate criterion for setting the variable compensation agreement under which HDL undertook to provide services to HDL payable for 2018 pursuant to this addendum. This is because EBITA Development involving strategy definition, management, organisation margin is a key indicator of the Group’s profitability as it can be used to and oversight for the Assystem Group. This agreement was amended assess operating performance without taking into account the effect of on 1 October 2014, 29 April 2015 and 7 March 2017. HDL’s non-recurring events or the financing methods chosen by the Company. fixed compensation under the agreement has been set at €348,000 for 2018. If a new Chairman & CEO were to be appointed or if these two positions were to be separated and a new Chief Executive Offi cer 32 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS IN KIND ALLOCATED BY THE COMPANY AND OTHER GROUP ENTITIES IN 2017 TO MEMBERS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AND MANAGEMENT BODIES IN OFFICE The floors and caps set for the criterion cannot be disclosed as they DIRECTORS' FEES are strategically and financially sensitive. Neither of Assystem's executive officers receives any directors' fees. CFO & Deputy CEO – Philippe Chevallier COMPENSATION RELATED TO THE TERMINATION OF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS’ Philippe Chevallier receives annual gross variable compensation of up to DUTIES €300,000, depending on the achievement of objectives set each year. ● Non-competition indemnity. His variable compensation for 2018 is based on the amount of Neither of the Company's executive officers is entitled to an indemnity Assystem’s consolidated EBITA (60% weighting) and the year-on-year under a non-competition clause. improvement in average quarterly days sales outstanding (DSO) (40% weighting). For this purpose (i) an improvement in average quarterly ● Termination benefit. 2 DSO corresponds to a reduction in said DSO, and (ii) quarterly DSO Dominique Louis corresponds to the number of days obtained by dividing the amount of Dominique Louis would not be entitled to any termination benefit in the trade receivables in the consolidated balance sheet at the end of the event of a forced departure from the Company. quarter (including accrued trade receivables and net of any accounts Philippe Chevallier receivable credit balances) by the amount of consolidated revenue for On 9 March 2016, the Board agreed that if, for any reason, Philippe the quarter (including VAT and determined on an annualised basis for Chevallier’s term of office as CFO & Deputy CEO were to be terminated calculating DSO), it being specified that both of these figures will be by the Company before the Annual General Meeting to be held in adjusted where necessary for changes in the scope of consolidation. 2020 to approve the 2019 financial statements, then he would be The amount payable based on each of these criteria will be determined entitled to a termination benefit of €500,000. The Board felt that this on a straight-line basis between a floor (i.e. the level below which the benefit was appropriate in view of the nature of Philippe Chevallier’s criterion is deemed not to have been met) and a cap (i.e. the level at office. which the criterion is deemed to have been fully met). Payment of this termination benefit would, however, be subject to the Based on the recommendation of the Nominations and Compensation following conditions: Committee issued on 15 March 2018, the Board considered that ● the Statutory Auditors must have signed off on the consolidated these were the most appropriate criteria for setting Philippe Chevallier’s financial statements, without any reservations and within the legally variable compensation for 2018 because they reflect both operating prescribed timeframe, throughout Philippe Chevallier's term of office; and cash generation performance (other than operating performance, DSO is the main factor that determines cash generation). ● average ROCE (after tax) must amount to at least 6% for the three financial years preceding his departure. The floors and caps set for each of the criteria cannot be disclosed as they are strategically and financially sensitive. The termination benefit would not be payable in the event of gross negligence or wilful misconduct. The Board of Directors has decided that if a new executive officer were to be appointed, these same principles would apply to the variable EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT compensation of the person concerned. If the new executive officer Neither of Assystem's executive officers have an employment contract. were appointed during the second half of a given year, the Board of Philippe Chevallier's employment contract was terminated on 5 June Directors may assess his or her performance on a discretionary basis. 2015 when he took up the post of CFO & Deputy CEO. LONG-TERM AND EXCEPTIONAL COMPENSATION BENEFITS IN KIND Neither of Assystem's executive offi cers receives any compensation In accordance with the overall compensation policy applicable to classified as “long-term”, such as performance shares. executive officers, Dominique Louis and Philippe Chevallier have the In certain highly specific circumstances and in accordance with the use of a company car, which corresponds to a benefit in kind. principles set out in the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Board may grant Philippe Chevallier is also covered by an unemployment insurance exceptional compensation to any current or newly-appointed executive policy specifically set up for executive officers. officers. The payment of any such exceptional compensation would be subject to shareholder approval, as required under Article L. 225-100 SUPPLEMENTARY PENSION PLAN of the French Commercial Code. Neither of the executive officers is covered by a supplementary pension plan in connection with their office. 2.2.2.3 Components of the compensation and benefits due or awarded for 2017 to Dominique Louis and Philippe Chevallier In accordance with Article L. 225-100 of the French Commercial Code, the shareholders will be asked to approve the following components of the compensation and benefits due or awarded for 2017 to each executive officer: ● fixed compensation; ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 33 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS IN KIND ALLOCATED BY THE COMPANY AND OTHER GROUP ENTITIES IN 2017 TO MEMBERS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AND MANAGEMENT BODIES IN OFFICE ● annual variable compensation and any multi-year variable No stock options or performance shares were awarded to Dominique compensation and the targets used for determining this variable Louis in 2017. compensation; 2.2.2.3.2 PHILIPPE CHEVALLIER ● exceptional compensation; At its 9 March 2016 meeting, the Board unanimously decided, effective ● stock options, performance shares and any other long-term 1 January 2016, to modify the components of Philippe Chevallier's compensation; compensation for his duties as CFO & Deputy CEO. Following these ● indemnities related to taking up or terminating office; changes, his overall compensation now corresponds to: ● supplementary pension plan; ● gross annual fixed compensation of €315,000; ● benefits in kind. ● gross annual variable compensation of up to €300,000 depending Consequently, in the ninth and tenth resolutions of the 16 May 2018 on the achievement of performance targets set each year. Annual General Meeting, the shareholders will be asked to approve Philippe Chevallier's variable compensation for 2017 should have been the components of the compensation and benefits due or awarded for based on (i) Assystem's consolidated EBITA (75% weighting) and (ii) 2017 to Dominique Louis (Chairman & CEO) and Philippe Chevallier Assystem's free cash flow (25% weighting). The amount payable based (CFO & Deputy CEO). on each of these criteria would have been determined on a straight-line basis between a floor (i.e. the level below which the criterion is deemed 2.2.2.3.1 DOMINIQUE LOUIS not to have been met) and a cap (i.e. the level at which the criterion is Following the formation of HDL Development and its successful takeover deemed to have been fully met). The definitions of EBITA and free cash bid for Assystem shares, two related party agreements were signed: flow are provided on page 32 above. ● O n 1 April 2014, HDL and HDL Development signed a services However, in view of the transfer of control of the GPS division that took agreement in relation to HDL's compensation as Chair of HDL place on 28 September 2017 (see Chapter 1), these criteria were Development. In 2017, €200,000 was paid to HDL under this automatically rendered null and void. At its meeting on 15 March agreement. 2018 the Board decided to award Philippe Chevallier a gross amount ● O n 1 April 2014, HDL and HDL D evelopment signed a services of €300,000 in variable compensation for 2017. This decision agreement under which HDL undertook to provide services to HDL was based on a recommendation issued on the same date by the Development involving strategy definition, management, organisation Nominations and Compensation Committee that took into account the and oversight for the Assystem Group. effect of the transfer of GPS and the role played by Philippe Chevallier This second agreement between HDL and HDL Development – which in the strategic transactions carried out by the Group in 2017. was amended on 1 October 2014, 29 April 2015 and 7 March Also at its 9 March 2016 meeting, the Board decided that if Philippe 2017 – provided for the payment of €348,000 in fixed compensation Chevallier's term of office as CFO & Deputy CEO were to be terminated to HDL for 2017. In addition to this fi xed compensation, HDL was at the Company's initiative before the Annual General Meeting to entitled to variable compensation representing up to €817,800, based be held to approve the parent company and consolidated financial on (i) Assystem's consolidated EBITA (75% weighting) and (ii) Assystem's statements for 2019, he would be eligible for a termination benefit of free cash flow (25% weighting). The amount payable based on each of €500,000. these criteria was determined on a straight-line basis between a floor Payment of this termination benefit would, however, be subject to the (i.e. the level below which the criterion is deemed not to have been met) following conditions: and a cap (i.e. the level at which the criterion is deemed to have been fully met). The definition of EBITA is provided on page 32 above. Free ● Philippe Chevallier must not have committed gross negligence or wilful cash flow corresponds to net cash generated from operating activities misconduct within the meaning of the provisions of French labour law less capital expenditure, net of disposals and excluding cash generated and employment-related case law; by discontinued operations. ● the following performance criteria set at Group level must have been However, in view of the transfer of control of the GPS division that took met: (i) the Statutory Auditors must have signed off on the consolidated place on 28 September 2017 (see Chapter 1), these criteria were financial statements without any reservations, and within the legally automatically rendered null and void. Consequently, at its meeting on prescribed timeframe, throughout Philippe Chevallier's term of office, 15 March 2018, acting on the recommendation of the Nominations and (ii) average ROCE (after tax) must amount to least 6% for the last and Compensation Committee, the Board decided to award HDL three financial years preceding his departure. €280,000 in variable compensation for 2017. In compliance with Articles L. 225-42-1 and L. 225-40 of the French In compliance with Articles L. 225-47 and 225-53 of the French Commercial Code, this termination benefit was approved by Assystem's Commercial Code, at its meeting on 22 May 2014, the Board set at shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 24 May 2016. €50,000 the gross annual compensation payable to Dominique Louis in No stock options or performance shares were awarded to Philippe his capacity as Chairman of Assystem's Board of Directors. Dominique Chevallier in 2017. Louis was paid this sum in 2017, divided into monthly instalments. 34 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS IN KIND ALLOCATED BY THE COMPANY AND OTHER GROUP ENTITIES IN 2017 TO MEMBERS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AND MANAGEMENT BODIES IN OFFICE TABLE 1 – SUMMARY OF COMPENSATION DUE AND STOCK OPTIONS AND PERFORMANCE SHARES AWARDED TO EACH EXECUTIVE OFFICER Dominique Louis Chairman & CEO 2016 2017 Compensation paid for the year (detailed in table 2) €253,600 €253,600 Valuation of multi-year variable compensation granted during the year None None Valuation of stock options granted during the year (detailed in table 4) None None Valuation of performance shares awarded during the year (detailed in table 6) None None Total €253,600 €253,600 2 Philippe Chevallier CFO & Deputy CEO since 5 June 2015 2016 2017 Compensation paid for the year (detailed in table 2) €571,196 €626,519 Valuation of multi-year variable compensation granted during the year None None Valuation of stock options granted during the year (detailed in table 4) None None Valuation of performance shares awarded during the year (detailed in table 6) None None Total €571,196 €626,519 TABLE 2 – SUMMARY OF THE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS OF EACH EXECUTIVE OFFICER Amounts for 2016 Amounts for 2017 Dominique Louis Chairman & CEO Due Paid Due Paid Fixed compensation (paid by (i) HDL Development in respect of HDL's role as Chair of HDL Development and (ii) Assystem in respect of Dominique Louis' role as Chairman of the Board of Directors of Assystem) €250,000 €250,000 €250,000 €250,000 Variable compensation None None None None Exceptional compensation None None None None Directors' fees None None None None Benefits in kind €3,600 €3,600 €3,600 €3,600 Total €253,600 €253,600 €253,600 €253,600 Amounts for 2016 Amounts for 2017 Philippe Chevallier CFO & Deputy CEO since 5 June 2015 Due Paid Due Paid Gross fixed compensation €315,000 €315,000 €315,000 €315,000 €300,000 €239,200 €300,000 €300,000 paid in paid in paid in paid in 2017 for 2016 for 2018 for 2017 for Variable compensation 2016 2015 2017 2016 Exceptional compensation None None None None Directors' fees None None None None Benefits in kind €16,996 €16,996 €11,519 €11,519 Total €631,996 €571,196 €626,519 €626,519 TABLE 3 – DIRECTORS' FEES AND OTHER COMPENSATION RECEIVED BY NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS See Section 2.2.1 above. TABLE 4 – STOCK OPTIONS AWARDED DURING THE YEAR TO EACH EXECUTIVE OFFICER None. TABLE 5 – STOCK OPTIONS EXERCISED DURING THE YEAR BY EACH EXECUTIVE OFFICER None. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 35 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TABLE 6 – PERFORMANCE SHARES AWARDED TO EACH EXECUTIVE OFFICER IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS AND REGULATIONS IN FORCE AT THE AWARD DATE 2016: None. 2015: None. 2014: None. TABLE 7 – PERFORMANCE SHARES WHOSE LOCK-UP PERIOD ENDED DURING THE YEAR FOR EACH EXECUTIVE OFFICER None. TABLE 8 – AWARD OF STOCK OPTIONS None. TABLE 9 – STOCK OPTIONS AWARDED TO AND EXERCISED BY THE GROUP’S TEN EMPLOYEES (OTHER THAN EXECUTIVE OFFICERS) WHO RECEIVED THE LARGEST NUMBER OF OPTIONS None. TABLE 10 Eligible for compensation under a nonSupplementary Eligible for compensation in the event competition Employment contract pension plan of termination of or a change in duties clause Executive officer Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Dominique Louis Chairman & CEO No No No No Start of current term of office: 22 May 2014 End of current term of office: 16 May 2020 Philippe Chevallier CFO & Deputy CEO No No Yes, for termination No at Assystem’s initiative except in the event of termination for gross negligence or wilful misconduct. Amount set: €500,000* Start of current term of office: 5 June 2015 End of current term of office: AGM to be held in 2020 to approve the 2019 financial statements * This termination benefit would be due if, for any reason, Philippe Chevallier's term of office as CFO & Deputy CEO were to be terminated at the Company's initiative before the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2020 to approve the 2019 financial statements. 2.3 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The procedures for attending General Shareholders' Meetings are Information on related-party agreements and commitments is provided provided in Chapter 7, Section 7.1 of this Registration Document. in Chapter 2, Section 2.2.2 of this Registration Document. 36 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT 3.1 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 38 3.7 DESCRIPTION OF MAIN RISKS AND 3.1.1 Assystem’s market and business segments 38 UNCERTAINTIES 45 3.1.2 Significant events of the year 39 3.1.3 The Group’s revenue and earnings in 2017 40 3.8 INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES PUT IN PLACE BY THE COMPANY 3.2 GROUP RESULTS 40 RELATING TO THE PREPARATION AND 3.2.1 Key figures 40 PROCESSING OF ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION 45 3.2.2 Revenue by division 40 3.8.1 Internal control players 3.2.3 Results of operations and financial position 41 and organisation of internal control procedures 46 3.2.4 Outlook for 2018 42 3.8.2 Internal control objectives 46 3.2.5 Significant events after 3.8.3 Components of the internal control system 47 the reporting date 42 3.9 ANTI-CORRUPTION MEASURES 52 3.3 ASSYSTEM SA PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 43 3.9.1 Securities Trading Code of Conduct 52 3.3.1 Acquisitions of shares 3.9.2 Fair business practices 52 in new subsidiaries 43 3.3.2 Acquisitions of additional shares in existing subsidiaries 43 3.10 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) 53 3.3.3 Sale of shares in subsidiaries 43 3.3.4 Payment times 44 3.3.5 Non-tax-deductible expenses 44 3.11 RELATED-PARTY AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS 53 3.4 COMPENSATION OF COMPANY OFFICERS 44 3.12 STATUTORY AUDITORS' FEES 53 3.5 INFORMATION CONCERNING 3.13 FIVE-YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY FOR ADMINISTRATIVE BODIES 44 ASSYSTEM SA 54 3.6 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY'S CAPITAL 44 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 37 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 3.1 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 3.1.1 ASSYSTEM’S MARKET AND BUSINESS In the face of the market consolidation taking place for outsourced R&D SEGMENTS services, in order for GPS to remain a leading player in its market, accelerate its growth, extend its geographic and sector coverage and 3.1.1.1 Market trends meet the needs of its industrial clients who are now seeking to work with Assystem operates in the infrastructure engineering market. The role of fewer suppliers and are looking for one-stop worldwide offerings, in engineering is to study, design and oversee the production or construction 2017 Assystem decided to team up with the private equity firm Ardian of all or part of an industrial component or civil engineering structure. (see Note 3.1.2 – Significant events of the year). Assystem's teams assist major industrial players with reducing their Following this strategic move, Assystem’s core business is now complex project costs and lead times and optimising their development, infrastructure engineering, operated by the Energy & Infrastructure manufacturing and marketing processes, and enable them to design division. The Group is a key player in the nuclear engineering markets and produce innovative solutions across the globe. where it has a strong reputation for its specialist know-how. According to an Xerfi market analysis(1), construction engineering firms Assystem brings added value to industrial companies, utilities and in France have embarked on 2018 with optimism and the short-term contractors operating in nuclear energy, conventional energy, transport economic outlook is still positive following an upturn in 2017. Revenue infrastructure, life sciences and other complex infrastructure thanks growth for engineers specialised in construction is set to continue in to its long-standing presence in the nuclear industry, and therefore 2018, with Xerfi estimating a 3.5% rise in absolute value terms. This its experience of operating in restricted environments with stringent trend will be particularly driven by the ramp-up of works for the Grand safety requirements. The Group's experts help major players in the Paris project, in which Assystem is taking part, and the improvement energy industry (operators and equipment manufacturers) to manage in the economy should lead to better market conditions. However, the their capital expenditure at every stage of their assets' life cycles – industry is facing a shortage of skills for certain profiles. from design through to construction, commissioning, maintenance and ultimately decommissioning. Assystem's competitors in this market are In the nuclear sector, large-scale maintenance programmes and the mostly UK and North American groups such as Atkins (an Assystem scheduled start-ups of EPRs in Finland and France are boosting business partner in the Engage and N.triple.a alliances), CH2MHill, Amec volumes. At the same time, infrastructure engineering firms are feeling Foster Wheeler (a partner of Assystem in the Momentum consortium) the benefits of a bullish spending cycle for transport infrastructure. And and Jacobs Engineering, as well as French groups including Egis, the more generalised use of digital modelling is opening up a raft of Systra and Ingérop. opportunities as this technology not only leads to major productivity gains but also plays a key role in enhancing the buildings and services Assystem also has another business which consists of seconding delivered. consultants specialised in Oil & Gas and Industry, essentially in the Middle East, Africa and Asia. This business – which is known as In the fi eld of technology consulting (in which Assystem is present “Staffing” and accounts for 11% of the Group’s revenue – is principally through its 39.2% stake in the Assystem Technologies g roup – see inherited from an acquisition carried out in 2012 (MPH Group) to which Note 3.1.2 below), business volumes will once again be propelled Assystem's pre-existing staffing activities were added. Assystem’s main by the automotive sector. market for Staffing – Oil & Gas – has been hit hard by plunging oil ASSYSTEM’S POSITIONING prices since 2015 and the business is working to diversify its client portfolio in the Industry sector, which accounted for 35% of Staffing Assystem began as Atem, which was founded in 1966 by engineers revenue in 2017. from the French nuclear programme in order to serve the engineering needs of the French nuclear industry. This business accounted for the majority of the Group's revenue up until the latter part of the twentieth 3.1.1.2 Assystem's organisational structure century. Atem then merged with Alphatem, jointly owned by Dominique On 28 September 2017, Assystem completed the transfer of control Louis and Cogema, to create Assystem which went public in 1995. of its GPS business to Ardian (see Note 3.1.2 – Significant events of Shortly after its stock market flotation the Company diversified, with the year). the acquisition in 1996 of an engineering fi rm specialised in the Following this divestment, the Assystem Group (“the Group”) refocused aeronautics and automotive sectors, which launched the outsourced on its long-standing business activities in the nuclear sector and R&D business. This business drove the Group’s growth as from the year infrastructure engineering. It is now made up of two divisions – the 2000, especially following its merger with Brime Technologies in 2003. Energy & Infrastructure division (comprising nuclear, infrastructure, life The formation of Global Product Solutions (GPS) in 2014 brought all of sciences and project management activities) and the Staffing division. the Group’s outsourced R&D activities together in one division. (1) Source: Xerfi France, Les services d’ingénierie, d’études et de conseils techniques Analyse du marché – November 2017. 38 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 MANAGEMENT REPORT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 3.1.2 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS OF THE YEAR which is a fund managed by Ardian. The overall investment took the form of €62.14 million worth of ordinary shares and €62.14 million 2017 marked a turning point in the Group’s history, with the transfer worth of convertible bonds paying an annual coupon of 9% which is of control of GPS and the acquisition of an ownership interest in capitalisable each year. Framatome. 3/ Accounting treatment TRANSFER OF CONTROL OF THE GLOBAL PRODUCT SOLUTIONS (GPS) DIVISION In application of IFRS 5, GPS's profit for the period from 1 January to 1/ Reasons for the transaction 28 September 2017, as well as the net disposal gain after transaction In early 2017, the private equity firm, Ardian, put forward an unsolicited costs and taxes, have been included under “Profit from discontinued expression of interest for the acquisition of Assystem’s GPS division. operations” in the 2017 financial statements. Assystem considered this opportunity very carefully and came to the Since 1 October 2017, ATG’s consolidated profit has been accounted conclusion that in view of the fast-paced consolidation taking place in for by the equity method and included in a separate line of Assystem’s the R&D sector (see Section 3.1.1.1 above – Market trends) such an consolidated income statement, based on its 39.23% equity investment acquisition could be advantageous for GPS. Its reasoning was that the in ATG. The interest received on the convertible bonds issued by ATG transaction would give GPS access to Ardian’s resources and expertise and taken up by Assystem has also been recognised in a separate line in terms of driving the growth of its equity interests and particularly in identifying, financing and integrating acquisitions. of Assystem’s consolidated income statement. 3 SHARE BUYBACK OFFER As a result, Assystem decided to agree in principle to Ardian's suggestion On 11 May 2017, Assystem announced its intention to allocate at set out in its expression of interest, provided that it could take a 40% least €200 million (i.e. around 50% of the proceeds of the sale of ownership interest in the acquisition company in order to share in the GPS, net of the reinvestment in ATG and the transaction costs incurred value creation potential of a build-up strategy. on the deal) to a public share buyback offer scheduled to be launched Based on this understanding, Assystem allowed Ardian to carry out during the quarter following the close of the GPS deal. The idea was the customary due diligence procedures during the first few months of to structure the buyback in such a way that the respective holdings of 2017, following which Ardian issued an offer that valued all of GPS’s HDL Development and the free float would remain unchanged after activities at €550 million and confirmed that Assystem could take a the transaction. 40% ownership interest in the acquisition entity. When the offer was announced it involved a total of €225 million, 2/ Implementation corresponding to 6 million shares purchased at a unit price of €37.50, as On 9 May 2017, having examined the deal and the main components validated by an independent valuer appointed by the Board of Directors. of the draft memorandum of understanding, Assystem’s Board of Directors The French securities regulator (the AMF) approved the information unanimously decided to recommend to the Company’s shareholders memorandum on 31 October 2017 and the Board of Directors called that they vote in favour of the offer, including Assystem's potential an Extraordinary General Meeting held on 22 November 2017 at 40% ownership interest in the acquisition entity. On the same date, which 99.96% of the shareholders present or represented approved HDL Development – Assystem’s controlling shareholder – confirmed its the offer. The offer period then ran from 24 November to 14 December unconditional support for the deal. 2017 (inclusive). Consequently, on 11 May 2017 Assystem published a press release On 19 December 2017, Assystem announced that it had bought back announcing that it had entered into a memorandum of understanding 6 million of its own shares with a par value of €1 each, for a total with Ardian. €225 million. These shares represented 27.00% of the number of shares making up Assystem’s capital and 28.35% of the number of Assystem In June 2017, the Company obtained the opinion of its employee shares outstanding (i.e. the number of shares making up the capital representative bodies as required by the applicable legislation, and in less the number of shares held in treasury). All of the shares bought accordance with the recommendation of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, on back under the offer were cancelled on 21 December 2017, together 5 July 2017 the deal was put to the vote of Assystem’s shareholders with 550,000 shares already held in treasury, by way of a decision in an Ordinary General Meeting. It was approved by 99.6% of the taken by Assystem’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer acting under shareholders present or represented at this meeting. powers delegated to him by the Board of Directors. Consequently, the Clearance was received from the relevant competition authorities on Company’s capital was reduced to 15,668,216 shares with a par 18 August 2017. value of €1 each. The deal was closed on 28 September 2017, and on the same INVESTMENT IN FRAMATOME date, Assystem invested €124.28 million in equity and quasi-equity As announced on 11 May 2017, Assystem used another portion of the financing raised by Assystem Technologies Groupe (ATG) – the parent net proceeds received from the transfer of control of GPS to purchase of the new g roup comprising the entities that previously constituted a 5% interest in Framatome (formerly “New NP”) for €123.7 million. GPS – in order to help finance the acquisition of GPS. Following this transaction, Assystem held 39.24% of ATG’s equity and quasi-equity (and 39.23% of its ordinary shares) alongside its majority shareholder ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 39 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT GROUP RESULTS Framatome is the Company to which Areva NP transferred its assets (BQG), which allowed it to strengthen its positions in the Life Sciences and activities related to (i) the design and supply of nuclear reactor sector, and also acquiring Euro Contrôle Projet (ECP), a company equipment, (ii) the design and supply of fuel assemblies and (iii) services specialised in project management services (see Chapter 1 of this provided to a large worldwide installed base of nuclear reactors. On Registration Document). 31 December 2017, the following interests in Framatome’s capital were sold by Areva NP: 75.5% to EDF, 19.5% to Mitsubishi Heavy Industries 3.1.3 THE GROUP’S REVENUE AND EARNINGS Ltd and 5% to Assystem. IN 2017 Assystem is seeking to accelerate the development of its Energy & Infrastructure (E&I) division in a context of rapid growth in the world’s Based on its new scope of fully-consolidated companies, Assystem’s nuclear engineering needs, driven by the necessary replacement of consolidated revenue for 2017 rose 4.0% to €395.2 million. Revenue fossil fuels by carbon-free sources of electricity production. Assystem’s from Nuclear activities – which accounted for 52% of consolidated investment in Framatome alongside EDF is in line with this objective and revenue in 2017 – kept up a brisk pace of growth during the year, forms part of a wider agreement that consolidates its position as a key advancing 8.9%. This robust showing was led by demand for partner of EDF, particularly concerning maintenance services carried engineering services related to (i) the construction of new reactors in out on civilian nuclear reactors in France and the United Kingdom to France and abroad and (ii) maintenance of existing nuclear power ensure they remain in proper operating condition. It also opens up plants in France. new opportunities for Assystem to take part in new-build projects in the In its new structure – comprising the Energy & Infrastructure and Staffing French nuclear industry and is intended to help develop the Group’s divisions – the Group had a total of 4,832 employees at 31 December links with the Japanese nuclear industry so that it can participate in its 2017 versus 4,603 one year earlier (based on a comparable scope international new-build projects. of consolidation). ONGOING EXTERNAL GROWTH The Company's main employee-related information and more broadly, The Group continued to carry out external growth transactions in 2017, its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) actions and key indicators are both in France and abroad, taking control of The Biotech Quality Group provided in Chapter 4 of this Registration Document. 3.2 GROUP RESULTS 3.2.1 KEY FIGURES In millions of euros 2017 2016* Year-on-year-change Revenue 395.2 380.1 +4.0% Operating profit before non-recurring items – EBITA(1) 26.0 22.1 +17.6% % of revenue 6.6% 5.8% +0.8 pt. Consolidated profit for the period 404.6 32.1 Free cash flow(2) 20.8 % of revenue 5.3% Net cash/(debt)(3) 23.9 (16.1) Dividend per share (in euros)(4) 1.00 1.00 * Restated to facilitate year-on-year comparisons. (1) Operating profit before non-recurring items (EBITA) including share of profit of equity-accounted investees (€1.4 million in 2016 and €0.9 million in 2017). (2) Free cash flow from continuing operations – corresponding to net cash generated from operating activities less capital expenditure, net of disposals. (3) Cash and cash equivalents less debt and after taking into account the fair value of hedging instruments. (4) For 2017, the figure corresponds to the dividend that will be recommended at the Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2018. 3.2.2 REVENUE BY DIVISION In millions of euros 2017 2016* Year-on-year-change Like-for-like change** Group 395.2 380.1 +4.0% +4.0% Energy & Infrastructure 341.3 317.7 +7.4% +6.6% Staffing 45.1 53.2 (15.3%) (13.2%) Other 8.8 9.2 * Restated to facilitate year-on-year comparisons. ** Based on a comparable scope of consolidation and constant exchange rates. 40 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 MANAGEMENT REPORT GROUP RESULTS Revenue for the Energy & Infrastructure business climbed 7.4% to At €45.1 million, revenue for the Staffing business retreated 13.2% €341.3 million. Within this business, the Nuclear segment reported year on year at constant exchange rates, or 15.3% on a reported revenue of €205.5 million, up 8.9%, or 9.6% on a like-for-like basis, and basis, as performance was weighed down throughout the year by Energy Transition & Infrastructures revenue rose 5.3% to €135.8 million, lower business volumes in the Oil & Gas sector. However, projects in with 2.1% like-for-like growth (or 4.8% excluding Radicon's revenue the Industry sector have now started up, which should help to at least decline). stabilise annual revenue in 2018. 3.2.3 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL POSITION 3.2.3.1 Operating profit before non-recurring items (EBITA) Consolidated EBITA advanced 17.6% to €26.0 million in 2017 from €22.1 million in 2016, and EBITA margin represented 6.6% of revenue, up 80 basis points year on year. EBITA(1) In millions of euros Group 2017 26.0 % of revenue 6.6% 2016* 22.1 % of revenue 5.8% 3 Energy & Infrastructure 27.9 8.2% 24.1 7.6% Staffing 1.9 4.2% 2.4 4.6% Holding company and Other (3.8) (4.4) * Restated to facilitate year-on-year comparisons. (1) Operating profit before non-recurring items (EBITA) including share of profit of equity-accounted investees (€1.4 million in 2016 and €0.9 million in 2017). EBITA for the Energy & Infrastructure business climbed €3.8 million to 3.2.3.3 Financial income and expenses €27.9 million, which drove a 60 basis-point increase in EBITA margin Assystem recorded net financial income of €0.1 million for the year, to 8.2%. including €2.7 million in “Net financial expense on cash and debt” Staffing EBITA decreased by €0.5 million to €1.9 million, representing which was more than offset by a net €2.8 million positive impact from an EBITA margin of 4.2%. “Other financial income and expenses”. The Group’s “Holding company” expenses, net of the EBITA of the The income tax expense for continuing operations was €4.8 million. activities classified in the “Other” category, had a €3.8 million This total includes €1.3 million in net income related to dividend tax negative impact on consolidated EBITA in 2017 versus a €4.4 million and a €0.1 million tax charge on the coupon received on the ATG negative impact in 2016 (as restated in order to facilitate year-on-year convertible bonds. comparisons). 3.2.3.4 Profit for the period 3.2.3.2 Operating profit Profit from discontinued operations amounted to €391.3 million and Consolidated operating profit after non-recurring items came to primarily corresponds to the gain arising on the transfer of control of €14.2 million, up 11.8% on the €12.7 million reported for 2016. the former GPS division to ATG. It also includes the profit figure of the Non-recurring items represented a net expense of €11.8 million, former GPS division for the first three quarters of 2017. breaking down as: Consolidated profit for the period came to €404.6 million, of which ● €6.8 million corresponding to a provision recognised in addition to €0.5 million was attributable to non-controlling interests. that booked in 2015 for a tax dispute concerning the former GPS The Group estimates that its pro forma consolidated profit for the period division’s research tax credits for 2010, 2011 and 2012. The risks amounts to €29.0 million. This figure, which does not include nonrelating to this dispute are now fully covered by this provision. recurring income or expenses, was calculated based on the following: ● €5 million primarily representing charges and provisions related to ● EBITA for the year (i.e. €26.0 million); (i) adapting some of the Group's resources to its new scope of ● an estimate of what ATG's contribution to Assystem's 2017 consolidated consolidation and (ii) restructuring measures for conventional energy profi t would have been (including the income tax charge on the activities. coupon on the convertible bonds) if ATG had been set up on The contribution of Assystem Technologies Groupe (ATG) to Assystem's 1 January 2017 and if Assystem had held a 39.2% stake in ATG at consolidated profit for 2017 (before the tax recognised on the coupon that date (i.e. €13.0 million); on ATG convertible bonds held by Assystem) was €3.8 million, breaking ● an estimate of the annual recurring net financial expense based on down as (i) €2.3 million for Assystem's 39.2% share of ATG's profit the Group's balance sheet confi guration at 31 December 2017 for the period from 1 October 2017 to 31 December 2017 and (ii) (i.e. €1.9 million); €1.5 million in income from the convertible bonds. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 41 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT GROUP RESULTS ● a pro forma income tax charge on EBITA after deducting financial 3.2.3.5 Net cash/(debt) income and expenses (i.e. €8.1 million). Assystem had net cash of €23.9 million at 31 December 2017 (versus INFORMATION ON THE REVENUE AND EBITA GENERATED IN 2017 €16.1 million in net debt one year earlier). This positive swing reflects BY THE ENTITIES CONTROLLED BY ASSYSTEM TECHNOLOGIES GROUPE (ATG) the following: Revenue generated by the entities controlled by ATG – in which Assystem ● €20.8 million in free cash flow from the Group's continuing operations, currently holds a 38.2% interest (compared with 39.2% at 31 December representing 5.3% of revenue; 2017) – totalled €673.6 million for the full twelve months of 2017, up ● a €60.4 million net cash inflow relating to (i) GPS and the transfer 16.7% year on year (with 13.4% like-for-like growth). of control of this division to ATG (a €409.2 million inflow) (ii) the EBITA reported by the entities controlled by ATG was €56.8 million share buyback offer carried out in the fourth quarter of 2017 (a for full-year 2017. €225.1 million outflow) and (iii) the acquisition of a 5% stake in Framatome (a €123.7 million outflow); ● a €21.2 million dividend payment to Assystem's shareholders; ● a negative €20.0 million in other cash flows, mainly related to the acquisitions of BQG and ECP. An analysis of the year-on-year change is provided in the table below: In millions of euros Net debt at 31 December 2016 (16.1) Free cash flow from continuing operations 20.8 Strategic transactions (net cash inflow) 60.4 Breaking down as (i) a €409.2 million cash inflow relating to GPS’s operations, the transfer of control of GPS and the investment in ATG; (ii) a €225.1 million cash outflow resulting from the share buyback offer and (iii) a €123.7 million cash outflow for the acquisition of a 5% stake in Framatome Dividends paid to Assystem's shareholders (21.2) Acquisitions and other (20.0) Mainly relating to the acquisitions of BQG and ECP Net cash at 31 December 2017 23.9 3.2.4 OUTLOOK FOR 2018 3.2.5 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING DATE In the nuclear market, Assystem expects to see continued robust growth in 2018 for services provided to existing power plants and a ramp-up Additional investment in Assystem Technologies Groupe of business for new-build projects in the United Kingdom, Turkey and On 31 January 2018 the Group took up €60.72 million worth of the Middle East. shares and convertible bonds (split into 50% ordinary shares and 50% In its other markets, the Group expects to reap the benefits of strong convertible bonds with a capitalisable 9% annual coupon) issued by momentum in the life sciences and transport infrastructure sectors. Assystem Technologies Groupe (“ATG”) as part of equity and quasiThe combination of the above factors is expected to support overall equity financing raised to help fund the acquisition of SQS Software growth and operating margin but it is likely that the conventional energy Quality Systems AG (“SQS”) by an ATG subsidiary. Consequently, sector will see significant decreases in revenue, EBITA and operating Assystem now holds a 38.16% interest in ATG’s capital and 38.17% margin. of its equity and quasi-equity instruments. On a consolidated basis, the Group's targets – which only take into In order to finance this additional investment, the Group (i) put in place account the acquisitions completed by end-2017 – are as follows for a €30 million medium-to-long term bullet loan repayable in September 2018: 2022 and (ii) drew down €30 million of its renewable credit facility set up in September 2017. At the same time, the maximum amount ● at least 10% growth in consolidated revenue and EBITA, with stronger of the revolving credit facility was increased from €120 million to growth in the second half than in the first due to an unfavourable €150 million. basis of comparison with first-half 2017; ● free cash flow representing more than 5% of revenue. 42 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 MANAGEMENT REPORT ASSYSTEM SA PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.3 ASSYSTEM SA PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In 2017 the Company continued to perform its role as the head of At 31 December 2017, Assystem SA either directly or indirectly held the Group. 100% of the shares and voting rights of its main operating subsidiaries, which are as follows: The Company's operating income for 2017 totalled €10 million and was derived from management services and expertise provided to the Companies incorporated in France subsidiaries of the Assystem Group. ● Assystem Engineering & Operation Services SAS and subsidiaries The Company ended the year with profit of €387.8 million (versus a ● Assystem Investissements SAS loss of €16.3 million in 2016). ● MPH Global Services and subsidiaries The Company's assets totalled €469.9 million at 31 December 2017, Companies incorporated outside France down €28.3 million compared with 31 December 2016. ● Assystem Energy Infrastructure UK and subsidiaries The Company had no employees at 31 December 2017. ● Assystem Belgium 3.3.1 ACQUISITIONS OF SHARES ● ASM Technologies (based in Morocco) 3 IN NEW SUBSIDIARIES ● Assystem Switzerland During 2017, Assystem SA acquired the entire capital of Assystem 3.3.2 ACQUISITIONS OF ADDITIONAL SHARES Conseils (previously owned by HDL Development) for €3 thousand IN EXISTING SUBSIDIARIES and all of the shares in Assystem Energy and Infrastructure UK Ltd for €5,514 thousand. On 24 February 2017 Assystem SA acquired, for €3,679 thousand, On 19 July 2017, Assystem SA injected €19 thousand into the capital a 60% interest in Plast Concept, raising its interest in this subsidiary of Assystem Technologies Belgium (ATB) and then on 8 September took to 100%. All of Plast Concept’s capital was transferred to Assystem up €346 thousand worth of shares issued under a capital increase Technologies on 28 September in connection with Assystem SA’s transfer carried out by ATB. Assystem SA subsequently sold its ATB shares on of control of GPS. 28 September, at their cost price, in connection with the transfer of On 28 April 2017, Assystem SA acquired 683,690 shares in MPH control of GPS. Global Services SAS (MPH GS) from its subsidiary Assystem Engineering On 3 August 2017, Assystem SA injected €19 thousand into the capital & Operation Services, representing 15.14% of MPH GS’s capital, for of Assystem Technologies Switzerland (ATS) and then on 12 September €4,650 thousand. Following this transaction Assystem SA held all of took up €608 thousand worth of shares under a capital increase the shares in MPH GS. carried out by ATS. Assystem SA subsequently sold its ATS shares on 31 October, at their cost price, in connection with the transfer of 3.3.3 SALE OF SHARES IN SUBSIDIARIES control of GPS. See Chapter 1 of this Registration Document and Section 3.1.2 for a Also in 2017, Assystem SA acquired (i) a 39.23% interest in Assystem detailed description of the transfer of control of the GPS division. Technologies Groupe for €62,140 thousand (on 28 September), (ii) a 72.70% interest in The Biotech Quality Group for €10,905 thousand, and (iii) a 5% interest in Framatome for €123,726 thousand. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 43 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT COMPENSATION OF COMPANY OFFICERS 3.3.4 PAYMENT TIMES In accordance with the provisions of the French Commercial Code and the Governmental Order dated 20 March 2017, the tables below provide a breakdown of the payment times for trade payables and receivables, showing invoices received and issued but not settled at the reporting date and which are past due. Trade payables: Article D.441.1-1°, Invoices received but not settled at the reporting date and which are past due. In thousands of euros 1-30 days 31-60 days 61-90 days Beyond 91 days Total Number of invoices concerned 13 5 5 29 52 Total amount (incl. VAT) of invoices concerned 75 2 (12) 51 116 % of total amount of purchases for the year (excl. VAT) 0.3% 0.0% (0.1%) 0.2% 0.5% Trade receivables: Article D.441.1-2°, Invoices issued but not settled at the reporting date and which are past due. In thousands of euros 1-30 days 31-60 days 61-90 days Beyond 91 days Total Number of invoices concerned 31 16 0 44 91 Total amount (incl. VAT) of invoices concerned 270 8 0.0 186 464 % of total amount of revenue for the year (excl. VAT) 2.2% 0.1% 0.0% 1.8% 4.2% The payment times used to calculate late payment interest correspond to the legally applicable periods. No invoices related to disputed or unrecognised payables or receivables have been excluded from the above tables. 3.3.5 NON-TAX-DEDUCTIBLE EXPENSES The aggregate amount of non-tax-deductible expenses as referred to in Article 39-4 of the French Tax Code amounted to €26,209 for 2017, generating income tax of €9,024 (disclosure made in application of Articles 223 quater and quinquies of said Code). 3.4 COMPENSATION OF COMPANY OFFICERS See Chapter 2 of this Registration Document. 3.5 INFORMATION CONCERNING ADMINISTRATIVE BODIES See Chapter 2 of this Registration Document. 3.6 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY'S CAPITAL Chapter 7 of this Registration Document contains all information concerning changes in the Company’s capital, the crossing of disclosure thresholds, transactions in the Company’s securities carried out by executives, a summary table of financial authorisations granted by shareholders and currently in force, elements likely to have an impact in the event of a takeover bid, dividends and the share buyback programme. 44 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 MANAGEMENT REPORT INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES PUT IN PLACE BY THE COMPANY RELATING TO THE PREPARATION AND PROCESSING OF ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION 3.7 DESCRIPTION OF MAIN RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES See Chapter 5 of this Registration Document. The effects of climate change and the measures taken by the Company to reduce these effects are set out in Chapter 4 of this Registration Document (particularly Sections 4.1.1 and 4.6.3.2). 3.8 INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES PUT IN PLACE BY THE COMPANY RELATING TO THE PREPARATION AND PROCESSING OF ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION The Group's internal control system comprises a combination of inherent limitations. These limitations are due to various factors, such 3 resources, procedures, behavioural standards and actions adapted as uncertainties in the external environment, the exercise of judgement, to the specific features of each Group company and the Group as a or the cost/benefit relationship of setting up new control mechanisms. whole. This overall system: Assystem's internal control system concerns all fully consolidated ● helps the Group manage its business activities and ensure the subsidiaries controlled by the Group. effectiveness of its operations and the efficient use of its resources; The summary information set out below relating to internal control ● is designed to enable the Group to appropriately factor in the procedures is focused on significant elements that could have an impact significant risks to which it is exposed (operational, financial and on the accounting and financial information published by the Group. compliance-related risks). The Group has chosen to apply the internal control framework advocated The purpose of internal control is to ensure: by the AMF in its recommendation no. 2015-01 issued on 12 January ● compliance with the applicable legislation and regulations; 2015. ● the application of instructions and guidelines stipulated by the Board The internal control procedures in place within the Group, and notably of Directors; those relating to the preparation and processing of accounting and ● the smooth functioning of each entity's internal procedures, in financial information, are broken down on the basis of the five main particular those designed to take into account risks encountered in components of internal control (see Section 3.8.3 below). their activity and consequently, to safeguard assets; The sections below also describe the procedures in place for identifying, ● the reliability of financial information. analysing and managing accounting and financial risks. However, internal control cannot provide an absolute guarantee that See Chapter 5 for further information on the Group's risk factors. Assystem's objectives will be met, as any internal control system has ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 45 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES PUT IN PLACE BY THE COMPANY RELATING TO THE PREPARATION AND PROCESSING OF ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION 3.8.1 INTERNAL CONTROL PLAYERS Assystem's Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for ensuring AND ORGANISATION OF INTERNAL that the internal control system is implemented properly and functions CONTROL PROCEDURES effectively. Since it is responsible for initiating and spearheading the Group's The Company has a full set of measures in place intended to control clearly-expressed strategy of deploying an integrated internal control and reduce any risks that could prevent it from achieving its objectives. system, Assystem's management team is the system's owner. However, These measures take the form of procedures, instructions, supervisory all Group players are part-owners in the sense that they are the agents arrangements, authorisations, delegations of responsibility, etc. and custodians of the system. The overall internal control system forms an integrated framework covering the entire scope of the Group: divisions, business units, legal entities, countries, departments and all business processes. The table below summarises the main roles and responsibilities of each category of internal control player. Internal control player Internal control roles and responsibilities Board of Directors • Initiates and spearheads the internal control system by relaying clear information and guidelines. • Is responsible for deploying the internal control system across the Group and ensuring that it functions effectively. • Ensures that the internal control system is in line with the Group's business strategy and risk portfolio. Audit Committee • Ensures that the Group has a consistent internal control system that is compatible with its overall business strategy and risk profile. • Approves the internal control system and is regularly informed of the findings of audits and the recommendations implemented. • Consults the executive management team in order to form an opinion on the construction and effectiveness of the internal control system. • Ensures the effective functioning of the risk management process related to the preparation of financial information. Group executive management team • Steers the Group's business strategy and sets the targets for consolidated entities, allocates the resources necessary for their achievement and tracks performance based on those targets. The executive management team draws on the work performed by the Quality Department to ensure that client projects are performed to the required standards. Finance and legal teams • The Financing and Treasury Department, the Management Control Department, the Legal Affairs Department and the divisional and country-level financial directors play a key role in internal control due to their cross-disciplinary skills. Operations management • Is responsible for deploying the internal control system within the scope of its remit (i.e. its BU, legal entity, country or department) and ensuring that it functions effectively. • Ensures that the internal control system is aligned with the structure, strategy, tactics and organisation of its scope of remit. Operations and support staff • Are actively involved in implementing the internal control system. • Carry out work and operations in compliance with the established internal control system. • Inform Management of any malfunctions and help determine remedial measures. The overall system also involves the participation of external players, 3.8.2 INTERNAL CONTROL OBJECTIVES including the Statutory Auditors. It is not part of the legal engagement of the Statutory Auditors to assume ownership of the internal control The Group’s internal control system aims to provide appropriate and and risk management systems. Their responsibility is to review these reasonable assurance of: systems and to issue an independent opinion on their suitability. Each ● the reliability of financial information; year the Statutory Auditors perform a Group audit as part of their legal ● compliance with the applicable legislation and regulations; engagement to certify the consolidated financial statements and to audit the separate financial statements of Group companies. In compliance ● the proper functioning of internal processes, such as those used to with French commercial law, the certification of Assystem's consolidated safeguard the Group’s business and assets; and parent company financial statements is carried out by two Statutory ● the application of instructions and guidelines stipulated by the Board Auditors, who jointly examine all the financial statements, the methods of Directors; used for their preparation and specifi c internal control procedures More generally, it helps the Group manage its business activities and related to the preparation of accounting and financial information. ensure the effectiveness of its operations and processes and the efficient use of its resources. 46 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 MANAGEMENT REPORT INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES PUT IN PLACE BY THE COMPANY RELATING TO THE PREPARATION AND PROCESSING OF ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION In line with the above, the internal control system has five main objectives which can be summarised as follows: Objective Reasonable assurance Finance That the financial information produced and published is reliable. Compliance That the applicable laws, regulations, standards and all other obligations are respected. Operations That operations, activities and processes work effectively and efficiently. Integrity That assets (human, tangible and intangible) are secure and protected. Strategy That the Group's strategy and the resources put in place to implement it contribute to achieving the objectives of growth, profitability and business sustainability. 3.8.3 COMPONENTS OF THE INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM The main procedures of the internal control system, in particular those relating to the preparation and processing of accounting and financial information, are described in the Section below, “Organisation, responsibilities, operating procedures and tools”. 3.8.3.1 Organisation, responsibilities, operating the following year are set and the skills that need to be acquired or 3 procedures and tools consolidated are identified. ORGANISATION OPERATING PROCEDURES The Group’s organisational structure is largely decentralised, which Business operating procedures by defi nition results in a high degree of delegation of operational, In France, the Group has put in place a quality management system functional and legal responsibilities to company officers and managers. (QMS) which is available on its Intranet. The QMS – which is a key Its internal control system and information systems therefore need to be repository of information on quality for the Group's operations – is adapted to this structure in order to effectively contribute to monitoring also applicable in other countries that are significant for the Group's its operations. business. It includes a map of business processes and a set of related Delegations of authority and responsibilities are drawn up in writing procedures and instructions. The quality managers use this system to after approval by executive management. carry out periodic audits aimed at assessing whether the applicable quality standards are being respected. The Group's Code of Conduct, validated by the Board of Directors, is available to all employees. Pre-sales and client contracts Pre-sales and client contract processes are defined in the QMS. RESPONSIBILITIES Before any bid is submitted, an internal decision-making process takes The responsibilities assigned to employees are set out in writing in place on whether or not to actually respond to the client's invitation to job descriptions which are validated by their line managers and tender. If the decision is positive, a technical and commercial bid is supplemented, where applicable, by delegations of authority. Job drawn up and is then subject to validations concerning its technical, descriptions help to clarify the nature of the work and transactions for financial, and legal aspects. which the employees are responsible by clearly describing the type and method of supervision applicable and by integrating, where required, Performing services and reviewing ongoing projects the internal control dimension by setting out their responsibilities related The performance of contracts is overseen by project managers. Monthly to complying with and updating procedures, etc. reviews are organised, at an operational level, for major fixed-fee projects, The delegations of authority describe the permanent or temporary involving an examination of the project's technical status, costs and transfer of responsibilities and chiefly relate to the departments involved revenues, cash flow curve and margin on completion. In addition, within in financial transactions (incurring and authorising capital expenditure, the Group, a task force (essentially made up of operations managers) ceilings set regarding procurement, supplier payments, etc.). The bank conducts periodic project audits covering all of the Group's business units. signing powers put in place at local level must reflect these delegations This project management system has been rounded out via the creation of authority as closely as possible. of the Project Management Community, which now provides a forum for Having suitable resources to achieve its objectives is essential for around 50 of the Group's leading project managers to exchange ideas, the Group, notably due to the level of staff turnover. The Human share experiences and achieve continuous improvement. Assystem also Resources Departments play a key role in guaranteeing this suitability. has a Project Management Institute, which was created at the same time In conjunction with the operations departments, they draw up staff as the Project Management Community with a view to strengthening training plans and coordinate annual performance appraisals during the project culture within the Group. The Project Management Institute which the achievements for the past year are reviewed, targets for provides a specifi c and structured training programme each year, facilitating the development and assessment of project managers' skills. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 47 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES PUT IN PLACE BY THE COMPANY RELATING TO THE PREPARATION AND PROCESSING OF ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION The risk analysis procedure created in 2013 has now been fully rolled The Procurement and General Resources Department then participates out across all existing offerings and contracts. Training on this procedure at various stages of the negotiation process in order to ensure that is provided to some 20 project managers every year. leases are effectively tracked, in France, and where necessary, in other countries. Regular budget reviews concerning premises both in Project reviews are also organised on a quarterly basis at the Group's and outside France are carried out so that information can be regularly head office in the presence of the CFO & Deputy CEO. These reviews exchanged between the General Services and Management Control relate to projects that represent amounts exceeding a defined threshold Departments and that data on existing premises can be updated and (which varies depending on the scopes and countries concerned) as well current and future projects analysed. as projects that have specific characteristics or are exposed to specific risks. They are used to examine the technical and financial progress Delegations of authority of the projects and to update the assessment of associated risks, and The principles applicable to the delegations of authority put in place where required, to draw up appropriate action plans and determine meet a three-fold objective: the ways and means to implement them (both for clients and in-house). ● to raise the awareness of operations managers about their Human resources, recruitment, and payroll management responsibilities in terms of health and safety; Human resource requirements are determined and conveyed by line ● to create a power of representation for the Assystem Group for the management, and the corresponding recruitment procedures are benefit of operations managers; defined and managed by each country's human resources department. ● to set a precise framework within which operations managers exercise Overall budgets for pay increases are managed at the level of each their authority (including the possibility of sub-delegation). operating entity and each country and are reviewed and validated by The delegations mainly concern commitments directly related to the management team. operational areas (hiring of consultants or sales managers, signature Administrative procedures of client contracts, dispute management, etc.). Sales Bank signing powers are only partly delegated, in France and abroad, In France, investigations are carried out before any client account and for limited amounts. is opened in order to ensure the client's solvency (supported by a Budgeting and management control monitoring process to alert the Company to any major changes in solvency). All client accounts are covered by a debt recovery procedure The various operating units draft and present their strategy and annual based on tailored reminder scenarios. budget to the executive management team. The Group's annual budget is then approved by the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. For this purpose, the Company uses client account and debt recovery management software in France. This software is used at various stages of The Group’s executive management team and the Group Finance the billing process as from when the invoice is issued: pre-reminders before Department carry out a monthly analysis and cross-check of the various the due date, reminders, identification of late payments, identification of key reporting indicators in order to identify any variation from forecasts, disputes and monitoring of their resolution, inventory of promises to pay detect any significant shortfalls (notably in terms of the gross margin (and verification of invoice payments at the specified dates). on contracts, operating gross margin, the operational non-billing rate and client payment times) and propose remedial measures if required. Similar procedures, adapted on a case-by-case basis to the specific Purchases businesses and countries concerned, are implemented in the Group's non-French entities. Consequently, the measures and procedures put in Purchasing procedures are subject to separate controls at the following place to prevent client risks and to improve the effectiveness of trade stages of the process: receivables recovery allow the Group, as far as possible, to limit bad ● issue of the requirement by the internal client; debts and ensure good generation of operating cash flow. ● purchase of the equipment or service by the department concerned In addition, the Group has strict internal rules that apply to all consolidated (general services, IT, etc.); entities and which stipulate the revenue recognition procedures for the ● validation of the service and/or delivery by the department concerned; various types of activities and projects (mainly time and materials, work ● validation of the payment authorisation and invoice by the Accounting packages and fixed-fee projects). Department based on the relevant documents. Lastly, the Group has drawn up reinforced General Terms and Conditions of Payment of invoices is organised by the Accounting Department, which Service, which are systematically integrated into the bids it submits to clients. ensures that upstream controls have been carried out and checks, using Real estate sampling techniques, the information used as the basis for validating If new premises are required for particular operations, a statement the invoices. of requirements is drawn up by the operations manager concerned, The Group has strengthened its General Purchase Conditions. which is then validated by the head of the relevant Business Unit and Consolidation forwarded to the General Services Department at Group and/or country level for processing and examination of the corresponding business The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with case. The executive management team is then responsible for analysing International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), based on accounting the project and validating the size and cost of the premises selected. data prepared under the responsibility of the heads of the operating units. 48 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 MANAGEMENT REPORT INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES PUT IN PLACE BY THE COMPANY RELATING TO THE PREPARATION AND PROCESSING OF ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION Points of particular significance for the Group are dealt with centrally. Capital expenditure For example, the Group Finance Department reviews the accounting A capital expenditure authorisation procedure covering all capex treatment of disposals and acquisitions of assets and shares and the categories is applicable to all Group subsidiaries. Given the Group's regular tests carried out on the value of the Company's assets. business, these expenditures are limited and mainly concern computer hardware and software. Accounting The Group Finance Department coordinates the accounts closing Acquisitions and disposals processes and sends out any necessary memorandums and instructions The identifi cation of acquisition targets and their pre-selection are to all consolidated entities. In addition, it meets regularly with the initiated by a dedicated department and/or the operations department Statutory Auditors in order to present specific and significant transactions concerned and are then validated by the executive management team carried out during the year and the accounting options selected. and the Finance Department. Financing and cash management Following the performance of operational, financial, HR, tax and legal The Group has put in place a centralised management system for cash audits, aimed at ensuring the targets are compatible with the Group's and investments, by setting up a cash pool and a Treasury Management business model, as well as reviewing their financial performance and System for entities in Eurozone countries and putting in place other identifying potential risks, acquisition proposals are presented to the cash centralisation procedures for other entities. The Board of Directors defines the cash management policy on a yearly basis with the overall Board of Directors for approval. Acquired companies are immediately integrated into the Group's 3 aim of guaranteeing the liquidity and security of investments. operational and management reporting process and, depending on Currency and interest rate hedges as well as the counterparties for their size, the Group's information systems are deployed to guarantee these hedges are centralised at the level of Assystem SA. The number the reliability of financial information. of banks used for these instruments is limited. Disposals of assets and securities are validated by the Board of Directors The Group has chosen Swift Net to ensure that its bank messaging is and the executive management team and are managed and monitored secure. Combined with its cash management software in Saas mode, at Group level in conjunction with the operations department concerned. this solution provides an optimised system for centrally managing the Legal disputes Group's cash on a day-to-day basis and for minimising financial risk by Legal disputes involving Assystem SA and its subsidiaries are monitored offering a fully integrated management solution for cash and payments. and reported on a continuous basis by the Group Legal Affairs The Group monitors actual and forecast cash flows for each subsidiary Department in conjunction with legal experts at the level of the operations on a daily basis for the Eurozone and on a monthly basis for other departments and/or countries concerned. A quarterly reporting system countries. These reviews cover the forecasts for the main cash flows has been set up in France whereby the potential financial impact of related to operating, financing and investing activities. legal disputes is analysed by the finance directors of each operations department, and, if required, by the Group Finance Department. The Group has rolled out across the majority of its consolidated entities a web-based system for cash fl ow consolidation, reporting Communication of results and analysis, which provides specific responses for highly operational The preparation and validation of press releases and investor issues, including: presentations concerning the Group's results are governed by a specific procedure involving the Group's executive management team, the ● building and structuring processes for monitoring “sliding” and Finance Department, the Communications Department and the Statutory updated cash flow forecasting; Auditors. Draft earnings releases are submitted to the Audit Committee ● standardising and simplifying the reporting and data collection and the Board of Directors for review. processes; The Group takes all reasonable measures to provide regular, reliable, ● analysing, for a given period, gaps between actual and forecast clear and transparent information to its shareholders and fi nancial figures; analysts. ● easily dealing with the other issues that arise as a result of the Information is provided through press releases, the quarterly publication Group's activities (cash pooling, inter-company transactions, multiple of the Group's revenue figures and the half-yearly and yearly publication currencies, identification of cash and non-cash flows). of its results. Financial commitments Financial commitments – including off-balance sheet commitments – The Group organises meetings with financial analysts twice a year, require prior approval. In addition, as part of the accounts closing when it publishes its results, as well as conference calls four times a process, the operating units are required to list all of the commitments year, when it publishes its quarterly revenue figures. they have given and received. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 49 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES PUT IN PLACE BY THE COMPANY RELATING TO THE PREPARATION AND PROCESSING OF ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION TOOLS The quarterly project reviews help to identify the risks involved in The Group has put in place a set of key indicators which enable it to ongoing projects and to decide on any actions to be taken to reduce monitor project management. These indicators are tracked during the them. These reviews – which mainly relate to fixed-fee projects – are quarterly project reviews carried out with operations staff by the CFO carried out using check-lists and enable the following areas to be & Deputy CEO. The Group's financial reporting also includes a series dealt with: of indicators and aggregates which allow for a finely-tuned analysis ● recognition of revenue in line with the fi nancial progress of the of the performance of the various subsidiaries and business units. In contract; addition to these indicators, the Group specifically monitors its indirect ● margin on completion; costs, billable staff time and billing rates. All of the tools used are also rounded out by the Group's internal control measures. ● contractual risks and related reserves and provisions; ● cash flows. 3.8.3.2 Internal communication Each business unit also carries out monthly project reviews, which cover the vast majority of ongoing projects. The Intranet and the reporting and consolidation system are the two centralised communication channels used by the Group to relay key information that is The risk mapping procedure put in place by the Group covers the necessary for the people concerned to exercise their responsibilities. different categories of major risks to which the Group is exposed and measures these risks in terms of impact and vulnerability (i.e. The QMS manual and the main procedures applicable at local level net exposure to risks after taking existing controls and risk reduction (relating to IT, human resources and project management) are published measures into account). on the Intranet. Assystem has opted for a “top-down” approach to allow the Group's All of the subsidiaries are equipped with the reporting and consolidation management to obtain an overall view of the major risks to which it system (LINK), which is the platform used for the financial information is exposed. This overall view emerges as a result of discussions with published by the Group. An accounting guide is distributed to all Group members of the executive management team and with Assystem's key subsidiaries to ensure that information is submitted in a standardised fashion. operations and corporate support managers. The discussions are based The Group communicates with its subsidiaries by circulating memorandums on an inventory of the main risk factors and an assessment of their and procedures in order to ensure that matters affecting the Group as a potential impact and probability of occurrence, and they cover the whole, such as investments, cash management, the monitoring of trade following principal themes: receivables, etc., are dealt with in a consistent manner. ● business/operations; Lastly, subsidiaries are responsible for setting up and maintaining ● contract and project management; management information systems that are compatible with the Group's objectives in terms of reporting financial information and managing ● HR/people and skills management; projects. At this stage, the Group has not opted to implement a shared ● finance. management information system for all of its subsidiaries. It does, For each of the above categories, the main risks have been identified, however, take care to ensure that the descriptions and content of its defi ned and assessed in terms of their impact and probability of key performance indicators are harmonised for comparable activities in occurrence. order to enable cross-business analyses (in particular project profitability analyses) to be carried out based on the same data, and to facilitate The criteria used to assess the impact of identified risks and the the exchange of skills between business units and countries. probability of their occurrence are described below. IMPACT 3.8.3.3 Identifying, analysing and managing risks For risks whose consequences can be measured in monetary terms, their The Group attaches critical importance to effectively managing its risks. impact on consolidated operating profit is determined in accordance with the following scale. The “Risk Factors” Chapter of this Registration Document (Chapter 5) describes the Group's main risks as well as the measures implemented to manage them. 50 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 MANAGEMENT REPORT INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES PUT IN PLACE BY THE COMPANY RELATING TO THE PREPARATION AND PROCESSING OF ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION Magnitude Monetary impact on operating profit Very low Less than €0.5m Low Between €0.5m and €1m Medium Between €1m and €2m High Between €2m and €5m Very high Over €5m PROBABILITY The probability of risks occurring is measured by reference to the past occurrence of comparable and/or similar events, according to the following scale: Extent Occurrence of comparable/similar events in the past Improbable (less than 5%) Never occurred in the past 5 years Unlikely (between 5% and 15%) Occurred once or twice in the past 5 years Possible (between 15% and 30%) Occurred once a year in the past 5 years Very possible (between 30% and 90%) Occurred more than once a year in the past 5 years 3 Certain (over 90%) The risk is the result of non-compliance The various risks thus assessed are positioned on a map with two axes The controls performed cover each contract phase: (impact and probability), which is then used to rank them as follows: ● selection of invitations to tender, ● H igh probability/signifi cant impact: priority risks which require ● submission of bids, attention and monitoring by the Board of Directors. These risks are ● definition of billing rates and pricing, placed under the direct responsibility of one or more members of the Board of Directors, who are tasked with ensuring that a related ● contract riders; action plan is in place and that the resulting measures taken effectively ● Contract review: the Legal Affairs Department conducts an independent reduce the level of risk. review of major contracts before they enter into force. In particular, ● H igh probability/low to medium impact: risks requiring that the the Legal Affairs Department is responsible for defining the general Board of Directors is regularly informed in order to provide it with a terms and conditions of services, which are stated on client invoices. reasonable assurance of the proper functioning of controls aimed at ● Time management and billing: each subsidiary verifi es the time reducing the possibility of the risks occurring. entered into the applications used for this purpose. The controls ● Low to medium probability/low to medium impact: risks requiring carried out ensure that time is correctly allocated to ongoing projects that the Board of Directors is regularly informed in order to provide it and also trigger client invoicing. with reasonable assurance of the proper functioning of controls aimed ● P ayments: the Group has introduced a dual signature policy for at mitigating the impact in the event that the risks occur. means of payment. In line with this policy, the Company defi nes ● L ow probability/low impact: non-priority risks requiring that the thresholds for the authorisation of subsidiaries' expenses based on Board of Directors is periodically informed in order to provide it with categories of authorised signatories. The secure bank messaging reasonable assurance of the proper functioning of controls aimed at system, “swaps”, is used to ensure that the policy is respected. In order containing the risks in this category or completely eliminating them. to reinforce the supervision and control of certain geographically distanced subsidiaries, the Group Treasury Department receives 3.8.3.4 Control activities in line with objectives details of monthly expenses incurred and carries out ex-post controls on these expenses. In view of the Group's high degree of decentralisation and its policy ● Budget and budget adjustments: each subsidiary presents the budget of delegating powers and responsibilities, the scope of the controls that it has drawn up for the current financial year to the members of implemented is defined by each subsidiary's management team based the executive management team who authorise budgets. The same on the Group's underlying internal control framework. procedure applies to budget adjustments that are made during the The main purpose of the controls performed is to reduce the major risks year. to which the Group is exposed. ● Periodic results and reporting: periodic results are reported every The principal categories of control activities cover the following areas: month via the reporting and consolidation application (LINK). The Group Finance Department conducts a critical review of these results ● C ontract authorisation: the Group has established delegation and obtains any further information that it may require from the principles which give the appropriate managers the necessary powers relevant subsidiaries. to authorise contracts. The Group also places particular importance on the appropriate segregation of tasks in order to strengthen the controls undertaken in relation to critical transactions, particularly payments. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 51 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT ANTI-CORRUPTION MEASURES In small-sized entities, the appropriate segregation of tasks is sometimes The Group's executive management team defines the Group's overall diffi cult to achieve owing to the entity's organisational structure. In internal control principles and ensures that they are correctly applied. such cases, specific controls are put in place, essentially in the form of The Audit Committee examines the main reports related to the accounts increased supervision by management, which conducts an independent as well as those concerning internal control. review of critical transactions for control and authorisation purposes. 3.8.3.6 2018 action plan 3.8.3.5 Ongoing monitoring of the internal control process The Group has made internal control part of a continuous improvement plan with the aim of enhancing the operational effectiveness of its Overseeing the internal control process is one of the primary duties processes for preparing and processing accounting and fi nancial of the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee as well as of the information. In line with this, the action plan drawn up for 2018 notably Group's support and operations departments. includes carrying out a priority review of recently-acquired subsidiaries, covering financial, organisational and operational issues. 3.9 ANTI-CORRUPTION MEASURES In 2011 Assystem pledged to uphold the UN Global Compact which translated into mandatory behaviours and practices, as indicated in the sets out ten universal principles covering human rights, labour, the cross-reference table in the CSR report on page 212 and reproduced environment and anti-corruption measures, and reaffirmed its pledge in below. a letter dated 16 January 2017. Within the Group, these principles are Anti-corruption measures Global Compact principles Sources • COP 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 • Code of Ethics (see pages 20 and 47 of this Registration Document) Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including • Code of Business Conduct (see pages 52 and 75 of this Registration extortion and bribery Document) 3.9.1 SECURITIES TRADING CODE OF CONDUCT The Code of Business Conduct describes four specific policies: The Board is guided in its work by its Rules of Procedure which ● Policy concerning gifts and invitations: define its modus operandi and include the Securities Trading Code of ● gifts given or accepted by executives and employees must be: Conduct. The Board regularly reviews its Rules of Procedure in order – of reasonable and symbolic value, to ensure that they are continually in compliance with the applicable – occasional, laws and regulations. The latest update was carried out by the Board on 1 February 2017 in order to align the Rules with European Union – in compliance with the applicable laws and regulations and Regulation no. 596/2014 dated 16 April 2014 on market abuse and consistent with local practices; its implementing legislation, which entered into force on 3 July 2016. ● gifts given by the Group must be transparently recorded in Assystem’s accounts. 3.9.2 FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES ● Anti-bribery policy: executives and employees must give the following undertakings: Employing fair business practices is one of the Group's key priorities. ● not to solicit money, gifts, invitations or any other form of advantage, Assystem has had a Code of Ethics since 2006 and it now also has a ● not to offer, give or promise gifts, invitations or any other form Code of Business Conduct which provides practical guidance on the of advantage to a public offi cial or private individual in order application of the Group's ethical values by defining and describing the to obtain a benefit or preferential treatment, or to influence the principles and behaviours to be followed when conducting business. completion of a transaction or the awarding of a contract, The Code of Business Conduct adds to but does not replace pre-existing ● to obtain details of the anti-corruption rules applicable in the local policies. Its purpose is to ensure that the Group's ethical ethos is Group's host countries, applied consistently in all countries, taking into account the differences in local business practices. ● to notify their superior of any dubious requests or solicitations. 52 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 MANAGEMENT REPORT STATUTORY AUDITORS' FEES ● P olicy concerning exports, dual-use items and technologies and and suppliers to uphold the same values. Although sub-contractors and military equipment and related items. Assystem complies with all suppliers are chosen for their technical expertise, service quality and international trade rules and export and import controls in its host compliance – notably with the rules governing concealed work (in countries, including bans on exports of military equipment and dualparticular, presentation of the “e-attestation” compliance certifi cate use items, as well as with United Nations and European Union required in France) – their ethical practices and sustainable development embargoes. initiatives are also a factor in the selection process. ● Conflict of interest policy. Assystem's executives and employees, the The responsible purchasing principle is also mentioned in the Assystem members of their families and persons close to them, may not hold Code of Ethics and Code of Business Conduct. any interests in a sub-contractor, supplier, client or competitor that See Chapter 5 – Risk factors, and Section 3.8 above for a description could affect the exercise of their duties. of the procedures used to assess the ethics and business practices of In late 2016, a communication campaign was organised to promote the Group’s clients and suppliers. awareness of the Code of Business Conduct and related policies among employees in France and other countries and since 2016 the The accounting and financial control procedures set out in Section 3.8 importance of business ethics has been highlighted in a specific section also enable the Group to ensure that its accounts are not being used of the Group’s Intranet. A training programme for the employees most to hide any corruption. exposed to ethical risks was piloted in 2017, which the Group intends The Group is currently adapting its Code of Business Conduct as well 3 to continue and intensify in 2018. as its policies and resources dedicated to anti-corruption measures in Ethical considerations have been an integral part of the Group's order to fully meet the requirements of French Act 2016-1691 dated purchasing policies for many years and it expects its subcontractors 9 December 2016 on transparency, anti-corruption and modernisation of business practices (the “Sapin II” Act). 3.10 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) All of the information on Assystem’s Corporate Social Responsibility is provided in the CSR report in Chapter 4 of this Registration Document, which forms an integral part of this management report. 3.11 RELATED-PARTY AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS See Chapter 2, Section 2.2.2 of this Registration Document. 3.12 STATUTORY AUDITORS' FEES The fees paid to the Statutory Auditors are set out in Chapter 7, Section 7.3.3 of this Registration Document. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 53 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FIVE-YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY FOR ASSYSTEM SA 3.13 FIVE-YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY FOR ASSYSTEM SA Year 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 I . Capital at year-end Share capital 19,326,066 22,154,831 22,218,216 22,218,216 15,668,216 Number of shares issued 19,326,066 22,154,831 22,218,216 22,218,216 15,668,216 Number of convertible bonds 4,181,818 6,837,098 6,861,795 807,438 None II. Results of operations Net revenue 11,427,562 12,371,760 11,342,261 11,974,072 10,057,485 Profit (loss) before tax, depreciation, amortisation and provisions 26,215,004 14,194,383 50,292,852 (6,401,391) 387,980,428 Corporate income tax 2,250,236 3,230,075 5,315,395 7,143,932 (2,115,209) Profit (loss) after tax, depreciation, amortisation and provisions 25,589,684 14,033,557 93,212,545 (16,350,387) 387,767,535 Dividends paid 9,908,478 16,226,024 16,992,599 21,164,539 * III. Per share data Earnings per share after tax but before depreciation, amortisation and provisions 1.47 0.79 2.50 0.03 24.63 Earnings (loss) per share after tax, depreciation, amortisation and provisions 1.32 0.63 4.20 (0.74) 24.75 Dividend per share 0.45 0.75 0.80 1.00 * IV. Employee data Number of employees 1 1 0 0 0 Total payroll 307,438 523,093 1,468,064 685,571 606,598 Social security contributions 241,251 355,854 578,586 268,782 238,507 * Dividend to be recommended at the next Annual General Meeting. 54 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 4 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) 4.1 CSR VISION AND GOVERNANCE 56 4.5 SOCIO-ECONOMIC INFORMATION: 4.1.1 Vision 56 ACTING AS A RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN 75 4.1.2 CSR governance 59 4.5.1 Business ethics: a fair and responsible player 75 4.5.2 Responsible purchasing: a structured strategy 75 4.2 STAKEHOLDER MAPPING 61 4.5.3 Contributing to local development 75 4.5.4 Sustainable innovation on behalf of clients 76 4.5.5 Engaging with society 77 4.3 HUMAN RESOURCES INFORMATION: HR DEVELOPMENT AS A DRIVER OF PERFORMANCE 63 4.6 METHODOLOGY NOTE 78 4.3.1 A dynamic human resources strategy built in the Group’s image 63 4.6.1 Key indicators 78 4.3.2 Open dialogue with teams 4.6.2 Reporting standards 79 and employee representatives 65 4.6.3 Boundary for calculation of key indicators 80 4.3.3 Diversity, an invaluable strength and a driver of performance 65 4.7 REPORT BY ONE OF THE STATUTORY 4.3.4 Workplace health, safety AUDITORS, APPOINTED and well-being: a priority 67 AS INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY, 4.3.5 Developing talent 69 ON THE CONSOLIDATED HUMAN 4.3.6 Providing training today to meet the needs of RESOURCES, ENVIRONMENTAL AND tomorrow 70 SOCIAL INFORMATION INCLUDED IN 4.3.7 Promoting internal mobility 72 THE MANAGEMENT REPORT 81 4.3.8 Respecting human rights 72 4.4 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION: REDUCING THE GROUP’S CARBON FOOTPRINT 73 4.4.1 General environmental policy 73 4.4.2 Managing the Group’s environmental impact 73 4.4.3 Energy transition 74 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 55 4 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) CSR VISION AND GOVERNANCE Testimonial by Stéphane Aubarbier, Executive Vice-President, warming and meeting growing energy needs. Many countries, such as Assystem E&I: “As a complement to renewable energies, nuclear energy the United Kingdom, Saudi Arabia, India and the United Arab Emirates, is the best option for reconciling the conflicting aims of combating global have chosen this option and are reviving their nuclear programmes.” 4.1 CSR VISION AND GOVERNANCE 4.1.1 VISION project design), through execution (construction and commissioning) and operation, to end-of-life decommissioning and waste management. The energy and digital transitions are breathing life into a new industrial revolution. Climate risk is the first truly global challenge in the history of In July 2017, the Group signed a strategic agreement with EDF. One our planet and one that affects all countries of the world. of the first initiatives under the agreement consisted of partnering EDF in its late-2017 acquisition of Framatome by acquiring a 5% interest For over a hundred years, massive use of fossil fuels has enabled major in this company. In this way, we participated closely in strengthening advances to be made in most sectors of the economy – transport, the French electricity industry’s competitive response to the challenges housing, manufacturing and healthcare – but this development model is of the energy transition. now being threatened by climate change and the depletion of natural resources. Carbon-based fuel (coal, oil and gas) still accounts for twoDigital technology helping to drive the industrial thirds of global electricity production. A transition to carbon-free energies and energy revolution is essential if we want to limit global warming to 2°C. By changing our Digital technology is the second driver of the industrial revolution, relationship with energy and keeping up our efforts, we will contribute changing the way we think and act and reshaping our professions. to meeting the COP 21 sustainable development goals. Technological innovation is also an opportunity to create shared value Nuclear, a low-carbon energy source supporting the by combining improved corporate profitability with enhanced personal energy transition lifestyles. With our deep roots in the knowledge economy, our Group’s value added is based on our strong innovation culture, our ability to Assystem is convinced that carbon-free primary energy sources (nuclear, offer new concepts and our focus on creating a learning community hydraulic, solar and wind power), which currently account for 32% of supported by the sharing and transfer of skills. During the last ten years, global electricity production, can provide a response to the effects of the expertise acquired by our teams in the nuclear market has been an increasingly urban population while also contributing to a low-carbon deployed in other heavily regulated sectors, including healthcare and economy. Nuclear accounts for around 12% of global electricity transport. production(1). LIFE SCIENCES: COLLABORATIVE ROBOTICS HELPING TO IMPROVE PATIENTS’ France has a long-standing energy independence policy focused on WELL-BEING sustainable energy sources. Its energy mix combines nuclear (71%), The healthcare sector has to be organised differently to cope with renewables (22%), gas (6%) and coal (1%)(2). the emergence of a vast number of new pathologies and ageing populations. We are sharing with medical institutions and laboratories A recognised nuclear expert our expertise in the latest technologies, such as hypervision technology for physical security, cyber security technology for data security, and Assystem has the highly-skilled teams and technological expertise needed cobotics (autonomous mobile robots) to improve healthcare services to help public and private sector clients to reinvent their production and free up nursing staff to perform other tasks. Some 400 specialised processes, upgrade their infrastructure and transition to low-carbon engineers, 400 systems engineers and 800 project engineers participate energy sources. in healthcare sector projects throughout Europe and we are further We have a 50-year track record of partnering very large scale nuclear extending our strong presence in the European healthcare sector by projects. Designing and executing a nuclear project requires a good continuing to develop our competitiveness, especially through increased command of the processes, solid technical expertise, behavioural skills, use of digital technologies. and a strong security and compliance culture. Our nuclear segment's 2,500 employees are present at all stages in the nuclear project life cycle, from initiation (feasibility studies, environmental surveys and (1) Source: Le Nucléaire dans le Monde/SFEN. (2) Source: RTE, electricity production by type, 2017. 56 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) CSR VISION AND GOVERNANCE TRANSPORT: WORKING TOWARDS SUSTAINABLE AND CONNECTED MOBILITY NUCLEAR: DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY, THE KEY TO MAKING PROJECT SECURITY RHYME WITH COMPETITIVENESS In a more open and more urbanised world, transport infrastructure operators are faced with many challenges, including growing passenger Companies operating in the nuclear sector have to manage and analyse numbers, pollution concerns and passenger safety. We partner urban, vast quantities of data. Deployment of PLM and BIM digital software suburban, regional and international public transport network operators, helps multi-disciplinary teams to archive, analyse and share data in especially railway companies. Digital technologies such as Product real time over the nuclear infrastructure’s entire life cycle. This data & Project Lifecycle Management (PLM) software and digital 3-D Building traceability also translates into greater security at each stage of the Information Modelling (BIM) software, combined with solutions to project. Our digital solutions deliver improved operating margins and improve transport systems’ energy efficiency and responsible materials significant reductions (around 25%) in development and construction and resources choices are also helping us to manage engineering costs. The digital engineering software deployed for the ITER project has projects more competitively and responsibly. Our teams responsible helped the companies in the consortium (from three different countries) for developing and integrating critical control and safety systems also and the 400-strong project team to work better together, leading to a contribute to optimising transport system operations and safety. 15% saving in design costs. CARBON EMISSIONS BY ELECTRICITY SOURCE (source: Assystem) NUCLEAR SOLAR GAS COAL AND WIND 4 GA S 12* 48 490 820 * CO2 emissions per kWh (in grams) ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 57 4 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) CSR VISION AND GOVERNANCE BREAKDOWN OF WORLDWIDE ENERGY SOURCES (source: Le Nucléaire dans le Monde/SFEN) Nantes and Lyon hospitals: autonomous mobile robots lending a hand to nursing staff 32% Today’s hospitals are vast and departments are often located far from each other. The Nantes teaching hospital needed 41% a reliable autonomous system to move medical equipment from one part of the hospital to another and between its four different floors. 5% We deployed a cobotics solution (where people and robots learn to work together) in partnership with the hospital’s 22% medical teams. Two mobile robots were developed to carry COAL endoscopes from the sterilisation area to the operating theatres. GAS Value created: By having robots perform this task, the nursing OIL LOW-CARBON ENERGY SOURCES staff can spend more time caring for patients. Marseille subway system: safer, connected trains and a more Managing the largest energy efficiency project in Dubai fluid service Enova, a joint venture between Majid al Futtaim and Veolia, has Three disruptive technologies – connected mobility, sustainable signed an Energy Savings Performance Contract (ESPC) with mobility and autonomy – are reshaping the transport sector. Etihad ESCO for the deployment of energy saving measures in Public transport is increasingly recognised as being the best the Jafza industrial zone. This is the largest ESPC signed to date way of reducing traffic congestion and CO 2 emissions. The in the United Arab Emirates and one of the largest in the world. new connected driverless subway systems are not only safer The contract covers the renovation of 157 buildings providing and more reliable, they also offer an improved passenger employee housing, the replacement of 5,000 air-conditioning experience. Assystem was selected to manage the Marseille units, and the upgrading of 6,000 air-conditioning units, 85,000 subway system upgrade, alongside the Parsons engineering lighting units and 34,500 water management appliances. Group. The most diffi cult aspect of the project consists of Some 42,000 people will benefit from the project. Assystem replacing driver-operated trains with fully automated driverless was selected to provide Project Management Consultancy trains without interrupting the traffic. (PMC) services for the execution phase of the project. Value created: the subway system is safer and more Value created: The project will deliver a guaranteed 30% comfortable; trains run more frequently and are more punctual reduction in annual electricity and water use. The €13 million thanks to the automatic traffic management system. investment will generate a guaranteed €29 million worth of savings in energy costs over six years. CO2 emissions will be reduced by 18,500 tonnes and 5.5 billion litres of water will be saved over six years. 58 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) CSR VISION AND GOVERNANCE The CSR strategy is organised around four key objectives: Responsible effluent management at the Marcoule nuclear site The STEMA project undertaken by France’s Atomic Energy BE A RESPONSIBLE BE AN ETHICAL and Alternative Energies Commission (CEA) at the Marcoule EMPLOYER MARKET PLAYER nuclear site consists of embedding radioactive effluent using a mineral cement matrix. Two new buildings have had to be constructed: ● a waste unloading station to collect off-site effluent and onsite effluent delivered by tanker truck; ● a cementation building to condition the effluent in cement matrices inside waste drums after the radioactivity has been trapped through chemical coprecipitation. Assystem and another engineering fi rm, EGIS, have been chosen to provide Engineering Procurement and Construction management (EPCm) services for the entire project, from preliminary studies to commissioning. CREATE VALUE FOR CLIENTS Value created: Development of a 3-D Building Information MANAGE THE GROUP'S THROUGH SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENTAL AND INNOVATIVE Model (BIM) providing the manager and the operator with FOOTPRINT SOLUTIONS all the information needed throughout the building’s life cycle (operations, maintenance, modifications, dismantling). More responsible and secure management of radioactive waste in In 2017, we stepped up our commitment through the following key 4 nuclear facility clean-up and dismantling operations. initiatives: Be a responsible employer 4.1.2 CSR GOVERNANCE We have a long-standing commitment to helping people with disabilities We have adopted an assertive CSR strategy aligned with our business to obtain employment. In 2017, we celebrated the 10th anniversary of imperatives. Our CSR commitments are built around our commitment the creation of our “Mission Handicap” by organising events throughout to complying with the laws and regulations in force in our host the year and embarking on a RoadTour. An iconic Airstream caravan countries and reflect the best way of conducting our business. Integrity, (based on a 1930s design) criss-crossed France, stopping at all the fairness, intelligence-sharing and teamwork are also central to our Group’s facilities. Many events were organised, including “silent cafés” CSR governance. The strategy is based on a process of continuous where employees were invited to place their order using sign language. improvement and is promoted by management as well as by all The employment rate* for disabled employees has increased threefold concerned employees. We will report to shareholders each year on in the last ten years. the measures taken and the results obtained. We also pursue an ambitious gender balance strategy around three main pillars: ● networking, to create an internal community of women and men interested in gender balance issues; ● hiring, to tempt more women to pursue scientific careers, preferably at Assystem; ● advancing, to guarantee the well-being and career development of women employees, notably through awareness-raising, training and mentoring initiatives. The progress made in terms of both hiring (with women representing 30% of new hires) and gender balance (women now account for 26% of the workforce) attests to our commitment to driving up the employment rate. * Disabled employees as a percentage of total employees in France. We call this the “direct employment rate for disabled employees”. In 2018, it stands at 2.5%. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 59 4 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) CSR VISION AND GOVERNANCE In 2017, we conducted an engagement sur vey of around ● the responsibility of our teams for meeting the highest standards of 3,500 employees, with a 63% response rate. The survey measured excellence and professional performance in the execution of a project employee engagement based on three key factors: or engagement, and also the Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility. ● interest in their job, the projects they are working on and the These values are listed in the Assystem Code of Conduct which sets opportunities available to them to expand their skills; out for employees the core principles that should guide their actions and decisions. They are also embodied in the 10 principles of the UN ● pride in working for the Group, in the contracts won and the clients Global Compact which Assystem has pledged to uphold since 2011. served; ● the quality of client service (level of excellence). Manage the Group’s environmental footprint The results provided an opportunity for us to build on our strengths (a workforce that is confident in the Group’s future and proud of the Group, Sustainable mobility is a core focus of the strategy to reduce the Group’s the quality of its management and the quality of the services delivered carbon footprint, given that business travel by employees currently to clients) and to address the concerns and expectations expressed by accounts for 98% of the Group’s CO2 emissions. Among the solutions respondents (career momentum and improved visibility about trajectories deployed in France in 2017, we issued guidelines recommending that and opportunities). travel be undertaken by train rather than plane for journeys of less than three hours, began transitioning the car fleet towards green vehicles and actively promoted car-sharing. Be an ethical market player Assystem has developed a strong culture that has been enhanced by the Create value for clients through sustainable and integration of new teams and by our success in overcoming challenges. innovative solutions The Assystem culture is illustrated by the following values which represent The ENGAGE consortium team (of which Assystem is a member), won a set of guideposts for an organisation that is constantly open to change: the Syntec Ingénierie 2017 Industry and Technology Prize for the ITER ● the creativeness of our teams, when it comes to finding solutions, (International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor) project. Launched resolving complex situations and supporting innovations; several years ago in Cadarache in the south of France, the ITER project ● the responsiveness of a client-centric organisation that is constantly aims to create a new type of power station functioning on nuclear doing things for the fi rst time in an increasingly competitive and fusion. The project consists of recreating on Earth the fusion reaction global market; of hydrogen atoms, in the same way as it occurs in the centre of the sun and stars. This could potentially create a safe and inexhaustible ● the solidarity demonstrated between seasoned experts and engineers source of energy that is environmentally friendly due to the absence of who are just starting out on their careers, within multicultural teams radioactive waste. serving industrial and economic sectors with different cycles; 60 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) STAKEHOLDER MAPPING 4.2 STAKEHOLDER MAPPING Banks/ CO IC Investors M M M N O O UN EC IT Shareholders Y Schools and universities Insurers Subcontractors and suppliers External Media bodies Our partners Scientiﬁc Our competitors Our clients community Our employees Candidates Public 4 Regulators and authorities Our labour supervisors Governments relations partners Professional organisations I NS Judicial authorities T ALI IT U C SO Employer/ O TI employee N organisations AL STRATEGIC CRITICAL IMPORTANT We are committed to listening to stakeholders in France and internationally, be they clients, employees, partners, public authorities, regulators and supervisors, students or non-profit organisations, in order to understand their expectations, identify the main risks and opportunities, adapt our approach and improve our performance. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 61 4 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) STAKEHOLDER MAPPING In this way, we intend to create the necessary conditions for lasting, responsible and shared business growth. In 2017, we reviewed the stakeholder map, classifying them according to their degree of influence over the Group, the legitimacy of their demands and expectations, and the urgency with which these need to be addressed. Interactions Expectations Dialogue method • Frequent and recurring dialogue to partner Our clients are our main source of them in implementing their strategy and business referrals. Thanks to them, we • Deliver projects addressing their business challenges generate revenue and create value. • Engagement and service quality • Annual satisfaction survey covering Clients Our clients’ business environment influences • Compliance with safety, security and 300 clients. 90% satisfaction rate our business. environmental imperatives • Joint participation in conferences and Our agile business model and ability to • Innovative technological solutions symposia on future developments in our adapt to their environment are essential. businesses • EcoVadis Gold CSR rating • Interesting engagements Our employees are essential to our value • High quality management • Engagement survey every two years creation process. • High quality dialogue with employee Employees We need to develop their employability • Competitive remuneration • Attractive employer representatives and promote an open and flexible work • Live chats with senior management • Skills development environment. • Workplace wellness Our partners are strategic and complementary. • Joint projects built around innovative They enable us to access new techniques solutions • Creation of project teams to work on Our partners common solutions and skills in order to win new contracts. • Shared project governance We create groups to work together on long• High quality client service term projects. • Presence on engineering school campuses There is a shortage of qualified engineers • Interesting projects • Sponsoring partnerships with selected and it is therefore important for us to make • Career paths and development schools Candidates Assystem an attractive employer brand. opportunities • Social media presence Attracting and hiring talent is crucial to • Quality of work life and attractiveness • Presence at job fairs support our growth. (pride in their employer) • Media relations (employer brand) Our competitors are in direct competition with us. We operate in the same markets, bid for • Comply with the principles of healthy • Continuous dialogue with competitors, the same contracts and “source” the same competition some of which are also partners candidates. We offer competing innovations • Contribute to the public debate and • Membership of industry organisations Our competitors (Syntec Ingénierie) and technological solutions to clients. industry discussions in order to drive It is important that we continue to present advances in our disciplines and in • Participation in conferences, debates and competitive, attractive and differentiating bids professional practices trade fairs. in order to win contracts. • Publication of the reports required under The support of our shareholders is critical the applicable regulations to the Group’s medium-term development. • A sustainable business model • Organisation of They want to be informed about our major • Recurring performance • General Meetings Shareholders decisions and core strategies. They expect • Ethical practices • Transparency about financial and other • Organisation of investor and analyst us to meet the highest standards of corporate meetings governance, in accordance with the AFEPissues • Code of Conduct MEDEF Code. • Securities Trading Code of Conduct 62 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) HUMAN RESOURCES INFORMATION: HR DEVELOPMENT AS A DRIVER OF PERFORMANCE 4.3 HUMAN RESOURCES INFORMATION: HR DEVELOPMENT AS A DRIVER OF PERFORMANCE The Group’s 2017 HR indicators are as follows: Global Reporting Initiative 2017 (GRI) V4 equivalent Total number of Group employees* at 31 December 4,832 G4-9 % of permanent contracts at 31 December 86% G4-10 (b) % of women at 31 December 25% G4-10 (a) % of seniors* at 31 December 26% G4-LA12 (b) % of employees with disabilities* at 31 December 2% G4-LA12 (b) Average age of employees at 31 December (in years) 37.5 G4-LA12 (b) Number of new hires during the year 1,135 G4-LA1 (a) Employee turnover during the year 199 Absentee rate* for the year (number of absentee days lost per 100 days worked) 3.47 G4-LA6 (a) Accident frequency rate* for the year (number of workplace accidents per million hours worked) 3.13 G4-LA6 (a) Accident severity rate* for the year (number of accident days lost per 1,000 hours worked) 0.08 G4-LA6 (a) 4 Number of employees trained* during the year 2,292 G4-LA9 (a) Total number of hours’ training* given during the year 59,088 G4-LA9 (a) Average duration of training* given during the year (in hours) 25.78 G4-LA9 (a) * These terms are defined in Section 4.6 below. Except for the total number of Group employees, all of the above indicators exclude Insiéma, MPH Global Services and MPH Global Services’ subsidiaries and associates. 4.3.1 A DYNAMIC HUMAN RESOURCES France. The high proportion of employees with permanent contracts has STRATEGY BUILT IN THE GROUP’S IMAGE been a constant feature of the workforce for many years and demonstrates our commitment to offering stable employment opportunities while also Employees are the Group’s lifeblood. The challenge for Assystem is helping young people to set foot on the career ladder. In 2017, young to nurture diverse profi les and offer equal opportunities to progress people accounted for 19% of new hires in France. Seniors (employees in the organisation, so that each and every employee can follow an aged 45 or over) represented 10% of new hires. interesting career path. Our teams’ expectations are changing and it is up to management to come up with responses when staffing client Employees are taken on under fixed-term contracts only as short-term engagements. replacements or to deal with a temporary surge in activity, in accordance with French labour laws. Around 2% of employees in France have been hired under “CDIC” open-ended project contracts with an average 4.3.1.1 Number of employees duration of more than two years, corresponding to the development As of 31 December 2017, Assystem had 4,832 employees. cycle at Assystem. The total can be broken down as follows: Hiring people with disabilities is another important challenge for the Group. In recent years, various initiatives have been launched to improve By geographic region: our performance in this area, particularly in France. Examples include: ● France: 3,441, representing 71.2% of the Group total; ● development of partnerships with job sites and recruitment fi rms ● International: 1,391, representing 28.8% of the Group total. specialised in helping people with disabilities to find work; The average age of employees as of 31 December 2017 was ● awareness-raising initiatives among managers and other staff 37.6 years, with seniors (employees aged 45 or over) representing responsible for hiring new employees; 26% of the Group total. Women make up 25% of the workforce. ● organisation of hiring events (job forums, handicafés, etc.). 4.3.1.2 Employee turnover Lastly, a total of 1,040 employees left the Group in 2017, including 199 who were dismissed. A total of 1,135 people were hired in 2017 (permanent and temporary contracts), of which 980 in France. Employees with permanent contracts represent 86% of the Group workforce and 93% of the workforce in ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 63 4 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) HUMAN RESOURCES INFORMATION: HR DEVELOPMENT AS A DRIVER OF PERFORMANCE 4.3.1.3 Remuneration We have backed up this policy by issuing a work/life balance charter and we also support employees during important life events such In 2017, the Group’s payroll costs were as follows (see also Note 5.3.1 as the birth of a child, a serious illness or an accident, as well as to the consolidated financial statements in this Registration Document): proposing flexible working arrangements. The Group’s organisation and In millions of euros 2017 processes are designed to promote employee empowerment, initiative and accountability. In 2017, the absentee rate in France was 3.62%. Wages and salaries (218.5) Social security contributions (59.2) ADOPTING NEW FORMS OF WORK Total (277.7) A teleworking agreement was signed during 2017 with trade union representatives, following a pilot scheme implemented the previous year. At its meeting on 26 July 2017, the Board of Directors used the Teleworking has many social, financial and environmental benefits. The authorisation granted by shareholders in the 24th resolution of the Annual agreement provides a protective and structured framework for eligible General Meeting of 24 May 2016 to: employees, who are given the option of working from home one or ● Amend the 4 July 2016 performance share plan by setting the portion two days a week. of Tranche 2 shares that will vest for their beneficiaries at the end of It gives employees more flexibility and independence in organising their the vesting period (30 April 2020) at 40% of the shares originally working hours. By limiting commuting time and reducing tiredness, stress granted to them under Tranche 2 on 4 July 2016, corresponding to and the related risks, teleworking enables employees to enjoy a better a total of 91,800 shares for all 89 beneficiaries. The vesting of the work/life balance. This solution is also a factor of social inclusion, by Tranche 2 shares will not be subject to any performance conditions making it easier to employ people with disabilities or suffering from a and the only applicable condition will be that the beneficiary remains chronic illness. a member of the Group from 4 July 2016 until 30 April 2020. In The agreement enables us to create a more engaged workforce, reduce addition, the shares will not be subject to any lock-up period. our overall carbon footprint, optimise workspace utilisation and improve ● A ward 66,750 free shares to 89 beneficiaries, without any our teams’ accountability and performance. performance conditions, subject only to their remaining a member Training tools were developed to support this cultural change, which of the Group from 26 July 2017 to 30 April 2020. These shares requires a degree of trust, clear objectives and manager and team will not be subject to any lock-up period. buy-in. A half-day training session and a guide to teleworking enabled ● Award 1,000 free shares to one beneficiary, without any performance managers to find out more about the system, embrace this new form of conditions. The vesting period for this free share plan will end on remote management and remove any obstacles. Eligible employees were 26 July 2019 and the shares will not be subject to any lock-up period. given a teleworker’s handbook setting out their rights and obligations ● Award 3,000 free shares to one beneficiary, without any performance and outlining the benefits of teleworking. A communication campaign conditions. The vesting period for this free share plan will end on was organised to support the introduction of the new agreement and 30 April 2020 and the shares will not be subject to any lock-up further awareness-raising initiatives will be launched in 2018 to inform period. employees and managers about this new working arrangement that is A t its meeting on 7 September 2017, the Board of Directors used also available for staff working in clients’ offices. the authorisation granted by shareholders in the 26th resolution of the RIGHT TO DISCONNECT Annual General Meeting of 16 May 2017 to grant 10,500 free shares to 13 beneficiaries, without any performance conditions. The vesting Extending the initiatives to improve the quality of work life, in 2017 a period for this free share plan will end on 30 April 2020 and the shares collective agreement was signed implementing the “right to disconnect” will not be subject to any lock-up period. provisions of French labour regulations. The aim of the agreement is to establish rules for the use of professional digital applications, Information about these free share plans is also provided in Note 5.3.3 especially outside working hours. We want to promote reasonable use to the consolidated financial statements in this Registration Document. of computers, smartphones, e-mail and other digital devices by insisting that employees remain disconnected from these tools between 8:00 pm 4.3.1.4 Organisation of working hours and 7:30 am on working days and throughout weekends, holidays We ensure that employees work in a safe, respectful and pleasant and other leave periods. environment, in line with our belief that happy employees are engaged employees. 64 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) HUMAN RESOURCES INFORMATION: HR DEVELOPMENT AS A DRIVER OF PERFORMANCE These agreements, which concern work organisation and conditions, An innovative system for employees who are on bench add to the collection of agreements signed in prior years that are still in full force and effect (covering such issues as gender equality, Innovation is part of Assystem’s DNA and we actively promote employment of disabled persons, employee profi t sharing and time this culture within the organisation and through specific savings accounts). They aim to introduce more flexible working methods, programmes. To stimulate team creativeness, engineers who while also helping the Company to operate efficiently and improve have fi nished one engagement and are waiting for a new its performance through greater employee engagement and active one to begin are invited to join the Innovation unit and work dialogue with elected employee representatives. on ground-breaking technological solutions such as the use of 3-D Building Information Modelling (BIM) in engineering projects. They can also devote the time to community outreach 4.3.3 DIVERSITY, AN INVALUABLE STRENGTH AND A DRIVER OF PERFORMANCE initiatives, such as the Handroide exoskeleton project to develop a wheelchair that enables people with reduced mobility to Fighting discrimination is an integral part of our corporate values. We pass obstacles more easily, thereby facilitating their access to endeavour to create an inclusive environment and to promote diversity industrial sites. This type of project is financed by the French as a driver of performance in response to client expectations. The aim research tax credits generated by the Innovation unit’s R&D is to reflect the society in which we operate and to enable the women activities. and men who make up our corporate community to express their talents. 4.3.3.1 Promoting gender equality 4.3.2 OPEN DIALOGUE WITH TEAMS The engineering profession traditionally attracts more men than women. AND EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES For many years now, we have been actively promoting gender balance and equality, and have signed a collective agreement on this topic. We Social dialogue is a powerful component of Assystem’s corporate identity. We work hard to maintain smooth communications between are convinced that gender balance is a key driver of transformation, 4 competitiveness and organisational innovation. Our assertive policy management, elected employee representatives, the trade unions and focuses on: employees. ● increasing the number of women interviewed during the hiring 4.3.2.1 Social dialogue process; ● implementing initiatives such as training and mentoring to help women We are building social dialogue with employee representatives and move up the career ladder and take on senior management positions; the trade unions on issues concerning the Group’s strategy, financial and business policies and human resources policies. The process ● guaranteeing pay equality; enables us to share information about defining events in the life of the ● offering a good work/life balance. Group in a climate of trust and openness. One example is the regular To fulfil these commitments, we have set up a structured organisation participation of the heads of the Business Units in the monthly meetings comprising a gender diversity officer tasked with defining and deploying organised between employee representatives and the trade unions. the Group’s strategy and objectives in this area, a Group-level steering We are convinced of the benefits of continuous constructive dialogue Committee that meets once a month to track the status of gender diversity based on mutual respect, a responsible attitude and kept promises. projects and validate the work performed, a project team responsible In 2016, an agreement concerning special arrangements and resources for the projects’ operational management that meets twice a month for employee representatives was signed between AEOS and the trade to ensure that initiatives are proceeding according to plan, and a unions. The purpose of the agreement, which goes beyond the Group’s network of correspondents responsible for deploying the gender diversity legal obligations, is to enable Works Council members to perform their programme in their respective countries and regions. duties in the best possible conditions by allocating additional hours for Our commitment to going further and faster with this policy is supported Council business to each member. by a set of clear objectives to be met by 2020: In 2017, all elected employee delegates were invited to an information ● hiring: 40% of new hires to be women by 2020 (versus 30% in day during which they had an opportunity to exchange views with France in 2017 and 22% in 2010); members of management. The broad lines of the Group’s strategy ● gender balance: women to account for 30% of the Group’s total were presented, in the presence of the Chief Executive Officer, and workforce by 2020 (versus 25% in 2017 and 17% in 2010); during the afternoon, a question and answer session was organised on employment and other HR issues. ● proportion of women in management positions: 30% of managers to be women by 2020, reflecting the proportion of women in the total 4.3.2.2 Overview of collective agreements workforce (versus 11% in 2010). In accordance with the applicable legislation, two collective agreements We have adopted a two-pronged strategy to meet these goals: were signed in France in 2017 on: ● Encourage women to choose scientific careers in order to expand ● teleworking; the talent pool and deploy a sponsoring strategy focused on training ● the right to disconnect. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 65 4 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) HUMAN RESOURCES INFORMATION: HR DEVELOPMENT AS A DRIVER OF PERFORMANCE girls and women with priority given to scientific education. We are In 2017, we celebrated the 10th anniversary of our “Mission Handicap”. convinced that education and training are two key drivers of women’s Since it was created, we have tripled the disabled employment rate independence. We put this strategy into practice by: and multiplied by six the number of people with disabilities hired by the ● J oining forces with target engineering schools very early in the Group. As one of the first engineering groups to take assertive action education cycle, to partner them in their awareness-raising initiatives in this area, we have succeeded in embedding disabled employment in colleges and high schools, designed to encourage girls at a in our corporate culture by signing a second three-year agreement in young age to specialise in technical and scientific subjects. favour of this category of employees, covering the period 2016-2018. ● Setting up mentoring programmes to provide young engineers with The Mission Handicap’s results and advances are visible on a daily support in their training and career choices. In 2017, we renewed basis and are a genuine source of encouragement. Objectives have our commitment to the Lyon INSA science institute by creating a been set and a continuous improvement process is deployed by a Gender Equality Chair (see Section 4.3.5.2). network of correspondents through the following initiatives: ● Teaming up with external partners working in this area, such as ● H iring and integration of people with disabilities: 20 full-time the “Elles Bougent” non-profit organisation. employees and 3 employees under work-study contracts, to attain ● Promoting the advancement of women within our organisation by: the 3% disabled employment rate by end-2018. To achieve this objective, we are working with specialised recruitment firms such ● Developing monthly opportunities for women to share experiences as RQTH Recrutement. In 2017, for the second year running, we and network through the Incredible Women programme. supported Handiréseau’s “Trophées des Femmes en Entreprises ● Organising a specific training programme for women, including a Adaptées” awards for women working in companies specialised in Women Leaders training module, to boost their careers. employing people with disabilities. These awards reflect two causes ● Identifying a pool of high potential women engineers and offering that are close to our hearts, employing people with disabilities and them specific support and monitoring. promoting gender balance. ● S etting up a mentoring system to steer young women towards ● Partnerships with engineering schools – ENSAM and the Lyon INSA – management positions and allow them to benefit from the advice and the “Hanploi & School” programme to raise student awareness and guidance of seasoned engineers and managers. of disability issues. Mission Handicap works with target engineering schools to promote integration of people with disabilities and raise awareness among future managers of the challenges of managing Women have their own network at Assystem diversity. This is an important commitment, because people with Incredible Women is an initiative proposed by one of the disabilities experience problems in accessing higher education in women working at Assystem that was enthusiastically taken order to qualify as engineers. It is why we are committed to setting up up by management. This internal network has around engineering skills acquisition programmes for people with disabilities 300 members. Various events are organised to give women the who embark on threeor five-year degree courses. opportunity to meet each other, exchange views with members ● Helping people with disabilities to keep their jobs: we work with of senior management or external speakers and receive advice an ergonomist to adapt work stations, as well as implementing and guidance. In 2017, an evening event was organised to employability management initiatives. Mission Handicap works with present to women engineers the various nuclear engineering the internal mobility unit to ensure that people with disabilities keep professions along with the positions to be filled in the Paris their jobs or transfer to other positions within the organisation. region. ● R egular information and awareness-raising initiatives targeting employees and managers alike. The HandiWeeks organised every year since 2014 consist of a week-long series of events dedicated to disability issues in our various facilities. 4.3.3.2 Disability, a driver of social innovation ● Technological innovation, with the Innovation unit’s Handroide project As a Group working in high-tech industries, Assystem believes that to build a prototype of a hybrid mobility assistance wheelchair. By technological innovation is not enough on its own, it should be combining three functions – wheelchair, exoskeleton and gyropod – accompanied by innovations that benefit employees and the community. Handroide will enable people with reduced mobility to access all We are identified in part by our ability to propose innovative solutions industrial sites. Mission Handicap, which supports over 20% of that increase job opportunities for people with disabilities, explore employees with disabilities or motor impairment, is helping to fund new ways to communicate about disability issues and come up with the project. original ideas to help employees view their activities through the eyes ● Development of partnerships through the purchase of services from of a disabled person. sheltered workshops and companies specialised in employing people with disabilities (see Section 4.5.2). 66 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) HUMAN RESOURCES INFORMATION: HR DEVELOPMENT AS A DRIVER OF PERFORMANCE In 2017, all of our facilities in France were OHSAS 18001-certified. A RoadTour to celebrate Mission Handicap’s 10th anniversary In the belief that safety is a driver of performance, we are committed to conducting our business in a safe environment for our employees, To mark Mission Handicap’s 10th anniversary, the team crissclients, partners and other stakeholders. crossed France in an iconic vintage-style caravan, meeting employees, local partners (non-profits, regional authorities) We have developed a four-pronged health and safety strategy: and clients (EPR Flamanville and EDF Marseille), and organising STRATEGY TO PREVENT MAJOR PHYSICAL AND PSYCHO-SOCIAL RISKS sign-language courses, theatrical events and Christmas markets selling products made in sheltered workshops or by companies Assystem is an engineering g roup and its exposure to the risk of specialised in employing people with disabilities. Highlights serious accidents is therefore limited. Physical risks mainly concern of the RoadTour included “silent cafés” where employees road accidents (45%), slipping and falling (35%), dizziness (9%) and were invited to place their orders using sign language and accidents linked to the work environment and technical gestures. the installation of a photobooth outside the caravan with In 2017, we kept up our efforts to reduce the number of road accidents pictograms presenting different aspects of disability. The photos involving our employees in France. These occur mainly during employees’ were then displayed in a collaborative fresco. This was an daily commute or business trips. Several initiatives have been deployed, ingenious way of linking the Group’s various entities. Following including: the example of the engineering professions, Mission Handicap endeavours to innovate by developing disruptive solutions. ● campaigns to raise awareness of road accident risks; Some 290 employees took part in the RoadTour which was ● road safety training for employees who spend a lot of time on the supported by a large-scale media campaign. road (i.e. drivers who clock up more than 27,000 km. a year); ● half-day eco-driving courses for employees who have been involved in an accident during the past year. Preventing discrimination These courses helped to reduce the accident rate by 1.2% in 2017. 4 Preventing psycho-social risks is also a key concern for the Group. We are also committed to creating an inclusive environment Management is keenly aware of situations that could make employees and preventing all forms of discrimination, in particular through feel vulnerable or experience a loss of confidence, such as: the “Equal Access to Education” charter adopted in 2005. We have built on this charter by organising regular training and ● exceptionally complex projects with very short deadlines, where the information initiatives. The “Manager’s Employee Relations support and encouragement of all the teams involved is important; Toolkit” training programme for new managers includes ● the on-bench periods that are a feature of Assystem’s business model, diversity training designed to provide a basic understanding of leading to professional and geographic mobility for the consultants all of these issues, including disability. In 2018, in compliance concerned who receive effective support from the Group; with new legislation in France, staff involved in recruitment, ● individual situations (such as extended periods of ill health or the loss managers and HR teams will participate in a training of a loved one) and group situations (such as a terrorist attack or programme on diversity-sensitive hiring practices addressing a state of emergency) that temporarily affect the life of employees. 24 discrimination criteria, conducted with the assistance of an external partner. We have a long-standing proactive strategy to address these risks, through a vigilance network made up of members of the Health, Safety & Working Conditions Committee, the directors of the regional offices and human resources professionals. The network’s mission is to identify 4.3.4 WORKPLACE HEALTH, SAFETY and monitor employees classified as “at risk” or who have become AND WELL-BEING: A PRIORITY vulnerable following an adverse life event. Managers at all levels in the organisation receive regular training in ways to prevent these risks and Workplace health and safety are a priority concern and we pay to manage them if they arise. The focus on anticipating and listening particular attention to identifying and preventing risks. Our safety ensures that employees who are struggling to cope receive the support culture is a significant driver of internal cohesion; however, it is also they need. The solutions offered may include making adjustments to an important issue that we address through a broad-based approach to their workstations. Employees can also contact a confidential helpline protecting employee health and safety that considers not only applicable operated by an external firm, Ileas. health and safety regulations but also the standards set by our clients and our own internal standards. 4.3.4.1 Health and safety, focused on preventing risks We have established a health and safety management system aligned with international standards such as OHSAS 18001. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 67 4 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) HUMAN RESOURCES INFORMATION: HR DEVELOPMENT AS A DRIVER OF PERFORMANCE RAISING EMPLOYEES’ AWARENESS OF HEALTH AND SAFETY RISKS THROUGH TRAINING Developing a genuine safety culture in the nuclear industry Over 2,500 health and safety chat sessions were organised in The growth of our engineering services for the nuclear industry, 2017 throughout France, involving 3,000 employees. Led by middle coupled with the standards imposed by our clients and managers, these chats on topics raised by front-line employees are one industry regulators, encouraged us to implement an assertive of the highlights of our health and safety strategy. They represented risk management strategy in this area. We are committed to some 6,000 hours’ training in 2017. Management and employee actively working to raise employees’ awareness of the risks by appropriation of health and safety issues reflects a high-level commitment a variety of means, including regulatory and voluntary training to continuously improving project and site safety. programmes, practical guidelines and action to instil a culture of risk prevention. The broad lines of the strategy are presented We have also developed a digital Health-Safety-Environment guide in a nuclear safety charter. The charter presents the nuclear risk for new hires, describing the main risks associated with our businesses management strategy and extends the continuous improvement (nuclear risks, electrical risks, chemical risks, road accident risks, process in the areas of quality, safety and environmental slipping and falling risks, risks associated with working on computer protection. screens, etc.), the related preventive measures and the behaviours to be adopted to prevent their occurrence. Assystem and its partners and subcontractors have pledged to uphold the following principles: DEVELOPING A CULTURE OF LEARNING BY EXPERIENCE ● make nuclear safety a core priority; promote development Learning by experience and through continuous improvement is an of a joint and shared nuclear safety culture aligned with integral part of the Assystem health and safety strategy. Risks identified International Atomic Energy Agency (AIEA) guidelines and by front-line employees are reported using the Easy digital app and best practices for the management of human, social and integrated in the information system. Over 500 risks were reported via organisational factors; Easy in 2017. The data are analysed and discussed during monthly ● guarantee deep management involvement in operating steering Committee meetings. The aim is to lead a dynamic risk reporting activities, focused on discipline, control and vigilance; process at the Group’s various facilities, share best practices and feedback from front-line employees. ● build a culture of continuous improvement, to which all employees contribute, based on appropriate guidelines to guarantee compliance with the nuclear operators’ safety 4.3.4.2 Promoting quality of working life standards and local nuclear safety regulations; Our quality of working life initiatives cover three areas: improving work/ ● maintain the highest internal and external standards in order life balance, preventing discrimination, and promoting flexible working to make Assystem’s outstanding nuclear safety culture one arrangements. They are aligned with the collective agreement signed of the Group’s core strengths. with employee representatives. The two agreements signed in 2017 (on teleworking and the right to disconnect – see Section 4.3.2.2) follow on from earlier collective INVOLVING LINE MANAGEMENT IN MANAGING RISKS agreements on gender balance, employees with disabilities and We ensure that line managers and supervisors are warned of the mobility. Their aims are as follows: risks associated with certain jobs. Safety training is given to regional ● develop a different way of managing financial performance; office managers and project managers through half-day chat sessions designed to alert them to key safety issues. Led by an expert, the chat ● support the quality of the commitment; sessions are designed to develop a genuine safety culture based on ● reduce absenteeism; experience sharing and feedback. In 2017, a total of 100 managers ● reduce stress; received training organised around eight specifi c topics. The chat session on “The right to leave the workplace” explained to participants ● make Assystem a more attractive employer; the meaning of this term (individual right of an employee to leave his or ● leverage the employer brand. her workplace in the event of serious and imminent danger to health and In 2017, we organised our fi rst survey of employee and manager life), the manner in which the right may be exercised and the proposed engagement and satisfaction, covering the quality of management, work solution for reorganising the work in a safe place. Further chat sessions organisation, work/life balance and remuneration policies. The on-line will be organised in 2018 for 300 local managers, representing a questionnaire in two languages was filled in by 63% of employees. total of 4,600 hours’ safety training. 68 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) HUMAN RESOURCES INFORMATION: HR DEVELOPMENT AS A DRIVER OF PERFORMANCE The results confirmed Assystem’s strengths, with high scores awarded 4.3.5.2 Retaining young talents to the following criteria: We have developed an assertive graduate hiring strategy, in line with ● confidence in the Group’s future; our commitment to training and passing on knowledge and expertise ● pride in the Group; to the younger generation. On average, young graduates account for ● free and open discussions and pleasant work environment; 20% of new hires (all types of contracts combined), of which 75% are given permanent contracts. All new employees take part in induction ● empowerment and responsibility for getting the job done; programmes and benefit from personal career development plans. ● quality of client services. AN INDUCTION PROGRAMME FOR NEW HIRES Areas for improvement identified by the survey included: The welcome afforded to new hires plays an essential role in ensuring ● improving operating processes and methods; that they settle easily into their new job and find their feet within the ● providing employees with greater visibility concerning their career organisation. We have developed an induction programme to facilitate trajectories (mobility, training and salary). the integration of new hires, particularly when this is their first job and Employees were informed of the survey results during meetings of they are unfamiliar with the corporate environment. A core aim of the Management Committees and Business Unit Committees. We are induction programme is to support them as soon as they set foot in our developing progress plans to address the areas for improvement and offices and during their first few months with the Group. a new survey will be carried out in 2019 to measure the advances The various stages in the programme are as follows: made since 2017. ● on arrival, the new hire is given a welcome kit containing a selection To create a positive and friendly work environment, the Issy-lesof useful documents, along with a description of the procedures and Moulineaux facility has started organising weekly relaxation sessions agreements applicable within the organisation; on a trial basis. In addition, six facilities in France receive weekly deliveries of fruit baskets sourced from producers that apply responsible ● they are welcomed on arrival by the manager who gives them a guided tour of the offices, provides them with the equipment they 4 and sustainable farming practices. need (computer, security pass, etc.) and outlines the security and safety rules to be observed; 4.3.5 DEVELOPING TALENT ● they then meet the administrative assistant responsible for supporting We are pursuing a strategy based on a combination of organic growth employees throughout their career with Assystem, who explains and acquisitions. To support development of the business and facilitate the procedure for filing expense claims and time sheets, submitting the integration of new teams, we have comprehensively reworked holiday requests, etc; our organisation and processes by creating cross-functional units to ● at the end of the first month, and again after the fourth or seventh lead initiatives in the areas of mobility, hiring, talent management, month, they meet the person who hired them, to review their integration remuneration and benefits. The aim is to address these human resources and assess whether their needs have been met; challenges in all of the Group’s host countries, based on a holistic local ● feedback is obtained from the new hire, in the form of a fresh-eyes vision of each market. report designed to assess the quality of the induction process and report any information that will help to improve it; 4.3.5.1 Attracting talent ● if necessary, the manager initiates training or other measures to enable Hiring talent is one of the cornerstones of Assystem’s growth strategy. the new employee to do their job in the best possible conditions; The ability to pick out, attract, develop and promote the best talents ● s pecific integration measures (such as breakfast meetings and is of strategic important in a hyper-competitive market. In 2017, we dedicated meetings) may also be organised depending on the number hired some 1,000 people in France, based on objectives aligned of new hires and their profiles. with our commitments in terms of diversity and social inclusion. 63% of A WINNING CAREER PATH FOR VERY HIGH POTENTIAL ENGINEERING new hires were engineers, around 20% were juniors and 25% were GRADUATES women (30% in France). In 2017, we launched the Graduate Programme designed to prepare Candidates introduced to Assystem by Group employees who went to the new generation of talents for management responsibilities. The the same school or university accounted for 28% of new hires in France. 24-month programme targets young engineering and business school This high rate attests to the engagement of our employees, who act graduates and juniors (employees with less than three years’ experience). as powerful ambassadors for the Group. The advantages for Assystem Organised in three rotations including an international one, it will enable are clear: less time is devoted to the hiring process and there is also participants to discover the various Group functions (technical, project, a lower risk of selecting the wrong profile. Job boards are the second sales & marketing). They will be mentored by a member of the Executive largest source of candidates, followed by ads placed on the career Committee and will have the opportunity to work on the Group’s largest pages of newspapers and magazines (11%). energy and infrastructure projects such as ITER, EPR, France’s nuclear We have also raised our profile on social networks, which have become power plants, the Grand Paris project or the construction of industrial essential hiring tools when it comes to attracting increasingly mobile cities in the Middle East. and connected candidates. Managers highlight key messages on their LinkedIn pages to boost Assystem’s attractiveness, nurture the employer brand and showcase job opportunities. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 69 4 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) HUMAN RESOURCES INFORMATION: HR DEVELOPMENT AS A DRIVER OF PERFORMANCE A COMMITTED INTERN STRATEGY 4.3.5.3 A commitment to supporting employees We are pursuing our apprenticeship and internship strategies designed aged 45 and over to increase the employability of young people. The strategy includes In France, we have made long-standing commitments to capture the the “Incredible Engineers” programme that enables teams of young full value of the skills and experience acquired by seniors (defined as people to participate in a competition to select the best R&D projects. employees aged 45 and over), while also helping young graduates In 2017, the competition concerned cobotics (collaborative robotics) carve out their niche in the corporate environment. Assystem pays close projects. We also give them the opportunity to be supported by a tutor attention to the professional development of seniors. and a coach throughout their internship, and to join the Group if they wish. Around 70% of interns are subsequently hired under permanent We have set up a career management system that promotes the contracts. In 2017, we offered 100 internships and 50 work-study transmission of knowledge and expertise through the technical expertise contracts to young people. unit that seniors are invited to join. These experts develop and/or lead training sessions on nuclear safety organised by our internal training PREFERRED RELATIONS WITH TARGET ENGINEERING SCHOOLS institutes and may also give courses at target engineering schools. Our relations with engineering schools are central to our strategy for The expertise of these more seasoned employees provides an opportunity hiring the best talents. We have established partnerships with target to leverage the Group’s core competencies, especially in the nuclear schools – the INSA Group, INSTN and ENSAM – that fulfil three core sector. Some of them have acquired very valuable experience, having objectives: participated in the commissioning of all of France’s nuclear power ● strengthen Assystem’s reputation, proximity and attractiveness vis à vis stations (900/1300/1450, RNR) and worked on other nuclear projects these schools through expert presentations in the various faculties and throughout the world. They add real value to the transmission of nuclear during certain courses and enable students to discover the various knowledge and skills during initial training courses. disciplines and job opportunities at Assystem; Each year, during the annual performance appraisal and career ● create bridges between the school and the Company, participate in review, seniors are specifi cally asked about their expectations and on-campus career fairs and give students opportunities to work on needs concerning their medium-term future (development, promotion) case studies or innovative research topics; and their interest in devoting time and energy to initiatives designed to ● facilitate the hiring of young graduates, interns and apprentices. transfer proprietary knowledge to younger generations. Our hiring strategy also concerns seniors. In the last three years, 16% of new hires have been aged 45 and over. Assystem supports the INSA Group In line with our commitment to helping train the engineers of the 4.3.5.4 Intergenerational skills transfers future, we support the INSA Group of engineering schools as We undertake numerous initiatives to promote the transmission of part of the drive to raise the profile of the Assystem employer skills between generations. Around thirty skills communities have been brand among engineering students. created to facilitate knowledge sharing. Tutoring, mentoring, coaching, ● In 2017, we renewed out partnership with the Lyon INSA sponsoring and buddy systems are also included in the arsenal used for a further five years, becoming the first corporate sponsor to preserve know-how and contribute to disseminating the Group’s of the Gender Equality chair coordinated by the Gaston industrial expertise. Leveraging expertise is a key driver of competitive Berger Institute. Supported by specialists in the humanities differentiation for Assystem. and social sciences, the course aims to develop and disseminate knowledge about gender studies in such areas 4.3.6 PROVIDING TRAINING TODAY TO MEET as education, career guidance and jobs, in order to promote THE NEEDS OF TOMORROW a better understanding of the processes at play during the development of engineering students’ training and career Human capital is an engineering company’s principal asset. It is also plans. our main driver of performance, which is why we endeavour to raise ● The creation of a Nuclear Commissioning chair in partnership the employability of our teams to the highest level by offering employees with the Rouen-Normandy INSA is further evidence of our a training roadmap that places them in a learning environment built commitment to offering innovative professional training on innovation and experience sharing. In France, we spend the solutions that respond to today’s industrial challenges and equivalent of nearly 4% of our total payroll on training, an investment operational needs. Commissioning is a decisive stage in a that goes well beyond our legal obligation. In 2017, some 65% of our nuclear project. More than 55 students attending the Rouenemployees in France received some form of training, representing over Normandy INSA have had the opportunity to follow the 53,000 hours in total. course, which combines theory and practice, project work The technical and behavioural skills required in the engineering business overseen by Assystem experts and internships within the are constantly changing, impelled by current projects, new client Group. requirements, technological advances and regulatory changes. Today’s 70 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) HUMAN RESOURCES INFORMATION: HR DEVELOPMENT AS A DRIVER OF PERFORMANCE challenges include cyber security, 3-D digital modelling, predictive The Institute leverages the Group’s knowledge base, enhances individual network maintenance, energy efficiency and new regulations. expertise and federates the skills acquisition roadmaps for the various disciplines, through internal organisations such as the Assystem Nuclear In this changing environment, the ability to align our teams’ skills and Institute, Assystem Life Sciences Institute or Assystem Project Management expertise with the Group’s growth strategy and operational needs is of Institute whose programmes are closely aligned with the Group’s strategic importance. strategy. We are committed to retaining our leadership and expertise Our training programmes have been developed against this backdrop, in our traditional nuclear business, while also leveraging our expertise to address three priorities: in managing complex projects by promoting the transfer of skills to other sectors such as healthcare. A fourth organisation, the Assystem Cyber Ensure that the skills base develops in line Institute, will open its doors in 2018, with the mission of developing with the changing needs of the market and clients our teams’ expertise in the growing area of cyber security in industrial environments. Each year, the training development plan is aligned with the core strategies and marketing objectives defined by executive management These internal institutes have three objectives: and the Business Units. ● align the skills base with their specialist sector’s requirements and The aim is to keep pace with the changing needs of the market, our identify clients’ needs; clients, our businesses and disciplines. ● identify and map available resources and expertise (experts/trainers); In 2017, regulatory training, mainly in the area of health and safety, ● update/realign the integration and specialisation training roadmaps represented a high 60% of total training hours, while technical training based on feedback from front-line personnel and the Assystem in the engineering disciplines represented 21%. In the nuclear sector, communities of experts. given the significant risks involved, 38% of interns participated in training This organisation enables us to circulate knowledge and expertise more programmes on nuclear safety, nuclear facility operations monitoring (21%) and testing (20%). quickly between generations and also between sectors. 4 Another key focus of training initiatives in 2017 was the use of 3-D Develop a learning culture technologies, with 80% of engineers in the nuclear civil engineering, infrastructure and transport sectors receiving training in the use of Product In today’s knowledge economy, meeting our growth targets and & Project Lifecycle Management (PLM) software and digital 3-D Building securing employee engagement depends on our ability to develop a Information Modelling (BIM) software. These training initiatives support learning community and promote a learning organisation. To this end, the projects currently in progress and ensure that we have the skills in we propose a varied teaching system, combining personal and multiplace to bid for future public sector contracts. The digital modelling modal solutions, and formal and informal learning experiences. Physical training programme covers three areas: the challenges and benefits of and virtual classrooms, e-learning modules, interactive conferences and 3-D modelling, regulatory compliance and use of the software. digital learning resource libraries promote the pooling of individual knowledge to create collective knowledge, while also developing our We have also expanded our management training programmes to teams’ employability and stimulating individual learning. help our engineers adapt to the new more open, collaborative and interactive working methods. Other training modules concern personal The pharmaceutical sector is heavily regulated and large-scale training development and professional efficiency. 24% of employees took a is needed to optimise the cost of acquiring knowledge and improve its self-affirmation, inter-personal skills or assertiveness training module, traceability. To address this challenge, in 2017 an e-learning module 33% improved their English language skills so that they could work on on pharmaceutical regulations was created. The 90-minute scenariointernational projects and 6% learnt how to better manage their time. based module was designed to provide over 150 employees with a shared basic knowledge of regulatory issues. The light-hearted scenario peppered with quizzes is organised in two phases addressing the Transmit technical and methodological knowledge, with regulatory environment and the general principles underpinning best the development of multi-modal bespoke content and manufacturing practices. roadmaps As a skills creator, the Assystem Institute’s main role is to enhance our teams’ employability, nurture talents, update and enrich the knowledge base in line with technological, technical or regulatory developments and support employees while they are on bench. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 71 4 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) HUMAN RESOURCES INFORMATION: HR DEVELOPMENT AS A DRIVER OF PERFORMANCE Mobility is in our genes and many bridges have been built between the various disciplines and sectors, supported by the internal training A career and skills management tool institutes. These bridges enable employees to move around the Group, We believe that managing and developing employees’ give new impetus to their career and achieve fulfilment by discovering skills is central to our future success. Employees have the new cultures. Around 300 employees benefi ted from this system in opportunity to drive their own careers and to gain international 2017. experience, with four areas of specialisation (Technical, Projects, Management and Sales & Marketing). A discipline and knowledge map has been developed to ensure that our skills base is aligned with our changing needs. Alongside An external mobility project trialled in Belfort this map, the Strategic Workforce Assystem Planning (SWAP) Secure voluntary mobility enables employees to work in another system maps each employee’s profile, career path and skill company in order to enhance their experience or learn a new level. SWAP provides a snapshot of the expertise and knowskill while safe in the knowledge that they can go back to their how required for an engagement or for an employee’s mobility previous job. This is the system introduced by Assystem at the project. It enables employees to project themselves on the Belfort facility, pursuant to a collective agreement signed with career paths offered by Assystem and to identify the skills employee representatives in 2016 concerning the support to be they need to improve or develop. provided to employees in developing their professional mobility project. A specialised unit was set up to help the 40 eligible employees develop a secure professional project. They were supported in their search for a job and were paid a bonus 4.3.7 PROMOTING INTERNAL MOBILITY to help cover their costs. In 2017, around twenty employees Our dynamic internal mobility strategy is designed to ensure that our changed career path under this system. future human resources needs will be met. We view mobility as a driver of progress, performance and employability. Mobility is encouraged, managed and supported. 4.3.8 RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS It is a cornerstone of our human resources strategy. The mobility strategy is a means of retaining employees and helping them to ramp up their Assystem pledged to uphold the UN Global Compact in 2011 and skills. The large number and wide variety of French and international reaffi rmed its pledge on 16 January 2017. The Global Compact engagements performed by the Group’s businesses offer a wealth of comprises ten principles covering the areas of human rights, labour, attractive and motivating career opportunities. the environment, and anti-corruption, all of which are consistent with Mobility programmes cover five areas: the fundamental values adhered to by Assystem throughout its history. ● Geographic mobility The Group has pledged to promote these principles in its ecosystem of influence and to pursue the initiatives undertaken in this regard. ● Sector mobility The Group also complies with the fundamental conventions of the ILO. ● Mobility and development in one of the four core disciplines – Some of its French subsidiaries annually reaffirm their commitment to management, sales & marketing, technical and projects complying and to ensuring that their contractors comply with the ILO’s ● Mobility towards management positions 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and ● International mobility its fundamental conventions on freedom of association and collective Employees are supported so that they can focus on their professional bargaining, the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment project (transfer bonus, relocation costs paid by Assystem, transition and occupation, the elimination of forced or compulsory labour and period in the case of a major relocation, etc.). In addition, they are the effective abolition of child labour. offered specific measures and a dedicated contact who partners them, especially when they relocate to a different country. 72 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION: REDUCING THE GROUP’S CARBON FOOTPRINT 4.4 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION: REDUCING THE GROUP’S CARBON FOOTPRINT The environmental indicators presented in this 2017 CSR report are defined in the methodology note in Section 4.6 of this Registration Document. These indicators are as follows: Global Reporting Initiative 2017 (GRI) V4 equivalent Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (in tonnes of CO2 equivalent tCO2e) 3,579 G4-EN15 (b) Of which Scope 1 (in tonnes of CO2 equivalent tCO2e) 1,566 G4-EN15a Of which Scope 2 (in tonnes of CO2 equivalent tCO2e) 85 G4-EN16a Of which Scope 3 (in tonnes of CO2 equivalent tCO2e) 1,929 G4-EN17a GHG emissions per employee per year (in tCO2e) 1.21 G4-EN15 (b) Km per employee of business travel by car 6,405 Km per employee of business travel by air 1,214 Electricity use (in kWh) 1,835,496 G4-EN3 Gas use (in kWh) 11,588 G4-EN3 4.4.1 GENERAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ● domestic and medium-haul flights must be in economy class; The challenges of sustainable development are encouraging the ● h otels should be chosen for their proximity to the client’s site or 4 Assystem’s offices; manufacturing sector to embrace a virtuous dynamic in which environmental performance drives financial performance. As an ● journeys to and from railway stations and airports should, wherever engineering company, Assystem is contributing to this dynamic by possible, be made by taxi or equivalent, preferably a hybrid or making innovation a driver to bring about a sustainable world. Added electric model; to this, the Group plays a critical role in providing engineering solutions ● hire cars should be Euro 6-compliant models. for low-carbon power generation (particularly nuclear power). DEPLOYMENT OF A LOW-CARBON FLEET POLICY As a provider of intellectual services, Assystem’s environmental impact We have stepped up the requirements concerning the environmental is fairly limited. In 2017, the Group’s total greenhouse gas emissions performance of pool cars and company cars included in the fleet. All represented 3,579 tonnes of CO2. Employees’ business travel (by car, vehicles must be on the Euro 6-compliant list and their CO2 emissions train and plane) accounted for 98% of CO2 emissions, followed a long must not exceed the limit set by the Group, a rule that encourages way behind by energy use (electricity) in the Group’s offices. employees to choose less polluting cars. For this reason, the objective set in 2015 to reduce greenhouse gas VIRTUAL MEETING SOLUTIONS emissions by 5% over three years has mainly led to action plans in the area of business travel. We continue to encourage the use of collaborative tools such as Skype, OneDrive and video-conferencing to limit business travel. 4.4.2 MANAGING THE GROUP’S ON-GOING DEPLOYMENT OF RIDE-SHARING AND CAR-POOLING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT SOLUTIONS Travel optimisation plans have been drawn up for all material French 4.4.2.1 Promoting green travel sites, frequently in partnership with local authorities (see Section 4.5.3). We have developed a certain number of tools and action plans to A key aim of these plans is to encourage ride-sharing between employees promote sustainable mobility and reduce CO2 emissions. of the Group and with employees of other companies, along with carpooling systems. Employees who want to use this solution register on A NEW TRAVEL POLICY a dedicated platform. Parking spaces are reserved for them, some of Business travel by employees in France is governed by the Assystem which are equipped with e-vehicle charging stations. Travel Policy. This document encourages employees to choose Car-pooling has a number of benefits. It: alternatives to travel, such as conference calls and video-conferences, wherever possible. ● promotes the use of public transport by employees, because vehicles are available at their place of work to drive to meetings; It describes and defines how business travel may be undertaken: ● contributes to our sustainable development strategy (reduction in ● travel by train is recommended for any journey of less than three hours; greenhouse gas emissions, use of hybrid and electric vehicles, etc.). ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 73 4 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION: REDUCING THE GROUP’S CARBON FOOTPRINT In 2017, fourteen self-service cars were made available to employees 4.4.2.3 The circular economy, preventing at the Issy-les-Moulineaux, Saint-Priest and Cherbourg facilities. Half of and managing waste these are electric vehicles. The Group does not have an overall waste management, reduction RIDE-SHARING, A NEW SOLUTION and recycling strategy. However, action is taken at many sites to raise Employees can also use the Karos ride-sharing app. Karos was launched employee awareness of the necessary routine gestures in this regard: only recently and more time is needed before it becomes widely used. ● paper: the use of default secure printing settings to avoid pages being printed unnecessarily; ECO-DRIVING TRAINING ● office waste: a new approach to waste sorting has been adopted at Training in eco-driving techniques is an effective and easy-to-implement certain facilities, consisting of replacing individual waste bins with measure to reduce fuel consumption and CO2 emissions by between central sorting containers; 5% and 15%, while also improving passenger comfort and safety. It also reduces engine wear, leading to savings in maintenance costs. ● plastic cups: a recycling system is being tested, and employees are This initiative is presented in Section 4.3.4. encouraged to use their own mugs and refillable bottles in place of plastic cups; ● non-hazardous waste: ink cartridges are collected and recycled; Clean Mobility Day at Saint Quentin-en-Yvelines ● waste paper is recycled through a partnership with the French Post Office; During the European Mobility Week in September 2017, the Saint Quentin-en-Yvelines facility joined forces with Saipem ● waste sorting bins have been installed in company restaurants. to organise a one-day event raising awareness of sustainable mobility issues. The aim was to inform and alert employees 4.4.3 ENERGY TRANSITION to road risks and the new forms of mobility through various events and workshops: We are working on many projects with an environmental impact (see Section 4.1.1). Clients are supported in the energy transition and in ● Sustainable mobility: test drives of electric and hybrid cars, the drive to reduce their overall carbon footprint through: risk-sharing speed meeting, multimodal carbon calculator and eco-gauge presentations. ● our audit engagements, which help clients identify and measure energy use at a facility or for a project; ● Road safety and environment: car and motor-bike driving simulators, interactive quiz points-based driving licence, tyre ● our holistic vision of health & safety and environmental regulations choices. and standards; ● our ability to devise the most effi cient and cost-effective solutions in terms of materials, equipment and electronic systems ready for seamless integration into an aligned project. 4.4.2.2 Improving the energy performance of the Group’s buildings The Group participated in the following projects in 2017: The Group is committed to dynamically managing its energy performance ● Sustainable mobility: The innovation-led emergence of new mobility and all decisions about working space are measured against financial, solutions is creating a new market for engineering groups. Easing social and environmental yardsticks. traffic congestion is a critical challenge. With the creation of 200 kms of automated rail track, the Grand Paris Express project is We also take specific measures to improve the energy performance addressing this challenge by doubling the public transport offer in of our infrastructure, in particular by renting office space in energythe metropolitan area. The Proxemys consortium led by Assystem was efficient buildings and reducing office space per employee. When it selected in 2016 to provide local Project Management Consultancy comes to choosing new facilities, wherever possible we opt for low(PMC) services for the project over a period of eight years. The mass energy buildings that comply with the latest environmental standards transit system will offer residents and workers in the Grand Paris area and are equipped with more efficient management systems such as modern, less crowded transport solutions, while also speeding up smart HVAC meters. the region’s energy transition and embracing the digital challenge. In 2017, we signed an agreement concerning a new real estate project ● Sustainable mobility: In 2017, SNCF Réseau selected Assystem to to be delivered in 2019 at the Saint Quentin-en-Yvelines facility. The plan, manage and coordinate the “new infrastructure “component of building is being renovated to HQE and Breeam-in-Use standards. It the Eole project to facilitate mobility in the Paris region by extending will provide offices for around 350 employees. the RER E express transit line to the west of Paris. The RER E will be the region’s most interconnected line and will offer a new quality of mass transit service. The line will begin in a very heavily built up area of Paris and will involve exceptional work, that will need to be carefully planned and efficiently coordinated. Eight kilometres of new infrastructure will be built between the Haussmann Saint-Lazare station in Paris and the Nanterre station in the western suburbs. Assystem will be responsible for coordinating and planning the studies and work on the new infrastructure for this stretch of track. 74 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) SOCIO-ECONOMIC INFORMATION: ACTING AS A RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN ● Energy: We support nuclear industry investors and operators in operation in France, the United Kingdom, Turkey, China, the United developing their power station construction and renovation projects. Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. Our services have been retained for nuclear power stations in 4.5 SOCIO-ECONOMIC INFORMATION: ACTING AS A RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN 4.5.1 BUSINESS ETHICS: A FAIR AND Duty of care RESPONSIBLE PLAYER The sale of the Global Product Solutions business (renamed Assystem’s executive management team attaches great importance Assystem Technologies) in 2017 changed the timeline to maintaining efficient decision-making processes and guaranteeing for applying the new statutory duty of care obligations of the free flow of information within the Group. This concern stems in parent companies and principals, which include responsible particular from the choice of a decentralised management structure to purchasing reporting obligations. This regulatory compliance run the Group’s increasingly globalised business. Employing fair business work will be undertaken by the Legal Affairs Department in practices is one of the Group’s key priorities. 2018. Assystem has had a Code of Ethics since 2006 and it now also has a Code of Business Conduct that provides guidance on the application of The identified risks are fairly limited, because: the Group’s ethical values by defining the principles and behaviours to be followed when conducting business. The Code of Business Conduct ● the suppliers and contractors involved in our value chain represent 4 only 2% to 3% of our consolidated revenue; adds to but does not replace pre-existing local policies, such as the Business Ethics procedure in the United Kingdom. Its purpose is to ensure ● their estimated average billings total around €50,000; that the Group’s Code of Ethics is applied consistently in all countries. ● the purchases concern intellectual services provided in France. The four specific policies described in the Code of Business Conduct are presented in Section 3.9 of this Registration Document. 4.5.3 CONTRIBUTING TO LOCAL DEVELOPMENT Creating local jobs 4.5.2 RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING: A STRUCTURED STRATEGY The Group’s objective is to participate actively in developing its host communities and regions, especially where it is an important contributor Sustainable development considerations have been an integral part of our to the local economy. Our main impact on a community is as a local purchasing policies for many years and we expect subcontractors and employer. We offer opportunities to young graduates and anchor the suppliers to uphold the same values, particularly in terms of diversity. Subbusiness firmly in the local labour market. Our clients include major contractors and suppliers are chosen for their technical expertise, service public and private sector organisations such as EDF, Société du Grand quality and compliance with the rules governing concealed work. French Paris and the Marseille public transport network. We also support law requires contractors to submit a certificate (“attestation”) stating that local employment indirectly through our contribution to major industrial they are in full compliance with these rules. Assystem’s subcontractors projects such as the ITER project in the south of France. file these certificates via the online platform operated by our partner, e-Attestations.com, which administers the entire process on our behalf. Helping to enhance the appeal of host communities In 2017, we began planning a more structured approach to fulfilling We are also contributing to local development in France by supporting our CSR commitments at all points in the value chain, leading to the the government-sponsored competitiveness clusters. drafting of a responsible purchasing charter that will be available in early 2018. The clusters promote cooperation with a wide range of partners (for example, in the academic sector, with Institut de Radioprotection et In France, our Mission Handicap team promotes outsourcing of maintenance de Sûreté Nucléaire – IRSN, and the small business sector) that share work to “EA” and “ESAT” companies specialised in employing people with their skills and expertise with Assystem and in this way help the Group disabilities. In Cherbourg, for example, landscape maintenance services develop its own skills and expertise. Leveraging their deep local roots, are provided by a company specialised in helping people enter or return our teams participate regularly in these partners’ activities in the areas to the job market. In 2017, Assystem was a partner of the Salon Handicap of special interest to the Group: Emploi & Achats Responsables event which promotes employment of people with disabilities and responsible purchasing practices. Information ● In 2017, we signed up to the ConnexITy digital innovation laboratory and encouragement campaigns are organised regularly among the people led by EDF R&D, joining eight other companies that are pooling responsible for purchasing these services and a catalogue of identified their research efforts via ConnexITy’s collaborative R&D platform to service providers is available on the Group’s Intranet. develop the technological building blocks needed to operate and design nuclear facilities. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 75 4 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) SOCIO-ECONOMIC INFORMATION: ACTING AS A RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN ● Since 2017, Assystem has also been a member of the Smart Buildings Supporting higher education Alliance (SBA), which brings together its members’ skills and expertise We also contribute to local development by supporting schools and in this area. The SBA also contributes to the use of interoperable universities. As well as offering internships and apprenticeship contracts, solutions based on open standards, helping to drive the debate on we send engineers to make classroom presentations and participate in sustainable business models. on-campus career fairs, and invite students to work on practical case ● Assystem is a member of the Board of Directors of the Vallée de studies or innovative research topics. In addition, Assystem helps to l’Énergie competitiveness cluster which is working to structure and fund research chairs at certain partner schools (see Section 4.3.5.2). promote the energy industry. In 2017, we participated in an overhaul In France, for example, we work in partnership with various science of the cluster’s bylaws and the appointment of a Technical Committee institutes (INSAs) to help engineering students climb the first rung on and Executive Board responsible for defi ning action plans and their career ladder. These partnerships also allow us to benefit from the overseeing their implementation. Vallée de l’Énergie is conducting work of the scientific community and to promote research projects that initiatives in the areas of design, research and training, with two have a bearing on our business. broad objectives: ● contribute to the vitality and growth of the energy industry’s current Developing local sustainable mobility activities (production of materials, equipment and infrastructure for power generation and distribution); We are working with local authorities to deploy the Corporate Travel Plan, which is designed to optimise employees’ daily commute. For ● help the energy industry expand into emerging sectors such as example, the Saint Quentin-en-Yvelines facility has been working since Industry 4.0, energy effi ciency, additive production, predictive 2013 with a Group of local municipalities and local businesses to maintenance and cyber security. address sustainable mobility issues. Assystem is a member of Delta We also helped to define the 2017-2020 roadmap refocusing Vallée SQY, a non-profit organisation that is managing the travel plan for the de l’Énergie on its strategic missions. region’s businesses. Delta SQY’s members are currently looking into the ● Since 2013, Assystem has been a member of the “Efficacity” energy possibility of launching a car-pooling system among local businesses in transition institute set up by the French government to conduct research 2018. The six or seven meetings organised each year by Delta SQY into the energy performance of the cities of the future. The Group are an opportunity to review the mobility plan data and reports received contributes the expertise of a team of engineers who have been from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The Saint Quentin-enworking on an Intermodal Station project and the Unavoidable Energy Yvelines facility is also a member of Club Climat Energie, a regional Recovery program. non-profit organisation that brings local stakeholders together to discuss climate and energy issues. ● Since 2015, Assystem has been participating in the “Systematic ParisRegion” global competitiveness cluster that has brought together some 800 industrialists, small business owners and scientists in the Paris 4.5.4 SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION ON BEHALF region with the aim of making the area more attractive to investors. OF CLIENTS Projects concern sectors such as energy, telecoms, healthcare, transport, information systems, the factory of the future, the digital Sustainable development is an increasingly important issue for our city and security. clients. That’s why we decided to add this topic to our innovation strategy in 2017. The aim of the new programme is to offer clients ● S ince 2013, Assystem has been participating in the Burgundy support in keeping pace with the latest technological advances, as well Nuclear Valley competitiveness cluster, which has called its research as with the methods and practices required to respond to sustainable project NucTrack. The project aims to optimise the management of development challenges. The innovation programme is organised radioactive sources used in the industrial, medical and research around three main areas: sectors, particularly during transportation. ● In 2015, the Group became the first member of the new Coboteam Recovering unavoidable heat (1) cluster, as a demonstration of its commitment to the development of the robotics industry in the Rhône-Alpes region. In 2017, we presented Industrial infrastructure involves very signifi cant energy fl ows and our vision of Mobile Cobotics at the Innorobo event. recovering unavoidable heat can be a source of competitive advantage. Our Energine innovation programme aims to offer an architecture that ● Assystem is a founder member of the Ingera cluster set up in 2015 to converts temperature gradients into re-usable electrical power using an promote the engineering sector among companies, high schools Ericsson caloric engine. Over forty people worked on this ambitious and engineering schools in the Rhône-Alpes region. Ingera is also programme in 2017, including two doctoral students, and a start-up creating a research and innovation centre to promote collaborative was created (Ananke) to exploit the work. working between companies and schools and/or to provide funding for university chairs. (1) Heat (particularly solar) captured naturally by a building or other infrastructure (for example, through picture windows). 76 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) SOCIO-ECONOMIC INFORMATION: ACTING AS A RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN Optimising energy use EDUCATION The corporate sponsorship agreement between the Lyon INSA The second project concerns the development of a solution to optimise partnership foundation and Assystem was renewed in 2017 for five energy use in industrial and office buildings using a big data approach. years. The Group has funded a new Gender Balance chair and Named “Co-Conso”, it has enabled employees to acquire new expertise provided sponsorship for a class of electrical engineering students. in data management and processing as well as in designing energy We also provide backing for the Cordées de la Réussite – Convention saving apps for smartphones. Ten Group employees worked on this Diversité programme to support the best students throughout their studies. project in 2017. In addition, Assystem is a corporate sponsor of the INSTN Foundation set Using 3-D printing to optimise CO2 emissions up under the aegis of Fondation de France. The foundation’s objective is to develop and enhance training initiatives to support the nuclear The aim is to explore the potential opportunities offered by the new 3-D industry and low-carbon energy sources. The main initiatives concern: printing technologies to optimise CO2 emissions using two approaches. ● creation of teaching chairs; The first approach consists of optimising raw materials use and ● improvement of students’ living conditions; supply chain processes. 3-D printing significantly reduces a product’s development cycle thanks to rapid prototyping which limits raw materials ● design of teaching tools and equipment; use while also accelerating the development process. The technology ● dissemination of knowledge. also modifi es supply chain cycles, allowing more processes to be In 2015, we gave a commitment to work with the École des Mines performed close to the end-customer. This reduces freight and inventory de Nantes engineering school to jointly support the MERITE project for volumes, resulting in lower CO2 emissions with a positive impact on two years (MERITE is a French acronym standing for “Using experience sustainable development. of industrial and technical realities to help schools”). The aim of this The second even more innovative approach concerns the development project bringing together scientists and educational experts, school of bioreactors using 3-D printing to produce distributed carbon capture inspectors and teachers, is to “restore children’s appetite for learning, 4 devices. Over 20 employees worked on these innovation projects using self-confidence and joy in creating and innovating, and to give 3-D printing in 2017. technological culture the place it deserves in education”. We intend to pursue this responsible innovation strategy, with two new SPORT initiatives planned in 2018: Since 2012, Assystem has been a proud supporter of Racing Club de ● creation of a “Sustainable development solutions” category in the France Rugby which works to secure the lasting social inclusion of young innovation competition to be launched during the year; people from all social backgrounds, by teaching them to play rugby ● creation of a “Sustainable development portfolio” to track our offers and embrace the game’s values (respect, bravery, teamwork, etc.). and skills in this area more closely. 4.5.5.2 Charitable commitment and community 4.5.5 ENGAGING WITH SOCIETY outreach Assystem supports and partners employees in their community outreach 4.5.5.1 Corporate sponsorship undertakings. As part of the gender balance programme, we have adopted a policy of financing employees’ charitable activities. In France, the Group has launched several corporate sponsorship initiatives. We hire many students each year and support the educational community through a variety of programmes. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 77 4 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) METHODOLOGY NOTE 4.6 METHODOLOGY NOTE 4.6.1 KEY INDICATORS stakeholders. These indicators are tracked regularly and presented in an annual report. They are in addition to the Group key figures presented In 2011, we drew up a list of key indicators to be used to assess our on pages 4 and 5 of this Registration Document. CSR performance and the impact of the business on our environment and The 2017 CSR key indicators are listed below: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) V4 equivalent HR indicators* Total number of Group employees* at 31 December G4-9 % of permanent contracts at 31 December G4-10 (b) % of women at 31 December G4-10 (a) % of seniors* at 31 December G4-LA12 (b) % of employees with disabilities* at 31 December G4-LA12 (b) Average age of employees at 31 December (in years) G4-LA12 (b) Number of new hires during the year G4-LA1 (a) Employee turnover during the year Absentee rate* for the year (number of absentee days lost per 100 days worked) G4-LA6 (a) Accident frequency rate* for the year (number of workplace accidents per million hours worked) G4-LA6 (a) Accident severity rate* for the year (number of accident days lost per 1,000 hours worked) G4-LA6 (a) Number of employees trained* during the year G4-LA9 (a) Total number of hours’ training* given during the year G4-LA9 (a) Average duration of training* given during the year (in hours) G4-LA9 (a) Environmental indicators Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (in tCO2e) G4-EN15 (b) Of which Scope 1 G4-EN15a Of which Scope 2 G4-EN16a Of which Scope 3 G4-EN17a GHG emissions per employee per year (in tCO2e) G4-EN15 (b) Km per employee of business travel by car Km per employee of business travel by air Electricity use (in kWh) G4-EN3 Gas use (in kWh) G4-EN3 The terms identified by an asterisk (*) in the above table are defined ● Training: internal and external classroom and e-learning courses that below: enable employees to acquire the expertise needed to perform their jobs. ● Total number of Group employees: number of Group employees at 31 December 2017 under permanent, fi xed term and project ● Seniors: employees aged 45 and over. contracts, and work-study contracts, excluding interns, temporary ● Employees with disabilities: employees whose possibility of finding staff, subcontractors and UK contractors. At 31 December 2017, or keeping a job is reduced due to the alteration of one or more the Group had 4,832 employees. physical, sensory, mental or psychological functions. ● Workplace accidents: lost-time accidents caused by or that occur ● A bsentee rate: number of days’ absence (sick leave, maternity/ during the work of an employee or a person working in any capacity paternity leave) divided by the theoretical number of days worked. for one or several employers or business owners, whatever the cause. The absentee rate is calculated based on the weighted average Accident frequency rates are calculated using the formula in the number of employees. French Labour Code, as follows: FR = Nb LTA *1,000,000/Nb Hrs Worked, for all calculation grids. 78 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) METHODOLOGY NOTE 4.6.2 REPORTING STANDARDS ● T he UN Global Compact, which has established ten universal principles covering human rights, labour, the environment and antiThe Group’s CSR commitments are based on the following standards: corruption measures. Assystem pledged to uphold the Global Compact ● The “Grenelle II Act” (Act no. 2010-788 dated 12 July 2010) setting in 2011 and reaffirmed its pledge in a letter dated 16 January 2017. out France’s environmental commitments and the related enabling Within the Group, these principles are translated into mandatory legislation (Article R. 225-105-1 of the Commercial Code). behaviours and practices, as indicated in the following crossreference table: Human rights Global Compact principles Sources • COP 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 • Application of OECD guidelines and ILO conventions (declarations by AFR dated 7 January 2016, 7 July 2016 and Businesses should support 2 January 2017, AEOS dated 8 January 2016 and 3 January 2017, and ARG dated 7 July 2016 and 2 January 2017, in and respect the protection of which each company commits to complying and to ensuring that their contractors comply with the ILO’s 1998 Declaration on internationally proclaimed human Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work) rights • Code of Ethics (see pages 20 and 47 of this Registration Document); • Code of Business Conduct (see pages 52 and 75 of this Registration Document) • COP 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 • Application of OECD guidelines and ILO conventions Businesses should make sure that • Code of Ethics (see pages 20 and 47 of this Registration Document); they are not complicit in human • Code of Business Conduct (see pages 52 and 75 of this Registration Document) rights abuses • Attention paid to maintaining good working conditions (see pages 64 to 69 of this Registration Document), notably through • the collective agreements in France on gender equality and the employment of people with disabilities Labour Global Compact principles Sources 4 • COP 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 Businesses should uphold the • Application of OECD guidelines and ILO conventions freedom of association and the • Code of Ethics (see pages 20 and 47 of this Registration Document); effective recognition of the right • Code of Business Conduct (see pages 52 and 75 of this Registration Document) to collective bargaining • AEOS collective agreement on the arrangements and resources for employee representatives • Attention paid to promoting and organising social dialogue (see page 65 of this Registration Document) Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced • COP 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 or compulsory labour • Application of OECD guidelines and ILO conventions Businesses should uphold the • COP 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 effective abolition of child labour • Application of OECD guidelines and ILO conventions • COP 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 Businesses should uphold the • Code of Ethics (see pages 20 and 47 of this Registration Document); elimination of discrimination • Code of Business Conduct (see pages 52 and 75 of this Registration Document) in respect of employment and • Action to prevent discrimination and promote diversity (see pages 65 and 66 of this Registration Document), notably through occupation the collective agreements in France on gender equality and the employment of people with disabilities. Environment Global Compact principles Sources • COP 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 • Code of Ethics (see pages 20 and 47 of this Registration Document) Businesses should support a • Code of Business Conduct (see pages 52 and 75 of this Registration Document) precautionary approach to • Confirmation by the Bilan Carbone carbon footprint report for 2016 of the low environmental impact of the Group’s energy environmental challenges use (see page 73 of this Registration Document) • Energy audits (see pages 73 and 74 of this Registration Document) • COP 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 Businesses should undertake • Code of Ethics (see pages 20 and 47 of this Registration Document) initiatives to promote greater • Code of Business Conduct (see pages 52 and 75 of this Registration Document) environmental responsibility • Promotion of sustainable and responsible mobility (see page 73 of this Registration Document) • Contribution to the development of sustainable engineering (see pages 56 to 58 of this Registration Document) Anti-Corruption Global Compact principles Sources Businesses should work against • COP 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 corruption in all its forms, • Code of Ethics (see pages 20 and 47 of this Registration Document) including extortion and bribery • Code of Business Conduct (see pages 52 and 75 of this Registration Document) ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 79 4 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) METHODOLOGY NOTE ● ISO 26000, for which the certification process is a driver of 4.6.3.2 Environmental indicators continuous improvement, particularly in international units. The environmental indicators in the table presented in Section 4.6.1 of ● Global Reporting Initiative (see page 78 of this Registration Document). this Registration Document are based on the 2017 BEGES report and ● Workplace health and safety management standard OHSAS 18001 cover the main scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions generated by Assystem (see pages 67 and 70 of this Registration Document). SA and AEOS. We are currently looking into expanding the reporting ● Environmental management standard ISO 14001 (see pages 73 and scope to include neighbouring countries (Belgium and Switzerland) and 75 of this Registration Document). the United Kingdom, based on the Group’s current structure. ● Bilan Carbone carbon footprint report (see page 73 of this Registration Among the categories for which disclosures are required by the decree Document). dated 24 April 2012 for the application of the Grenelle II Act of 12 July 2010 (Article 225), the following are considered as not relevant to 4.6.3 BOUNDARY FOR CALCULATION OF KEY the Group due to the nature of its business and have been excluded INDICATORS from this CSR report: ● resources devoted to the prevention of environmental risks and In September 2017, Assystem sold a 60% controlling interest in the pollution; Global Product Solutions division to the private equity firm, Ardian. ● measures to prevent, reduce or repair discharges into the air, water As a result, the division’s employees, who represented a significant and soil that seriously affect the environment; proportion of the Group’s total employees in prior periods, have been excluded from the 2017 total. To ensure the transparency of the key ● noise pollution and all other forms of pollution specific to an activity; indicators and permit meaningful future analyses, we decided not to ● measures to prevent food waste; publish historical information based on the 2017 scope. ● water use and water supply according to local constraints; ● raw materials use and measures to use raw materials more efficiently; 4.6.3.1 HR indicators ● amount of provisions and guarantees in place for environmental risks; The HR indicators in the table presented in Section 4.6.1 of this ● land use; Registration Document are based on the Human Resources Department’s annual employee data report and have been calculated as of ● measures to adapt to the consequences of climate change; 31 December 2017. ● measures to protect or develop biodiversity. The HR indicators cover total Group employees as defined in Section 4.6.1 above, excluding Insiéma, MPH Global Services and MPH Scope Categories Global Services’ subsidiaries and associates. Natural gas 1 Vehicle fleet (long-term leases) The total number of Group employees is presented in the financial report. All the other HR indicators have been calculated based on the 76% of 2 Electricity employees working for the Group’s core business. Insiéma, MPH Global Hire cars Mileage allowances Services and MPH International have very different business models, Plane travel methods and types and their employee numbers, which increased only 3 Train travel slightly or even declined in 2017, are not representative of the dynamic growth in the Group’s core business. None of the categories for which disclosures are required by the decree dated 24 April 2012 for the application of the Grenelle II Act of 12 July 2010 (Article 225) is considered as not relevant to the Group and therefore no categories have been excluded from the CSR report. 80 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) REPORT BY ONE OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS, APPOINTED AS INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY, ON THE CONSOLIDATED HUMAN RESOURCES, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL INFORMATION INCLUDED IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT 4.7 REPORT BY ONE OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS, APPOINTED AS INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY, ON THE CONSOLIDATED HUMAN RESOURCES, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL INFORMATION INCLUDED IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditor of Assystem SA, (hereinafter named the “Company”), appointed as independent third party and certified by COFRAC under number 3-1049(1), we hereby report to you on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information for the year ended 31 December 2017, included in the management report (hereinafter named “CSR Information”), pursuant to Article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). Company’s responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing a company’s management report including the CSR Information required by Article R. 225105-1 of the French Commercial Code in accordance with the protocol used by the Company (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), summarised in the management report and available on request from the Company’s head office. Independence and quality control Our independence is defined by regulatory texts, the French Code of Ethics (Code de déontologie) of our profession and the requirements of Article L. 822-11-3 of the French Commercial Code. In addition, we have implemented a system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with the ethical requirements and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Statutory Auditors responsibility 4 On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to: ● attest that the required CSR Information is included in the management report or, in the event of non-disclosure of a part or all of the CSR Information, that an explanation is provided in accordance with the third paragraph of Article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code (Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Information); ● express a limited assurance conclusion that the CSR Information taken as a whole is, in all material respects, fairly presented in accordance with the Guidelines (Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information). However, it is not our responsibility to express an opinion on the compliance with the other relevant legal provisions applicable if necessary, in particular those envisaged by Article L. 225-102-4 of the French Commercial Code (Duty of care) and by the law n ° 2016-1691 of 9 December 2016 known as Sapin II (fight against corruption). Our work involved five people and was conducted between September 2017 and April 2018 for four weeks period. We were assisted in our work by our CSR experts. We performed our work in accordance with the order dated 13 May 2013 defining the conditions under which the independent third party performs its engagement and with the professional guidance issued by the French Institute of Statutory Auditors (Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux comptes) relating to this engagement and with ISAE 3000(2) concerning our conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information. 1. Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Information NATURE AND SCOPE OF OUR WORK On the basis of interviews with the individuals in charge of the relevant departments, we obtained an understanding of the Company’s sustainability strategy regarding human resources and environmental impacts of its activities and its social commitments and, where applicable, any actions or programmes arising from them. We compared the CSR Information presented in the management report with the list provided in Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. For any consolidated information that is not disclosed, we verified that explanations were provided in accordance with Article R. 225-105, paragraph 3 of the French Commercial Code. We verified that the CSR Information covers the scope of consolidation, i.e., the Company, its subsidiaries as defined by Article L. 233-1 and the controlled entities as defined by Article L. 233-3 of the French Commercial Code within the limitations set out in the methodological Note, presented in Chapter 4 of the management report. CONCLUSION Based on the work performed and given the limitations mentioned above, in particular regarding the environmental information, communicated on a perimeter representing 62% of the total headcount, we attest that the required CSR Information has been disclosed in the management. (1) “Whose scope is available at www.cofrac.fr”. (2) ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 81 4 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CSR) REPORT BY ONE OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS, APPOINTED AS INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY, ON THE CONSOLIDATED HUMAN RESOURCES, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL INFORMATION INCLUDED IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT 2. Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information NATURE AND SCOPE OF OUR WORK We conducted five interviews with the people responsible for preparing the CSR Information and, where appropriate, responsible for internal control and risk management procedures, in order to: ● assess the suitability of the Guidelines in terms of their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and understandability, and taking into account industry best practices where appropriate; ● verify the implementation of data-collection, compilation, processing and control process to reach completeness and consistency of the CSR Information and obtain an understanding of the internal control and risk management procedures used to prepare the CSR Information. We determined the nature and scope of our tests and procedures based on the nature and importance of the CSR Information with respect to the characteristics of the Company, the human resources and environmental challenges of its activities, its sustainability strategy and industry best practices. Regarding the CSR Information that we considered to be the most important(1): ● at parent entity, we referred to documentary sources and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative information (organisation, policies, actions), performed analytical procedures on the quantitative information and verified, using sampling techniques, the calculations and the consolidation of the data. We also verified that the information was consistent and in agreement with the other information in the management report; ● at the level of a representative sample of entities selected by us(2) on the basis of their activity, their contribution to the consolidated indicators, their location and a risk analysis, we conducted interviews to verify that procedures are properly applied and to identify potential undisclosed data, and we performed tests of details, using sampling techniques, in order to verify the calculations and reconcile the data with the supporting documents. The selected sample represents 45% of headcount considered as material data of social issues and 100% of environmental data considered as material data(3) of environmental issues. For the remaining consolidated CSR Information, we assessed its consistency based on our understanding of the Company. We also assessed the relevance of explanations provided for any information that was not disclosed, either in whole or in part. We believe that the sampling methods and sample sizes we have used, based on our professional judgement, are sufficient to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion; a higher level of assurance would have required us to carry out more extensive procedures. Due to the use of sampling techniques and other limitations inherent to information and internal control systems, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement in the CSR information cannot be totally eliminated. CONCLUSION Based on the work performed, no material misstatement has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the CSR Information, taken as a whole, is not presented fairly in accordance with the Guidelines. Paris-La Défense, 10 April 2018 KPMG SA Anne Garans Eric Ropert Partner Sustainability Services Partner (1) Social indicators : Total number of Group employees at 31 December, % of seniors, % of women, % of employees with disabilities, Number of new hires during the year, Employee turnover, Accident frequency rate, Accident severity rate, Total number of training hours. Environmental indicators : Greenhouse gas emissions (scopes 1, 2 and 3), Greenhouse gas emissions per employee, km per employee of business travel by car, km per employee of business travel by air. Qualitative information : Measures implemented to promote employment and integration of disabled people, Measures implemented to promote gender equality, Significant greenhouse gas emissions generated as a result of the Group’s activity, particularly by the use of goods and services provided, Integration of social and environmental issues into the Company procurement policy. (2) Assystem EOS France and Assystem SA. (3) Please refer to the environmental indicators list presented above. 82 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 5 RISK FACTORS 5.1 RISKS RELATED TO THE ECONOMIC 5.6 LEGAL, REGULATORY AND TAX RISKS 87 ENVIRONMENT 84 5.7 INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL 5.2 RISKS RELATED TO THE GROUP'S RISKS 88 OPERATIONS 85 5.8 RISKS RELATED TO ACQUISITIONS 88 5.3 LIQUIDITY AND MARKET RISKS 86 5.9 INSURANCE STRATEGY 89 5.4 EMPLOYEE-RELATED RISKS 87 5.5 RISKS RELATED TO INFORMATION SYSTEMS 87 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 83 5 RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO THE ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT Assystem conducts its business in a constantly-changing environment. that there are no relevant significant risks to which it is exposed other The Group is therefore exposed to risks which, if they materialise, could than those described below. have a signifi cant adverse effect on its business, fi nancial position A description of the type and impact of each risk factor is set out below, and/or earnings. together with an explanation of the measures taken to reduce those risks. This Chapter sets out the risk factors to which the Group could be The internal control and risk management procedures put in place by the exposed, including risks relating to the economic environment, Company related to preparing and processing accounting and financial operational risks, legal risks and financial risks. The Group considers information are described in Chapter 3 of this Registration Document. 5.1 RISKS RELATED TO THE ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT Type Impact Risk reduction measures Risk of political, social Risk of volatility in revenue The revenue and operating profit generated in these geographic areas have a relatively limited and economic instability in some and operating profit. impact overall as the Group generates over 80% of its revenue in Western Europe. of the geographic areas in which In addition, its recent acquisitions (ECP and BQG – see Chapter 1) have further increased the Group operates. the proportion of the Group’s revenue and operating profit derived from Western Europe. Risk that the markets Erosion of gross margin Close monitoring of ongoing projects and new business by the management of the division and geographic areas in which and, ultimately, of concerned and regularly relaying information to members of the management team. the Group operates may have operating profit. Review of gross margins for ongoing projects and new business. a dilutive effect on margins. Risk that contracts entered into do Negative impact on gross Specific process for selecting projects and submitting bids (financial review of key project not generate sufficient margins. margin and, ultimately, elements, in particular projected revenue and margins and margin on completion for fixed-price on operating profit. projects) and authorisation by designated managers. Contract review process (conducted monthly within the various Business Units and subsidiaries, and quarterly at Group level) for contracts representing revenue in excess of a threshold adapted to the activity and size of the Business Units and subsidiaries, or that inherently involve specific risk factors, such as a multi-year period. Risk of non-recovery of trade Negative impact on Client creditworthiness investigations conducted when new contracts are taken on, and regularly receivables. realisable and available re-conducted for contracts or clients already in the portfolio. assets and on operating Members of the Group's accounting teams carry out the credit management function in order profit. to regularly monitor the collection of trade receivables, track progress in the collection of outstanding receivables, and issue the necessary reminders. Risk that investments made do not Negative impact on Procedure drawn up and applied for prior authorisation of recurring capital expenditure (primarily generate the expected returns. revenue and operating for software). This procedure sets out the authorised signatories within the operating entity and profit. requires signature by one or even two members of the management team for capital expenditure in excess of a given threshold. Capital expenditure (i.e. investments excluding external growth) represents just over 1% of the Group's consolidated revenue, which is normal in Assystem's industry, and means that exposure to risks related to this expenditure is limited. The Board of Directors is systematically informed of, and holds discussions on, any potential acquisitions of equity interests or other external growth investments, once these have been assessed by the Group's executive and operations teams. 84 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO THE GROUP'S OPERATIONS 5.2 RISKS RELATED TO THE GROUP'S OPERATIONS Type Impact Risk reduction measures Risk that fixed-price contracts may Negative impact A contract review process has been put in place (conducted monthly within the various Business lead to excess non-billable hours. on revenue and gross Units and subsidiaries, and quarterly at Group level, with the involvement of the CFO & Deputy margin, and ultimately, CEO) for contracts representing revenue in excess of a threshold adapted to the activity and size on operating profit. of the Business Units and subsidiaries or that inherently involve certain risk factors, such as a multi-year period. These contract reviews are used to assess the progress of projects under way and all the identified risks in order to draw up and implement appropriate action plans (both for clients and in-house). Risk that business activities Negative impact The business conducted with the Group's largest clients requires varied skills in diverse engaged in with one or more on revenue and operating business sectors, which automatically significantly reduces the risk of dependency and revenue major clients may decline or cease profit. concentration. In addition, in a number of cases clients would find it difficult to replace altogether. the Group’s technical expertise which means that they will need its services over a relatively long period of time. Risk that the operational non-billing Negative impact As a key operating indicator for the Group, the ONBR is included in the periodic reporting rate (the ONBR) exceeds the on operating profit. carried out by each legal entity which is reviewed by the Group's executive management team. threshold of 10%. If the ONBR exceeds the defined threshold, executive management takes appropriate measures to promptly lower it, notably by sharing and crossing over resources. The ONBR is determined as follows: Total unbilled hours of billable staff/Total hours worked by billable staff. Risk that net staff turnover is not Negative impact on project Annual recruitment plans are established on the basis of a turnover rate of 20 to 25%, effectively managed and that performance and revenue. and changes in the rate during the period are regularly measured, analysed and monitored. the turnover rate is such that the The Group maintains a close-knit relationship with several engineering schools in France replacement of resources cannot be and abroad (particularly by taking part in school-company forums), which gives it access ensured during the period. to a substantial pool of skills and resources. Staff turnover is measured as follows: Staff departures during the year/Average headcount during the year. Risk that clients may relocate their Negative impact The Group constantly highlights its ability to provide services in the same geographic locations business or projects to areas where on revenue, continued as its clients. the Group does not operate. relationships with clients and operating profit. The risk that contracts entered into do not generate sufficient margins Negative impact on operating profit. The Group regularly reviews the allocation of its management resources and the configuration of its local resources in order to avoid incurring costs in a given geographic area that, over 5 to cover development costs in the long term, are out of proportion with the revenue generated in that area. geographic areas where the Group traditionally has little or no operating presence. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 85 5 RISK FACTORS LIQUIDITY AND MARKET RISKS 5.3 LIQUIDITY AND MARKET RISKS The Group has a dedicated organisational structure which enables Every month, Group Treasury reports to the CFO & Deputy CEO on the it to centrally manage all market risks to which it is exposed, namely positions and results of its management in compliance with the principles interest rate risk, exchange rate risk, counterparty risk and liquidity risk. and policies put in place by the Group’s executive management team. Most Group entities use the same software programs (Taïga, Kyriba Within the Finance Department, Group Treasury operates in the financial or Swaps). These tools help to secure flows and enable more reliable markets as the Group’s financial risk management body. This unit is reporting, in accordance with Group standards. organised in such a way as to ensure the segregation of tasks. Type Impact Risk reduction measures Risk of a failure to effectively Negative impact To reduce this risk, the Company sets up appropriate hedges using derivative financial control finance costs on financial expenses. instruments, taking into account the prevailing market conditions. The financial instruments used (interest rate risk). – which mainly correspond to swaps – are approved in advance by the CFO & Deputy CEO. At 31 December 2017, the Group was in a net cash position and had not set up any interest rate hedges. Risk of a failure to effectively Negative impact on equity The Group monitors offerings and contracts in foreign currencies in order to safeguard control foreign-currency cash and/or consolidated profit. the related operating margins. The hedges put in place when exchange rate risk is identified flows and the valuation of mainly correspond to forward purchase or sale contracts, whose amounts and maturities subsidiaries outside the are matched with the underlying exposure. Eurozone (exchange rate To hedge intra-group transactions in foreign currencies, the Group uses currency swaps. risk), given the geographical The Group's balance sheet risk essentially relates to the euro/Turkish lira and euro/US dollar diversity of the Group's exchange rates (or the euro/Saudi riyal rate, bearing in mind that at the date of this Registration locations and operations. Document the US dollar/Saudi riyal exchange rate was pegged). See Note 8.6 to the consolidated financial statements for details about the Group's financial risk management strategy. Risk of default by a financial Negative impact on The Group undertakes counterparty review and monitoring procedures which are approved counterparty. consolidated profit. by executive management. Risk of inability to meet Negative impact on the Assystem has carried out a specific review of its liquidity risk and considers that it is capable financial commitments cost of debt and on the of meeting its future maturities. (liquidity risk). Group's image. Furthermore, Assystem has put in place: • a liquidity optimisation process based on centralised cash management with monthly reports submitted to the CFO & Deputy CEO; • a pro-active debt management strategy. At 31 December 2017, the Group had access to a €120 million revolving credit facility with a sufficient maturity to finance its general corporate requirements (five-year term from 28 September 2017 with two one-year extension options subject to the lenders’ agreement). On 19 January 2018, in order to finance its additional equity investment in Assystem Technologies Group, Assystem (i) signed an addendum to its revolving credit facility, raising the amount to €150 million, and (ii) put in place a €30 million bullet loan repayable on 28 September 2022. Risk of a breach of a financial Negative cash impact. The new financing agreement signed on 19 January 2018 contains a covenant based on covenant triggering early the consolidated gearing ratio (consolidated net debt at the test date/ EBITDA for the past repayment of borrowings. 12 months as adjusted for acquisitions and divestments). This ratio is measured at the end of each half-year period (with the first test taking place at 31 December 2017), and must not exceed 3.75 at end-December and 3.95 at end-June. If the covenant is breached, a qualified majority of lenders (representing at least two thirds of the lending commitments) may demand early repayment of the borrowings. At 31 December 2017, the Group's gearing ratio was negative and therefore well below the ceiling specified in the covenant. 86 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 RISK FACTORS LEGAL, REGULATORY AND TAX RISKS 5.4 EMPLOYEE-RELATED RISKS Type Impact Risk reduction measures Risk that the Group’s available Negative impact on the The Group devotes significant efforts and resources – in terms of management time, employees’ skills do not match client and Group’s image working hours and cash – to continuously training its engineers and has developed dedicated market requirements. and revenue. training structures by sector and business. Skills reviews are conducted annually for all engineers, which help detect any training requirements for acquiring new skills or honing existing skills. In addition, annual recruitment campaigns specifically target the competencies required for successfully carrying out the Group’s current and future projects. Risk of losing key skills needed Negative impact on the Key persons are identified within each of the Group’s operating entities as well as in its head for the Group to be able Group’s image office and support functions. to operate and develop. and revenue. Succession plans have been drawn up or are being prepared for all of these key persons. In addition, the measures taken to ensure the continuity of the internal control system and the continuous improvement approach of which this system forms part are notably aimed at ensuring the continuity of the Group's processes and operations independently of the persons in charge of them, thus decreasing the risk of dependence on key persons. 5.5 RISKS RELATED TO INFORMATION SYSTEMS Type Impact Risk reduction measures Risk that data is not available Inability to pursue projects, In view of the Group's high dependence on information systems (for the performance of client or is corrupted. negative impact on the projects as well as for its own requirements) and the decentralisation of the IT function, risks Group's image and related to information systems are closely scrutinised. Business continuity and recovery plans revenue. have been drawn up and tested in all operating units. Access to information systems is also strictly controlled, especially for employees who use remote access (although the number of these employees is limited). Lastly, access to restricted client areas (engineering platforms installed on Group premises) is strictly controlled in line with clients' security policies. 5 5.6 LEGAL, REGULATORY AND TAX RISKS Type Impact Risk reduction measures Risk of lack of control over Negative impact on the The contract acceptance process systematically includes a legal and tax review. These the legal and tax aspects Group's image reviews are notably used to ensure that there are no terms or conditions in the contract that are of the Group's business and operating profit. unacceptable for the Group. The definitions and formal classifications of these terms and operations in a context and conditions are provided to all line managers. of globalisation, and lack The Group has also introduced quarterly risk reports for France that are submitted to the Finance, of regulatory compliance. Legal/Insurance, Accounting/Tax and Management Control Departments. Risk that changes to French or Negative impact on Working in conjunction with operations staff, the Group Tax Department continuously monitors foreign tax regulations, or their operating profit and/or any changes in tax regulations, and their corresponding interpretations, that are of relevance interpretation by the relevant consolidated profit. to the Group. Where necessary, it suggests ways of adapting the Group's organisational authorities, may be contrary structure and its operations in order to mitigate the impacts of such changes. to the Group's interests or may restrict the Group's ability to organise or conduct its business. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 87 5 RISK FACTORS INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS ASG LEGAL DISPUTE TAX AUDIT ASG is involved in a legal dispute with Acergy (since renamed France Subsea 7) and Iska Marine concerning a fire that occurred in January In late 2014 Assystem SA received notification of a €13.5 million tax 2010 on board a ship – the Acergy Falcon – which was dry-docked reassessment relating to research tax credits recognised by its subsidiary in Brest for maintenance at the time. The only noteworthy events during Assystem France for 2010, 2011 and 2012. Assystem considers that the year relating to this case were of a procedural nature as, following this reassessment is based on a general position taken by the French an application by ASG, the Brest Commercial Court issued an order tax authorities which is applicable, with no real grounds, to all of the on 21 July 2017 requiring Subsea 7 and the plaintiff’s insurers to French companies concerned and which Assystem is disputing in full. disclose all of the documents exchanged in the UK litigation between Subsea 7 and Sobrena (including the settlement agreement signed However, in view of the changes in case law in 2015, and based on the between Subsea 7 and Sobrena and their respective insurers). This opinions of external legal experts, the Group set aside a €7.3 million order contained an enforcement clause providing for the payment provision in its 2015 financial statements (covering 50% of the amount of a fine in the event of non-compliance. Subsea 7 and its insurers of the reassessments and €0.5 million in potential legal fees). At partially complied with the order by disclosing a certain number of 31 December 2016 Assystem had not yet received a payment notice documents. At the procedural hearing on 24 November 2017, the from the tax authorities for the reassessed amount and the valuation of Brest Commercial Court adjourned the rest of the arguments and the the related risk was unchanged compared with 31 December 2015. exchange of pleadings until 2 March 2018. At 31 December 2017, the Group decided to increase the provision to As in prior periods, Assystem still considers that there is no evidence cover the full amount of the risk and the potential late payment penalties that ASG was at fault or that it will necessarily be held fully or partially following its receipt in November 2017 of the payment notice for the liable. In addition, as in previous periods, the Group confirms that in reassessed amount and in view of the fact that the risk relates to the the event ASG is held liable, this claim would be covered under the former GPS division, whose control has now been transferred outside Group's third-party liability insurance policies. the Group. Consequently, €6.8 million was added to the provision recognised at 31 December 2015 along with €2.1 million for potential late payment penalties, bringing the total provision to €16.1 million at 31 December 2017. The amount recognised for potential late payment penalties was recorded in “Other financial income and expenses” (see Note 8.5 to the consolidated financial statements, “Financial income and expenses”). At the date this Registration Document was filed, the Company was not aware of any other governmental, legal or arbitration proceedings (including any pending or potential proceedings), that could have, or have had in the last 12 months, a significant impact on the financial situation or profitability of the Company or the Group. 5.7 INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS Due to the nature of its activities, the Group has no significant direct nuclear facilities as defined in the applicable regulations. The Group's impact on the environment. In the nuclear sector, the Group provides environmental policy and measures are described in Chapter 4 of this only knowledge-based services and is not authorised to operate any Registration Document on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). 5.8 RISKS RELATED TO ACQUISITIONS Type Impact Risk reduction measures Risk that acquired companies may Dilutive effect on gross A post-acquisition support plan is drawn up for companies that are newly acquired by the not generate operating profit in line margins and operating Group. One of Assystem's priorities after acquiring a company is to implement the Group's with the Group's objectives and profit. reporting systems so that it can rapidly monitor changes in results and generation of cash flow expectations. Group profitability/ and take any appropriate corrective measures. performance objectives not met. The Group has not identified any other significant risks to date. 88 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 RISK FACTORS INSURANCE STRATEGY 5.9 INSURANCE STRATEGY The Group’s insurance strategy includes a pro-active risk prevention The Group’s main insurance policies were renewed in 2017 under the and protection approach and the coverage of major risks in all of its same terms and conditions as those that were previously applicable. business areas and sectors. In view of the fact that it transferred the control of its GPS division To cover these risks, Assystem has taken out a professional and operating on 28 September 2017 (see Chapter 1), the Group has revised its liability insurance policy for its French and international subsidiaries. insurance policies for 2018 in order to ensure that they are suited to its new scope of operations in terms of cost and coverage and without The professional liability insurance policy acts as umbrella insurance reducing the corresponding risk coverage. providing protection against any losses and amounts of claims that are not covered – or not fully covered – by the local insurance policies of Group entities located outside France. 5 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 89 90 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.1 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 6.3 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 STATEMENTS 142 6.1.1 Consolidated statement of financial position 92 6.3.1 Balance sheet 142 6.1.2 Consolidated income statement 94 6.3.2 Income statement 143 6.1.3 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 95 6.3.3 Notes to the parent company financial statements 144 6.1.4 Consolidated statement of cash flows 96 6.3.4 Statutory Auditors report on the parent company 6.1.5 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 97 financial statements 160 6.1.6 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 98 6.3.5 Special Statutory Auditors report on the regulated agreements and commitments 164 6.2 STATUTORY AUDITORS REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 137 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 91 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.1 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.1.1 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION ASSETS In millions of euros Notes 2017 2016 Goodwill 3.3 81.5 184.8 Intangible assets 6.1 1.6 3.6 Property, plant and equipment 6.2 6.7 17.9 Investment property 6.3 1.4 1.4 Equity-accounted investees 5.2 0.7 0.9 Assystem Technologies Groupe shares and convertible bonds 6.4 128.3 Other non-current financial assets 6.5 128.6 13.9 Deferred tax assets 12.3 4.5 17.0 Non-current assets 353.3 239.5 Trade receivables 5.1 160.0 320.1 Other receivables 5.1 47.5 70.9 Income tax receivables 0.5 1.5 Other current assets 0.5 0.3 Cash and cash equivalents 8.1 28.2 85.4 Current assets 236.7 478.2 Total assets 590.0 717.7 92 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES In millions of euros Notes 2017 2016 Share capital 7.1 15.7 22.2 Share premium 80.3 Consolidated reserves (28.4) 106.7 Profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent 404.1 31.5 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 391.4 240.7 Non-controlling interests 0.3 0.3 Total equity 391.7 241.0 Long-term debt and non-current financial liabilities 8.2 3.6 4.4 Pension and other employee benefit obligations 5.3.2 13.7 26.4 Liabilities related to share acquisitions 10 9.1 14.1 Long-term provisions 9.1 16.4 7.6 Other non-current liabilities 10 1.8 5.9 Non-current liabilities 44.6 58.4 Short-term bond debt 8.2 14.4 Other short-term debt and current financial liabilities 8.2 1.0 82.7 Trade payables 5.1 32.8 66.4 Due to suppliers of non-current assets 0.2 1.5 Accrued taxes and payroll costs 5.1 85.9 186.7 Income tax liabilities 7.2 3.8 Liabilities related to share acquisitions 10 4.4 Short-term provisions 9.1 8.2 7.2 Other current liabilities 5.1 18.4 51.2 Current liabilities 153.7 418.3 Total equity and liabilities 590.0 717.7 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 6 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 93 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.1.2 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT In millions of euros Notes 2017 2016 Restated* Revenue 5.1 395.2 380.1 Payroll costs 5.3.1 (277.7) (268.1) Other operating income and expenses 5.4 (88.6) (88.2) Taxes other than on income (0.8) (0.6) Depreciation, amortisation and provisions for recurring operating items, net 5.5 (3.0) (2.5) Operating profit before non-recurring items (EBITA) 5.6 25.1 20.7 Share of profit of equity-accounted investees 5.2 0.9 1.4 EBITA including share of profit of equity-accounted investees 26.0 22.1 Non-recurring income and expenses 5.6 (11.8) (9.4) Operating profit 5.6 14.2 12.7 Share of profit of Assystem Technologies Groupe 6.4 2.3 Income from Assystem Technologies Groupe convertible bonds 6.4 1.5 Net financial expense on cash and debt 8.5 (2.7) (1.5) Other financial income and expenses 8.5 2.8 (2.3) Profit from continuing operations before tax 18.1 8.9 Income tax expense 12 (4.8) (4.5) Profit from continuing operations 13.3 4.4 Profit from discontinued operations 391.3 27.7 Consolidated profit for the period 404.6 32.1 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 404.1 31.5 Non-controlling interests 0.5 0.6 In euros Basic earnings per share 7.3 19.33 1.48 Diluted earnings per share 7.3 19.09 1.23 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 7.3 0.61 0.18 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 7.3 0.61 0.16 Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations 18.71 1.30 Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations 18.59 1.30 (*) Comparative data for 2016 has been restated in accordance with IFRS 5. The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 94 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.1.3 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME In millions of euros Notes 2017 2016 Consolidated profit for the period 404.6 32.1 Items of other comprehensive income (expense) that will not be reclassified to profit Remeasurement of net liability for employee benefit obligations 5.3.1 (1.4) (1.1) Income tax effect 0.4 0.4 Remeasurement of the liability for employee benefit obligations (net of income tax effect) (1.0) (0.7) Items of other comprehensive income (expense) that may be reclassified subsequently to profit Gains and losses on hedging instruments 8.3 0.9 (1.0) Income tax effect (0.3) 0.4 Gains and losses on hedging instruments (net of income tax effect) 0.6 (0.6) Currency translation differences (9.4) (8.2) Total other comprehensive income (expense) (9.8) (9.5) Total comprehensive income for the period 394.8 22.6 Attributable to owners of the parent 394.3 21.9 Profit for the period 404.1 31.5 Other comprehensive income (expense) (9.8) (9.6) Attributable to non-controlling interests 0.5 0.7 Profit for the period 0.5 0.6 Other comprehensive income 0.1 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 6 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 95 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.1.4 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS In millions of euros Notes 2017 2016 Cash flows from operating activities EBITA including share of profit of equity-accounted investees 62.6 66.9 Depreciation, amortisation and provisions for recurring operating items, net 5.5 7.1 8.8 EBITDA 69.7 75.7 Change in operating working capital requirement 5.1 (33.2) (3.4) Income tax paid (14.0) (12.8) Other movements (4.6) (5.8) Net cash generated from operating activities 17.9 53.7 O/w related to continuing operations 23.2 18.8 O/w related to discontinued operations (5.3) 34.9 Cash flows from investing activities Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, net of disposals, of which: (10.3) (8.4) Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 6.6 (11.0) (8.9) Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 6.6 0.7 0.5 Free cash flow 7.6 45.3 O/w related to continuing operations 20.8 17.3 O/w related to discontinued operations (13.2) 28.0 Acquisitions of shares in companies 3.2 (161.7) (26.6) Proceeds from sales of shares in companies, net of the reinvestment in Assystem Technologies Groupe 444.7 0.2 Net cash from/(used in) investing activities 272.7 (34.8) O/w related to continuing operations (141.8) (15.5) O/w related to discontinued operations 414.5 (19.3) Cash flows from financing activities Net financial income received (expenses paid) (3.6) (1.5) Proceeds from new borrowings 8.2 102.9 80.0 Repayments of borrowings and movements in other financial liabilities 8.2 (200.2) (32.3) Dividends paid 7.4 (22.9) (17.9) Buybacks of equity instruments (176.9) Coupon paid on equity instruments (7.2) Other movements in equity of the parent company (225.1) (9.8) Net cash used in financing activities (348.9) (165.6) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (58.3) (146.7) Net cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 8.1 84.4 233.4 Effect of non-monetary items and changes in exchange rates 1.2 (2.3) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (58.3) (146.7) Net cash and cash equivalents at year-end 8.1 27.3 84.4 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 96 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.1.5 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Remeasurement Equity of net liability Total other attribtable for employee comprehensive to owners NonShare Share benefit Hedging Tranlation income Profit for Other of the controlling Total In millions of euros capital premium obligations reserves reserve (expense) the period reserves parent interests equity At 1 January 2016 22.2 80.3 0.1 2.3 2.4 27.2 300.6 432.7 (0.1) 432.6 Dividends paid (17.5) (17.5) (0.4) (17.9) Coupons on Odirnane bonds (7.2) (7.2) (7.2) Share-based payments and free share awards 0.8 0.8 0.8 Treasury share transactions (10.0) (10.0) (10.0) Buybacks of equity instruments (Odirnane bonds), net of tax (166.8) (166.8) (166.8) Reclassification of outstanding Odirnane bonds as bond debt (14.0) (14.0) (14.0) Total comprehensive income (0.7) (0.6) (7.6) (8.9) 31.5 22.6 0.7 23.3 Appropriation of prior-period profit (27.2) 27.2 Appropriation of items of other comprehensive income (expense) that will not be reclassified to profit 0.7 0.7 (0.7) Transactions with non-controlling interests without change of control 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2016 22.2 80.3 (0.5) (5.3) (5.8) 31.5 112.5 240.7 0.3 241.0 Dividends paid (21.7) (21.7) (0.6) (22.3) Share-based payments and free share awards 4.4 4.4 4.4 Treasury share transactions (226.2) (226.2) (226.2) Capital reduction (6.5) (80.3) 86.8 Total comprehensive income (1.0) 0.6 (9.4) (9.8) 404.1 394.3 0.5 394.8 Appropriation of prior-period profit (31.5) 31.5 Appropriation of items of other comprehensive income (expense) that will not be reclassified to 6 profit 1.0 1.0 (1.0) Recycling of currency translation gains and losses of discontinued operations 9.2 9.2 (9.2) Transactions with non-controlling interests without change of control 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 Other movements (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) At 31 December 2017 15.7 0.1 (5.5) (5.4) 404.1 (23.0) 391.4 0.3 391.7 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 97 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.1.6 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS NOTE 1 REPORTING ENTITY AND BASIS OF PREPARATION 99 NOTE 7 EQUITY AND EARNINGS PER SHARE 123 7.1 Shares 123 NOTE 2 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS OF THE YEAR 101 7.2 Treasury shares 123 NOTE 3 CONSOLIDATION, BUSINESS COMBINATIONS 7.3 Earnings per share 123 AND GOODWILL 104 7.4 Dividend per share 124 3.1 Scope of consolidation 105 NOTE 8 FINANCING AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 125 3.2 Business combinations 105 8.1 Cash and cash equivalents 125 3.3 Goodwill 107 3.4 Impairment testing 108 8.2 Bond debt and other financial liabilities 125 8.3 Derivative instruments 126 NOTE 4 SEGMENT REPORTING 108 8.4 Net debt 127 8.5 Financial income and expenses 128 NOTE 5 OPERATIONAL DATA 110 8.6 Financial risk management 129 5.1 Revenue and working capital requirement (WCR) 110 5.2 Equity-accounted investees 112 NOTE 9 PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 129 5.3 Payroll costs and employee benefit obligations 113 9.1 Provisions 130 5.3.1 Breakdown of payroll costs in the consolidated 9.2 Contingent liabilities 130 income statement 113 5.3.2 Employee benefit obligations 113 NOTE 10 LIABILITIES RELATED TO SHARE ACQUISITIONS 5.3.3 Share-based payments 115 (CURRENT AND NON-CURRENT) 5.4 Other operating income and expenses 117 AND OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 131 5.5 Depreciation, amortisation and provisions for recurring operating items, net 117 NOTE 11 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 131 5.6 Non-recurring income and expenses 117 11.1 Accounting classification of financial assets and NOTE 6 NON-CURRENT ASSETS 118 liabilities 131 6.1 Intangible assets 118 11.2 Fair value hierarchy 132 6.2 Property, plant and equipment 119 NOTE 12 INCOME TAX 133 6.3 Investment property 120 12.1 Income tax recognised during the year 133 6.4 Assystem Technologies Groupe shares and 12.2 Tax proof 133 convertible bonds 120 12.3 Deferred taxes 134 6.5 Non-current financial assets 121 6.6 Reconciliation of acquisitions of property, plant NOTE 13 OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS 136 and equipment and intangible assets recorded in the consolidated statement of cash flows 122 13.1 Operating leases 136 13.2 Other commitments 136 NOTE 14 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING DATE 136 98 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 1 REPORTING ENTITY AND BASIS OF PREPARATION Reporting entity OTHER MAIN STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED BY THE IASB BUT NOT YET ENDORSED BY THE EUROPEAN UNION The Assystem Group (hereinafter also referred to as the “Group”) is an ● IFRS 16 – Leases, effective for annual reporting periods beginning international leader in the field of engineering. on or after 1 January 2019, with early application permitted for The Group's parent company is Assystem S.A. (hereinafter also referred 2017 for entities that elect to early adopt IFRS 15. In preparation for to as the “Company ) – a French public limited company (société applying this standard as from 1 January 2019, the Group is currently anonyme) governed by a Board of Directors, whose registered office (i) compiling a list of its operating leases (for real estate, vehicles is located at 70, boulevard de Courcelles, 75017 Paris, France. and computer equipment) that will need to be reclassified under IFRS 16, and (ii) determining the method to use to reclassify these leases. The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017, together with the accompanying notes, were approved by the ● Amendments to IFRS 2 – Classification and Measurement of ShareCompany’s Board of Directors on 15 March 2018. However, these based Payment Transaction, effective for annual reporting periods financial statements will only be considered definitive after approval by beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early application the Company’s shareholders at the Annual General Meeting scheduled permitted. to be held on 16 May 2018. ● Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 – Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture, which may The consolidated financial statements reflect the accounting position of be early adopted as from 1 January 2016. Assystem and its subsidiaries. They are presented in millions of euros, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand. ● Annual improvements to IFRSs (2014-2016 cycle), effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early Basis of preparation application permitted for the amendments to IAS 28. ● IFRIC 22 – Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration, In compliance with Regulation 1606/2002/EC of the European effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January Parliament and Council dated 19 July 2002, the consolidated financial 2018, with early application permitted. statements of the Assystem Group for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial ● IFRIC 23 – Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments, effective for Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and related interpretations as adopted by annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, the European Union at that date. These financial statements present with early application permitted. two years of data. PRESENTATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND YEAR-ON-YEAR COMPARISONS IFRSs as adopted by the European Union differ in certain respects from IFRSs as issued by the IASB. The Group nevertheless ensured that the The presentation of the financial statements was the same for 2017 fi nancial information for the reported periods would not have been as for 2016. substantially different had it applied IFRSs as issued by the IASB. The Group applied IFRS 5 – Noncurrent Assets Held for Sale and NEW STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS TO EXISTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS WHOSE APPLICATION WAS MANDATORY Discontinued Operations for the transfer of control of its Global Product Solutions (GPS) division, in view of the fact that GPS constituted a major 6 FROM 1 JANUARY 2017 line of business for Assystem (see Note 2 – Significant events of the year). The following amendments to existing standards were applicable by In accordance with this standard, the 2016 figures in the consolidated the Group as from 1 January 2017 but did not have any impact on its income statement have been restated in order to permit meaningful consolidated financial statements: year-on-year comparisons. In addition, in the consolidated statement of cash flows the 2017 and 2016 figures for “Net cash generated from ● Amendments to IAS 12 – Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for operating activities”, “Net cash from/(used in) investing activities” and Unrealised Losses. “Free cash flow” have been segregated between continuing operations ● Amendments to IAS 7 – Disclosure Initiative. and discontinued operations. NEW STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS TO EXISTING STANDARDS AND The Group’s share of the equity and quasi-equity (convertible bonds with INTERPRETATIONS THAT COULD BE EARLY ADOPTED IN 2017 an annually capitalised coupon) of Assystem Technologies Groupe (ATG) ● IFRS 15 and related amendment – Revenue from Contracts with has been presented in a separate line called “Assystem Technologies Customers, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 Groupe shares and convertible bonds” in the consolidated statement of January 2018, with early application permitted for annual reporting financial position in view of the material amount involved and the type of periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. instruments concerned. The income from the Group’s investment in ATG is ● IFRS 9 and related amendments – Financial Instruments, effective for presented in two separate lines of the consolidated income statement: (i) accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early “Share of profit of Assystem Technologies Groupe”, which corresponds application permitted for 2017. to the Group’s portion of ATG’s profi t resulting from accounting for the company by the equity method, and (ii) “Income from Assystem Based on the analyses carried out to date, the Group does not consider Technologies Groupe convertible bonds”. that these new standards and amendments will have a material impact on its financial statements. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 99 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MAIN SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY Figures relating to provisions are presented in Note 9.1 – Provisions. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that can affect the reported Impairment of trade receivables amounts of certain assets and liabilities and income and expenses. The An impairment loss is recognised on trade receivables if the present impact of any changes in estimates is accounted for on a prospective value of future amounts to be collected is less than their nominal value. basis. The estimates are made by Management based on the going The amount of the impairment loss recognised takes into account the age concern principle using information available at the reporting date. of the receivable and the debtor's capacity to honour its obligations. A They may change, however, due to circumstances or new information lower recoverability rate than estimated or a default by a major client that could require a reconsideration of the context in which they were could adversely affect future profit. prepared. Actual results may therefore differ from the estimates. The random nature of certain estimates may make it difficult to ascertain the Figures relating to impairment of trade receivables are presented in Group's economic outlook, particularly in relation to asset impairment Note 5.1 – Revenue and working capital requirement. tests (see Note 3.3 – Goodwill). The accounting items that are the most exposed to the risk of estimation Deferred taxes uncertainty are described below. Deferred tax assets are recognised for the carryforward of unused tax losses and unused tax credits and deductible temporary differences Revenue recognition only to the extent that it is probable that the Company and/or its subsidiary(ies) concerned will have sufficient future taxable profit against As described in Note 5.1 – Revenue and working capital requirement, which the unused tax losses, tax credits or temporary differences can revenue is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or be utilised. receivable for the services rendered by the Group. In assessing whether it will have suffi cient taxable profi t to recover Revenue generated from long-term service contracts is accounted for deferred tax assets, the Group takes into account forecasts of future in accordance with IAS 11. The stage of completion of projects and taxable profi ts, non-recurring expenses included in past losses and the amount of revenue recognised are determined using numerous which will not be incurred again in the future, and its past history of estimates based on cost-monitoring and past experience. Estimates taxable profit for prior years. and assumptions may be adjusted throughout the term of the contract and could have a significant impact on future profit. Figures for deferred taxes related to unused tax losses and temporary differences are presented in Note 12.3 – Deferred taxes. Provisions for losses on completion of contracts and project warranty costs Goodwill impairment Provisions for expected losses on engineering contracts may be The estimates used in the assumptions for calculating goodwill impairment recognised when applying the percentage of completion method in are set out in Note 3.4 – Goodwill impairment testing. accordance with IAS 11 (see Note 5.1 – Revenue and working capital requirement). When it becomes probable that total contract costs will Employee benefit obligations exceed total contract revenue a provision is immediately recognised The estimates and assumptions used for calculating employee benefit for the related loss, after deducting any previously recognised losses. obligations and the related sensitivity analyses are set out in Note 5.3.2 – However, the loss actually recognised on completion of the contract Employee benefit obligations. may differ from the amounts originally provisioned, and may have an impact on future profit. 100 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 2 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS OF THE YEAR The following significant events took place in 2017: convertible bonds maturing in 2027 and paying capitalisable interest at a rate of 9% per annum. Transfer of control of the Global Production Solutions Assystem’s interest in ATG’s equity and quasi-equity is recognised (GPS) business to the private equity firm Ardian in the consolidated statement of fi nancial position under “Assystem On 28 September 2017, Assystem sold its GPS business to an entity Technologies Groupe shares and convertible bonds”. The Company’s controlled by an investment fund managed by the private equity firm, investment in ATG’s capital is accounted for by the equity method and its Ardian, for €550 million. The net disposal gain recognised in the portion of ATG’s profit from 1 October to 31 December 2017 – which consolidated financial statements (after taking into account transaction was recognised in the consolidated income statement under “Share of costs and the tax effect) totalled €375.4 million. profit of Assystem Technologies Groupe” – amounted to €2.3 million. Income from ATG’s convertible bonds – recognised under “Income The Group reinvested €124.28 million in the company that acquired from Assystem Technologies Groupe convertible bonds” – totalled GPS (Assystem Technologies Groupe – ATG), representing a 39.23% €1.5 million for the same period. stake in ATG’s capital and a 39.24% interest in the total equity and quasi-equity raised by ATG to help finance the acquisition. This The net cash proceeds recognised for 2017 on the transfer of control reinvestment took the form of €62.14 million worth of ordinary shares of GPS’s business came to €443.1 million, taking into account the (excluding €0.3 million in transaction costs) and €62.14 million in sale price, the amount reinvested in ATG, GPS’s cash transferred on its deconsolidation, the repayment of intra-group receivables due to Assystem by GPS and the tax and other costs of the transaction. The disclosures required under IFRS 5 are presented below; NET ASSETS SOLD In millions of euros 2017 Goodwill 124.7 Intangible assets 2.9 Property, plant and equipment 13.7 Other non-current financial assets 9.9 Deferred tax assets 5.8 Non-current assets 157.0 Trade receivables 201.5 Other receivables 33.2 Income tax receivables 2.8 Cash and cash equivalents Current assets 20.5 258.0 6 Total assets 415.0 Pension and other employee benefit obligations 15.4 Long-term provisions 0.6 Other non-current liabilities 6.5 Non-current liabilities 22.5 Short-term debt and other current financial liabilities 8.6 Net receivables due to Assystem SA under intra-group current accounts 36.5 Short-term provisions 2.4 Trade payables 43.9 Other current liabilities 138.7 Income tax liabilities 5.6 Current liabilities 235.7 Total liabilities 258.2 Net assets sold 156.8 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 101 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INCOME STATEMENT DATA FOR SOLD OPERATIONS In millions of euros 2017 2016 Revenue 495.0 581.3 Payroll costs (324.1) (394.8) Other operating income and expenses (129.2) (134.7) Taxes other than on income (1.0) (0.7) Depreciation, amortisation and provisions for recurring operating items, net (4.1) (6.3) Operating profit before non-recurring items (EBITA) 36.6 44.8 Non-recurring income and expenses (7.8) (4.1) Operating profit 28.8 40.7 Net financial income (expense) (2.8) 0.2 Profit before tax 26.0 40.9 Income tax expense (10.1) (13.2) Profit for the period 15.9 27.7 Disposal gain net of transaction costs 388.7 Tax on disposal gain net of transaction costs (13.3) Profit from discontinued operations recognised in the consolidated financial statements 391.3 27.7 DISPOSAL GAIN NET OF TRANSACTION COSTS In millions of euros 2017 Sale price 550.0 Net assets sold (156.8) Transaction costs (4.5) Disposal gain net of transaction costs but before tax 388.7 NET CASH GENERATED FROM THE SALE In millions of euros 2017 Sale price 550.0 Cash reinvested in Assystem Technologies Groupe shares (including transaction costs) (62.4) Cash reinvested in Assystem Technologies Groupe convertible bonds (62.1) Transaction costs (3.5) Cash and current accounts of deconsolidated entities 24.5 Other (3.4) Cash flows related to sales of consolidated shares 443.1 102 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Share buyback offer Heavy Industries Ltd and 5% by Assystem – is the Company to which Areva NP transferred its assets and activities related to (i) the design During 2017, Assystem bought back six million of its own shares (with and supply of nuclear reactor equipment, (ii) the design and supply of a par value of €1 each), at a purchase price of €37.50 per share, fuel assemblies and (iii) services provided to a large worldwide installed representing an aggregate €225 million. This corresponded to 27.00% base of nuclear reactors. of the total number of shares making up Assystem's capital and 28.35% of the Assystem shares outstanding (equal to the number of shares The acquisition agreement contains earn-out clauses and Assystem has making up the capital less the number of shares held in treasury). All of the possibility of capping its investment at €140 million by way of a the shares bought back under the offer, together with 550,000 shares mechanism enabling it to resell Framatome shares, at their cost price, already held in treasury, were cancelled on 21 December 2017 and to Framatome’s major shareholder, EDF. the Company’s capital was therefore reduced to 15,668,216 shares This investment has been recognised in the consolidated statement of with a par value of €1 each. financial position under “Other non-current financial assets”. The costs related to this transaction have been recognised as a deduction from equity in a net-of-tax amount of €1.0 million. External growth The Group carried out further external growth transactions in 2017, Acquisition of a 5% interest in Framatome both in France and other European countries, strengthening its project On 31 December 2017 Assystem purchased a 5% interest in Framatome management skills and its positions in the life sciences sector (see from Areva NP for €123.7 million (excluding €0.6 million in transaction Note 3.2 – Business combinations). costs). Framatome – which is 75.5% owned by EDF, 19.5% by Mitsubishi 6 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 103 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 3 CONSOLIDATION, BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL Consolidation method FULLY-CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Companies over which the Group exercises control are consolidated. IFRS 10 has introduced a single model of control based on three criteria: “an investor controls an investee when the investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee”. Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of consolidated subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control is transferred to the Group until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary. All inter-company transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation. Non-controlling interests are presented separately in the financial statements. JOINT VENTURES AND JOINT OPERATIONS (EQUITY-ACOUNTED INVESTMENTS) IFRS 11 classifies joint arrangements into two types – joint ventures and joint operations. The Group determines the type of joint arrangement in which it is involved by considering its rights and obligations in the arrangement, assessed based on the structure and legal form of the arrangement, the contractual terms agreed to by the parties to the arrangement and, when relevant, other facts and circumstances. A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties with joint control (“joint venturers”) have rights to the net assets of the arrangement. A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties with joint control (“joint operators”) have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities of the arrangement. Joint arrangements that qualify as joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method (equity-accounted investees). For joint operations, each of the joint operators must recognise the assets and the liabilities (and income and expenses) relating to its interest in the joint operation. Translation of foreign companies' financial statements and foreign-currency denominated transactions FUNCTIONAL CURRENCY AND PRESENTATION CURRENCY Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group's entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (i.e. in which the entity mainly generates and expends cash), which corresponds to its functional currency. The consolidated financial statements are presented in euros, which is the Group's presentation currency. TRANSACTIONS AND BALANCES Foreign-currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when included in other comprehensive income as the effective portion of qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges. TRANSLATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF SUBSIDIARIES The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the euro are translated into euros as follows: ● assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet; ● income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates for the period. All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income in a separate line. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity is recognised in the entity's functional currency and translated into euros at the closing rate. 104 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.1 Scope of consolidation The main companies included in Assystem SA’s scope of consolidation were as follows at 31 December 2017: Percentage Consolidation Company name Country Registration number interest method French companies Assystem SA France 412076937 Parent FC Assystem EOS France 444159164 100 FC Insiema France 572004372 100 FC MPH Global Services France 499137610 100 FC SCI du Pont Noir France 309112381 100 FC Assystem Technologies Groupe France 831178785 39.23 Equity Euro Contrôle Projet and subsidiaries France 347621831 100 FC Non-French companies Assystem Energy Infrastructure Ltd UK United Kingdom 100 FC Radicon Saudi Arabia 75 FC Biotech Quality Group and subsidiaries Belgium 100 FC MPH Consulting Services DMCC Dubai 100 FC Envy Turkey 100 FC FC: Fully consolidated. Equity: Accounted for by the equity method. 3.2 Business combinations Business combinations which occurred between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2009 were recognised in accordance with the requirements of the previous version of IFRS 3. Since 1 January 2010, business combinations have been recognised based on the requirements of the revised version of IFRS 3 (IFRS 3R). In accordance with IFRS 3R, when an entity over which the Group exercises exclusive control is consolidated for the first time: ● The identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are measured at fair value on the date when control is transferred to the Group. When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the assets and liabilities (including client contracts and portfolios) for appropriate classification and designation. ● Any non-controlling interest in the acquiree is recognised on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at fair value or at the non6 controlling interest’s proportionate share of the recognised amounts of the identifiable net assets of the acquiree. At the date of a business combination, goodwill is measured as the excess of: ● the fair value of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and, for a business combination achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of any equity interest previously held in the acquiree; over ● the acquisition-date fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. For each business combination, the Group elects whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value (“full goodwill method”) or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets (“partial goodwill method”). The initial accounting for business combinations must be completed within one year of the acquisition date (the “measurement period”). During this measurement period, the Group retrospectively adjusts the provisional amounts recognised at the acquisition date to reflect any new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and, if known, would have affected the measurement of the amounts recognised as of that date. Any gain on a bargain purchase (negative goodwill) is recognised in profit immediately. Subsequent to initial recognition, goodwill is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses (see Section 3.3 – “Goodwill”). ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 105 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Additionally, the following principles apply to business combinations: ● any contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the acquisition date, and any subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit; ● acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred; in accordance with IFRS 10, when the proportion of the equity in a subsidiary held by non-controlling interests changes, the Group recognises directly in “Equity attributable to owners of the parent” any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CARRIED OUT IN 2017 Energy & Infrastructure (E&I) The Group considers that its acquisitions in 2017 did not individually Assystem acquired The Biotech Quality Group and Euro Contrôle Projet represent material amounts. during the year, enabling it to strengthen its skills in life sciences and project management respectively. Global Product Solutions (GPS): Prior to its transfer of control of GPS, the Group acquired Automotive These two groups employ an aggregate 300 people and generated Solutions Germany GmbH (“ASG”) in Germany and Engineering Partner combined revenue of €32 million in 2017. However, their contributions Automotive Nordic AB Concept in Sweden. These two transactions to Assystem’s consolidated revenue were not material as both acquisitions enabled GPS to acquire expertise in designing lighting systems for were carried out at the end of the year. automakers and to extend its client portfolio to include more major Cross put and call options exercisable in the medium-term were given players in the automotive industry. in connection with the acquisition of the Biotech Quality Group (see Note 10 – Liabilities related to share acquisitions (current and noncurrent) and other non-current liabilities). The fair value of the net assets acquired in the business combinations carried out in 2017 are shown in the table below: In millions of euros GPS E&I Total Cash and cash equivalents 0.4 4.3 4.7 Other current and non-current assets 7.4 13.0 20.4 Total assets 7.8 17.3 25.1 Financial liabilities 1.0 1.0 2.0 Other current and non-current liabilities 3.9 9.1 13.0 Total liabilities 4.9 10.1 15.0 Net assets 2.9 7.2 10.1 Goodwill related to the acquisitions, as determined using the full goodwill method, breaks down as follows: In millions of euros GPS E&I Total Portion of the purchase price paid in cash 14.8 20.4 35.2 Deferred purchase costs (cross put and call options) 4.1 4.1 Total purchase price 14.8 24.5 39,3 Fair value of net assets acquired 2.9 7.2 10.1 Goodwill 11.9 17.3 29.2 The cash flows relating to the acquisitions can be analysed as follows: In millions of euros GPS E&I Total Cash and cash equivalents 0.4 4.3 4.7 Bank overdrafts (0.7) (0.8) (1.5) Net cash acquired (0.3) 3.5 3.2 Purchase price of shares (14.8) (20.4) (35.2) Shareholder’s loans granted (0.2) (0.2) Other cash flows (0.6) (0.1) (0.7) Settlement of liabilities related to share acquisitions (4.7) (4.7) Net cash outflow (20.6) (17.0) (37.6) In accordance with IFRS 3R, the Group will complete the initial accounting for the acquisitions carried out in 2017 within one year of the dates it acquired control of the companies concerned. 106 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Cash flows related to acquisitions of shares in companies were as follows in 2017 and 2016: In millions of euros 2017 2016 GPS acquisitions (20.6) (12.4) E&I acquisitions (17.0) (14.2) Acquisition of a 5% interest in Framatome* (124.1) Acquisitions of shares in companies (161.7) (26.6) * See Note 6.5 – Non-current financial assets 3.3 Goodwill In accordance with IFRS 3R, goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment at least once a year. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (CGUs) or groups of CGUs. A CGU corresponds to the smallest identifiable Group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets. The level of CGU used for goodwill impairment tests depends on the characteristics of the business or market of each operation. The Group carries out impairment tests at each year-end and whenever there is an indication of impairment in order to estimate the CGU’s recoverable amount. Recoverable amount corresponds to the higher of the CGU’s fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use (the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the CGU). When the recoverable amount of a CGU is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised and is deducted to the extent possible from the carrying amount of the goodwill allocated to the CGU. If a subsidiary is sold, the goodwill allocated to that subsidiary is taken into account in determining the proceeds of the sale. Goodwill arising on acquisitions of fully-consolidated companies is presented in a separate line of the financial statements. Goodwill related to companies accounted for using the equity method is presented in the lines of the statement of financial position concerning equity-accounted investees. The Group’s operating segments are as follows: Global Product Solutions (outsourced R&D business that was sold during the year (see Note 2 – Significant events of the year), Energy & Infrastructure (complex infrastructure engineering) and Staffing (worldwide assignment of consultants specialised in Oil & Gas and other industrial sectors). These segments correspond to the cash-generating units (CGUs) used by the Group at 31 December 2017, which comply with the IFRS definition of CGUs. In millions of euros Global Product Solutions Energy & Infrastructure Staffing Total 6 Carrying amount at 1 Jan. 2017 112.8 65.9 6.1 184.8 Increases related to business combinations 11.9 17.3 29.2 Decreases related to discontinued operations (124.7) (124.7) Currency translation differences (0.4) (7.4) (7.8) Other movements 0.4 (0.4) Carrying amount at 31 Dec. 2017 75.4 6.1 81.5 Accumulated impairment losses at 31 Dec. 2017 (14.0) (14.0) The impacts of changes in scope of consolidation are described in Note 3.2 – Business combinations. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 107 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Impairment testing The recoverable amount of the CGUs was calculated based on their The cash flows used were based on budget forecasts drawn up by value in use. In order to determine value in use, the Group projects the operating management teams of each CGU when determining the future cash flows that it expects to derive from each CGU. These their medium and long-term strategy. The Group applied a normative projections are based on four-year budgets and cash flows beyond this cost of debt weighted for the Group as a whole and a cost of equity four-year period are estimated by extrapolating the projections using a specific to each country in order to determine the WACC (see table perpetuity growth rate (see below). This growth rate must not exceed the below). The table below presents the main factors used for modelling mediumto long-term average growth rate for the industry as a whole. the assumptions applied for the impairment tests: Future cash flows are discounted based on the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) of each business segment. Perpetuity growth rate used for extrapolating future cash flows CGU 2017 beyond the projection period Discount rate Energy & Infrastructure 1.5% 9.2% Staffing 1.5% 10.7% If any impairment is identified based on the calculation of discounted A 1% (100 basis points) increase in the WACC or a 1% decrease in future cash flows and/or market values of the assets concerned, or if the EBITDA margin or perpetuity growth rate assumptions used for the there is a change in market conditions or in the cash flows that were impairment tests carried out on the Energy & Infrastructure and Staffing originally estimated, then previously recognised impairment losses may CGUs would not result in the recognition of an impairment loss for need to be revised or modified. these CGUs. Apart from an increase in the discount rate used for the Energy & Infrastructure CGU (9.2% in 2017 versus 8.0% in 2016), there were no significant changes in assumptions year on year. NOTE 4 SEGMENT REPORTING Operating segments are components of the Group about which separate ● The indicator, “EBITA including share of profit of equity-accounted financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by Group investees”, excludes non-recurring income and expenses. management in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. Since it transferred control of GPS, the Group has had Analysis by operating segment two operating segments: Energy & Infrastructure (complex infrastructure Assets and liabilities allocated by operating segment correspond to engineering) and Staffing (worldwide assignment of consultants operating assets and liabilities used by each division in its operating specialised in Oil & Gas and other industrial sectors). activities and which are directly attributable to the segment or can be The main accounting policies used for operating segments are as allocated to the segment on a reasonable basis. They correspond to: follows: ● goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment; ● Each segment has its own resources and may share certain resources ● trade receivables, other receivables and other current assets; with other segments to create synergies. This sharing is carried out through a reallocation of costs or through contractual relations ● trade payables, amounts due to suppliers of non-current assets, between different legal entities. accrued taxes and payroll costs, current liabilities related to share acquisitions, short-term provisions and other current liabilities. ● Management costs that are directly attributable to the two operating segments are allocated to each segment concerned. 108 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 Holding company and In millions of euros E&I Staffing Other Inter-segment Total Revenue 341.3 50.1 8.8 (5.0) 395.2 O/w inter-segment revenue (5.0) 5.0 Total external revenue 341.3 45.1 8.8 395.2 EBITA including share of profit of equity-accounted investees 27.9 1.9 (3.8) 26.0 Non-recurring income and expenses (2.5) 0.1 (9.4) (11.8) Operating profit (loss) 25.4 2.0 (13.2) 14.2 Net assets allocated by operating segment (CGU) 117.5 14.5 19.8 151.8 2016 Holding company and In millions of euros E&I Staffing Other Inter-segment Total Revenue 318.0 57.4 9.2 (4.5) 380.1 O/w inter-segment revenue (0.3) (4.2) 4.5 Total external revenue 317.7 53.2 9.2 380.1 EBITA including share of profit of equity-accounted investees 24.1 2.4 (4.4) 22.1 Non-recurring income and expenses (0.5) (7.2) (1.7) (9.4) Operating profit (loss) 23.6 (4.8) (6.1) 12.7 Net assets allocated by operating segment (CGU) 97.6 13.7 23.2 134.5 Analysis by geographic region Non-current assets allocated by geographic region correspond to The following table shows a breakdown of the Group’s revenue and goodwill, intangible assets and property plant and equipment which assets by region, based on the geographic location of consolidated are directly attributable to the region or can be allocated to the region companies: on a reasonable basis. 2017 Holding Asia Middle company, Other and other 6 In millions of euros France Rest of Europe East Africa regions Group total Total external revenue 285.3 35.2 74.7 395.2 Non-current assets allocated by geographic region 26.1 15.4 47.4 0.9 89.8 2016 Holding company, Other Asia Middle and other In millions of euros France Rest of Europe East Africa regions Group total Total external revenue 260.0 38.0 82.1 380.1 Non-current assets allocated by geographic region 20.6 2.3 55.4 1.1 79.4 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 109 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 5 OPERATIONAL DATA 5.1 Revenue and working capital requirement (WCR) Revenue Revenue corresponds to the gross inflows of economic benefits received or receivable by the Group during the period on its own account which arise from ordinary operating activities and result in increases in equity. IAS 18 requires revenue to be measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable. In most cases, the consideration is in the form of cash or cash equivalents and the amount of revenue is the amount of cash or cash equivalents received or receivable. The Group recognises its revenue in the period in which the services are rendered. Revenue for the Group comprises: ● invoices issued or to be issued for services rendered; ● the valuation at cost price of services for which the Group has undertaken works; ● commissions on business for which the Group acts as an agent. Depending on the type of transaction involved, the criteria for determining the stage of completion of services rendered at a given date can be based on: ● reviews of work performed; ● services performed to date as a percentage of total services to be performed; or ● the proportion that costs incurred to date bear to the estimated total costs of the transaction. The criteria applied are left to the discretion of the operating unit’s manager who chooses those that are best suited to the project. The Group’s services are valued based on the following: ● Time and materials contracts: the valuation of services rendered under these contracts depends on the resources used. Revenue is determined on a time-spent basis, agreed on with the client, and corresponding to an aggregate resulting from the multiplication of an hourly or daily rate. ● Fixed-price contracts: these correspond to contracts under which the Group has a performance obligation and whose price is either (i) fixed at the outset for the project as a whole or (ii) set in a master agreement for each type of service ordered by the client, with the value of services rendered based on the percentage of completion method as defined in IAS 11. ● Provisions for losses on completion: a provision is recognised when it is probable that contract costs will exceed contract revenue. The amount of the provision is calculated by reference to the stage of completion less the loss already recognised, and it is recorded under “Depreciation, amortisation and provisions for recurring operating items, net”. Government grants and tax credits Government grants and tax credits related to operating expenses are recognised in the income statement over the periods necessary to match them with the costs they are intended to compensate. They are recorded either: ● as a deduction from the corresponding expense if they are intended to compensate an identified cost; or ● as a decrease in other operating expenses if they are granted for general purposes. Trade receivables Trade receivables include: ● services invoiced but not yet paid for; ● services completed but not yet invoiced, measured at the sale price; ● work-in-progress measured at cost price. Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at fair value less any accumulated impairment losses. An impairment loss is recognised if there is objective evidence that the Group will be unable to collect all the contractual amounts due. The amount of the impairment loss recognised corresponds to the difference between the amount recorded under assets and the fair value of the discounted future cash flows. 110 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRADE RECEIVABLES In millions of euros 2017 2016 Trade receivables 118.0 250.7 Accrued revenue and work-in-progress 48.9 83.3 Gross value 166.9 334.0 Impairment (6.9) (13.9) Carrying amount 160.0 320.1 In 2017, the Group put in place a factoring contract under which the receivables sales concerned meet the derecognition criteria in IAS 39 – Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. The factored receivables under this contract represented a net amount of €5.2 million at 31 December 2017. ANALYSIS OF CHANGE IN OPERATING WORKING CAPITAL REQUIREMENT Decrease related At beginning Change related to discontinued In millions of euros of year to operations operations Other At year-end Trade receivables (1) 320.1 29.2 (203.5) 14.2 160.0 Amounts owed to clients (2) (9.2) 2.5 1.4 (0.6) (5.9) Deferred income (2) (41.1) 3.1 27.2 (0.7) (11.5) WCR – Trade receivables (1+2) 269.8 34.8 (174.9) 12.9 142.6 Trade payables (3) (66.4) (4.3) 44.9 (7.0) (32.8) Supplier prepayments (4) 1.3 1.5 (2.0) 0.1 0.9 Prepaid expenses (4) 6.8 0.5 (5.0) (0.2) 2.1 WCR – Trade payables (3+4) (58.3) (2.3) 37.9 (7.1) (29.8) Accrued taxes and payroll costs (5) (186.7) (2.2) 107.5 (4.5) (85.9) Other current payables (5) (0.9) (1.2) 1.6 (0.3) (0.8) Prepaid and recoverable taxes and payroll costs (6) 59.2 1.5 (22.1) 0.9 39.5 Other current receivables 3.6 2.6 (2.6) 1.2 4.8 WCR – Other (5+6) (124.8) 0.7 84.4 (2.7) (42.4) Total 86.7 33.2 (52.6) 3.1 70.4 The amounts in the “Other” column notably include the impact of changes in scope of consolidation and currency effects. Supplier prepayments, prepaid expenses and other current receivables constitute the “Other receivables” line of the statement of financial position. Amounts owed to clients, deferred income and other current payables constitute the “Other current liabilities” line of the statement of financial 6 position. AGED RECEIVABLES Credit risk represents the risk of the Group incurring a financial loss if a client fails to fulfil its contractual obligations. The table below provides a breakdown of late payments for “Trade receivables” as a whole as well as the impairment losses recorded for disputed receivables and client defaults: Gross Impairment Gross Impairment In millions of euros 2017 % 2017 2016 % 2016 Not past due 138.4 82.9% 277.8 83.2% Up to 30 days past due 9.8 5.9% 25.0 7.5% Between 31 and 60 days past due 4.0 2.4% 6.9 2.1% Between 61 and 180 days past due 4.1 2.5% 0.3 7.1 2.1% More than 181 days past due 10.6 6.3% 6.6 17.2 5.1% 13.9 Total 166.9 100.0% 6.9 334.0 100.0% 13.9 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 111 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.2 Equity-accounted investees In millions of euros 2017 2016 At 1 January 0.9 0.7 Dividends (0.7) (1.2) Share of profit 0.9 1.4 Other movements (0.4) At 31 December 0.7 0.9 In view of the geopolitical environment in Yemen, at 31 December 2017 the Group maintained the full write-down of its investment in the joint venture in that country. KEY FIGURES CONCERNING EQUITY-ACCOUNTED INVESTEES Carrying amount (in millions of euros) Company Country % interest % voting rights 2017 2016 Engage France 25 25 0.2 0.2 Alphatest France 49.84 49.84 0.5 0.6 Momentum France 33.33 33.33 0.1 N3A France 50 50 MPH Yemen Limited Yemen 50 50 In millions of euros 2017 2016 Revenue 54.5 48.8 Profit for the period 2.4 2.2 Total comprehensive income 2.4 2.2 Non-current assets 0.2 0.3 Current assets 31.9 24.2 Non-current liabilities (2.9) (2.1) Current liabilities (27.6) (20.5) Net assets 1.6 1.9 RELATED-PARTY INFORMATION ● the members of Assystem’s Board of Directors and Assystem SA’s The Group has defined four categories of related parties: corporate officers (see Note 5.3.3 – Share-based payments); ● joint ventures (excluding Assystem Technologies Groupe, for which ● HDL Development, which holds 76.86% of the Company’s exercisable information is provided in Note 6.4 – Assystem Technologies Groupe voting rights and provides management services to the Group; shares and convertible bonds); ● Radicon’s minority shareholder. In millions of euros 2017 2016 Revenue 12.9 6.3 Other operating income and expenses 0.2 2.2 Financial income 0.2 0.1 Trade receivables and other current assets 2.6 3.0 Trade payables and other current liabilities 0.7 0.9 Loans 0.8 0.8 The Group has recognised a fi nancial liability for amounts owed 25% of the overall amount (in proportion to its interest in Engage), to Radicon’s minority shareholder, which totalled €3.4 million at corresponding to €2.9 million. 31 December 2017 and €3.9 million at 31 December 2016. SNC Momentum has issued €5.9 million worth of guarantees which SNC Engage has issued €11.6 million worth of guarantees which have been counter-guaranteed by its shareholders in proportion to have been counter-guaranteed by its shareholders in proportion to their interests in the company. Consequently, Assystem has guaranteed their interests in the company. Consequently, Assystem has guaranteed 33.33% of the overall amount (in proportion to its interest in Momentum), corresponding to €2.0 million. 112 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.3 Payroll costs and employee benefit obligations 5.3.1 BREAKDOWN OF PAYROLL COSTS IN THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT In millions of euros 2017 2016 Wages and salaries (218.5) (212.7) Social security contributions (59.2) (55.4) Total (277.7) (268.1) 5.3.2 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS The Group accounts for defined benefit and defined contribution post-employment benefit plans in accordance with the laws and practices of each country in which it operates. Defined contribution plans Defined contribution plans are post-employment benefit plans under which an entity pays fixed contributions into a separate entity (a fund) and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all of the benefits relating to the services rendered by employees prior to retirement. The actuarial risk (that benefits will cost more than expected) and the investment risk (that plan assets will be insufficient to meet expected benefits) are not borne by the employer entity. Contributions to government plans and other defined contribution plans are recognised as an expense for the period in which they are due. No provision is recorded as the Group’s obligation is limited to its contributions to the plans. Defined benefit plans All post-employment benefit plans other than defined contribution plans correspond to defined benefit plans. Under defined benefit plans the entity’s obligation is to provide the agreed benefits to current and former employees. The employer entity may either: ● pay contributions to a separate entity (a fund), but must pay further contributions (or pay unfunded benefits) if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all of the benefits relating to the services rendered by employees; or ● pay the benefits itself, funding them out of its own assets. Consequently, under defined benefit plans the employer entity bears both the actuarial risk and the investment risk. In accordance with IAS 19 – Employee Benefits, actuarial valuations of post-employment benefit obligations under defined benefit plans are made using the projected unit credit method, based on assumptions for mortality rates, staff turnover and future salary projections. 6 The net defined benefit liability recognised at the reporting date corresponds to the present value of the defined benefit obligation – i.e. the present value of expected future payments required to settle the obligation resulting from employee service in the current and prior periods – less the fair value of plan assets. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income. The Group’s defined benefit obligations consist mainly of statutory retirement bonuses payable in accordance with the Syntec collective bargaining agreement applicable in France. These bonuses correspond to vested entitlements determined based on length of service. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 113 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NET LIABILITY RECOGNISED IN THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION In millions of euros 2017 2016 Present value of funded or partially-funded post-employment benefit obligations 13.7 27.6 Fair value of plan assets (1.2) Provision recognised in the statement of financial position 13.7 26.4 CHANGE IN THE NET LIABILITY RECOGNISED IN THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION In millions of euros 2017 2016 Net liability at 1 January 26.4 23.5 Current service cost 1.8 1.9 Interest expense 0.3 0.4 Remeasurement of the net liability recognised in equity 1.5 1.1 Currency translation differences (0.3) 0.1 Increases related to business combinations 0.1 0.1 Decreases related to discontinued operations (15.4) Benefits paid (0.7) (0.9) Benefits paid directly by the fund 0.2 Net liability at 31 December 13.7 26.4 Current service cost is recognised under “Depreciation, amortisation The actuarial gains and losses recognised directly in other comprehensive and provisions for recurring operating items, net” and interest expense income mainly relate to the effect of changes in the turnover rate for is recorded under “Other financial income and expenses”. employees aged over 60. The discount rate used for 2017 was the same as for 2016 (1.5% for France). The composite rate applied for 2017 was determined by reference to the Bloomberg and iBoxx rates. PRESENT VALUE OF THE POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATION In millions of euros 2017 2016 Present value of the post-employment benefit obligation at 1 January 27.6 24.9 Current service cost 1.8 1.9 Interest expense 0.3 0.4 Remeasurement of the net liability recognised in equity 1.5 1.1 Currency translation differences (0.3) 0.1 Increases related to business combinations 0.1 0.1 Decreases related to discontinued operations (16.6) Benefits paid (0.7) (0.9) Present value of the post-employment benefit obligation at 31 December 13.7 27.6 PLAN ASSETS In millions of euros 2017 2016 Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 1.2 1.4 Decreases related to discontinued operations (1.2) Benefits paid (0.2) Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 1.2 114 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS In % 2017 2016 France Discount rate 1.5% 1.5% Projected rate of salary increases 1.5% 1.5% Germany Discount rate 1.5% Projected rate of salary increases 2.0% DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS In millions of euros 2017 2016 Amount expensed for defined contribution plans (9.7) (10.0) SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS The liability recognised for statutory retirement bonuses payable in accordance with the Syntec collective bargaining agreement is calculated based on actuarial assumptions relating to the following: mortality rate, staff turnover, future salaries, discount rate and expected return on plan assets. Changes in these assumptions can impact the liability to a greater or lesser extent. The Group has chosen to present a sensitivity analysis for the discount rate applicable for France, since any change in this assumption could significantly affect equity (net of tax): 1% decrease 0.5% decrease 0.5% increase 1% increase Impact on equity (in millions of euros) (1.1) (0.5) 0.5 0.9 Impact on equity (%) (0.3)% (0.1)% (0.1)% 0.2% Impact on the net liability (%) 8.0% 3.6% (3.6)% (6.6)% 5.3.3 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS In accordance with IFRS 2 – Share-based Payment, when the Group receives services from employees as consideration for share-based payments, the fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the share-based payments is recognised as an expense. The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the benefits granted to the employees concerned under stock option plans or free share/performance share plans. 6 The expense is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. For stock options, the fair value of the options is determined using the Black & Scholes pricing model. Although the share-based payment expense – which is recognised as a non-recurring expense in the consolidated income statement – reduces profit for the period, it has no impact on total equity. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 115 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FREE SHARE AWARDS WITH OR WITHOUT PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS 2011 plan 2014 plan 2015 plan 2016 plan 2016 plan 2017 plan Number Number Number Number Number Number of performance of free of free of free of free of free shares shares shares shares shares shares Outstanding at 1 January 2016 19,650 17,000 2,500 Shares awarded during the year 7,000 300,300 Shares not awarded due to non-achievement of performance conditions Shares forfeited during the year (2,620) Shares delivered during the year (17,030) (13,500) Outstanding at 31 December 2016 3,500 2,500 7,000 300,300 Shares awarded during the year 86,750 Shares not awarded due to non-achievement of performance conditions Shares forfeited during the year (5,660) (1,000) Shares delivered during the year (2,500) Shares cancelled during the year (137,700) Outstanding at 31 December 2017 3,500 7,000 156,940 85,750 Year of vesting (*) 2018 2017 2018 2020 2020 * The year of vesting varies depending on the beneficiaries’ country of residence. FAIR VALUE OF FREE SHARE AWARDS WITH OR WITHOUT PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS 2017 2016 Weighted average fair value of free shares awarded during the year (in euros per share) 32.79 21.68 When it transferred the control of GPS, the Group (i) cancelled 137,700 “Profit from discontinued operations”), mainly due to the acceleration performance shares out of the 300,300 awarded in 2016, (ii) removed of vesting rights following the cancellation of the performance shares. the performance condition for a portion of the unvested outstanding As Plan 3 has been classifi ed as a replacement plan, the aboveshares, and (iii) awarded 66,250 shares (under Plan 3) to replace the described operation was recognised as an amendment to an existing cancelled shares. The shares awarded under Plan 3 are not subject to plan. Consequently, and in view of the fact that the difference between any performance conditions and the only applicable vesting condition the fair value of the existing plan at the replacement date and the fair is that the beneficiary must still be with the Group in April 2020. These value of the new plan (Plan 3) represented a positive amount, no other changes resulted in an additional share-based payment (recognised in expenses were recognised in relation to Plan 3. RELATED-PARTY INFORMATION Compensation and benefits granted to the Company’s directors and officers break down as follows: In millions of euros 2017 2016 Salaries and other short-term benefits* (1.4) (2.0) Directors’ fees (0.3) (0.2) Share-based payments Total (1.7) (2.2) * This corresponds to the direct compensation (including payroll taxes) and indirect compensation paid to (i) members of the Board of Directors in their capacity as executive directors and (ii) the Company’s officers. 116 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.4 Other operating income and expenses In millions of euros 2017 2016 Outsourced operations and purchases for contracts (40.1) (36.9) Cost of premises (7.6) (7.7) Transport and travel expenses (11.5) (10.2) Miscellaneous (29.4) (33.4) Total (88.6) (88.2) The “Miscellaneous” line mainly comprise IT costs, fees and commissions, and advertising and public relations costs. 5.5 Depreciation, amortisation and provisions for recurring operating items, net In millions of euros 2017 2016 Depreciation and amortisation expense (2.2) (2.2) Net change in provisions (0.8) (0.3) Total (3.0) (2.5) 5.6 Non-recurring income and expenses Non-recurring income and expenses comprise: ● share-based payment expense (free shares/performance shares and stock options); ● acquisitionand divestment-related expenses (external fees associated with external growth transactions and divestments); ● capital gains or losses arising on business divestments, other than those accounted for in accordance with IFRS 5; ● income and expenses related to unusual, atypical and infrequent events, mainly comprising restructuring costs, asset impairment losses (including goodwill impairment), and other material income and expenses. In millions of euros 2017 2016 Addition to provision for tax dispute (6.8) Asset impairment (7.0) Expenses and provisions related to adapting Group resources to its new scope of consolidation and restructuring measures in its conventional energy activities. (4.8) (0.4) 6 Share-based payment expense (free shares/performance shares). (0.7) (0.3) Company acquisition costs and other 0.5 (1.7) Total (11.8) (9.4) In late 2014 Assystem SA received notification of a €13.5 million tax For its 2017 consolidated fi nancial statements, the Group decided reassessment relating to research tax credits recognised by its subsidiary to increase the provision to cover the full amount of the risk and the Assystem France for 2010, 2011 and 2012. Assystem considers that potential late payment penalties following its receipt in November this reassessment is based on a general position taken by the French 2017 of the payment notice for the reassessed amount and in view of tax authorities which is applicable to all of the French companies the fact that the risk relates to the former GPS division, whose control concerned. Assystem is contesting the grounds of the reassessment in has now been transferred outside the Group. Consequently, €6.8 million their entirety. was added to the provision recognised at 31 December 2015 along with €2.1 million for potential late payment penalties, bringing the However, in view of new case law in 2015, and based on the opinions total provision to €16.1 million at 31 December 2017. The amount of external legal experts, the Group set aside a €7.3 million provision recognised for potential late payment penalties was recorded in “Other in its 2015 financial statements (representing 50% of the amount of the financial income and expenses” in the income statement (see Note 8.5 reassessments and €0.5 million in potential legal fees). At 31 December – Financial income and expenses). 2016 Assystem had not yet received a payment notice from the tax authorities for the reassessed amount and the valuation of the related A €13.5 million bank guarantee was issued to the French tax authorities risk was unchanged compared with 31 December 2015. following the receipt of the payment notices. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 117 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 6 NON-CURRENT ASSETS 6.1 Intangible assets In accordance with IAS 38 – Intangible Assets, an intangible asset is recognised only if the cost of the asset can be measured reliably and it is probable that the expected future economic benefits attributable to the asset will flow to the Group. The Group’s intangible assets mainly correspond to software, which are non-current assets with a finite useful life. These assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives, ranging between three and five years depending on the type of software concerned: ● management software: 5 years; ● production software: 3 to 5 years; ● office automation software: 1 to 3 years. For internally-generated intangible assets, development costs are capitalised when they meet the recognition criteria in IAS 38, i.e. when the Group can demonstrate: ● the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that the asset will be available for use or sale; ● its intention to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it; ● its ability to use or sell the intangible asset; ● how the intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits; ● the availability of adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the project; ● its ability to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development. The cost of an internally-generated intangible asset comprises all directly attributable costs necessary to create, produce, and prepare the asset to be capable of being used in the manner intended by management. Selling, administrative and other general overhead expenditure are not components of the cost of an internally-generated intangible asset. Following initial recognition, these assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives. Intangible assets are measured at amortised cost (historical cost on initial recognition plus any amortisable costs recognised subsequently and less any accumulated amortisation and impairment losses). In millions of euros 2017 2016 At 1 January 3.6 3.7 Additions 2.0 2.1 Increases related to business combinations 0.8 Decreases related to discontinued operations (2.9) Amortisation (1.6) (2.3) Disposals and retirements (0.1) Currency translation differences (0.1) Other movements (0.1) 0.1 At 31 December 1.6 3.6 Gross value at 31 December 7.3 51.2 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses at 31 December (5.7) (48.6) Intangible assets primarily correspond to software used by the Group. 118 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.2 Property, plant and equipment In accordance with IAS 16, an asset is classified as property, plant and equipment if it is held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, or for administrative purposes. These assets are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position if it is likely that the future economic benefits attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and if the cost of the asset can be measured reliably. Property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their useful lives, as follows: ● fixtures, fittings and facilities: 3 to 10 years; ● vehicles: 3 to 5 years; ● office and IT equipment: 3 to 5 years; ● furniture: 10 years. Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Subsequent expenditure is capitalised (and either included in the carrying amount of an asset or recognised as a separate component) if the IAS 16 recognition criteria are met, i.e. if it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to the Group and the expenditure can be measured reliably. Routine repair and maintenance costs are expensed in the period they are incurred. The depreciable amount of property, plant and equipment is determined after deducting residual value if this value is deemed material. If significant parts of an item of property plant and equipment have different useful lives and therefore different depreciation periods they are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment. Assets acquired under finance leases or long-term leases which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to the lessee are recognised as non-current assets in the consolidated statement of financial position. Land, buildings, and fixtures and In millions of euros fittings IT equipment Other Total Gross value at 1 January 2016 20.3 58.7 12.2 91.2 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses at 1 January 2016 (12.1) (54.0) (7.6) (73.7) Carrying amount at 1 January 2016 8.2 4.7 4.6 17.5 Additions 2.1 2.7 1.1 5.9 Increases related to business combinations 0.5 0.2 0.7 Depreciation Disposals and retirements (2.1) (0.3) (2.7) 0.2 (1.0) (0.3) (5.8) (0.4) 6 Currency translation differences (0.1) 0.1 Other movements 0.5 (0.5) Gross value at 31 December 2016 23.6 56.7 12.9 93.2 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses at 31 December 2016 (14.6) (52.5) (8.3) (75.4) Carrying amount at 31 December 2016 8.9 4.3 4.7 17.9 Additions 2.2 3.8 2.1 8.1 Increases related to business combinations 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.5 Decreases related to discontinued operations (5.2) (4.3) (4.2) (13.7) Depreciation (1.9) (2.4) (0.8) (5.1) Disposals and retirements (0.5) (0.5) Currency translation differences (0.3) (0.1) (0.1) (0.5) Other movements 0.1 0.2 (0.3) Gross value at 31 December 2017 10.3 7.9 4.2 22.4 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses at 31 December 2017 (6.2) (6.8) (2.7) (15.7) Carrying amount at 31 December 2017 4.1 1.1 1.5 6.7 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 119 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.3 Investment property IAS 40 defines investment property as property held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both, rather than for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes. Investment property is measured at fair value and any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in the income statement. The building recognised under “Investment property” at 31 December 2017 corresponds to a fully-owned property located in Equeurdreville, France, which is measured at fair value. It was valued in February 2014 by an independent valuer who has no legal ties with the Group. In compliance with IFRS, the valuation method used was based on analysing recent transactions involving similar assets in the same market, as well as a return-based approach. Major market trends were also taken into consideration. At 31 December 2017, the value of this investment property was €1.4 million. There have been no significant changes in the substance of the lease contract on the property since the last valuation was performed. 6.4 Assystem Technologies Groupe shares and convertible bonds As stated in Note 2– Significant events of the year, Assystem’s interest in the equity instruments and quasi-equity of Assystem Technologies Groupe (ATG) is recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position under “Assystem Technologies Groupe shares and convertible bonds”. In millions of euros 2017 At 1 January ATG shares acquired* 62.4 Convertible bonds acquired 62.1 Share of profit 2.3 Income from convertible bonds 1.5 At 31 December 128.3 Portion related to shares accounted for by the equity method 64.7 Portion related to convertible bonds 63.6 * Purchase price of the shares including transaction costs KEY FIGURES CONCERNING ASSYSTEM TECHNOLOGIES GROUPE In millions of euros 2017 Revenue 178.9 Profit for the period 5.9 Other comprehensive income (expense) (0.3) Total comprehensive income 5.6 Non-current assets 555.6 Current assets 308.4 Non-current liabilities (452.2) Current liabilities (258.6) Net assets 153.2 In accordance with IFRS 3R, Assystem Technologies Groupe will complete the purchase price allocation process during the twelve-month measurement period. 120 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RELATED-PARTY INFORMATION In millions of euros 2017 Revenue 1.1 Other operating income and expenses (1.9) Financial income 1.6 Trade receivables and other current assets 5.7 Trade payables and other current liabilities 2.4 Assystem Technologies Groupe shares and convertible bonds 63.6 The Group had issued €6.5 million in guarantees on behalf of subsidiaries that were sold as part of the transfer of control of GPS. Assystem Technologies (a subsidiary of Assystem Technologies Groupe) has counter-guaranteed these commitments in the same amount. 6.5 Non-current financial assets In accordance with IAS 32 and 39, financial assets are measured according to the asset category to which they belong. Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date, corresponding to the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus, in the case of financial assets not measured at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs. The Group’s derivative instruments are described in Note 8.3 – Derivative instruments. AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE (AFS) FINANCIAL ASSETS This category includes shares in non-consolidated companies. They are measured at fair value and any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value – other than impairment losses – are recognised in other comprehensive income until the asset is derecognised. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. For listed shares, fair value corresponds to the market price. Shares whose fair value cannot be measured reliably are recognised at historical cost. At each reporting date, the fair value of AFS financial assets is calculated. An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement if there is an objective indication that the asset is impaired, such as a significant or prolonged decline in value. Impairment losses recognised against AFS financial assets may only be reversed when the assets are derecognised. OTHER NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS 6 The Group’s other non-current financial assets include loans and receivables, which are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They typically arise when an entity provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable. They are included in current assets, except for their long-term portion. They are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. An impairment loss is recognised for any difference between the recoverable amount of the asset (the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate) and its amortised cost at the reporting date. These impairment losses are recognised in the income statement and can be reversed in a subsequent period in the event of a favourable change in circumstances. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 121 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Movements in other non-current financial assets in 2017 and 2016 can be analysed as follows: In millions of euros 2017 2016 At 1 January 13.9 12.0 Increases 0.8 1.5 Investment in Framatome 124.3 Repayments (0.3) (0.1) Increases related to business combinations 0.1 0.2 Decreases related to discontinued operations (9.9) Changes in fair value (0.3) 0.3 At 31 December 128.6 13.9 The Group’s other non-current financial assets primarily correspond to its enters into lease arrangements with leading real-estate market operators investment in Framatome (see Note 2 – Significant events of the year). and therefore the corresponding credit risk is very limited. They also include guarantee deposits granted to entities with which he This item also includes amounts granted as loans by the Group as its Group enters into real-estate lease arrangements. These deposits are contribution to the effort à la construction French government housing returned to the Group at the end of the lease. The Group generally scheme. These loans are repayable by public bodies after a 20-year period and are discounted. 6.6 Reconciliation of acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets recorded in the consolidated statement of cash flows In millions of euros 2017 2016 Change in operating loans and guarantee deposits (0.5) (1.5) Acquisitions of intangible assets (2.0) (2.1) Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment (8.1) (5.9) Change in amounts due to suppliers of non-current assets (0.4) 0.6 Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (11.0) (8.9) In millions of euros 2017 2016 Sale price of non-current assets 0.7 0.5 Change in receivables related to sales of non-current assets Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 0.7 0.5 122 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 7 EQUITY AND EARNINGS PER SHARE 7.1 Shares Ordinary shares (Number of shares) 2017 2016 At 1 January 22,218,216 22,218,216 Capital reduction (6,550,000) Treasury shares (509,153) (1,068,442) At 31 December 15,159,063 21,149,774 Number of shares issued and fully paid up 15,668,216 22,218,216 Par value (in € per share) 1.00 1.00 At 31 December 2017, Assystem SA’s shares broke down as follows: ● number of shares with single voting rights: 9,845,842; ● number of shares with double voting rights: 5,822,374. Each share gives its holder the same rights to dividend payments. 7.2 Treasury shares In accordance with IAS 32, shares in the Group’s parent company held by itself or any of its subsidiaries are recognised at cost as a deduction from equity. No fair value gains or losses are recognised on these shares. Post-tax gains or losses arising on the disposal of treasury shares are recognised directly in equity. Treasury shares (Number of shares) 2017 2016 At 1 January 1,068,442 680,149 Purchases of treasury shares 71,465 670,111 Share buyback offer 6,000,000 6 Sales of treasury shares (78,254) (234,603) Treasury shares delivered on conversion of Ornane bonds (346) Treasury shares delivered to employees and officers (2,500) (30,530) Shares delivered as consideration for business combinations (16,339) Shares cancelled in connection with a capital reduction (6,550,000) At 31 December 509,153 1,068,442 Value of treasury shares recognised in equity (in millions of euros) (10.7) (22.7) 7.3 Earnings per share BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 123 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2016 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total Profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent 12.8 391.3 404.1 3.8 27.7 31.5 Basic earnings attributable to owners of the parent 12.8 391.3 404.1 3.8 27.7 31.5 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year 20,910,097 20,910,097 20,910,097 21,258,072 21,258,072 21,258,072 Basic earnings per share (in euros) 0.61 18.71 19.33 0.18 1.30 1.48 DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting (i) profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent for the impact of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, net of the related tax, and (ii) the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding by assuming conversion into ordinary shares of all dilutive instruments outstanding. Treasury shares deducted from consolidated equity are not taken into account in the calculation of basic or diluted earnings per share. The Group’s dilutive instruments correspond to free shares and performance shares. Dilutive instruments are only taken into account if their dilutive impact reduces earnings per share or increases loss per share. In accordance with IAS 33, if diluted earnings per share is higher than basic earnings per share it is considered to be non-representative and is reduced to the same amount as basic earnings per share. Diluted earnings per share for 2017 and 2016 breaks down as follows: 2017 2016 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued In millions of euros operations operations Total operations operations Total Profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent 12.8 391.3 404.1 3.8 27.7 31.5 Interest expense related to Ornane and Odirnane bonds (net of income tax) 0.4 0.4 Adjusted profit used to calculate diluted earnings per share 12.8 391.3 404.1 4.2 27.7 31.9 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year 20,910,097 20,910,097 20,910,097 21,258,072 21,258,072 21,258,072 Weighted average number of potential ordinary shares based on dilutive instruments outstanding during the year • Free shares and/or performance shares 113,330 139,860 253,190 65,317 92,000 157,317 • Ornane bonds 310,053 310,053 • Odirnane bonds 4,301,139 4,301,139 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share 21,023,427 21,049,957 21,163,287 25,934,581 21,350,072 26,026,581 Diluted earnings per share (in euros) 0.61 18.59 19.09 0.16 1.30 1.23 7.4 Dividend per share 2018* 2017 2016 Date of dividend payout from prior-year profit By 30/06/2018 14/06/2017 02/06/2016 Date dividend payout on prior-year profit proposed to shareholders at the AGM 16/05/2018 16/05/2017 24/05/2016 Total dividend (in millions of euros) paid out from prior-year profit* NC 21.2 17.0 Dividend per share (in euros) paid out from prior-year profit 1.00 1.00 0.80 * Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM. 124 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 8 FINANCING AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 8.1 Cash and cash equivalents The “Cash and cash equivalents” line in the statement of financial position includes cash (cash in hand and demand deposits) and cash equivalents (highly liquid short-term investments readily convertible into a known amount of cash and subject to an insignificant risk of a change in value). Cash and cash equivalents do not include investments in listed shares, investments with an initial maturity of more than three months and no option of early divestment, and bank accounts subject to restrictions (blocked accounts). Net cash and cash equivalents presented in the statement of cash flows corresponds to cash and cash equivalents less bank overdrafts. In millions of euros 2017 2016 Cash 28.2 41.3 Cash equivalents 44.1 Total 28.2 85.4 No restrictions have been placed on the use of the Group’s bank accounts. A reconciliation between cash and cash equivalents presented in the consolidated statement of cash flows and the statement of financial position is shown in the table below. In millions of euros 2017 2016 Cash and cash equivalents 85.4 233.8 Bank overdrafts (1.0) (0.4) Net cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 84.4 233.4 Cash and cash equivalents 28.2 85.4 Bank overdrafts (0.9) (1.0) Net cash and cash equivalents at year-end 27.3 84.4 8.2 Bond debt and other financial liabilities 6 Debt and other financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value less transaction costs, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost determined using the effective interest method. They are classified as “current” when the Group is required to settle them within twelve months after the reporting date and as “non-current” when the settlement is due beyond those twelve months. BOND DEBT In millions of euros 2017 2016 At 1 January 14.4 26.4 Redemption of Odirnane and Ornane bonds (14.1) (27.1) Amortised cost 0.8 Reclassification of outstanding Odirnane bonds 14.0 Accrued coupons on outstanding Odirnane bonds (0.3) 0.3 At 31 December 14.4 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 125 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER LONG-AND SHORT-TERM DEBT AND NON-CURRENT AND CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Effect of Decreases changes in related to Changes Currency At beginning Net scope of discontinued in fair translation Other In millions of euros of year increase Repayments consolidation operations value differences movements At year-end Bank borrowings 0.3 0.2 (0.5) Sundry financial liabilities 4.1 (0.5) 3.6 Total non-current financial liabilities 4.4 0.2 (0.5) (0.5) 3.6 Bank borrowings 80.5 102.9 (186.0) 2.6 Sundry financial liabilities 2.2 6.5 (0.1) 1.8 (8.6) (0.8) 1.0 Total current financial liabilities 82.7 109.4 (186.1) 1.8 (8.6) (0.8) 2.6 1.0 Bank borrowings 80.8 102.9 (186.0) 0.2 2.1 Sundry financial liabilities 6.3 6.5 (0.1) 1.8 (8.6) (0.8) (0.5) 4.6 Total 87.1 109.4 (186.1) 2.0 (8.6) (0.8) (0.5) 2.1 4.6 During the year, the Group: on the lenders’ agreement). This facility is subject to a covenant based on the consolidated gearing ratio (net debt/EBITDA) for the last twelve ● Repaid the €80 million outstanding under the revolving credit facility months as adjusted for acquisitions and divestments. It is measured at set up in 2013. half-yearly intervals and must not exceed 3.75 at 31 December and ● Set up an €80 million medium-term loan maturing in January 2022 as 3.95 at 30 June. Any breach of the covenant would trigger early well as a €200 million revolving credit facility, also maturing in repayment of the facility's outstanding amounts. January 2022 of which €25 million was drawn down during the “Other movements” primarily correspond to the accelerated amortisation year. As required under the corresponding loan agreements, these of the arrangement costs of the medium-term credit facilities that were two credit facilities were fully repaid following the transfer of control repaid in 2017. The triggering event for the early repayment of these of GPS and were subsequently cancelled. The net proceeds from new facilities was the transfer of control of GPS. The income statement borrowings came to €102.9 million in 2017 taking into account the impact of this accelerated amortisation was recognised in “Profit from related arrangement costs. discontinued operations” and amounted to €1.5 million. ● S et up another revolving credit facility on 28 September 2017, amounting to €120 million and maturing in September 2022 (with Changes in fair value relate to derivatives (see Note 8.3 – Derivative two one-year extension options exercisable by Assystem but contingent instruments). 8.3 Derivative instruments Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value at each reporting date. The method of recognising the resulting fair value gains or losses depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the hedged item. On inception of a hedge, the Group documents the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument. The Group also documents its estimates both on inception and prospectively to determine the effectiveness of the hedge in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. Fair value hedges Fair value hedges are used to hedge the Group's exposure to changes in fair value of a recognised asset or liability (or an identified portion of such an asset or liability) or a firm commitment to purchase or sell an asset at a pre-defined price, that is attributable to a particular risk and could affect profit. Changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement. Cash flow hedges A cash flow hedge is a hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction and could affect profit. 126 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Group applies cash flow hedge accounting when the following conditions are met: ● there is formal designation and documentation of the hedging relationship; ● the hedge is highly effective; and ● the forecast transaction that is the subject of the hedge is highly probable and presents an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect profit. The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement. If the hedging instrument expires, or is sold, cancelled or exercised, the gain or loss initially recognised in other comprehensive income continues to be recorded separately in other comprehensive income until the forecast transaction occurs. If the commitment no longer exists or the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, any related cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument that had been recognised directly in other comprehensive income is reclassified to profit. CURRENCY DERIVATIVES At 31 December 2017 the Group’s currency derivatives had a positive During 2017 the Group pursued its currency hedging strategy (see fair value of €0.3 million, which was recorded under “Other current Section 5.3 – Liquidity and market risk in Chapter 5 of this Registration assets” (versus a negative fair value of €0.8 million at 31 December Document) by setting up new hedges comprising currency forwards 2016, recorded under “Other short-term debt and current fi nancial and swaps. liabilities”). The application of hedge accounting to these derivatives resulted in the recognition of a €1.0 million fair value gain in other comprehensive income in 2017. 8.4 Net debt Cash and debt consist of (i) cash and cash equivalents and non-current and current derivatives (included in other financial assets) on the assets side of the statement of financial position, and (ii) bond debt, other debt and financial liabilities, and the fair value of derivatives on the liabilities side. Net debt corresponds to gross debt (bond debt, other longand short-term debt and current and non-current financial liabilities and derivatives recorded under current and non-current liabilities) less cash and cash equivalents and derivatives recorded under current and non-current assets. 6 Net debt breaks down as follows: Maturity schedule At 31 December Beyond In millions of euros 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 5 years Bank borrowings Sundry financial liabilities 4.6 1.0 0.7 0.5 0.5 0.5 1.4 Gross debt 4.6 1.0 0.7 0.5 0.5 0.5 1.4 Cash and cash equivalents 28.2 28.2 Derivatives 0.3 0.3 Cash, cash equivalents and derivatives recorded under assets 28.5 28.5 Net debt (23.9) (27.5) 0.7 0.5 0.5 0.5 1.4 The table below shows a breakdown of net debt by currency, converted at the closing rates: At 31 December In millions of euros 2017 Euro Pound sterling US dollar Other currencies Net debt (23.9) (18.8) (1.9) (1.4) (1.8) ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 127 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8.5 Financial income and expenses NET FINANCIAL EXPENSE ON CASH AND DEBT “Net financial expense on cash and debt” corresponds to all income and expenses arising during the period on items making up net debt, including gains and losses on interest rate and currency hedges on debt. Changes in the fair value of the above-mentioned categories of financial assets and liabilities are not included in this line in the income statement and instead are recognised in “Other financial income and expenses”. In millions of euros 2017 2016 Bond debt Ornane and Odirnane (0.1) (0.6) Mediumand long-term credit facilities (0.8) (0.2) Interest expense on debt (0.9) (0.8) Income from cash investments 0.2 1.8 Foreign exchange losses (1.3) (1.7) Other financial income and expenses arising on net debt (0.7) (0.8) Net financial expense on cash and debt (2.7) (1.5) OTHER FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES Other financial income and expenses correspond to income and expenses that are non-operational (e.g. financial income arising from the main business of the Company, a subsidiary or a division or financial income associated with a commercial activity) and which are not included in “Net financial expense on cash and debt”. They consist mainly of dividends from non-consolidated companies, impairment of AFS financial assets, gains and losses on disposals of AFS financial assets, impairment and losses on disposals of other current and non-current financial assets, the effect of discounting provisions, changes in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities, foreign exchange gains and losses on operating assets and liabilities, and miscellaneous financial income and expenses. In millions of euros 2017 2016 Effect of discounting (0.4) (0.1) Amortised cost of financial liabilities (0.3) (1.8) Net expense related to buybacks of Ornane bonds (2.2) Foreign exchange gains and losses (0.1) 1.4 Net gain (loss) on financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 6.4 0.3 Miscellaneous financial income and expenses (2.8) 0.1 Total other financial income and expenses 2.8 (2.3) Out of the total net gain on financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, €6.2 million related to a revision of the assumptions used for calculating the put options granted to non-controlling interests in and commitments to pay dividends to the third-party shareholders of the Turkish Company Envy (see Note 10 – Liabilities related to share acquisitions (current and non-current) and other non-current liabilities). “Miscellaneous financial income and expenses” includes €2.1 million in late payment penalties related to the tax audit described in Note 5.6 – Non-recurring income and expenses. 128 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8.6 Financial risk management The Group’s financial risk management policy is described in detail in Chapter 5 – Risk factors. This Note sets out the figures related to financial risk management. EXPOSURE TO RISKS RELATED TO THE TRANSLATION INTO EUROS OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF FOREIGN SUBSIDIARIES DENOMINATED IN A LOCAL CURRENCY The Group is exposed to risks related to the translation into euros of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries denominated in local currency. The Group’s main risk exposure in this respect concerns the translation into euros of financial statements denominated in the Turkish lira (TRY) and the Saudi Arabian riyal (SAR). The net assets of the subsidiaries operating in these two countries are set out in the table below; In millions of local currency TRY SAR Non-current assets 77.8 105.4 Current assets 20.3 66.9 Total assets 98.1 172.3 Non-current liabilities 24.9 Current liabilities 7.3 60.4 Total liabilities 7.3 85.3 Net assets 90.8 87.0 The year-on-year change in the exchange rates of these currencies was as follows: 2017 2016 Year-on-year change (%) 1 TRY = x EUR 0.2200 0.2714 (19)% 1 SAR = x EUR 0.2224 0.2560 (13)% RESIDUAL CONTRACTUAL MATURITIES The residual contractual maturities of the Group’s financial liabilities break down as follows (including interest payments). The contractual cash flows presented – which cover coupons, interest payments and redemptions/repayments – have not been discounted. Carrying amount Contractual Due within Due in Due beyond In millions of euros at 31/12/2017 cash flows 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Sundry financial liabilities 4.6 4.6 1.0 2.2 1.4 Current and non-current liabilities related to share acquisitions 9.1 16.1 7.9 8.2 Other non-current liabilities Trade payables 1.8 32.8 3.1 32.8 32.8 1.5 1.6 6 Other current liabilities(1) 6.7 6.7 6.7 Operating leases(2) 12.6 7.1 5.4 0.1 Total contractual obligations 55.0 75.9 47.6 17.0 11.3 (1) Excluding accrued taxes and payroll costs and deferred income. (2) Off-balance sheet commitments. NOTE 9 PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES In accordance with IAS 37, a provision is recorded when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and the obligation can be measured reliably. Where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a discount rate that reflects the current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a financial expense. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 129 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9.1 Provisions Decreases Reversals related to At beginning Reversals (used (unused discontinued Other In millions of euros of year Additions provisions) provisions) operations movements At year-end Guarantees for fixed-fee projects and losses on completion Restructuring costs 0.1 (0.1) Employee-related risks and tax risks 7.3 9.2 (0.4) 0.3 16.4 Other 0.2 (0.2) Total long-term provisions 7.6 9.2 (0.6) 0.2 16.4 Guarantees for fixed-fee projects and losses on completion 0.6 0.9 (0.2) (0.6) (0.3) 0.4 Restructuring costs 0.4 5.2 (0.5) (0.5) 0.1 4.7 Employee-related risks and tax risks 3.2 0.9 (0.2) (0.5) (0.9) (0.6) 1.9 Other 3.0 0.7 (0.7) (1.1) (0.7) 1.2 Total short-term provisions 7.2 7.7 (1.6) (2.2) (2.4) (0.5) 8.2 Guarantees for fixed-fee projects and losses on completion 0.6 0.9 (0.2) (0.6) (0.3) 0.4 Restructuring costs 0.5 5.2 (0.5) (0.5) 4.7 Employee-related risks and tax risks 10.5 10.1 (0.2) (0.5) (1.3) (0.3) 18.3 Other 3.2 0.7 (0.7) (1.1) (0.9) 1.2 Total provisions 14.8 16.9 (1.6) (2.2) (3.0) (0.3) 24.6 Long-term provisions for employee-related risks and tax risks mainly comprise the provision set aside for the above-described tax audit in France. Changes in short-term provisions for restructuring costs primarily relate to the provisions set aside following the transfer of control of GPS. The movements in these provisions are described in Note 5.6 – Non-recurring income and expenses. 9.2 Contingent liabilities ASG LEGAL DISPUTE ASG is involved in a legal dispute with Acergy (since renamed Subsea 7) and Iska Marine concerning a fire that occurred in January 2010 on board a ship – the Acergy Falcon – which was dry-docked in Brest for maintenance at the time. There were no significant developments in this case during 2017. The only noteworthy events during the year relating to this case were of a procedural nature as, following an application by ASG, the Brest Commercial Court issued an order on 21 July 2017 requiring Subsea 7 and the plaintiff’s insurers to disclose all of the documents exchanged in the UK litigation between Subsea 7 and Sobrena (including the settlement agreement signed between Subsea 7 and Sobrena and their respective insurers). This order contained an enforcement clause providing for the payment of a fine in the event of non-compliance. Subsea 7 and its insurers partially complied with the order by disclosing a certain number of documents. At the procedural hearing on 24 November 2017, the Brest Commercial Court adjourned the rest of the arguments and the exchange of pleadings until 2 March 2018. As in prior periods, Assystem still considers that there is no evidence that ASG was at fault or that it will necessarily be held fully or partially liable. In addition, as in previous periods, the Group confirms that in the event ASG is held liable, this claim would be covered under the Group’s third-party liability insurance policies. 130 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS LIABILITIES RELATED TO SHARE ACQUISITIONS (CURRENT AND NON-CURRENT) NOTE 10 AND OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES In some cases the Group grants put options to minority shareholders of its subsidiaries in relation to their non-controlling interests held in those subsidiaries. The exercise price of these options may be fixed or based on a pre-determined formula. Where such put options are granted, the Group recognises a related financial liability. This liability is initially recognised at the present value of the exercise price and at the end of subsequent reporting periods it is measured by reference to the fair value of the shares that would potentially have to be purchased if the exercise price is based on fair value. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the put options are recognised in financial income or expenses. The Group also recognises a non-current liability for the discounted amounts relating to commitments to pay dividends to third-party shareholders. The amount recorded in the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2017 for put options granted to non-controlling interests totalled €9.1 million, all of which was recognised in non-current liabilities related to share acquisitions (€18.5 million at 31 December 2016). The amounts recognised as liabilities for put options chiefly relate to the following acquisitions: ● Envy – €5.0 million; ● Biotech Quality Group – €4.1 million (see Note 3.2 – Business combinations). The discounted amounts relating to commitments to pay dividends to third-party shareholders are recorded under “Other non-current liabilities”. They totalled €1.8 million at 31 December 2017 and concerned Envy. Movements in liabilities related to the non-controlling interests in Envy are described in Note 8.5 – Financial income and expenses. NOTE 11 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 11.1 Accounting classification of financial assets and liabilities FINANCIAL ASSETS The table below shows the carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial assets over the past two years: 6 2017 2016 Financial Available-forFinancial assets at fair Carrying sale financial assets at value through Carrying In millions of euros amount assets amortised cost profit or loss Derivatives Fair value amount Investment property 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.4 Assystem Technologies Groupe convertible bonds 63.6 63.6 63.6 Other financial assets 128.6 124.4 4.2 128.6 13.9 Trade receivables 160.0 160.0 160.0 320.1 Other receivables* 5.7 5.7 5.7 4.9 Other current assets 0.5 0.2 0.3 0.5 0.3 Cash and cash equivalents 28.2 28.2 28.2 85.4 Total 388.0 124.4 261.9 1.4 0.3 388.0 426.0 * Excluding employee-related receivables, tax receivables and prepaid expenses. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 131 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL LIABILITIES The table below shows the carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial liabilities over the past two years: 2017 2016 Financial Financial liabilities at fair Carrying liabilities at value through Carrying In millions of euros amount amortised cost profit or loss Derivatives Fair value amount Bond debt 14.4 Other debt and current and non-current financial liabilities 4.6 4.6 4.6 87.1 Current and non-current liabilities related to share acquisitions 9.1 9.1 9.1 18.5 Other non-current liabilities 1.8 1.8 1.8 5.9 Trade payables 32.8 32.8 32.8 66.4 Due to suppliers of non-current assets 0.2 0.2 0.2 1.5 Other current liabilities* 6.7 6.7 6.7 10.1 Total 55.2 44.3 10.9 55.2 203.9 * Excluding deferred income. 11.2 Fair value hierarchy ● Level 3: financial instruments whose inputs are unobservable (i.e. inputs whose value does not result from the price of observable market The Group uses the fair value hierarchy established in IFRS which transactions for the same instrument or from observable market data categorises financial instruments into three levels based on the inputs available at the reporting date) or inputs which are only partially to valuation techniques used to measure their fair value as recognised observable. This level notably applies to unlisted equity securities, in the statement of financial position. These levels are as follows: which are valued at their purchase price plus transaction costs as ● Level 1: financial instruments for which there are quoted prices in there is no active market for them. an active market. ● Level 2: financial instruments whose fair value measurement is based on observable market inputs other than quoted prices included in level 1. At 31 December 2017, the fair value hierarchy levels for the Group’s financial instruments were as follows: 2017 Level 2 – Level 3 – Level 1 – Observable Unobservable In millions of euros Market price market inputs inputs Total Investment property 1.4 1.4 Investment in Framatome 124.3 124.3 Derivatives 0.3 0.3 Total 0.3 125.7 126.0 Current and non-current liabilities related to share acquisitions 9.1 9.1 Other non-current liabilities 1.8 1.8 Total 10.9 10.9 132 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 12 INCOME TAX 12.1 Income tax recognised during the year In millions of euros 2017 2016 Current tax (4.3) (1.0) Deferred taxes (0.5) (3.5) Total recognised in the income statement (4.8) (4.5) Tax payable on treasury shares 0.3 (0.2) Tax payable on Odirnane buybacks 10.0 Tax recognised in other comprehensive income* 0.1 0.5 Total recognised directly in equity 0.4 10.3 Current tax (4.3) 8.8 Deferred taxes (0.1) (3.0) Total for the year (4.4) 5.8 * Related to continuing operations 12.2 Tax proof The table below reconciles the Group’s actual income tax expense to the theoretical income tax expense based on the tax rate applicable to the profit of consolidated companies: In millions of euros 2017 2016 Profit before tax from continuing operations (excluding share of profit of equity-accounted investees) 14.9 7.5 Theoretical income tax rate 34.43% 34.43% Theoretical income tax expense (5.1) (2.6) Permanent differences 3.4 1.7 Differences arising from applying different taxation rates (0.1) 0.7 Other taxes (2.1) (3.1) Income or expense relating to changes in tax rates or the imposition of new taxes 0.1 (0.6) Adjustments recognised during the year for prior years (1.0) (0.5) 6 Benefits arising from tax losses and temporary differences not recognised in prior years 0.2 Impact of tax losses and temporary differences not used during the year (0.2) (0.1) Total adjustments 0.3 (1.9) Actual income tax expense (4.8) (4.5) Profit before tax from continuing operations (excluding share of profit of equity-accounted investees) 14.9 7.5 Goodwill impairment 7.0 Profit before tax from continuing operations (excluding share of profit of equity-accounted investees and goodwill impairment) 14.9 14.5 Effective tax rate excluding impact of goodwill impairment 32.21% 31.03% The amount shown under “Other taxes” mainly comprises (i) the Corporate Value-Added Contribution (CVAE) for French subsidiaries and (ii) €1.3 million in a dividend tax refund for the years 2014 to 2016. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 133 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12.3 Deferred taxes Deferred taxes are recognised using the liability method for temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, apart from in the exceptional cases referred to in IAS 12. Deferred tax assets are recognised for the carryforward of unused tax losses and unused tax credits and deductible temporary differences only to the extent that it is probable that the Group will have sufficient future taxable profit against which the unused tax losses, tax credits or temporary differences can be utilised. The following elements are taken into account when estimating whether the Group will have sufficient future taxable profit to recover deferred tax assets: ● forecasts of future taxable profits; ● non-recurring expenses included in past losses and which will not be incurred again in the future; ● past history of taxable profit for prior years. A deferred tax liability is recognised for taxable temporary differences relating to equity-accounted investees even if it is probable that there will be undistributed profits (as the Group does not control the investee and therefore cannot determine its profit distribution policy), unless there is an agreement requiring that the profits of the equity-accounted investee will not be distributed in the foreseeable future. When a deferred tax asset or liability relates to an item that is recognised directly in equity, then the related deferred tax is also recognised directly in equity. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only when the Group has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted. Deferred taxes presented in the statement of financial position are grouped by tax units. However, the table below uses the presentation by type of deferred tax. NET DEFERRED TAXES PRESENTED IN THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION In millions of euros 2017 2016 Deferred tax assets 5.1 18.4 Recoverable within 1 year 1.3 4.7 Recoverable beyond 1 year 3.8 13.7 Deferred tax liabilities 0.6 1.4 Due within 1 year 0.6 Due beyond 1 year 0.6 0.8 Net deferred tax assets 4.5 17.0 of which recoverable within one year 1.3 4.1 of which recoverable beyond one year 3.2 12.9 134 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MOVEMENTS IN DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES BREAK DOWN AS FOLLOWS: Employee Unrecognised benefit Tax loss deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax Net deferred In millions of euros obligations carryforwards Other assets assets (a) liabilities (b) tax assets (a-b) At 31 December 2015 6.0 3.3 5.1 (2.1) 12.3 (1.8) 10.5 Increases related to business combinations 0.2 0.3 (0.1) 0.4 0.4 Year-on-year changes recognised in the income statement (0.5) 7.8 (12.1) (0.1) (4.9) 0.4 (4.5) Deferred taxes recognised in other comprehensive income 0.4 0.4 0.8 0.8 Deferred taxes recognised in equity (0.5) 10.3 9.8 9.8 At 31 December 2016 5.9 10.8 4.0 (2.3) 18.4 (1.4) 17.0 Decreases related to discontinued operations (3.5) (3.0) (0.6) 1.1 (6.0) 0.2 (5.8) Year-on-year changes recognised in the income statement 0.3 (6.8) (1.5) 1.0 (7.0) (7.0) Deferred taxes recognised in other comprehensive income 0.4 (0.3) 0.1 0.1 Deferred taxes recognised in equity 0.3 0.3 0.3 Currency translation differences (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) Other (0.8) 0.2 (0.6) 0.6 At 31 December 2017 3.1 0.2 2.0 (0.2) 5.1 (0.6) 4.5 Other deferred tax assets mainly concerned employee profit-sharing, depreciation and amortisation and derivative instruments. 6 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 135 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 13 OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS At 31 December 2017, Management considered that there were no existing off-balance sheet commitments, other than those set out below, that would be likely to have a material impact on the current or future financial position of the Assystem Group. 13.1 Operating leases The table below shows minimum future lease payments due under non-cancellable operating leases: In millions of euros Due in less than Due in 1 to Due beyond Total 1 year 5 years 5 years Minimum future lease payments at 31 December 2017 7.1 5.4 0.1 12.6 Real estate 4.1 2.8 0.1 7.0 Other 3.0 2.6 5.6 Minimum future lease payments at 31 December 2016 19.4 24.3 0.7 44.4 Real estate 13.1 17.2 0.7 31.0 Other 6.3 7.1 13.4 13.2 Other commitments Commitments given Commitments received Guarantees received for Deposits, Deposits, payments guarantees guarantees relating to the Unused credit In millions of euros and sureties Collateral and sureties sale of securities facilities Holding company 27.9 8.1 120.0 France 2.0 United Kingdom 0.9 AMEA 4.4 Other 0.1 Total 35.3 8.1 120.0 The commitments given by Assystem’s holding company include €6.5 million in commitments for subsidiaries sold as part of the transfer of control of GPS, which have been counter-guaranteed (recognised in commitments received) by Assystem Technologies, an Assystem Technologies Groupe subsidiary (see Note 6.4 – Assystem Technologies Groupe shares and convertible bonds). NOTE 14 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING DATE ADDITIONAL INVESTMENT IN ASSYSTEM TECHNOLOGIES GROUPE On 31 January 2018 the Group took up €60.72 million worth of shares and convertible bonds (split into 50% ordinary shares and 50% convertible bonds with a capitalisable 9% annual coupon) issued by Assystem Technologies Groupe (“ATG”) as part of equity and quasi-equity financing raised to help fund the acquisition of SQS Software Quality Systems AG (“SQS”) by an ATG subsidiary. Consequently, Assystem now holds a 38.16% interest in ATG’s capital and 38.17% of its equity and quasi-equity instruments. In order to finance this additional investment, the Group (i) put in place a €30 million medium-to-long term bullet loan repayable in September 2022 and (ii) drew down €30 million of its renewable credit facility set up in September 2017. At the same time, the maximum amount of the revolving credit facility was increased from €120 million to €150 million. The extended €150 million revolving credit facility is subject to an early repayment clause based on the same covenant that applies to the Group’s other medium-to-long-term debt (see Note 8.2 – Bond debt and other financial liabilities). 136 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 6.2 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 This is a translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report on the financial statements of the Company issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. This statutory auditors’ report includes information required by European regulation and French law, such as information about the appointment of the statutory auditors or verification of the management report and other documents provided to shareholders. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Annual General Meeting of ASSYSTEM S.A., Opinion In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by your Annual General Meeting, we have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Assystem S.A. for the year ended 31 December 2017. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2017 and of the results of its operations for the year ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee. Basis for opinion AUDIT FRAMEWORK We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the “Statutory Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements” section of our report. INDEPENDENCE We conducted our audit in compliance with independence rules applicable to us, for the period from 1st January 2017 to the date of our report, and specifically we did not provide any prohibited non-audit services referred to by Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No. 537/2014 or in the French Code of Ethics (code de déontologie) for statutory auditors. 6 Justification of Assessments Key audit Matters In accordance with the requirements of Articles L.823-9 and R.823-7 of the French Commercial Code (code de commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we inform you of the key audit matters relating to risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period, as well as how we addressed those risks. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on specific items of the consolidated financial statements. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 137 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 VALUATION OF GOODWILL Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1, 3.3 and 3.4 Risks Our response The acquisitions made by the Group led to the recognition of goodwill We have assessed the compliance of the Group's impairment test determined as being the difference between the fair value of the methodology with the accounting standards. consideration transferred, plus the amount of any non-controlling equity We have conducted an assessment about the way the methodology was interest in the company acquired and the net amount of the identifiable implemented and have notably assessed: assets acquired and liabilities assumed. ● the level of pooling of the CGU adopted for impairment testing and the consistency of the items included in the carrying value of the Such goodwill is shown in the balance sheet for a net amount of 81.5 CGU with the cash flows used to perform impairment tests; million of euros as of 31 December 2017 (75.4 million od euros for the Energy & Infrastructure (E&I) business and 6.1 million of euros for the ● the reasonableness of the projected cash flows in consideration of Staffing business). It was allocated to the cash-generating units (CGU) the economic and financial contexts in which the E&I and Staffing of the businesses into which the companies acquired were integrated. businesses operate; ● the consistency of the budgetary data used with those presented to The Group conducts impairment tests at each year-end or whenever a the Audit Committee and approved by the Board of Directors, and triggering event is identified, in order to estimate the recoverable value the consistency of forecast data with budgetary assumptions; of the CGU (defined as the higher amount between the fair value net of any exit costs and the value in use corresponding to the discounted ● the consistency of the assumptions used for determining the long value of estimated future cash flows expected from the use of the CGU). term growth rate with the economic environment prevailing as at the An impairment loss is recognised at the level of a CGU if its recoverable financial statements closing date; value is lower than its net book value and should firstly be allocated to ● the reliability of the estimation process by examining the root cause the goodwill of the CGU. for the differences highlighted between forecasts and actual data The recoverable value of the CGU was determined using its value in in relation to past performances; use. To determine the value in use, the Group has forecast the future ● the reasonableness of the assumptions used for determining the cash flows it expects to obtain from the CGU over a period of four discounting rate with the assistance of our valuation specialists; years. The future cash flows generated beyond this four years period ● the analyses of sensitivity of the value in use to a change in the main were extrapolated by taking into account a growth rate which cannot assumptions used. exceed the average long-term growth rate of the overall business sector. Finally, we have assessed whether the notes to the consolidated financial The future cash flows are discounted using the weighted average cost statements (notably the notes 1 “General accounting principles”, 3.3 of capital (WACC) of the sector. “Goodwill”, and 3.4 “Impairment test methodology”) provided an Furthermore, an unfavourable change in market conditions or the cash appropriate information. flows originally estimated may lead to the recognition of an additional impairment loss. The methodology used in carrying out the impairment test as well as the detailed assumptions adopted are described in note 3.4. We have therefore considered the valuation of goodwill as a key audit matter given the high degree of estimates and judgements made by management, the sensitivity of the calculation of the recoverable values to changes in the forecasting assumptions and the weight of such caption in the Group’s consolidated financial statements. 138 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 RECOGNITION OF THE REVENUE FROM FIXED PRICE CONTRACTS Notes to the financial statements 1, 5.1, and 9.1 Risks Our response Total revenue of the Assystem Group for the year ended 31 December We have reviewed and tested the internal control processes implemented 2017 amounted to 395.2 million of euros; net amount of trade by the Group for the purpose of contracting, project monitoring, billing receivables amounted to 160.1 million of euros as of the year end date. and accounting for contracts. As part of its operations, a certain portion of the Group’s revenue and The other audit procedures which we carried out in connection with results derives from long-term service agreements. These “fixed price the evaluation of the revenue to be recognised on fixed price contacts contracts” represent agreements through which the Group commits itself consisted of selecting, according to a multi-criteria sampling approach to an obligation of results and whose sale price is either originally fixed (volume of activity or level of work-in-progress on specific contracts, for the whole project or defined, within a master agreement, for each complexity of the projects, unusual variations noted between two type of services being ordered. periods or in comparison to the rules adopted by the Group, new contracts for the period…), certain contracts for which we have: These contracts give rise to the recognition of revenue in accordance with the percentage-of-completion method as defined by IAS 11. The ● assessed the compliance of the accounting treatment applied with criteria for determining the percentage of completion may include, at the contractual documentation ; a given date, the examination of the work already carried out, the ● challenged the justification of the estimated results at completion and analysis of the services already rendered compared to the total amount of the estimated stage of completion with our understanding of these of services to be provided, or the analysis of the costs already incurred contracts as gained through the meetings we held with business unit compared to the total estimated costs at completion. The decision about management controllers and project managers, and in comparison the criteria to be used lies with the manager of the operational unit with past performance obtained on similar contracts; who will retain the most appropriate criteria for monitoring the project. ● corroborated the financial position of these contracts with the relevant Once a loss at completion is considered as likely, it is recorded by pieces of documentation (contracts, orders, customer acceptance setting up a provision whose amount will be reduced by the amount of reports, time sheets); losses previously recognised. ● implemented analytical procedures on the evolution of revenue and The determination of the percentage of completion and of the revenue to income recognised over the financial year. be recognised is dependent on numerous estimates relying on contract Finally, we have checked that the notes to the fi nancial statements costs monitoring and the experience of the management. Updating (notably the notes 1 “General accounting principles”, 5.1 “Revenue assumptions and estimates at completion may be made throughout the and trade working capital requirement” and 9.1 “Provisions”) provided life of the contract and may significantly impact future results. an appropriate information. We considered the recognition of revenue from fixed price contracts as a key audit matter as this process relies on judgements and estimates made by management as to the determination of the percentage of completion, the result at completion and the financial risks anticipated on these contracts. 6 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 139 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 DETERMINATION AND PRESENTATION OF THE CAPITAL GAIN Notes to the financial statements 1 and 2 Risks Our response On 28 September 2017, the Assystem Group divested its Global We have examined the methodology applied by the Group for the Product Solutions (GPS) business to an entity owned by the private equity purpose of determining the capital gain arising from the divestment and fund Ardian for a consideration of 550 million of euros. have conducted an assessment about its implementation. In this context, the earnings generated from their operations by the The other audit procedures which we carried out in connection with entities belonging to the GPS division, for the period from 1st January the determination and the presentation of the capital gain were notably to 28 September 2017, were shown under the line “Net result from as follows: divested operations” of the consolidated statement of profi t or loss. ● assessing the compliance of the perimeter made of the GPS entities This caption also includes the capital gain made on the sale of the as determined by the Group with the sale transaction agreement; GPS business, the costs directly associated with the divested business and the costs incurred in connection with the sale. As a result, the ● corroborating the main income and expense items included in total profit shown by the Group on the line “Net result from divested the calculation of the capital gain, notably by tracing the sale operations” amounted to 391.3 million of euros for the full year ended consideration and the net asset disposed of with, respectively the 31 December 2017. corresponding contractual documentation and the consolidated data relating to the GPS entities as of 30 September 2017; We have considered the determination and the presentation of the ● assessing the correct inclusion of the income and expense items capital gain arising from the sale of the GPS business as a key audit presented under the caption “Net result from divested operations” matter due to its materiality to the Group’s consolidated fi nancial in consideration of the disposal transaction. statements and to the importance given to this divestment in the Group’s external communication. Finally, we have assessed whether the note 2 “Significant events” to the consolidated financial statements provided an appropriate information. Verification of the Information Pertaining to the Group Presented in the Management Report As required by law, we have also verified in accordance with professional standards applicable in France the information pertaining to the Group presented in the management report of the Board of Directors. We have no matters to report as to its fair presentation and its consistency with the consolidated financial statements. Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements APPOINTMENT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITOR We were appointed as statutory auditors of Assystem S.A. by the Annual General Meeting held on 26 August 1999 for Deloitte & Associés and on 30 April 2009 for KPMG. As at 31 December 2017, Deloitte & Associés and KPMG were in the nineteenth year and the ninth year of total uninterrupted engagement respectively. Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless it is expected to liquidate the Company or to cease operations. The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial reporting process and the effectiveness of internal control and risk management systems and where applicable, its internal audit, regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures. The consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors. Statutory Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements OBJECTIVE AND AUDIT APPROACH Our role is to issue a report on the consolidated financial statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can 140 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 arise from fraud or error, and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. As specified in Article L.823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code, our statutory audit does not include assurance on the viability of the Company or the quality of management of the affairs of the Company. As part of an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the statutory auditor exercises professional judgement throughout the audit and furthermore: ● identifies and assesses the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designs and performs audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtains audit evidence considered to be sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for his opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control; ● obtains an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control; ● evaluates the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management in the consolidated financial statements; ● assesses the appropriateness of management’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of his audit report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. If the statutory auditor concludes that a material uncertainty exists, there is a requirement to draw attention in the audit report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are not provided or inadequate, to modify the opinion expressed therein; ● evaluates the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements and assesses whether these statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation; ● obtains sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. The statutory auditor is responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of the consolidated financial statements and for the opinion expressed on these consolidated financial statements. REPORT TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE We submit a report to the Audit Committee which includes in particular a description of the scope of the audit and the audit program implemented, as well as the results of our audit. We also report, if any, significant deficiencies in internal control regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures that we have identified. Our report to the Audit Committee includes the risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and which are therefore the key audit matters, that we are required to describe in this audit report. We also provide the Audit Committee with the declaration provided for in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) No. 537/2014, confi rming our 6 independence within the meaning of the rules applicable in France such as they are set in particular by Articles L.822-10 to L.822-14 of the French Commercial Code and in the French Code of Ethics for statutory auditors. Where appropriate, we discuss with the Audit Committee the risks that may reasonably be thought to bear on, our independence and the related safeguards. Paris La Défense and Neuilly-sur-Seine, 10 April 2018 The Statutory Auditors French original jointly signed by KPMG Audit partner Deloitte & Associés audit partner Eric ROPERT Albert AÏDAN ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 141 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.3 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.3.1 BALANCE SHEET ASSETS 2017 2016 Gross Depreciation, Net Net amortisation and In thousands of euros provisions Intangible assets 747 725 22 49 Property, plant and equipment 4,446 3,736 710 868 Shares in subsidiaries and affiliates 350,096 12,181 337,915 341,659 Loans 29,551 29,551 39,522 Other long-term investments 69,990 69,990 22,739 Long-term investments 449,637 12,181 437,456 403,920 Fixed assets 454,830 16,642 438,188 404,837 Operating receivables 37,404 37,404 54,157 Intra-group receivables 2,834 903 1,931 4,220 Marketable securities 4,310 4,310 8,290 Cash at bank and on hand 9,365 9,365 49,917 Prepaid expenses 73 73 205 Unrealised foreign exchange losses 5,602 5,602 3,567 Current assets 59,588 903 58,685 120,356 Total assets 514,418 17,545 496,873 525,193 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES In thousands of euros 2017 2016 Share capital 15,668 22,218 Share premium 79,964 Legal reserve 1,567 2,222 Untaxed reserves and other reserves 4,536 4,458 Retained earnings 23,888 211,980 Profit (loss) for the period 387,768 (16,350) Total equity 433,427 304,492 Provisions for contingencies and charges 26,030 17,718 Convertible bonds 14,385 Bank borrowings 109 80,894 Other borrowings and financial liabilities 25,285 95,605 Trade payables 6,589 8,270 Accrued taxes and payroll costs 1,692 2,094 Due to suppliers of fixed assets 1 1 Other payables 3,740 1,146 Deferred income 36 Unrealised foreign exchange gains 552 Total liabilities 37,416 202,983 Total equity and liabilities 496,873 525,193 142 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.3.2 INCOME STATEMENT In thousands of euros 2017 2016 Revenue 10,057 11,974 Reversals of provisions; expense transfers 15 220 Operating income 10,072 12,194 Purchases and external charges (21,144) (15,391) Taxes other than on income (218) (225) Wages and social security contributions (845) (954) Directors’ fees (253) (233) Other operating expenses (199) Depreciation, amortisation and provisions (1,131) (208) Operating expenses (23,591) (17,210) Operating profit (loss) (13,519) (5,016) Financial income 114,795 48,728 Financial expenses (24,671) (33,154) Net financial income 90,124 15,574 Profit from recurring operations 76,605 10,558 Net non-recurring income (expense) 313,278 (34,052) Income tax (2,115) 7,144 Profit (loss) for the period 387,768 (16,350) 6 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 143 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.3.3 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The notes below relate to the balance sheet at 31 December 2017 – The financial year covered a period of twelve months from 1 January prior to the appropriation of the Company’s results – and the income to 31 December 2017. statement for the year then ended. The Company ended the year with All amounts are presented in thousands of euros unless otherwise total assets of €496,873 thousand and profit for the period amounting specified. to €387,768 thousand. CONTENTS NOTE 1 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS OF THE YEAR 145 NOTE 12 LIABILITIES 154 NOTE 2 BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SUMMARY OF NOTE 13 DEFERRED CHARGES 155 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 147 NOTE 14 OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS 155 NOTE 3 NOTES TO THE BALANCE SHEET AND INCOME STATEMENT 148 NOTE 15 REVENUE 155 3-1. Change in the gross value of fixed assets 148 NOTE 16 AVERAGE HEADCOUNT 155 3.2 Long-term investments 149 3.3 Change in depreciation and amortisation 149 NOTE 17 EXPENSE TRANSFERS 156 NOTE 4 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES 150 NOTE 18 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES 156 NOTE 5 PROVISIONS 151 NOTE 19 NON-RECURRING INCOME AND EXPENSES 157 NOTE 6 RECEIVABLES 151 NOTE 20 INCOME TAX 158 NOTE 7 ACCRUED INCOME 152 NOTE 21 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS AND BALANCES 159 NOTE 8 BREAKDOWN OF MARKETABLE SECURITIES 152 NOTE 22 INFORMATION ON THE CONSOLIDATING ENTITY 159 NOTE 9 PREPAID EXPENSES AND DEFERRED INCOME 153 NOTE 10 SHARE CAPITAL 153 NOTE 11 OTHER DISCLOSURES 153 144 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 1 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS OF THE YEAR Transfer of control of the Global Production Solutions Assystem Technologies group, which was set up to take over the entities (GPS) business to an investment fund managed by the that previously made up the Assystem Group’s GPS division. Following private equity firm Ardian this transaction, Assystem SA held 39.23% of ATG’s ordinary shares. On 28 September 2017, the Company transferred its GPS business to On 1 December 2017, Assystem SA acquired a 72.70% interest in an entity controlled by the private equity firm Ardian, for €550 million, The Biotech Quality Group for €10,905 thousand. less €3 million corresponding to the free Assystem shares awarded to On 31 December 2017, Assystem SA purchased a 5% stake in employees of the GPS division who retained their rights to these shares. Framatome, for €123,726 thousand. When the shares vest, Assystem SA will re-bill the related expense to the employers of these former GPS employees. Consequently, the net Framatome – which is 75.5% owned by EDF, 19.5% by Mitsubishi sale price for the transfer of control of GPS came to €547 million. The Heavy Industries Ltd and 5% by Assystem – is the company to which capital gain recognised on this transaction by the Company amounted to Areva NP transferred its assets and activities related to (i) the design €321.2 million, excluding reversals of provisions for shares in divested and supply of nuclear reactor equipment, (ii) the design and supply of equity interests. fuel assemblies and (iii) services provided to a large worldwide installed base of nuclear reactors. At the same date, the Company invested €124.28 million in a 39.24% equity and quasi-equity interest in Assystem Technologies Groupe (ATG) – The acquisition agreement contains earn-out clauses and Assystem has the parent of the new group comprising the entities formerly making up the possibility of capping its investment at €140 million by way of a the GPS division – as part of an equity and quasi-equity financing round mechanism enabling it to resell Framatome shares, at their cost price, carried out by ATG. This investment corresponds to €62.14 million to Framatome’s major shareholder, EDF. worth of ordinary shares (representing a 39.23% interest in ATG’s ACQUISITIONS OF ADDITIONAL SHARES IN EXISTING SUBSIDIARIES capital) and €62.14 million worth of convertible bonds maturing in On 24 February 2017 Assystem SA acquired, for €3,679 thousand, a 2027 and paying interest of 9%, capitalisable each year. further 60% interest in Plast Concept, raising its interest in this subsidiary to 100%. All of Plast Concept’s capital was transferred to Assystem Changes in holdings in subsidiaries and affiliates Technologies on 28 September in connection with Assystem SA’s transfer of control of GPS (see below). ACQUISITIONS OF SHARES IN NEW SUBSIDIARIES On 3 February 2017, Assystem SA acquired the entire capital of On 28 April 2017, Assystem SA acquired 683,690 shares in MPH Assystem Conseils (previously owned by HDL Development) for Global Services SAS (MPH GS) from its subsidiary AEOS, representing €3 thousand. 15.14% of MPH GS’s capital, for €4,650 thousand. Following this transaction Assystem SA held all of the shares in MPH GS. On 28 June 2017, Assystem SA subscribed €2 for the entire capital of Assystem Energy and Infrastructure UK Ltd (AEIL). Subsequently on 29 August 2017, Assystem SA took up €5,514 thousand worth of Share buyback offer 6 shares in a capital increase carried out by AEIL. During 2017, Assystem bought back six million of its own shares (with On 19 July 2017, Assystem SA injected €19 thousand into the capital a par value of €1 each), at a purchase price of €37.50 per share, of Assystem Technologies Belgium (ATB) and then on 8 September took representing an aggregate €225 million. This corresponded to 27% of up €346 thousand worth of shares issued as part of a capital increase the total number of shares making up Assystem’s capital and 28.35% carried out by ATB. Assystem SA subsequently sold its ATB shares on of the Assystem shares outstanding (equal to the number of shares 28 September, at their cost price, in connection with the transfer of making up the capital less the number of shares held in treasury). All of control of GPS. the shares bought back under the offer, together with 550,000 shares already held in treasury, were cancelled on 21 December 2017 and On 3 August 2017, Assystem SA injected €88 thousand into the capital the Company’s capital was therefore reduced to 15,668,216 shares of Assystem Technologies Switzerland (ATS) and then on 12 September with a par value of €1 each. took up €608 thousand worth of shares issued as part of a capital increase carried out by ATS. Assystem SA subsequently sold its ATS Treasury shares shares on 31 October, at their cost price, in connection with the transfer of control of GPS. At 31 December 2017, the fair value of Assystem’s treasury shares was calculated based on the average market price of Assystem’s On 28 September 2017, Assystem SA took up €62,140 thousand shares for the last month of the year. As this average market price worth of shares (excluding transaction costs) by way of a share-forwas higher than the average purchase price of the treasury shares, share exchange in connection with a capital increase carried out by no provision for impairment was recognised against these shares at Assystem Technologies Groupe (ATG) – the parent company of the 31 December 2017. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 145 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A €4,310 thousand provision was recognized in the financial statements The revolving credit facility (and the medium-term loan set up on for four of the seven free share/performance share plans set up in 19 January 2018) are subject to a financial covenant, under which 2016 and 2017 for employees of Group companies, with the same Assystem’s consolidated net debt/EBITDA ratio must not exceed 3.75 amount recognised in accrued income. A €95 thousand provision was at 31 December and 3.95 at 30 June each year. This covenant was recognised for the other three plans. respected at 31 December 2017. Change in the Assystem Group’s ownership structure Changes in share capital and issue premiums The Assystem Group is controlled by HDL Development, which held The Company’s share capital totalled €15,668,216 at 31 December 61.34% of the Company’s capital at 31 December 2017 and 76.86% 2017. A €6,550,000 capital reduction was carried out during the of its exercisable voting rights. year by way of share cancellations, breaking down as (i) €6 million corresponding to the par value of cancelled shares that were bought HDL Development is 70.48%-controlled by HDL (of which 41.74% back under the Company’s share buyback offer, and (ii) €550 thousand directly and 28.74% through CEFID, H2DA and EEC). HDL is wholly corresponding to the par value of cancelled shares that were already controlled by Dominique Louis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer held in treasury. of Assystem, who also directly owns 0.39% of the capital of HDL Development. The remaining 29.13% of HDL Development’s capital is owned as follows: 22.85% by Tikehau Capital SCA, 3.27% by the Significant events after the reporting date Tikehau Preferred Capital fund and 3.01% by managers and former On 31 January 2018, Assystem SA contributed €60.72 million to managers of the Group. the equity and quasi equity financing round organised by Assystem Technologies Groupe (ATG) to help fund the acquisition of a German Convertible bonds company – SQS – by an ATG subsidiary. Assystem SA’s investment took the form of €30.36 million worth of ordinary shares and €30.36 million At 31 December 2017 all of the Company’s bonds had been redeemed worth of convertible bonds with the same characteristics as those in full. purchased on 28 September 2017. BUYBACK OF BONDS REDEEMABLE IN CASH AND/OR IN NEW OR EXISTING SHARES WITH A MATURITY DATE OF 1 JANUARY 2017 (“ORNANE This additional investment in ATG was financed by the increase in the 2017 BONDS”) AND SUBSEQUENT REPURCHASE PROCEDURE revolving credit facility and by the new medium-term loan set up on On 10 January 2017, Assystem SA bought back its remaining 3,757 19 January 2018 (see “Bank borrowings” above). Ornane bonds for €83 thousand (excluding accrued coupons). Following its participation in this financing round, since 1 February 2018, Assystem SA has held a 38.17% interest in ATG’s equity and BUYBACK OF PERPETUAL BONDS REDEEMABLE IN CASH AND/OR IN NEW AND/OR EXISTING SHARES (“ODIRNANE BONDS”) AND SUBSEQUENT quasi-equity (including 38.16% of its ordinary shares). REPURCHASE PROCEDURE The 490,268 Odirnane bonds that remained outstanding at 31 December Risk factors 2016 (representing 8.8% of the original issue) were redeemed in full in cash, between end-February and 6 March 2017 without any Assystem ASG LEGAL DISPUTE shares allocated to their holders. The total cost of these redemptions, ASG is involved in a legal dispute with Acergy (since renamed Subsea 7) including accrued coupons, was €14.35 million. and Iska Marine concerning a fire that occurred in January 2010 on board a ship – the Acergy Falcon – which was dry-docked in Brest Bank borrowings for maintenance at the time. There were a number of procedural developments in this case during 2017. Following the dispute’s reOn 28 September 2017, the Company set up a €120 million revolving listing by the Brest Commercial Court in 2016, on 21 July 2017 this credit facility with a new banking pool. This facility has a five-year term court ordered Subsea 7 and its insurers to disclose certain information with two one-year extension options exercisable by Assystem SA but to ASG and provided for a fine to apply if this order was not respected. subject to the lenders’ agreement. None of this facility – whose purpose Subsea 7 and its insurers complied with the order by disclosing a certain is to finance the Company’s general corporate requirements – had been number of documents in early October 2017. At the procedural hearing drawn down at 31 December 2017. on 24 November 2017, ASG requested an adjournment to be able On 19 January 2018, Assystem obtained an increase in this revolving to examine all of the documents disclosed. Consequently, the date for credit facility with the same banking pool, raising it to €150 million, and ASG to file its pleading has been postponed to 2 March 2018. set up a medium-term loan of €30 million maturing in September 2022 As in prior periods, Assystem still considers that there is no evidence (See “Signifi cant events after the reporting date” below for further that ASG was at fault or that it will necessarily be held fully or partially details). liable. In addition, as in previous periods, Assystem confirms that in 146 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the event ASG is held liable, this claim would be covered under the The risk relating to this dispute was transferred by Assystem France to Group’s third-party liability insurance policies. Assystem SA on 30 December 2016, with Assystem France paying Assystem SA compensation corresponding to the provisioned amount. TAX AUDIT As a result, Assystem SA recognised a provision in its 2016 financial In late 2014 Assystem SA received notification of a €13.5 million tax statements for the same amount. reassessment relating to research tax credits recognised by its subsidiary At 31 December 2017, Assystem SA decided to increase the provision Assystem France for 2010, 2011 and 2012. Assystem considers that to cover the full amount of the risk and the potential late payment this reassessment is based on a general position taken by the French penalties following its receipt in November 2017 of the payment notice tax authorities which is applicable, with no real grounds, to all of the for the reassessed amount and in view of the fact that the risk relates to French companies concerned, and which Assystem is disputing in full. the former GPS division, whose control has now been transferred outside However, in view of the changes in case law in 2015, and based the Group. Consequently, €6.8 million was added to the provision on the opinions of external legal experts, Assystem France set aside a recognised at 31 December 2015 along with €2.1 million for potential €7.3 million provision in its 2015 financial statements (covering 50% of late payment penalties, bringing the total provision to €16.1 million the amount of the reassessments and €0.5 million in potential legal fees). at 31 December 2017. At 31 December 2016 Assystem had not yet received a payment notice A bank guarantee amounting to €13.5 million has been issued to the from the tax authorities for the reassessed amount and the valuation of tax authorities in respect of this dispute. the related risk was unchanged compared with 31 December 2015. NOTE 2 BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Assystem’s parent company fi nancial statements for the year ended Depreciation and amortisation is determined on a straight-line basis over 31 December 2017 have been prepared in accordance with French the estimated useful lives of the assets concerned as follows: generally accepted accounting principles including the principle of ● software 1 to 5 years segregation of accounting periods. They are presented on a going concern basis and accounting policies have been applied consistently ● patents 4 years from one year to the next. ● fixtures and fittings 5 to 10 years Accounting entries are based on the historical cost convention. ● vehicles 3 to 5 years ● office equipment 3 to 5 years Fixed assets ● office furniture 5 to 10 years Intangible assets are carried at cost, excluding fi nancial expenses, which are not capitalised. ● buildings 20 years 6 Shares in subsidiaries and affiliates Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, corresponding to either purchase cost (including incidental expenses but excluding transaction Shares in subsidiaries and affi liates are stated at historical cost or costs), or production cost. contribution value. Interest on borrowings specifically used to finance property, plant and Disposals of these shares are measured on the basis of cost price and equipment is not included in production cost. capital gains or losses are calculated using the carrying amount of the shares sold. At each year-end, the Company calculates the value in use of its shares in subsidiaries and affiliates and recognises a provision for impairment if their value in use is lower than their carrying amount. The Company uses one of the following two methods in order to measure value in use, depending on the type of business carried out by the subsidiary or affiliate: (i) a financial approach (based on projected cash flows or the EBIT multiples method), or (ii) a net asset approach (based on the Company’s share of equity held in the subsidiary or affiliate). ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 147 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Main sources of estimation uncertainty of the receivables recognised by the Company correspond to amounts due from related companies. The preparation of financial statements involves the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the carrying amounts of certain items in the balance sheet and/or income statement as well as the disclosures Debt issuance costs in the notes. Debt issuance costs are fully expensed in the year in which they are Assystem regularly reviews these estimates and assumptions and adjusts incurred. them where necessary to take into account past experience and other factors believed to be reasonable in light of the prevailing economic Marketable securities conditions. Marketable securities are stated at the lower of cost (excluding incidental As the estimates, assumptions and judgements applied are based on expenses) and fair value. the information available and circumstances existing on the date when the fi nancial statements were prepared they may not refl ect actual Foreign currency transactions future events. Income and expenses denominated in foreign currency are translated into The main estimates made concern provisions for contingencies and euros using the transaction-date exchange rates. Payables, receivables charges, and the assumptions applied mostly relate to the preparation and cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currency are of business plans used for assessing the value of shares in subsidiaries translated using the exchange rates prevailing at the year end. Foreign and affiliates. exchange gains and losses resulting from the translation of these assets and liabilities at year-end exchange rates are recognised in the balance Transaction costs on acquisitions of shares in sheet under “Unrealised foreign exchange gains” or “Unrealised foreign subsidiaries and affiliates exchange losses”. A provision for contingencies is recognised for the These costs are expensed as incurred. For tax purposes, they are added full amount of any unrealised foreign exchange losses that are not offset back in the year in which the shares are acquired and then deducted by unrealised foreign exchange gains. over a period of five years as from the acquisition date. Provisions for contingencies and charges Other long-term investments Provisions for contingencies and charges are recognised in compliance Other long-term investments are recognised at their nominal value. with French GAAP. Receivables Provisions for risks relating to subsidiaries Receivables and payables are stated at nominal value. Provisions are A provision is recognised for subsidiaries in relation to which the recorded to cover any risk of non-recovery of receivables. The majority Company is exposed to a risk. NOTE 3 NOTES TO THE BALANCE SHEET AND INCOME STATEMENT 3-1. Change in the gross value of fixed assets Gross value at In thousands of euros beginning of year Increase in gross value Decrease in gross value Gross value at year-end Intangible assets 747 747 Property, plant and equipment 4,446 4,446 Long-term investments 426,550 508,552 485,466 449,637 Total 431,743 508,552 485,466 454,830 At 31 December 2017, intangible assets broke down as €704 thousand Year-on-year changes in long-term investments primarily relate to the in software, €15 thousand corresponding to a fully-amortised patent purchases and sales of shares in subsidiaries and affiliates referred to and €28 thousand in goodwill. in Note 1 above, as well as new loans granted to subsidiaries and the treasury share transactions described in Section 3.2 below. Property, plant and equipment broke down as €3,499 thousand in buildings, fixtures and fittings, €696 thousand in office furniture and equipment and €251 thousand in works of art. 148 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.2 Long-term investments Movements in long-term investments were as follows: Gross value at In thousands of euros beginning of year Increase in gross value Decrease in gross value Gross value at year-end Shares in subsidiaries and affiliates(1) 364,289 211,678 225,871 350,096 Loans to subsidiaries and affiliates(2) 39,522 6,020 15,991 29,551 Deposits and guarantees 11 2 9 Convertible bonds (including accrued interest) 63,616 63,616 Treasury shares 22,728 2,239 18,602 6,365 Total 426,550 283,553 260,466 449,637 (1) Increases in the gross value of shares in subsidiaries and affiliates reflect: • the acquisition from HDL Development of all of the shares in Assystem Conseils (€3 thousand); • the acquisition of a 60% interest in Plast Concept (€3,679 thousand); • the purchase of new shares issued by Assystem Energy Infrastructure Ltd UK, paid up in cash (€5,514 thousand); • the purchase of new shares issued by Assystem Technologies Belgium (€365 thousand); • the purchase of new shares issued by Assystem Technologies Switzerland (€696 thousand); • the purchase of Assystem Technologies Groupe shares (€62,140 thousand); • the acquisition of all of the shares in The Biotech Quality Group (€10,905 thousand); • the acquisition of a 5% interest in Framatome (€123,726 thousand); • the acquisition from Assystem EOS of a 15.14% interest in MPH Global Services SAS (€4,650 thousand). The full amount of the €225,871 thousand in decreases in the gross value of shares in subsidiaries and affiliates was due to the sale of shares in the entities making up the GPS division (Assystem Deutschland, Assystem Iberia, Assystem Portugal, Assystem Canada, Assystem France, Assystem Romania, Assystem UK, Assystem International, Assystem India, Silver Atena UK Ltd, Assystem Technologies, Assystem US, Vista Technologie, Assystem Maroc, Assystem Talent International Management, Plast Concept, Assystem Technologies Belgium, Assystem Technologies Switzerland and Assystem Shanghai). (2) During the year, €6,020 thousand worth of loans were granted to the Company’s subsidiaries: • the total amount of loan repayments in 2017 came to €15,991 thousand; • all of the loans granted to GPS entities were repaid; • the amounts shown above were translated into euros using the exchange rates prevailing on the inception dates of the loans. The impact of translating these loans using year-end exchange rates corresponded to an aggregate €878 thousand. The table below shows a summary of movements in treasury shares during 2017: In thousands of euros Number of shares Value Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2016 1,068,442 22,728 Purchases (liquidity contract) 71,465 2,239 Sales (liquidity contract) (78,254) (1,574) Deliveries of free shares (2,500) (51) Cancellations (550,000) (12,667) Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2017(1) 509,153 10,675 6 (1) Including €6,365 thousand recorded in “Long-term investments” and €4,310 thousand in “Marketable securities”. 3.3 Change in depreciation and amortisation Amount at beginning Amount In thousands of euros of year Increases Decreases at year-end Amortisation Other intangible assets 671 27 698 Sub-total 671 27 698 Depreciation Buildings on own land 1,884 1,884 Other buildings, fixtures and fittings 378 32 410 General fixtures 602 90 692 Furniture, IT and office equipment 527 36 563 Sub-total 3,391 158 3,549 Total 4,062 185 4,247 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 149 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 4 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES Loans and advances granted Deposits, Provisions Other (excl. tax guarecoProvisions equity Gross consolidation, rantees Provignised for recognised (including book Net book current acounts and sions reintra-group for risks profit % value of value of and intraendorse2017 cognised current relating to Share (loss) for ownership shares shares group term ments 2017 net profit Dividends against accounts subsidiaIn thousands of euros capital 2017) interest held held accounts) given revenue (loss) received shares and loans ries 1Subsidiaries Eurosyn 40 1,896 62.08% 1 1 8,378 1,292 809 ASG 76 316 100.00% 432 314 0 (3) 117 Assystem Engineering and Operation Services 3,242 53,667 100.00% 97,058 97,058 246,992 15,123 12,671 SCI du Pont Noir 322 307 99.99% 1,065 1,065 110 (26) Assystem Belgium 19 823 98.92% 18 18 9,504 142 MPH Global Services 15,805 26,360 100.00% 32,471 23,650 8,769 8,939 10,000 8,821 ASM Technologies 547 343 99.97% 787 0 88 (163) 787 Assystem Australia 0 (357) 100.00% 0 0 357 3 357 Assystem Switzerland 85 795 100.00% 83 83 208 3,911 720 Eradma NC NC 4.04% 120 120 NC NC Assystem Solutions DMCC 23 (599) 100.00% 20 0 1,987 (263) 20 386 Assystem Investissements 5 (1) 100.00% 15 0 0 (6) 15 Envy 380 2,841 51.00% 14,018 13,321 7,571 440 504 697 Assystem Technologies Groupe 158,380 161,365 39.23% 62,140 62,140 603 15 Assystem Energy Infrastructure Ltd UK 5,726 5,525 100.00% 5,514 5,514 14,588 (284) Biotech Quality Group 200 1,726 72.70% 10,905 10,905 6,179 455 Assystem Conseils 3 (1) 100.00% 3 0 0 (4) 3 Framatome NC NC 5.00% 123,726 123,726 NC NC Assystem Italia 200 (169) 1,720 0 160 0 (31) 1,720 160 350,095 337,915 2,712 23,984 12,181 903 0 Assystem has set aside provisions for impairment in value against the shares held in certain subsidiaries following impairment tests carried out at 31 December 2017 in accordance with the accounting policies described above. 150 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 5 PROVISIONS Amount In thousands of euros Amount at beginning of year Increases Decreases at year-end Provisions for foreign exchange losses 3,567 4,399 3,567 4,399 Other provisions for contingencies and charges(1) 14,151 14,241 6,761 21,631 Total provisions for contingencies and charges 17,718 18,640 10,328 26,030 Provisions for impairment in value of intangible assets 28 28 Provisions for impairment in value of property, plant and equipment 186 186 Provisions for shares in subsidiaries and affiliates(2) 22,630 10,076 20,525 12,181 Provisions for loans Provisions for treasury shares Sub-total: Provisions for fixed assets 22,844 10,076 20,525 12,395 Provisions for impairment in value of trade receivables Provisions for impairment in value of intra-group receivables(3) 838 65 903 Provisions for impairment in value of sundry debtors Sub-total: Provisions for current assets 838 65 903 Total provisions for impairment in value 23,682 10,141 20,525 13,298 Total provisions 41,400 28,781 30,853 39,328 O/w recorded in: Operating income and expenses 946 Financial income and expenses 18,946 30,853 Non-recurring income and expenses 8,889 (1) Additions to and reversals of provisions for contingencies and charges in 2017 break down as follows: • an additional €8,889 thousand provision for tax risks (including €2,056 for potential late payment penalties); • a €673 thousand provision for unoccupied premises; • a €274 thousand provision for employee-related risks; • a €4,310 thousand provision for free share/performance share plans for which the related expense will be re-billed to the subsidiaries whose employees are beneficiaries of the plans concerned; • a €95 thousand provision for free share/performance share plans for which the related expense will not be re-billed; • a €6,631 thousand reversal of the provision set aside in 2016 for costs related to free share plans; • a €130 thousand reversal of the provision set aside for subsidiary-related risks concerning Assystem Shanghai following the transfer of GPS. (2) The main additions to provisions for shares in subsidiaries and affiliates concerned the following companies: • ASG: €2 thousand; • MPH Global Services SAS: €8,821 thousand; • ASM Technologies: €548 thousand; • Assystem Investissements: €5 thousand; • Envy: €697 thousand; 6 • Assystem Conseils: €3 thousand. Reversals of provisions for shares in subsidiaries and affiliates related to the following companies: • Silver Atena Ltd UK: €12,985 thousand; • Assystem Canada: €5,038 thousand; • Assystem International: €1,416 thousand; • Assystem Shanghai: €1,041 thousand; • Vista Technologie: €11 thousand; • Assystem Technologies: €34 thousand; • All of these provision reversals related to the sale of GPS entities. (3) Additions to provisions for impairment of intra-group receivables concerned the following companies in 2017: • Assystem Italia: €52 thousand; • Assystem Australia: €13 thousand. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 151 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 6 RECEIVABLES Due within one Due beyond one In thousands of euros Gross amount year year Receivables recognised as fixed assets ATG convertible bonds (including accrued coupons) 63,616 63,616 Loans 29,551 29,551 Other long-term investments 9 9 Treasury shares(1) 6,365 6,365 Sub-total 99,541 6,365 93,176 Operating receivables Doubtful or disputed receivables Other trade receivables 3,657 3,657 Prepaid and recoverable payroll taxes 863 863 Prepayments to suppliers Prepaid and recoverable income tax 22,148 6,921 15,227 Prepaid and recoverable VAT 4,693 4,693 Sundry debtors(2) 4,394 4,394 Sub-total 35,755 20,528 15,227 Intra-group receivables 2,834 2,834 Prepaid expenses(3) 73 73 Total 138,203 29,800 108,403 (1) Representing 258,853 Assystem SA shares. (2) Including €4,310 thousand in accrued income related to the free share/performance share plans set up for employees of Group subsidiaries. (3) Prepaid expenses mainly comprise commissions. NOTE 7 ACCRUED INCOME ● Accrued trade receivables: €3,051 thousand ● Tax receivables: €609 thousand ● Employee-related receivables: €862 thousand ● Sundry debtors: €4,310 thousand NOTE 8 BREAKDOWN OF MARKETABLE SECURITIES At beginning of Category (In thousands of euros) year Purchases Sales At year-end Term accounts 8,290 8,290 Treasury shares 4,310 4,310 Total 8,290 4,310 8,290 4,310 The portfolio is valued at purchase price. 152 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 9 PREPAID EXPENSES AND DEFERRED INCOME Prepaid expenses and deferred income only relate to operating activities. NOTE 10 SHARE CAPITAL The Company’s share capital totalled €15,668,216 at 31 December 2017, made up of shares with a par value of €1 each. Composition of share capital Number of shares 1Shares outstanding at beginning of year 22,218,216 2New shares issued during the year 3Shares cancelled during the year (6,550,000) 4Shares outstanding at year-end 15,668,216 Statement of changes in equity In thousands of euros 31/12/2017 31/12/2016 Amount at beginning of year 304,492 337,835 Profit (loss) for the period 387,768 (16,350) Dividend payouts/contribution premium repayments (21,165) (16,993) Changes in capital • Capital reduction(1) (6,550) Changes in share premium account, reserves, retained earnings and untaxed provisions • Increase 78 • decrease(1) (231,196) Amount at year-end(2) 433,427 304,492 (1) Reduction of capital and reserves following the share buyback offer described in Note 1 and cancellation of 550,000 treasury shares. (2) Including €28,425 thousand in premiums and reserves other than the legal reserve, representing an amount almost 3 times higher than the purchase cost of treasury shares owned. 6 NOTE 11 OTHER DISCLOSURES At 31 December 2017, all of the Company’s potentially dilutive Derivative financial instruments instruments corresponded to the 253,190 shares not yet delivered The Company uses currency hedges (mainly in the form of forward under outstanding free share/performance share plans. sales or purchases) in order to safeguard its operating margins on major contracts denominated in foreign currency. It also uses currency Hedging transactions swaps to hedge significant intra-group financing in foreign currency. The Company’s acquisition of shares in the Turkish company, Envy, The accounting principles applicable in France for forward financial was carried out in foreign currency and the transaction was hedged instruments and hedging transactions were amended by way of ANC using a swap. Regulation 2015-02 dated 2 July 2015. Assystem has applied this The amount recognised in the balance sheet in relation to gains on regulation since 31 December 2016. The re-measurement in the derivatives during the year was €821 thousand. balance sheet of all of Assystem’s forward sale contracts at end-2017 resulted in the recognition of a €216 thousand asset under treasury instruments. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 153 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 12 LIABILITIES In thousands of euros Gross amount Due within 1 year Due in 1 to 5 years Due beyond 5 years Bank borrowings 109 109 Deposits and guarantees received 31 31 Intra-group financial liabilities 25,254 21,439 3,815 Trade payables 6,589 6,589 Employee-related liabilities 287 287 Accrued payroll taxes 977 977 Accrued income taxes 421 421 Other accrued taxes 7 7 Due to suppliers of fixed assets 1 1 Other payables 65 65 Total liabilities 33,741 29,786 3,955 In thousands of euros Beginning of year Increases Decreases Year-end Ornane bonds 83 83 Odirnane bonds 14,002 14,002 Sub-total 14,085 14,085 Accrued coupons 300 300 Total convertible bonds 14,385 14,385 Medium-term loan and revolving credit facility 80,000 105,000 185,000 Bank overdrafts 8 72 8 72 Accrued interest 85 37 85 37 Treasury instruments 801 801 Total bank borrowings 80,894 105,109 185,894 109 Other borrowings and financial liabilities Deposits and guarantees received 31 31 Current accounts with subsidiaries 95,574 70,320 25,254 Total other borrowings and financial liabilities 95,605 70,320 25,285 Debt-related income and expenses Expenses Income Interest on bond debt (62) Interest on bank borrowings (721) Income and expenses related to Group cash management(1) (478) 353 (1) Financial income and expenses relating to interest on current accounts with subsidiaries and intra-group cash pooling. 154 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 13 DEFERRED CHARGES ● Accrued trade payables: €4,708 thousand ● Accrued taxes and payroll costs: €1,536 thousand ● Accrued interest on borrowings: €37 thousand NOTE 14 OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS Commitments given/received (in thousands of euros) Commitments given Amount Sureties and guarantees 26,147 Commitments received Amount Unused revolving credit facility 120,000 Lease commitments Payments due by period Obligations (in thousands of euros) Total Due within 1 year Due in 1 to 5 years Due beyond 5 years Operating leases • Vehicles 84 25 59 • Premises 432 432 Total 516 457 59 NOTE 15 REVENUE 6 Revenue comprises income received for administrative, management It would not be relevant to provide a breakdown of revenue by business and specialist services, which are mainly provided to Assystem Group segment or by geographic region. subsidiaries. NOTE 16 AVERAGE HEADCOUNT Assystem SA’s executives do not have employment contracts and instead receive compensation in their capacity as company officers (see the corporate governance report in Chapter 2 of this Registration Document). ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 155 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 17 EXPENSE TRANSFERS ● Miscellaneous reimbursements: €3 thousand ● Benefits in kind: €12 thousand NOTE 18 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES In thousands of euros 2017 Financial income from investments in subsidiaries and affiliates 79,840 Dividends received 79,840 Income from other securities and receivables recognised as fixed assets 445 Loan interest 445 Other interest income 974 Income from marketable securities Income related to Group cash management 353 Other financial income 621 Provision reversals and expense transfers 30,854 Reversal of provisions for foreign exchange losses 3,567 Reversal of provisions for long-term investments (1) 27,287 Positive foreign exchange differences 2,569 Foreign exchange gains 2,569 Net proceeds from sales of marketable securities and interest on term accounts 113 Net proceeds from sales of marketable securities and interest on term accounts 113 Total financial income 114,795 Amortisation and provisions recognised under financial expenses (18,946) Additions to provisions for contingencies and charges relating to financial assets (1) (14,547) Additions to provisions for foreign exchange losses (4,399) Interest expense (3,544) Interest on borrowings (721) Interest on bond debt: (62) Ornane bonds Odirnane bonds (62) Expenses related to Group cash management (478) Other financial expenses (2) (2,283) Negative foreign exchange differences (2,181) Foreign exchange losses (2,181) Total financial expenses (24,671) Net financial income 90,124 (1) Including reversals of provisions related to the following, recorded in financial income: (i) impairment of shares in subsidiaries and affiliates (€20,526 thousand), (ii) free share plans (€6,631 thousand), and (iii) subsidiary-related risks (€130 thousand). Including additions to provisions related to the following, recorded in financial expenses: (i) impairment in value of shares in subsidiaries and affiliates (€10,076 thousand), (ii) impairment in value of intra-group receivables (€65 thousand), and (iii) free share plans (€4,405 thousand). (2) Including €1,041 thousand related to the various outstanding free share plans. 156 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 19 NON-RECURRING INCOME AND EXPENSES In thousands of euros 2017 Non-recurring income from capital transactions 548,113 Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment Proceeds from disposals of long-term investments(1) 547,225 Gains on sales of treasury shares 888 Other non-recurring income(2) Total non-recurring income 548,113 Non-recurring expenses on management transactions (25) Other non-recurring management expenses(2) (25) Non-recurring expenses on capital transactions (225,921) Net value of divested long-term investments (225,871) Losses on treasury shares (50) Exceptional addition to provisions for claims and litigation(2) (8,889) Addition to provisions for contingencies (8,889) Total non-recurring expenses (234,835) Net non-recurring income 313,278 (1) Including €547 million in net proceeds from the sale of shares in connection with the transfer of control of GPS and €203 thousand from the sale of Eurosyn shares. (2) Additional provision recognised for a tax dispute in France (see Note 1). 6 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 157 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 20 INCOME TAX Analysis of income tax The breakdown of income tax between the portion related to profit from recurring operations and the portion related to non-recurring items was determined by analysing the nature of the underlying income and expenses. The effect of tax consolidation has been included in the portion related to non-recurring items. In thousands of euros Before tax Tax After tax Profit from recurring operations 76,605 3,214 79,819 Net non-recurring income 313,278 (5,330) 307,948 Profit for the period 389,883 (2,115) 387,768 Tax consolidation Assystem is the head of a tax group that includes the following entities: Assystem Engineering and Operation Services, SCI du Pont Noir, ASG, Insiema, Assystem Conseils, Assystem Investissements, MPH International and MPH Global Services. Under the tax consolidation agreement, the methods for calculating the income tax due by each entity in the tax group are determined based on the applicable tax rules in force at the reporting date and as if each entity were taxed on a stand-alone basis. Deferred taxes Deferred tax liabilities (calculated at a rate of 34.43%) (In thousands of euros) 2017 tax base Amount of tax Deferred charges Total Deferred tax assets (calculated at a rate of 34.43%) (In thousands of euros) 2017 tax base Amount of tax Unrealised foreign exchange gains 0 0 Provisions for impairment in value 187 (64) Acquisition-related expenses 1,802 (620) Other expenses 200 (69) Total 2,189 (754) 158 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 21 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS AND BALANCES Amount concerning Entities in which the Company has In thousands of euros Related companies an equity interest Shares in subsidiaries and affiliates 226,249 Loans 29,551 Trade receivables 1,324 1,613 Called, unpaid capital (1) Bonds 63,616 Other borrowings and financial liabilities 1,815 (24,235) Trade payables (793) (459) Due to suppliers of fixed assets Financial income from investments in subsidiaries and affiliates 55,856 25,186 Other financial income 764 34 Financial expenses (125) (353) Assystem has not identified any other transactions with related parties that were entered into on non-arm’s length terms or which could materially impact the financial statements. Consequently, no additional disclosures are required pursuant to Article R. 123-198 11 of the French Commercial Code. NOTE 22 INFORMATION ON THE CONSOLIDATING ENTITY Assystem SA is the consolidating parent company of the Assystem Group. 6 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 159 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.3.4 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 This is a translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report on the financial statements of the Company issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. This statutory auditors’ report includes information required by European regulation and French law, such as information about the appointment of the statutory auditors or verification of the management report and other documents provided to shareholders. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Annual General Meeting of Assystem SA., Opinion In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by your Annual General Meetings, we have audited the accompanying financial statements of Assystem S.A. for the year ended 31 December 2017. In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Company as at 31 December 2017 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with French accounting principles. The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee. Basis for opinion AUDIT FRAMEWORK We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the “Statutory Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements” section of our report. INDEPENDENCE We conducted our audit engagement in compliance with independence rules applicable to us, for the period from 1st January 2017 to the date of our report, and specifically we did not provide any prohibited non-audit services referred to in Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No. 537/2014 or in the French Code of Ethics for statutory auditors. Justification of Assessments Key Audit Matters In accordance with the requirements of Articles L.823-9 and R.823-7 of the French Commercial Code (code de commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we inform you of the key audit matters relating to risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period, as well as we addressed those risks. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on specific items of the financial statements. 160 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS VALUATION OF INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES AND OTHER NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS Notes to the financial statements 2, 3.2, and 4 Risks Our response As at 31 December 2017, the net book value of the investments held in For each investment, we have highlighted the method used by the subsidiaries and other non-controlling interests amounted to 338 million Company for calculating the value in use of the investment and have of euros, accounting for 68% of the Company’s balance sheet total. assessed whether the method used was appropriate with regards to the economic characteristics of the investment. As mentioned in Note 2 “Accounting rules and principles – Investments in subsidiaries and other non-controlling interests” to the fi nancial When the approach based on projected cash flows was used, we statements, the investments are recorded at cost at the date of acquisition have: or at their contribution value. At each year-end, the Company estimates ● assessed the consistency of the budgetary data used with those the value in use of its investments in order to determine whether the value presented to the Audit Committee and approved by the Board of in use of each investment is lower than its carrying value. Directors, and the consistency of forecast data with budgetary An impairment is recognised when the value in use appears to be lower assumptions; than the carrying value. ● checked the consistency of the assumptions made for the long term For the purpose of estimating the value in use, and depending on growth rate with the economic environment prevailing as at the the nature of the business operated by the investment, the Company financial statements closing date; uses one of the following methods: an economic approach (based ● checked, with the assistance of our evaluation specialists, the on projected cash flows or on the multiples method) or a patrimonial reasonableness of the assumptions used in determining the approach (based on the percentage held in the investment’s net equity). discounting rate; We have considered the valuation of investments in subsidiaries and ● compared the forecasts used in the past with the actual performance other non-controlling interests as a key audit matter, given their materiality shown with a view to assessing whether past objectives were met to the Company’s balance sheet, the high degree of estimation and or not; judgement required from management in choosing the calculation method ● checked that the value resulting from the cash flow forecasts was for the value in use and the sensitivity, depending on the calculation adjusted by the amount of indebtedness of the investment concerned. method adopted, of this value to changes in forecast assumptions. When the approach based on multiples was used, we have assessed the consistency of the aggregate used with the financial statements and the rationale behind the multiples used in comparison with those applied in similar business sectors. When a patrimonial approach was implemented, we have checked that the net equity data used were in line with the financial statements of the investments concerned, either audited or subject to agreed-upon procedures, and that the restatements made to the net equity, if any, were supported by a relevant documentation. 6 Should have these investments been made close to the year end date, we have examined the available documentation used in the determination of the shares purchase price. We have also assessed the appropriateness of the information disclosed in the notes 2 “Accounting rules and principles , 3.2 “Financial assets” and 4 “List of subsidiaries and other non-controlling interests” to the financial statements. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 161 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Verification of the Management Report and of the Other Documents Provided to Shareholders We have also performed, in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the specific verifications required by French law. INFORMATION GIVEN IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT AND IN THE OTHER DOCUMENTS PROVIDED TO THE SHAREHOLDERS WITH RESPECT TO THE FINANCIAL POSITION AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We have no matters to report as to the fair presentation and the consistency with the financial statements of the information given in the management report of the Board of Directors and in the other documents provided to the Shareholders with respect to the financial position and the financial statements. REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We attest that the Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance sets out the information required by Articles L.225-37-3 and L.225-37-4 of the French Commercial Code. Concerning the information given in accordance with the requirements of Article L.225-37-3 of the French Commercial Code relating to remunerations and benefits received by the directors and any other commitments made in their favour, we have verified its consistency with the financial statements or with the underlying information used to prepare these financial statements and, where appropriate, with the information obtained by your company from controlling and controlled companies. Based on these procedures, we attest the accuracy and fair presentation of this information. With respect to the information relating to items that your company considered likely to have an impact in the event of a public purchase offer or exchange, provided pursuant to Article L.225-37-5 of the French Commercial Code, we have agreed these to the source documents communicated to us. Based on our work, we have no observations to make on this information. OTHER INFORMATION In accordance with French law, we have verified that the required information concerning the purchase of investments and controlling interests and the identity of the shareholders and holders of the voting rights has been properly disclosed in the management report. Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements APPOINTMENT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS We were appointed statutory auditor of Assystem S.A. by the Annual General Meeting held on 26 August 1999 for Deloitte & Associés and on 30 April 2009 for KPMG. As at 31 December 2017, Deloitte & Associés and KPMG were in the nineteenth year and the ninth year of total uninterrupted engagement respectively. Responsibilities of Management and those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and the fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with French accounting principles and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern basis of accounting unless it is expected to liquidate the Company or to cease operations. The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial reporting process and the effectiveness of internal control and risks management systems and where applicable, its internal audit, regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures. The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors. Statutory Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements OBJECTIVES AND AUDIT APPROACH Our role is to issue a report on the financial statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements taken as a whole are free from material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error, and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As specified in Article L.823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code, our statutory audit does not include assurance on the viability of the Company or the quality of management of the affairs of the Company. 162 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As part of an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the statutory auditor exercises professional judgement throughout the audit and furthermore: ● identifies and assesses the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designs and performs audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtains audit evidence considered to be sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for his opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control; ● obtains an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control; ● evaluates the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management in the financial statements; ● assesses the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of his audit report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. If the statutory auditor concludes that a material uncertainty exists, there is a requirement to draw attention in the audit report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are not provided or inadequate, to modify the opinion expressed therein; ● evaluates the overall presentation of the financial statements and assesses whether these statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. REPORT TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE We submit a report to the Audit Committee which includes in particular a description of the scope of the audit and the audit program implemented, as well as the results of our audit. We also report, if any, significant deficiencies in internal controls regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures that we have identified. Our report to the Audit Committee includes the risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and which are therefore the key audit matters that we are required to describe in this report. We also provide the Audit Committee with the declaration provided for in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) No. 537/2014, confi rming our independence within the meaning of the rules applicable in France such as they are set in particular by Articles L.822-10 to L.822-14 of the French Commercial Code and in the French Code of Ethics for statutory auditors. Where appropriate, we discuss with the Audit Committee the risks that may reasonably be brought to bear on our independence, and the related safeguards. Paris La Défense and Neuilly-sur-Seine, 10 April 2018 The Statutory Auditors French original jointly signed by 6 KPMG Audit partner Deloitte & Associés audit partner Éric ROPERT Albert AÏDAN ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 163 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.3.5 SPECIAL STATUTORY AUDITORS REPORT ON THE REGULATED AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements with third parties that is issued in the French language and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report on regulated agreements should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. It should be understood that the agreements reported on are only those provided by the French Commercial Code and that the report does not apply to those related party transactions described in IAS 24 or other equivalent accounting standards. To the Annual General Meeting of Assystem SA, In our capacity as statutory auditors of your Company, we hereby present our report on the regulated agreements and commitments. Based on the information given to us, it is our responsibility to report to you on the main terms and characteristics and the reasons justifying the interest for the Company of the agreements and commitments notified to us, and that we discovered during our audit without having to comment on their appropriateness or on their merits or look for the existence of other agreements and commitments. It is your responsibility, under the terms of Article R.225-31 of the French Commercial Code (code de commerce), to evaluate the benefits resulting from these agreements and commitments prior to their approval. Furthermore, it is our responsibility, as appropriate, to provide you with the information provided in Article R.225-31 of the French Commercial Code relating to the performance, in the past financial year, of agreements and commitments already approved by the General Meeting. We conducted the procedures we deemed necessary in accordance with the professional guidelines of the French National Institute of Statutory Auditors (Compagnie Nationale des Commissaires aux Comptes) relating to this engagement. These procedures consisted in agreeing the information provided to us with the relevant source documents. AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS SUBMITTED FOR APPROVAL OF THE GENERAL MEETING AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS AUTHORISED AND ENTERED INTO IN THE PAST FISCAL YEAR Pursuant to Article L.225-40 of the French Commercial Code, we were advised of the following agreements and commitments entered into and authorised in the past fiscal year that were first authorised by your Board of Directors. RIDER NO. 2 TO THE RE-INVOICING CONTRACT BY HDL DEVELOPMENT S.A.S. TO ASSYSTEM S.A. OF THE STRATEGY DEFINITION, MANAGEMENT, ORGANISATION AND CONTROL SERVICES OF THE ASSYSTEM GROUP ● Interested parties : Dominique Louis, CEO and Director of your Company and Chairman of HDL Development S.A.S. and Tikehau Capital S.A. (replacing Salvepar, a company taken over by the latter), Director of your Company and of HDL Development S.A.S. ● Nature and terms and conditions : Your Board of Directors of 7 March 2017 authorised the signature of Rider no. 2 to the re-invoicing contract by HDL Development S.A.S. to your Company of the strategy definition, management, organisation and control services of the Assystem Group provided by HDL S.A.S. in favour of HDL Development S.A.S. Your Board of Directors has justified the signing of this agreement by the importance of the strategic service provided. This service performance is remunerated in accordance with the following terms and conditions : ● a fixed fee paid amounting to € 348,000; ● a variable portion based, firstly, on the amount of the consolidated ROPA for 75% and, secondly, on the amount of the free cash flow for 25%. Since the amount due for the criterion referred to was determined in both cases by linear interpolation between the lower limit (at the level or below which the criterion is considered unmet) and the upper limit (at the level or above which the criterion is considered fully met). Your Board of Directors of 15 March 2018 enacted that, in consideration of the development of the Group in 2017, the application of the criteria determined was deemed impossible and, therefore, approved the variable part owed to HDL Development S.A.S. to a fixed amount of € 280,000 as of 31 December 2017. The remuneration due by your Company under the present agreement amounts to €628,000 excluding taxes. AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS ALREADY APPROVED BY THE GENERAL MEETING AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS APPROVED IN PREVIOUS FINANCIAL YEARS BUT NOT APPLIED DURING THE PAST FISCAL YEAR We were, furthermore, informed of the continuation of the following agreements and commitments, already approved in previous fiscal years but not performed during the past fiscal year. 164 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SEVERANCE PAYMENT DUE IN CASE OF TERMINATION OF THE MANDATE OF MISTER PHILIPPE CHEVALLIER AT THE INITIATIVE OF THE COMPANY ● Interested party : Mr Philippe Chevallier, Chief Financial Officer of your Company. ● Nature and terms and conditions: During its meeting of 9 March 2016, your Board of Directors approved the implementation to the benefit of Mr Philippe Chevallier, Chief Financial Officer of your Company since 5 June 2015, of a termination indemnity of € 500,000 in case his dismissal would be initiated by your Company without any cause prior to the General Meeting of 2020 approving the financial statements of 2019. The payment of such severance indemnity shall be conditional upon: ● the certification, without qualifications and within the legal deadlines, of the consolidated financial statements throughout his mandate, ● the achievement of an average Return On Capital Employed (ROCE) ratio (after normative tax rate) of at least 6% over the last three fiscal years. It should be noted that the said severance pay is not due in case of gross negligence or wilful misconduct. Paris la Défense and Neuilly-sur-Seine, 10 April 2018 The statutory auditors French original jointly signed by KPMG Audit partner Deloitte & Associés audit partner Éric ROPERT Albert AÏDAN 6 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 165 166 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 7 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL 7.1 GENERAL INFORMATION 7.3 STATUTORY AUDIT AND FEES PAID ABOUT THE ISSUER 168 BY THE GROUP TO THE STATUTORY AUDITORS AND MEMBERS OF THEIR NETWORKS 180 7.2 INFORMATION ABOUT THE 7.3.1 Statutory audit 180 COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL 171 7.3.2 Statutory Auditors 180 7.2.1 Assystem and its shareholders 171 7.3.3 Statutory Auditors’ fees in 2017 180 7.2.2 Assystem’s share capital 172 7.2.3 Share performance 173 7.2.4 Additional information about the share capital 175 7.4 SPECIAL REPORT ON AWARDS OF FREE SHARES AND 7.2.5 Ornane bonds (bonds redeemable in cash and/or PERFORMANCE SHARES 181 in new and/or existing shares) 176 7.4.1 Free share and performance share awards decided 7.2.6 Odirnane bonds (perpetual bonds redeemable in by the Company’s Management Board 181 cash and/or new and/or existing shares) 176 7.4.2 Free share and performance share awards decided 7.2.7 Stock options 176 by the Company’s Board of Directors 181 7.2.8 Free share and performance share awards 177 7.4.3 Free shares and performance shares awarded 7.2.9 Treasury share transactions carried out by the during 2017 by related companies as defined in Company in 2017 (disclosed in accordance Article L. 225-197-2 of the French Commercial Code 182 with Article L. 225-211 of the French Commercial 7.4.4 Free shares and performance shares awarded by Code) 177 controlled companies as defined in 7.2.10 Description of the share buyback programme Article L. 233-16 of the French Commercial Code 182 (disclosed in accordance with Article 241-2 of the AMF’s General Regulations) 177 7.2.11 Use of share buyback programmes in 2017 178 7.5 SPECIAL REPORT ON STOCK OPTIONS 182 7.2.12 Liquidity contract 178 7.2.13 Assystem shares held by the Company (outside the scope of the liquidity contract) 179 7.2.14 Changes in share capital over the last three years 179 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 167 7 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE ISSUER Further information about the Company’s businesses and strategy is provided in Chapter 1 of this Registration Document. 7.1 GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE ISSUER Company name and address ● systems and network operation and facilities management; Company name: Assystem ● developing and distributing products, equipment, hardware and software; Registered office: 70, boulevard de Courcelles, 75017 Paris, France ● effectively leading the Group and determining its overall strategy; Telephone: + 33 (0)1 55 65 03 00 ● participating in any operation related to its corporate purpose, by Fax: + 33 (0)1 55 65 00 49 creating new companies, subscribing for or purchasing shares, taking www.assystem.com part in mergers or joint ventures, or by any other means; ● carrying out any financial, commercial, industrial or civil business All of Assystem’s corporate documents may be consulted free of charge activity or transaction involving movable or immovable assets, which at the Company’s registered office. may be directly or indirectly associated with the Company’s corporate purpose or which may be likely to further its development, on the Statutory Auditors Company’s own account or on behalf of third parties, or through any The Company has two Statutory Auditors appointed in compliance with form of ownership interest whatsoever. Article L. 225-228 of the French Commercial Code. Further information about the Statutory Auditors is provided in Section 7.3 below. The Company’s role with regard to its subsidiaries Assystem SA is a holding company whose assets are essentially Date of incorporation and term composed of equity securities. The Group’s operational assets are held Date of incorporation: 26 April 1997 by the Company’s subsidiaries. Expiry date of Company’s term: 27 May 2096 Assystem SA directly or indirectly provides services for companies in its Group, notably in the areas of finance, accounting and general and Registration particulars administrative management. A list of consolidated companies as at 31 December 2017 is set out in The Company is registered with the Paris Trade and Companies Registry Chapter 6 of this Registration Document (Note 3.1 to the consolidated under number 412 076 937. Its French business identifier (NAF) Code financial statements) and a simplified organisation chart of the Assystem is 7010 Z (head office activities). Group is provided in Chapter 1, Section 1.3. Legal form and applicable legislation The financing for Group subsidiaries is carried out in a centralised way by the Company, which enables them to benefit from the favourable At the Annual General Meeting held on 22 May 2014, the shareholders market conditions obtained by Assystem SA from lenders. This also modified the Company’s administration and management structure. allows Assystem SA to offset the lender and borrower positions of its Originally incorporated in the form of a société anonyme (public limited various entities. company) with a Management Board and a Supervisory Board, as from 22 May 2014 Assystem SA adopted the form of a société anonyme Financial year with a Board of Directors, governed by the provisions of Book II of The Company has a 12-month financial year, commencing on 1 January the French Commercial Code and by its Articles of Association (see and ending on 31 December. Chapter 2 of this Registration Document). Profit distribution Corporate purpose Profi t or loss for the year represents the difference between total As set out in Article 2 of its Articles of Association, the Company’s income and total expenses, including charges to and reversals from corporate purpose can be summarised as follows: depreciation, amortisation and provisions. ● acquiring equity interests – by way of subscription, contribution, Five percent of profit for the year, less any losses carried forward from purchase or otherwise – and exercising any and all associated rights, previous years, is allocated to the legal reserve, until such time as that in any enterprise operating in a technological, technical, IT, electronic reserve represents one-tenth of the Company’s share capital. Further or mechanical field, and more specifically: transfers are made on the same basis if the legal reserve falls to below ● consultancy, research and engineering, one tenth of the share capital. ● training, support and maintenance, 168 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE ISSUER Profit available for distribution consists of profit for the year plus retained shareholder’s securities account by 00:00 (Paris time) on the second earnings from previous years, less any losses brought forward from business day preceding the meeting. If the shares are held in registered previous years and any amounts transferred to reserves in accordance form they must be recorded in the share register kept by the Company with the law or the Company’s Articles of Association. On the (or its agent) and if they are in bearer form they must be recorded in a recommendation of the Board of Directors, shareholders at the Annual bearer share account kept by an accredited intermediary. General Meeting determine the portion of profi t to be allocated to If a shareholder cannot personally attend a General Meeting, he or shareholders in the form of a dividend, and the portion to be allocated to she may select one of the following three options, each subject to the general or special reserves, with the remaining balance being allocated conditions stipulated in the applicable law and regulations: to retained earnings. ● appoint a named proxy under the conditions authorised by the However, except in the case of a capital reduction, no dividend may applicable law and regulations; be paid to shareholders if the Company’s equity represents – or would represent after the planned dividend payout – less than the sum of its ● vote remotely; or share capital plus any reserves which, under the applicable law or the ● send a proxy to the Company without indicating a specific named Company’s Articles of Association, are not available for distribution. proxy. In addition, the shareholders may resolve to distribute amounts taken Subject to the conditions stipulated in the applicable laws and from discretionary reserves, either to pay all or part of an ordinary regulations, the Board of Directors may decide that shareholders may dividend or as a special dividend. In this case, the related resolution participate and vote at General Meetings by videoconference or by must stipulate the reserve accounts from which the dividend is to be other means of telecommunication that enable them to be identified. deducted. However, dividends are deducted in priority from distributable If the Board decides to use this option for a General Meeting, the profit for the year. decision must be stated in the preliminary and/or final notice of the meeting concerned. The revaluation reserve may not be distributed, but all or part of it may be incorporated into the Company’s capital. S hareholders taking part in General Meetings by videoconference or by any other means of telecommunication as indicated above, depending on the choice of the Board of Directors, are considered to Timeframe for claiming dividends be in attendance for the purposes of quorum and majority calculations. Any dividends not claimed within five years of the date of their payment General Meetings are chaired by the Chairman of the Board of revert to the French State. Directors, or in his or her absence, by the CEO, by a Deputy CEO if he or she is a director, or by a director specifically appointed for this Registrar and paying agent purpose by the Board. Failing this, the General Meeting elects its own The Company’s registrar and paying agent is Société Générale Chairman. Securities Services, 32 rue du Champ de Tir – CS 30812 – 44308 The role of scrutineers at a General Meeting is carried out by the two Nantes Cedex 3, France. shareholders present at the meeting who hold or represent the largest number of voting rights and who agree to take on the role. The meeting Stock exchange officers thus appointed then appoint a secretary, who need not be a shareholder. Assystem shares are listed on compartment B of the Euronext Paris market of NYSE Euronext under ISIN FR 0000074148 and are included in the An attendance register containing all of the information provided for CAC All-Tradable index and the MID & SMALL 190 index. by law is kept for each General Meeting. They are eligible for equity savings schemes (PEA) and the deferred An Ordinary General Meeting held on first call is only validly constituted settlement service (SRD). if the shareholders present or represented hold at least one fifth of the LEI Code (Legal Entity Identifier) shares with voting rights. An Ordinary General Meeting held on second call is validly constituted irrespective of the number of shareholders 7 present or represented. Assystem SA’s LEI Code is 9695008GTTDJGF00CT88. Resolutions in Ordinary General Meetings are adopted by a straight majority vote of the shareholders present or represented. General Meetings An Extraordinary General Meeting held on fi rst call is only validly The specific procedures relating to shareholder participation in General constituted if the shareholders present or represented hold at least one Meetings are described in Article 19 of the Company’s Articles of quarter of the shares with voting rights. An Extraordinary General Meeting Association. held on second call is only validly constituted if the shareholders present General Meetings are held at the Company’s registered office or any or represented hold at least one fifth of the shares with voting rights. other location specified in the notice of meeting. Resolutions in Extraordinary General Meetings are adopted by a twoThe right to participate in General Meetings is governed by the thirds majority vote of the shareholders present or represented. applicable law and regulations. In particular, in order for a shareholder Shareholders at Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meetings exercise to participate in a General Meeting their shares must be recorded in their respective powers in accordance with the conditions stipulated their own name or in the name of the bank or broker that manages the by law. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 169 7 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE ISSUER Voting rights Shareholder identification The Company’s Articles of Association do not provide for any limitations In compliance with the provisions of Article L. 228-2 of the French on voting rights. If Assystem shares are held by a legal owner and a Commercial Code, the Company may, at any time, ask the central beneficial owner, the corresponding voting rights are exercised by the securities clearing body to provide it with the identity of holders of benefi cial owner at all Ordinary, Extraordinary or Special General securities carrying immediate or future voting rights at General Meetings Meetings. as well as the number of securities held by each one, and, where appropriate, the restrictions applicable to any such securities. Double voting rights Material contracts All fully-paid shares registered in the name of the same holder for at least two years carry double voting rights. To date, Assystem has not entered into any material contracts, other In addition, in the event of a capital increase carried out by capitalising than those entered into in the ordinary course of its business, that would reserves, profit or share premiums, the bonus shares allotted in respect give rise to a significant obligation or commitment for the whole Group. of registered shares carrying double voting rights will also carry double voting rights as from the date of issue. Dependency Double voting rights may be removed by way of a decision by Assystem’s business does not currently depend on any patents or shareholders in an Extraordinary General Meeting and after consultation production processes belonging to third parties or on any specifi c at a Special Meeting of holders of shares with double voting rights. procurement contracts. Double voting rights may be cancelled if the shares concerned are converted to bearer shares or transferred to another shareholder, except Existence of agreements whose implementation could if registered shares are transferred to another registered shareholder in lead to a change in control of the Company or could the case of inheritance or inter vivos gifts to a spouse or other eligible have the effect of delaying, postponing or preventing a family member (as provided for in Article L. 225-124 of the French change in control Commercial Code). To the best of the Company’s knowledge, no agreements currently exist whose implementation could result in a change in control. Disclosure thresholds stipulated in the Company’s In addition, there are currently no provisions in the Company’s Articles of Association Memorandum or Articles of Association, charter or bylaws, that would In addition to the applicable statutory disclosure obligations, any have the effect of delaying, postponing or preventing a change in physical or legal person, whether acting alone or in concert (within control. the meaning of Article L. 233-10 of the French Commercial Code), that comes to hold a number of shares representing 2% or more of the Agreements entered into by the Company which would Company’s share capital or voting rights or a multiple thereof, is required be amended or terminated in the event of a change in to inform the Company of the total number of shares and voting rights control of the Company that they hold, by registered mail with recorded delivery, within four At 31 December 2017, the Group had access to a €120 million trading days of crossing the threshold. revolving credit facility with a sufficient maturity to finance its general The same disclosure formalities also apply each time a shareholder’s corporate requirements (fi ve-year term with two one-year extension interest is reduced to below any 2% threshold. options subject to the lenders’ agreement). In the event of a failure to comply with these disclosure rules, at the request On 19 January 2018, in order to finance its additional equity investment of one or several shareholders with combined holdings representing in Assystem Technologies Groupe, Assystem (i) signed an addendum at least 2% of the Company’s share capital or voting rights (with said to its revolving credit facility, raising the amount to €150 million, and request recorded in the minutes of the General Meeting at which the (ii) put in place a €30 million bullet loan repayable on 28 September request is made), the shares in excess of the undisclosed threshold will 2022. be stripped of voting rights as provided for in Article L. 233-14 of the The related financing contracts provide that the banking pool can require French Commercial Code. the full early repayment of any outstanding amounts in the event of a These provisions apply in addition to the statutory disclosure threshold change in control of the Company. For this purpose, a change in control provisions set out in Article L. 233-7 of the French Commercial Code. is defined as Dominique Louis or his heirs and successors ceasing to No other provision in the Articles of Association affects shareholders’ directly or indirectly control the Company. Dominique Louis or his heirs rights, which can only be amended in accordance with the conditions and successors are deemed to have control if he or they directly or stipulated by law. indirectly own at least 40% of the Company’s capital and voting rights and no other group of individual or corporate shareholders acting in concert own over 34% of the capital and voting rights. 170 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL Measures in place to ensure that control is not abused Ownership structure The Company’s ownership structure is shown in the table that gives The Company is controlled within the meaning defined in Article L. 233a breakdown of the Company’s share capital and voting rights in 3 of the French Commercial Code, as shown in the ownership structure Section 7.2.2 below. table in Section 7.2.2 below. Section 7.2.2 also includes a list of the notifications received by the The measures put in place by the Company in order to avoid control Company from shareholders who crossed the applicable disclosure being exercised in an abusive way are described in the following thresholders in terms of their holdings of shares in the Company and sections of this Registration Document: voting rights. ● Chapter 3, Section 3.8: internal control and risk management Restrictions on exercising single and double voting rights provided for in the procedures put in place by the Company related to preparing and Company’s Articles of Association processing accounting and financial information; As stated in Section 7.1 above, some of the Company’s shares carry ● Chapter 2, Section 2.1.1.1: presence of independent directors on double voting rights. the Board of Directors and Board Committees; Agreements entered into by the Company which would be amended or terminated in the event of a change in control of the Company ● Chapter 2, Section 2.1.1.1: paragraph on “Conflicts of interest”. The Company’s financing agreements contain early repayment clauses, whereby the Company may have to repay its borrowings in advance of Factors that could have an impact in the event of a term if certain events occur, including if there is a change in control of public offer the Company. See Section 7.1 above for a description of the change In accordance with the disclosure requirements of Article L. 225-100-3 in control clause. of the French Commercial Code, the factors that could have an impact in Other disclosures the event of a public offer for the Company’s shares are set out below. Amendments to the Company’s Articles of Association may be made in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. There are no specific agreements in place that provide for a termination benefit to be paid in the event that a director’s term of office is terminated. 7.2 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL 7.2.1 ASSYSTEM AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 2018 FINANCIAL CALENDAR 7 February 2018 after stock market close of trading 2017 revenue release 19 March 2018 after stock market close of trading 2017 annual results release 20 March 2018 8.30 a.m. Presentation of 2017 annual results 26 April 2018 after stock market close of trading Q1 2018 revenue release 16 May 2018 9.30 a.m. Annual General Meeting 26 July 2018 10 September 2018 after stock market close of trading after stock market close of trading Q2 2018 revenue release First-half 2018 results release 7 11 September 2018 8.30 a.m. Presentation of first-half 2018 results 8 November 2018 after stock market close of trading Q3 2018 revenue release Closed periods These closed periods apply to all persons who discharge managerial responsibilities (notably executive officers and senior managers) as well In accordance with the EU Market Abuse Regulation (Regulation (EU) as any other persons who have access to inside information on either no. 596/2014) and the related position statement (2016-08) issued by a regular or occasional basis. the AMF, the Company has defined the periods during which “insiders”, i.e. persons holding inside information, are prohibited from carrying out The closed periods applicable for Assystem – based on the financial transactions in Assystem shares. These closed periods apply to persons calendar set out above – are as follows: who hold or are deemed to hold inside information that may put them ● the 30 calendar days preceding the publication of the Company’s at an advantage compared with the general public. annual results press release; ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 171 7 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL ● the 30 calendar days preceding the publication of the Company’s public, on subjects of signifi cant importance for understanding the half-yearly results press release; Company’s strategy. The Company also holds periodic meetings for ● the 15 calendar days preceding the publication of the Company’s financial analysts and journalists to explain, in an interactive way, the quarterly, half-yearly and annual revenue press releases. Group’s challenges, services and results. For 2018, these periods correspond to: The annual report, presented and filed as a Registration Document with the AMF, as well as the interim financial report are widely distributed ● 23 January to 7 February (inclusive); within the financial community. ● 17 February to 19 March (inclusive); ● 11 April to 26 April (inclusive); 7.2.2 ASSYSTEM’S SHARE CAPITAL ● 11 July to 26 July (inclusive); All of the Company’s shares represent share capital. ● 12 August to 10 September (inclusive); ● 24 October to 8 November (inclusive). At 31 December 2017, the Company’s share capital amounted to €15,668,216, divided into 15,668,216 shares with a par value of Insiders may only carry out trades in the Company’s shares as from the €1 each. trading session following the publication of the press release concerned and provided that the insider carrying out the trade does not hold any During 2017, Assystem SA launched a share buyback offer under which other inside information. it proposed to shareholders to buy back up to 6,000,000 Assystem shares at a unit price of €37.50. Following the end of the offer period, Access to information which ran from 24 November to 14 December 2017, on 19 December 2017, the AMF published a notice stating that 10,507,041 Assystem All shareholders have access to full, transparent and clear information, shares had been tendered to the offer. After applying the reduction which is tailored to their specifi c needs and provides an objective mechanism provided for in Article R. 225-155 of the French Commercial assessment of Assystem’s growth strategy and results. This fi nancial Code, Assystem bought back, for an aggregate €225 million, 6 million communication policy aims to ensure that all shareholders have Assystem shares with a par value of €1 each at a unit price of €37.50. information in compliance with usual business practices. These shares represented 27.00% of the shares making up Assystem’s The Company publishes a wide variety of documents, including those capital and 28.35% of the number of Assystem shares outstanding (i.e. issued for regulatory information purposes, covering the Company’s the number of shares making up the capital less the number of shares business and strategy and financial information. These documents – held in treasury). All of the shares bought back under the offer were which include the Registration Document, the interim financial report, cancelled on 21 December 2017, together with 550,000 treasury quarterly revenue releases, the Company’s Articles of Association and shares, by way of a decision taken by Assystem’s Chairman and Chief the Board of Directors’ Rules of Procedure – are available on the Group’s Executive Officer acting under powers delegated to him by the Board website at www.assystem.com, in French and English. of D irectors. Consequently, the Company’s capital was reduced to 15,668,216 shares with a par value of €1 each. Assystem publishes notifications in the Bulletin des annonces légales obligatoires (BALO) (French legal gazette) as well as in the Journal The breakdown of Assystem’s share capital and voting rights at d’Annonces Légales (JAL) and via Nasdaq InPublic. It also issues as 31 December 2017 is shown in the table below, which sets out the regulatory information the periodic and annual information required number of theoretical voting rights and the number of actual voting for listed companies. rights exercisable at General Meetings excluding shares that do not have voting rights, such as treasury shares. The financial information issued by the Company is supplemented by press releases for the financial community and, more generally, the AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 % of share Exercisable Theoretical Shares capital voting rights % voting rights % HDL Development 9,611,013 61.34 19,222,026 76.86 19,222,026 75.32 Free float 5,548,050 35.41 5,787,791 23.14 5,787,791 22.68 Treasury shares 509,153 3.25 0 0 509,153 2.00 Total 15,668,216 100 25,009,817 100 25,518,970 100 A table showing the changes in the Company’s share capital over the At the date this Registration Document was filed, the Company was last three years is provided in Section 7.2.14 below. controlled by HDL Development(1), which has been the Company’s stable and long-term controlling shareholder since it launched a takeover bid in the first quarter of 2014. (1) HDL Development is controlled on a 70.48% basis by HDL (of which 41.74% directly and 28.74% through CEFID, H2DA and EEC). In turn, HDL is wholly controlled by Dominique Louis, Chairman & CEO of Assystem, who also directly owns 0.39% of the capital of HDL Development. The remaining 29.13% of HDL’s capital is held as follows: 22.85% by Tikehau Capital SCA, 3.27% by the Tikehau Preferred Capital mutual fund and 3.01% by managers and former managers of the Group. 172 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL The Company’s shareholding structure helps guarantee its independence Pledged shares of the Company and its subsidiaries (at and ensure its sustainability, both in terms of (i) its ability to pursue its 31 December 2017) industrial development strategy over the long term, which corresponds to No Assystem shares were pledged at 31 December 2017 as HDL the duration of the business cycles in the markets where it has a distinct Development had fully repaid the amounts it owed under a refinancing competitive edge (particularly the nuclear market), and (ii) its commitment loan set up with a banking pool on 28 September 2017. to continue to implement a responsible human resources policy. At 31 March 2018, HDL Development held 9,611,013 shares, representing 61.34% of the Company’s share capital and 76.90% of its voting rights. Pledged shares of the Company and its subsidiaries (at 19 January 2018) Number of the Pledge Pledge Conditions for issuer’s shares % of the issuer’s Shareholder Beneficiary start date expiry date releasing pledge pledged capital pledged HDL Development LCL 19 January 2018 30 June 2020 Loan repayment 1,263,547* 8.06% * Following a €25.65 million medium-term loan granted to HDL Development by a banking pool on 19 January 2018. Crossing of disclosure thresholds The following crossings of disclosure thresholds provided for in the Articles of Association were notified to the Company in 2017: Date Above/ Number % Date of letter threshold below Threshold Reference Reference of shares % voting informing Shareholder crossed Reason threshold crossed capital voting rights owned capital rights issuer Disclosure Threshold of 2% on of the capital behalf of provided for in Caisse des dépôts controlled the Articles of 26 December et consignations 26/12/2017 entities Below Association 22,218,216 34,873,401 351,635 1.58% 0.97% 2017 Disclosure Threshold of 4% on of the capital behalf of provided for in Moneta Asset controlled the Articles of 5 January Management 27/12/2017 entities Below Association 22,218,216 34,873,401 670,363 3.02% 1.86% 2018 To the best of the Company’s knowledge, at the date this Registration 7.2.3 SHARE PERFORMANCE Document was prepared, no other shareholder directly or indirectly held, alone or in concert, more than 2% of the Company’s share capital Assystem shares are listed on compartment B of the Euronext Paris or voting rights. market of NYSE Euronext. In 2017, Assystem’s share price rose by 13.03%, reaching €29.92 at Transactions in the Company’s securities carried out by the year-end compared with €26.47 at the end of 2016. executives (on the basis of disclosures submitted to the The average Assystem share price in 2017 was €31.77, with a high of AMF by the Company’s executives) None. €37.67 on 10 May 2017 and a low of €25.80 on 6 January 2017. 7 Average monthly trading volumes for 2017 were 305,933 shares and €10,023,904. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 173 7 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL 7.2.3.1 Share price and trading volumes (source: Euronext) Trading volume Trading Date High Date of High Low Date of Low Closing price (in no. of shares) volume (in €) January 2017 30.40 11/01/2017 25.80 06/01/2017 29.38 212,659 5,968,153 February 2017 29.67 28/02/2017 28.10 20/02/2017 29.22 84,854 2,427,426 March 2017 33.50 20/03/2017 28.00 07/03/2017 32.79 575,275 18,206,121 April 2017 34.40 28/04/2017 30.20 13/04/2017 33.55 259,353 10,897,572 May 2017 37.67 10/05/2017 30.94 15/05/2017 34.00 644,198 22,246,448 June 2017 36.50 02/06/2017 30.45 21/06/2017 31.00 250,404 8,087,570 July 2017 33.61 20/07/2017 29.37 29/07/2017 32.38 324,563 10,154,373 August 2017 33.07 15/08/2017 30.71 11/08/2017 31.38 174,696 5,494,606 September 2017 33.19 29/09/2017 30.50 01/09/2017 33.00 285,539 9,081,811 October 2017 34.80 10/10/2017 31.31 16/10/2017 33.21 311,341 10,362,517 November 2017 33.60 01/11/2017 30.51 17/11/2017 31.60 300,322 9,516,049 December 2017 34.96 18/12/2017 29.80 27/12/2017 29.92 247,988 7,844,197 Source: Euronext This data is provided for information purposes only. ISIN: FR0000074148. Share included in the CAC All-Tradable index. 7.2.3.2 Market data 2016 2017 Market capitalisation at year-end €588m €468m Share price • High €27.34 €37.67 • Low €20.27 €25.80 Share price at year-end €26.47 €29.92 7.2.3.3 Dividends Number of Dividend paid Year eligible shares for the year 2014 21,634,698 €0.75 per share 2015 21,304,807 €0.80 per share 2016 21,158,238 €1.00 per share 2017 15,143,811* €1.00 per share * Estimated number of eligible shares based on the number of shares making up the Company’s capital at 31 March 2018 less the number of treasury shares held at that date. In accordance with Article 2224 of the French Civil Code, any Dividend payouts may change compared with previously paid amounts dividends not claimed within five years of the date of their payment and will always remain in line with the Group’s business plan. revert to the French State. At the Annual General Meeting of 16 May 2017, the shareholders 7.2.3.5 Per-share data approved the payment of a dividend of €1 for each share making up In euros 2016 2017 the Company’s share capital (excluding treasury shares). Diluted earnings per share 1.23 19.09 At the next Annual General Meeting to be held on 16 May 2018, a dividend payment of €1 per share will be proposed. The calculation of the diluted average weighted number of shares used for determining diluted earnings per share is explained in Note 7.3 to 7.2.3.4 Dividend policy the consolidated financial statements. Assystem’s dividend policy is determined by its corporate governance bodies, based on the Group’s dividend payment capacity, financial position and financing requirements. 174 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL 7.2.4 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE SHARE CAPITAL Authorised share capital The table below provides a summary of the authorisations in force concerning capital increases and reductions, as voted by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of 16 May 2017, as well as their use during 2017. AGM at which Maximum amount of capital the resolution Authorisation increase/reduction Duration was approved Use in 2017 To reduce the Company’s capital through the Cancellation capped at 10% of the 18 months 16/05/2017 Yes. 550,000 cancellation of shares purchased under share buyback shares making up the Company’s (up to 16/11/2018) (17th resolution) shares cancelled on programmes. share capital at the transaction date 21 December 2017 To increase the Company’s capital through the Maximum nominal amount of capital 26 months 16/05/2017 No issuance of shares and/or securities carrying rights to increase(s): €10,000,000 (up to 16/07/2019) (19th resolution) shares, with pre-emptive subscription rights. To increase the Company’s capital through the Maximum nominal amount of capital 26 months 16/05/2017 No issuance of shares and/or securities carrying rights to increase(s): €7,000,000 (up to 16/07/2019) (20th resolution) shares, without pre-emptive subscription rights To increase the Company’s capital through the Maximum nominal amount of capital 26 months 16/05/2017 No issuance of shares and/or securities carrying rights to increase(s): €2,000,000 (up to 16/07/2019) (21st resolution) shares, without pre-emptive subscription rights, by way of a private placement. To set the issue price for issues of shares and/or 10% of the Company’s share capital 26 months 16/05/2017 No securities carrying rights to shares carried out without per 12-month period, and subject (up to 16/07/2019) (22nd resolution) pre-emptive subscription rights, subject to a ceiling of to the ceilings provided for at the 10% of the Company’s capital as well as the ceilings AGM provided for at the AGM. To increase the amount of issues carried out with or Up to 15% of the original issue 26 months 16/05/2017 No without pre-emptive subscription rights pursuant to the (up to 116/07/2019) (23rd resolution) 19th to 21st resolutions. To set a blanket ceiling for the overall amount by €10,000,000 maximum nominal 26 months 16/05/2017 No which the Company’s capital may be increased amount for issues of shares and (up to 16/07/2019) (24th resolution) (pursuant to the 19th to 21st resolutions). €100,000,000 maximum nominal amount for issues of debt securities To increase the Company’s capital by capitalising Maximum nominal amount of capital 26 months 16/05/2017 No share premiums, reserves, profit or other eligible items. increase(s): €20,000,000 (up to 16/07/2019) (25th resolution) To award free shares/performance shares (existing or 3% increase in the nominal amount 38 months 16/05/2017 Yes. Free share newly-issued shares) of the Company’s capital at the (up to 16/07/2020) (26th resolution) plans set up on award date 26 July 2017 and 7 September 2017 (see page 177) To issue BSAAR or BSA stock warrants (without €666,546, representing a 18 months (up to 16/05/2017 No pre-emptive subscription rights) to employees and maximum total of 666,546 shares, 26/11/2018) (28th resolution) officers of the Company and its subsidiaries. i.e. 3% of the Company’s capital To set a blanket ceiling on the issues carried out Ceiling: Same period as that in 16/05/2017 No pursuant to the 27th and 28th resolutions. 1,999,638 shares the resolution concerned (29th resolution) To increase the Company’s capital through the issuance Maximum nominal amount of 2% of 26 months 16/05/2017 No of shares and/or securities carrying rights to shares for members of a company or Group savings plan. the Company’s capital at the issue date (up to 16/07/2019) (30th resolution) 7 Potential share capital At the date this Registration Document was filed, potential share capital solely comprised performance shares. The Ornane and Odirnane bonds previously issued by the Company were redeemed in the first half of 2017 (see Sections 7.2.5 and 7.2.6 below). ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 175 7 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL 7.2.5 ORNANE BONDS (BONDS REDEEMABLE IN CASH AND/OR IN NEW AND/OR EXISTING SHARES) On 6 July 2011, the Company issued 4,181,818 bonds redeemable in cash and/or in new and/or existing shares (Ornane bonds) with the following features: Number of Ticker ISIN Issue date Maturity date Strike ratio Issue price Ornane bonds 1.03 Ornane ASSYSTORN4%JAN17 FR0011073006 06/07/2011 01/01/2017 bonds for 1 share* €22.00 4,181,818 * The holders of the Ornane bonds were informed by a Euronext notice dated 2 June 2016 that following the payment of the ordinary dividend of €0.80 per share to the Company’s shareholders, the conversion ratio had been increased from 1.02 to 1.03 Assystem shares for 1 Ornane bond, effective from 2 June 2016. ● total nominal amount: €91,999,996; Total issue amount €160 million ● coupon: annual nominal rate of 4% payable in arrears on 1 January Issue date 09/07/2014 each year, i.e. €0.88 per Ornane per year; Maturity Perpetual ● fully redeemable at maturity at par. The redemption procedures and Number of bonds issued 5,602,240 the potential dilutive impact are detailed in the management report Number of bonds outstanding at 31/12/2017 0 and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements; Nominal value (with 30% premium)(1) €28.56 ● share allotment entitlement: bondholders were entitled to allotments Fixed interest rate until 16/07/2021(2) 4.5% of new and/or existing shares under the conditions set out in the Securities Note approved by the AMF on 28 June 2011 under (1) Reference price of €21.97. (2) As from 17 July 2021, the bonds would have paid interest at an annual nominal rate no. 11–268. equal to the six-month Euribor plus 800 basis points, payable half-yearly in arrears on 17 July and 17 January each year. The first date on which this interest would have been payable (if applicable) would have been 17 January 2022, subject to any suspension of Changes in the number of outstanding Ornane bonds interest payments. At 31 December 2016, there were 3,757 outstanding Ornane bonds. At 31 December 2016, 490,268 Odirnane bonds remained On 2 January 2017, all of these 3,757 Ornane bonds were redeemed outstanding (representing 8.75% of the original issue). in accordance with the bonds’ indenture for a total of €83,854. On 1 February 2017, Assystem announced that all of its outstanding See Note 8.5 in Chapter 6, Section 6.1 for further information. Odirnane bonds been redeemed in full in cash, without any Assystem shares allocated to their holders. The cost of these redemptions, 7.2.6 ODIRNANE BONDS (PERPETUAL BONDS including accrued coupons, totalled €14.35 million, which was paid REDEEMABLE IN CASH AND/OR NEW between late February and 6 March 2017. AND/OR EXISTING SHARES) See Note 8.2 in Chapter 6, Section 6.1 for further information. On 9 July 2014, the Company issued 5,602,240 perpetual bonds redeemable in cash and/or in new and/or existing shares (Odirnane 7.2.7 STOCK OPTIONS bonds) representing a total amount of €159,999,974.40. No stock options were awarded in 2017. 176 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL 7.2.8 FREE SHARE AND PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARDS The Board of Directors awarded the following free shares and performance shares in 2017: 05/2017 plan 07/2017 plan 07/2017 plan 07/2017 plan (NT2) 07/2017 plan (T3) 09/2017 plan Date of AGM 24/05/2016 24/05/2016 24/05/2017 24/05/2016 24/05/2016 16/05/2017 Date of award (Board of Directors meeting) 09/05/2017 26/07/2017 26/07/2017 26/07/2017 26/07/2017 07/09/2017 Number of free shares or performance shares awarded 6,000 1,000 3,000 91,800 66,750 10,500 Number of beneficiaries 1 1 1 89 89 13 Vesting date 30/04/2020 26/07/2019 30/04/2020 30/04/2020 30/04/2020 30/04/2020 End of lock-up period 30/04/2020 26/07/2019 30/04/2020 30/04/2020 30/04/2020 30/04/2020 Number of free shares or performance shares vested 0 0 0 0 0 0 Number of free shares or performance shares not yet vested 6,000 1,000 3,000 90,440 65,750 10,500 The table below provides a summary of the free share and performance share plans put in place by the Group (also see Note 5.3.3 in Chapter 6, Section 6.1). 03/2012 03/2014 05/2014 05/2014 04/2015 07/2016 11/2016 plan plan plan plan 07/2014 plan plan plan (T1) plan Date of AGM 05/05/2010 22/05/2013 22/05/2013 22/05/2014 22/05/2014 22/05/2014 24/05/2016 24/05/2016 Date of award (Management Board/Board of Directors meeting) 13/03/2012 24/03/2014 12/05/2014 22/05/2014 07/07/2014 29/04/2015 04/07/2016 07/11/2016 Number of free shares or performance shares awarded 60,000 9,000* 6,000* 500* 1,500* 2,500* 68,250 7,000 Number of beneficiaries 5 2 1 1 3 1 89 1* Vesting date 14/03/2015 24/03/2016 12/05/2016 22/05/2016 07/07/2018 29/04/2017 30/04/2020 31/12/2018 End of lock-up period 14/03/2017 24/03/2018 12/05/2018 22/05/2018 07/07/2018 29/04/2019 30/04/2020 31/12/2018 Number of free shares or performance shares vested 49,780 7,000 6,000 500 0 0 0 0 Number of free shares or performance shares not yet vested 0 2,000 0 0 1,500 0 66,500 7,000 * Share awards subject to a single condition, i.e. that the beneficiary still forms part of the Group at the vesting date. 7.2.9 TREASURY SHARE TRANSACTIONS A document describing the share buyback programme put in place CARRIED OUT BY THE COMPANY IN 2017 by the Board of Directors at its 16 May 2017 meeting was fi led (DISCLOSED IN ACCORDANCE electronically with the AMF and published electronically by Hugin WITH ARTICLE L. 225-211 OF THE FRENCH InPublic (an AMF-approved electronic publisher). COMMERCIAL CODE) In the seventeenth resolution of the 16 May 2017 Annual General The shares bought back under the programme may not represent over 10% of the Company’s capital and the maximum purchase price set 7 Meeting, the shareholders granted the Board of Directors an authorization by the Company’s shareholders was €40 (excluding costs). The overall to carry out a share buyback programme. ceiling on the programme is €35,000,000. The shares purchased under the buyback programme may be used for 7.2.10 DESCRIPTION OF THE SHARE BUYBACK the following purposes: PROGRAMME (DISCLOSED IN ● to maintain the liquidity of the Company’s shares under a liquidity ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 241-2 OF contract entered into with an investment services provider that THE AMF’S GENERAL REGULATIONS) complies with a Code of Conduct recognised by the AMF; In compliance with Article L. 225-209 of the French Commercial Code, ● to honour obligations associated with stock option and/or free share/ at the 16 May 2017 Annual General Meeting, Assystem’s shareholders performance share plans, employee savings schemes or other share granted the Company an eighteen-month authorisation (expiring on allotments made to employees and officers of the Company or related 16 November 2018) to buy back its own shares. This authorisation companies; superseded the previous authorisation granted for the same purpose at the Annual General Meeting of 24 May 2016. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 177 7 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL ● for allocation on exercise of rights attached to securities redeemable, provided that in such a case the Company notifies its shareholders convertible, exchangeable or otherwise exercisable for the Company’s by way of a press release. shares; In the event of a corporate action, such as the capitalisation of reserves ● to be held and subsequently used in exchange or as payment in and a bonus share allotment, a stock split or reverse stock split, the connection with external growth transactions; prices indicated above will be adjusted accordingly. ● for subsequent cancellation; or If the Company buys back its own shares without subsequently cancelling ● more generally, for any purpose authorised by law or any market them, this may have an impact on its taxable earnings if the shares are practice that may be permitted by the market authorities, in the future, then sold or transferred at a different price than their purchase price. 7.2.11 USE OF SHARE BUYBACK PROGRAMMES IN 2017 The table below provides a summary of Assystem’s use of its share buyback programmes during 2017: Treasury shares held at 31/12/2016 1,068,442 Number of shares used per end-purpose Liquidity contracts and share buyback mandate: • Shares purchased under the liquidity contract 71,465 • Shares purchased under the share buyback mandate 0 • Shares sold under the liquidity contract 78,254 • Shares cancelled during the year 0 Shares sold outside the scope of the liquidity contract Shares allocated to employees or officers: • Shares delivered under free or performance share plans 2,500 • Shares delivered to redeem Ornane bonds Shares used for external growth transactions: • Shares used as payment in connection with external growth transactions Shares cancelled: • Shares cancelled during the year 550,000 • Shares cancelled during the past 24 months 550,000 Treasury shares held at 31 December 2017 509,153 Value of shares held at 31 December 2017 at the average purchase price 6,365,145.56 Additional information (in euros): • Average purchase price 31.33 • Average sale price 31.32 • Transaction costs 115,970 7.2.12 LIQUIDITY CONTRACT The shares purchased under the liquidity contract are used to maintain the liquidity of the Company’s shares and to enable the Company to Assystem entered into a liquidity contract with Kepler Cheuvreux implement and honour its obligations under stock option and/or free covering its ordinary shares and effective from 1 December 2016 for share/performance share plans as well as other share allotments made an automatically-renewable one-year term. This contract complies with to employees and officers of the Group. the AMAFI Code of Conduct which was approved by the AMF on 21 March 2011. At 31 December 2017, the liquidity account held the following assets: The following assets were allocated to the liquidity account when the ● 15,605 shares; liquidity contract was set up: ● €752,122.75 in cash. ● 22,970 Assystem shares; ● €923,444.41 in cash. 178 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL 7.2.13 ASSYSTEM SHARES HELD 7.2.14 CHANGES IN SHARE CAPITAL BY THE COMPANY (OUTSIDE THE SCOPE OVER THE LAST THREE YEARS OF THE LIQUIDITY CONTRACT) The table below presents the changes in Assystem’s share capital over On 22 December 2017, the Company appointed Exane BNP Paribas the last three years, showing: to acquire by 31 December 2018 on Euronext Paris, in successive ● the governance body that took the decision concerned and the date purchases, either on the open market or in block trades, a maximum of the relevant meeting of that body was held; 350,000 Assystem shares at a maximum price per share equal to the lower of the following amounts: ● the type of transaction; ● the exact amount of the capital increase or reduction (in euros); ● €29 (twenty-nine euros); ● the issue premium; ● the higher of either the last quoted share price or the best offer price posted in the central order book when the trade is executed. ● the number of shares issued/cancelled; and During 2017, Exane BNP Paribas did not buy any shares within the ● the new amount of the share capital. scope of this mandate. Capital Number of New amount EGM/Board of increase/ shares issued/ of share Directors’ meeting Type of transaction reduction Issue premium cancelled capital Capital increase following the exercise of stock warrants (BSA) 6 January 2015 from 1 December to 31 December 2014 €19,227 €194,192.70 19,227 €22,154,831 Capital increase following the exercise of stock warrants (BSA) 9 February 2015 from 1 January to 31 January 2015 €506 €5,110.60 506 €22,155,337 Capital increase following the exercise of stock warrants (BSA) 1 April 2015 from 1 February to 31 March 2015 €11,847 €119,654.70 11,847 €22,167,184 Capital increase following the exercise of stock warrants (BSA) 5 June 2015 from 1 May to 31 May 2015 €15,294 €154,469.40 15,294 €22,183,478 Capital increase following the exercise of stock warrants (BSA) 15 July 2015 from 1 June to 30 June 2015 €34,738 €350,853.80 34,738 €22,218,216 21 December 2017 Capital reduction following Assystem’s share buyback offer €6,550,000 €239,075,000 6,550,000 €15,668,216 Based on the information notified to the Company, Assystem’s ownership structure at the end of the last three financial years was as follows: AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 Exercisable Theoretical Shares % voting rights % voting rights % HDL Development 9,611,013 61.34 19,222,026 76.86 19,222,026 75.32 Free float 5,548,050 35.41 5,787,791 23.14 5,787,791 22.68 Treasury shares 509,153 3.25 0 0 509,153 2.00 Total 15,668,216 100 25,009,817 100 25,518,970 100 AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 Exercisable Theoretical HDL Development Shares 13,478,407 60.66 % voting rights 26,956,814 77.23 % voting rights 26,956,814 74.94 % 7 Free float 7,671,367 34.53 7,946,313 22.77 7,946,313 22.09 Treasury shares 1,068,442 4.81 0 0 1,068,442 2.97 Total 22,218,216 100 34,903,127 100 35,971,569 100 AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 Exercisable Theoretical Shares % voting rights % voting rights % HDL Development 13,478,407 60.66 13,478,407 61.87 13,478,407 59.99 Free float 8,059,660 36.28 8,307,772 38.13 8,501,612 36.98 Treasury shares 680,149 3.06 0 0 680,149 3.03 Total 22,218,216 100 21,786,179 100 22,466,328 100 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 179 7 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL STATUTORY AUDIT AND FEES PAID BY THE GROUP TO THE STATUTORY AUDITORS AND MEMBERS OF THEIR NETWORKS 7.3 STATUTORY AUDIT AND FEES PAID BY THE GROUP TO THE STATUTORY AUDITORS AND MEMBERS OF THEIR NETWORKS 7.3.1 STATUTORY AUDIT For 2017, the fees paid by the Group for audit engagements amounted to €757 thousand for KPMG and €539 thousand for Deloitte & Associés. In compliance with French commercial law, Assystem’s Statutory Auditors certify the consolidated and parent company financial statements and, A table setting out the fees recognised by Assystem and its fully through members of their networks, examine the accounts of all fully consolidated subsidiaries in 2017 for work carried out by the Statutory consolidated subsidiaries. Auditors is provided below. 7.3.2 STATUTORY AUDITORS Statutory Auditors Date last appointed End of current term KPMG Represented by Eric Ropert Tour Eqho, 2 avenue Gambetta – CS 60055 Annual General Meeting to be called to approve the financial statements 92066 Paris La Défense, France 22 May 2015 for the year ending 31 December 2020 Deloitte & Associés Represented by Albert Aidan 185, avenue Charles-de-Gaulle – BP 136 Annual General Meeting to be called to approve the financial statements 92200 Neuilly-sur-Seine, France 16 May 2017 for the year ending 31 December 2022 Substitute Auditor Salustro Reydel Tour Eqho, 2 avenue Gambetta – CS 60055 Annual General Meeting to be called to approve the financial statements 92066 Paris La Défense, France 22 May 2015 for the year ending 31 December 2020 7.3.3 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ FEES IN 2017 Deloitte & Associés KPMG Statutory Auditors Network Statutory Auditors Network In thousands of euros Amount % Amount % Amount % Amount % Certification of consolidated and separate financial statements and limited review of half-yearly financial statements Issuer 254 47% --208 27% --Controlled entities 245 45% --182 24% 138 100% Sub-total 498 92% --390 52% 138 100% Services other than certifying financial statements Issuer(1) 26 5% --367 48% --Controlled entities(2) 15 3% ------Sub-total 41 8% --367 48% --Total 539 100% --757 100% 138 100% (1) Primarily due diligence assignments related to Assystem’s investment in Framatome and the acquisition of the Biotech Quality Group. (2) Primarily reviews of the German subsidiaries’ tax reporting packages. 180 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL SPECIAL REPORT ON AWARDS OF FREE SHARES AND PERFORMANCE SHARES 7.4 SPECIAL REPORT ON AWARDS OF FREE SHARES AND PERFORMANCE SHARES Annual General Meeting of 16 May 2018 7.4.2 FREE SHARE AND PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARDS DECIDED BY THE COMPANY’S To the Shareholders, BOARD OF DIRECTORS In accordance with Article L. 225-197-4 of the French Commercial Code, we hereby report to you on free share and performance share awards made (i) to corporate officers and certain employees of In the year ended 31 December 2014 Assystem, and (ii) within Assystem’s subsidiaries. During 2014, the Board of Directors used the authorisation granted by shareholders in the 25th resolution of the 22 May 2014 Annual 7.4.1 FREE SHARE AND PERFORMANCE SHARE General Meeting as follows: AWARDS DECIDED BY THE COMPANY’S ● At its meeting on 22 May 2014, it awarded 500 free shares to MANAGEMENT BOARD certain employees of Group companies in France(1). ● A t its meeting on 7 July 2014, it awarded 1,500 free shares to In the year ended 31 December 2012 certain employees of Group companies in France(1). During 2012, the Management Board used the authorisation granted in The vesting periods under the plans concerned ended on 24 March, the 15th resolution of the Annual General Meeting of 5 May 2010 as 12 May, 22 May and 7 July 2016 respectively and the applicable follows: lock-up periods end on 24 March, 12 May, 22 May and 7 July 2018. ● At its meeting on 13 March 2012, it awarded 60,000 performance In the year ended 31 December 2015 shares to the members of the Company’s Management Board (with the exception of the Chairman). These shares vested after a period of At its meeting on 29 April 2015, the Board of Directors used the three years, subject to the beneficiaries still forming part of the Group authorisation granted by shareholders in the 25 th resolution of the at that date and to the achievement of the applicable performance 22 May 2014 Annual General Meeting to award 2,500 free shares conditions (with each condition accounting for one third of the vested to an employee of a Spanish subsidiary of the Assystem Group(1). shares). The vesting period for this free share plan ended on 29 April 2017 and ● At its meeting on 13 March 2012, it awarded 1,000 free shares to the lock-up period will end on 29 April 2019. certain Group employees in France(1). The vesting period under these plans ended on 14 March 2015 and In the year ended 31 December 2016 the applicable lock-up period ended on 14 March 2017. At its meeting on 4 July 2016, the Board of Directors used the authorisation granted by shareholders in the 24th resolution of the 24 May 2016 In the year ended 31 December 2013 Annual General Meeting to award 300,300 performance shares(1) to No free shares or performance shares were awarded in 2013. 91 people. The vesting period for this performance share plan ended on 30 April In the year ended 31 December 2014 2017 for Tranche 1 and will end on 30 April 2020 for Tranche 2. There is no lock-up period. During 2014, the Management Board used the authorisation granted by shareholders in the 19th resolution of the 22 May 2013 Annual At its meeting on 7 November 2016, the Board of Directors used General Meeting as follows: the authorisation granted by shareholders in the 24th resolution of the 24 May 2016 Annual General Meeting to award 7,000 performance 7 ● At its meeting on 24 March 2014, it awarded 9,000 free shares to shares to one person(1). certain employees of Group companies in France(1). ● At its meeting on 12 May 2014, it awarded 6,000 free shares to The vesting period for this free share plan will end on 31 December certain employees of Group companies in France(1). 2018 and there is no lock-up period. (1) The vesting of these shares is subject to performance conditions. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 181 7 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL SPECIAL REPORT ON STOCK OPTIONS In the year ended 31 December 2017 At its meeting on 7 September 2017, the Board of Directors used the authorisation granted by shareholders in the 26th resolution of the Annual At its meeting on 26 July 2017, the Board of Directors used the General Meeting of 16 May 2017 to award 10,500 performance authorisation granted by shareholders in the 24 th resolution of the shares (1) to 13 people. 24 May 2016 Annual General Meeting to: The vesting period for this plan will end on 30 April 2020 and there ● Amend the 4 July 2016 performance share plan by setting the portion is no lock-up period. of the shares that will vest for beneficiaries under Tranche 2 of the plan at the end of the applicable vesting period (i.e. on 30 April 2020) at a fixed 40% of the shares that were originally awarded to 7.4.3 FREE SHARES AND PERFORMANCE them on 4 July 2016. For the remaining 89 beneficiaries under this SHARES AWARDED DURING 2017 BY Tranche, this proportion corresponds to 91,800 shares. The vesting RELATED COMPANIES AS DEFINED IN of these shares will not be subject to any performance conditions ARTICLE L. 225-197-2 OF THE FRENCH and the only condition that will apply is that the beneficiaries must COMMERCIAL CODE form part of the Group on an uninterrupted basis from 4 July 2016 to None. 30 April 2020. No lock-up period applies after the shares vest. ● Award 66,750 performance shares(1) to 89 people. The vesting of 7.4.4 FREE SHARES AND PERFORMANCE these shares is subject to the beneficiaries forming part of the Group SHARES AWARDED BY CONTROLLED on an uninterrupted basis from 26 July 2017 to 30 April 2020. No COMPANIES AS DEFINED IN lock up period applies under this plan. ARTICLE L. 233-16 OF THE FRENCH ● Award 1,000 performance shares(1) to one person. The vesting period COMMERCIAL CODE for this plan will end on 26 July 2019 and there is no lock-up period. None. ● Award 3,000 performance shares(1) to one person. The vesting period for this plan will end on 30 April 2020 and there is no lock-up period. 7.5 SPECIAL REPORT ON STOCK OPTIONS None. (1) The vesting of these shares is subject to performance conditions. 182 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 8 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 16 MAY 2018 8.1 AGENDA 184 8.3 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED 8.1.1 Ordinary business 184 RESOLUTIONS 191 8.2.2 Extraordinary business 184 8.3.1 Ordinary resolutions 191 8.3.2 Extraordinary resolutions 193 8.2 PURPOSE OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS 185 8.4 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORTS 202 8.2.1 Ordinary resolutions 185 8.2.2 Extraordinary resolutions 187 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 183 8 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 16 MAY 2018 AGENDA 8.1 AGENDA 8.1.1 ORDINARY BUSINESS ● Fifteenth resolution – Authorisation for the Board of Directors to increase the Company’s capital by a maximum aggregate nominal ● The Board of Directors’ management report, including the report on amount of €3 million by issuing ordinary shares and/or other the Group’s operations in 2017 and the corporate governance report; securities through a public offering, without pre-emptive subscription presentation by the Board of Directors of the parent company and rights for existing shareholders. consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December ● Sixteenth resolution – Authorisation for the Board of Directors to 2017. increase the Company’s capital by a maximum aggregate nominal ● Statutory Auditors’ reports on the parent company and consolidated amount of €1,500,000 by issuing ordinary shares and/or other financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017. securities by way of a private placement, as defined in paragraph II of ● Statutory Auditors’ reports on Corporate Social Responsibility and the Article L. 411-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code, without related-party agreements governed by Articles L. 225-38 et seq. of pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders. the French Commercial Code. ● Seventeenth resolution – Authorisation for the Board of Directors to ● First resolution – Approval of the parent company financial statements set the issue price for issues of shares or other securities carried for the year ended 31 December 2017. out without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders, ● Second resolution – Approval of the consolidated financial statements subject to a ceiling of 10% of the Company’s capital. for the year ended 31 December 2017. ● Eighteenth resolution – Authorisation for the Board of Directors to ● Third resolution – Discharge given to the Board of Directors for its increase the number of securities issued in the event of a capital duties performed in 2017. increase carried out using the above authorisations, with or without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders. ● Fourth resolution – Appropriation of 2017 profit. ● Nineteenth resolution – Blanket ceilings for issues carried out using ● Fifth resolution – Ratification of the Board’s appointment of a director. the above authorisations. ● Sixth resolution – Review of related-party agreements governed by ● Twentieth resolution – Authorisation to increase the Company’s capital Articles L. 225-38 et seq. of the French Commercial Code. by a maximum nominal amount of €15 million by capitalising share ● Seventh resolution – Approval of the compensation policy applicable premiums, reserves, profit or other eligible items. to the Chairman & CEO, Dominique Louis. ● Twenty-first resolution – Authorisation for the Board of Directors to ● Eighth resolution – Approval of the compensation policy applicable grant new or existing shares free of consideration, in accordance to the CFO & Deputy CEO, Philippe Chevallier. with Articles L. 225-197-1 et seq. of the French Commercial Code. ● Ninth resolution – Approval of the components of the compensation ● Twenty-second resolution – Authorisation for the Board of Directors to and benefits due or awarded for 2017 to the Chairman & CEO, issue stock warrants (BSAAR and BSA) to employees and officers of Dominique Louis. the Company and its subsidiaries, without pre-emptive subscription ● Tenth resolution – Approval of the components of the compensation rights for existing shareholders. and benefits due or awarded for 2017 to the CFO & Deputy CEO, ● Twenty-third resolution – Blanket ceiling for issues carried out pursuant Philippe Chevallier. to the twenty-first resolution (free share grants) and the twenty-second ● Eleventh resolution – Setting directors’ fees for 2018. resolution (stock warrant issues). ● Twelfth resolution – Authorisation for the Board of Directors to carry ● Twenty-fourth resolution – Authorisation to increase the Company’s out a share buyback programme in accordance with Articles L. 225capital by issuing shares and/or securities carrying rights to the 209 to L. 225-212 of the French Commercial Code. Company’s shares to employees who are members of a company or Group employee savings plan. 8.2.2 EXTRAORDINARY BUSINESS ● Twenty-fifth resolution – Powers to carry out formalities. ● Thirteenth resolution – Authorisation for the Board of Directors to reduce the Company’s capital by cancelling treasury shares. ● Fourteenth resolution – Authorisation for the Board of Directors to increase the Company’s capital by a maximum aggregate nominal amount of €4,500,000 by issuing ordinary shares and/or other securities, with pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders. 184 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 16 MAY 2018 PURPOSE OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS 8.2 PURPOSE OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS 8.2.1 ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD RESOLUTIONS – APPROVAL OF THE 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Purpose In the 1st, 2nd and 3rd resolutions, shareholders are invited to approve Assystem’s parent company and consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 and to give full discharge to the Board of Directors for the performance of its duties in 2017. FOURTH RESOLUTION – APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT AND APPROVAL OF A DIVIDEND PAYMENT Purpose In the 4th resolution, shareholders are invited to appropriate the Company’s profit for the year ended 31 December 2017 and to approve a dividend payment of €1 per share. FIFTH RESOLUTION – RATIFICATION OF THE BOARD’S APPOINTMENT OF A DIRECTOR Purpose In the 5th resolution, the Board of Directors is asking shareholders to ratify its 30 November 2017 appointment of Tikehau Capital as a director to replace Salvepar (following Salvepar’s merger into Tikehau Capital), for the remainder of Salvepar’s term, which expires at the close of the Annual General Meeting to be held to approve the 2019 financial statements. SIXTH RESOLUTION – APPROVAL OF A RELATED-PARTY AGREEMENT Purpose Following the formation of HDL Development and its successful takeover bid for Assystem shares, two related party agreements were signed: ● On 1 April 2014, HDL and HDL Development signed a services agreement in relation to HDL's compensation in its capacity as Chair of HDL Development. HDL was paid €200,000 under this agreement in 2017. ● On 1 April 2014, HDL and HDL Development signed a services agreement under which HDL undertook to provide services to HDL Development involving strategy definition, management, organisation and oversight for the Assystem Group. This second agreement – which was amended on 1 October 2014, 29 April 2015 and 7 March 2017 – provided for the payment of €348,000 in fixed compensation to HDL for 2017. In addition to this fixed compensation, HDL was entitled to variable compensation representing up to €817,800, based on (i) Assystem's consolidated EBITA (75% weighting) and (ii) Assystem's free cash flow (25% weighting). The amount payable based on each of these criteria was determined on a straight-line basis between a floor (i.e. the level below which the criterion is deemed not to have been met) and a cap (i.e. the level at which the criterion is deemed to have been fully met). ● EBITA corresponds to operating profit before share-based payment expense (free shares/performance shares and stock options), acquisition costs, capital gains and losses arising on business divestments, and non-recurring items (i.e. income and expenses related to unusual, atypical and infrequent events). ● Free cash flow corresponds to net cash generated from operating activities less capital expenditure, net of disposals and excluding 8 cash generated by discontinued operations. However, in view of the transfer of control of the GPS division that took place on 28 September 2017 (see Chapter 1), these criteria were automatically rendered null and void. Consequently, at its meeting on 15 March 2018, acting on the recommendation of the Nominations and Compensation Committee and based on Assystem’s financial results for the year, the Board decided to award HDL a gross amount of €280,000 in variable compensation for 2017. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 185 8 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 16 MAY 2018 PURPOSE OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS SEVENTH AND EIGHTH RESOLUTIONS – APPROVAL OF THE COMPENSATION POLICIES APPLICABLE TO THE CHAIRMAN & CEO, DOMINIQUE LOUIS, AND THE CFO & DEPUTY CEO, PHILLIPPE CHEVALLIER Purpose In accordance with Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code, as introduced by Act no. 2016-1691 dated 9 December 2016, once a year – and each time an executive officer’s term is renewed – a resolution must be submitted at the Annual General Meeting concerning the principles and criteria used for determining, allocating and awarding the fixed, variable and exceptional components making up the total compensation and benefits of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer(s) and Deputy Chief Executive Officer(s). Consequently, in the seventh and eighth resolutions, the Board is seeking shareholder approval of the principles and criteria used for determining, allocating and awarding the fixed, variable and exceptional components making up the total compensation and benefits of Dominique Louis (Chairman & CEO) and Philippe Chevallier (CFO & Deputy CEO) for 2018, as presented in Chapter 2 of this Registration Document. NINTH AND TENTH RESOLUTIONS – APPROVAL OF THE COMPONENTS OF THE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS DUE OR AWARDED FOR 2017 TO THE CHAIRMAN & CEO, DOMINIQUE LOUIS, AND THE CFO & DEPUTY CEO, PHILIPPE CHEVALLIER Purpose In the 9th and 10th resolutions, the Board is asking shareholders to approve the components of the compensation and benefits due or awarded for 2017 to Dominique Louis, Chairman & CEO, and Philippe Chevallier, CFO & Deputy CEO, as presented in Chapter 2 of this Registration Document. ELEVENTH RESOLUTION – 2018 DIRECTORS’ FEES Purpose In the 11th resolution, the Board is asking shareholders to set the annual aggregate amount of directors’ fees for 2018 at €215,000. This amount takes into consideration the fact that a director representing employees will be appointed to the Board in 2018. The Company does not currently have any directors representing employees. However, following the introduction of the French Act dated 17 August 2015 (the Rebsamen Act), public limited companies in France are now required to have employee representatives on their management bodies. Consequently, following the issue of the Group Works Council’s opinion on the matter on 10 March 2017, during the extraordinary session of the 16 May 2017 Annual General Meeting, the shareholders amended the Company's Articles of Association in order to (i) provide for the Board to include one or more employee representatives, depending on the size of the Board, i.e. one employee representative director if the Board has fewer than 12 members (which is currently the case for Assystem) or two employee representative directors if the Board has more than 12 members, and (ii) set the terms and conditions for appointing the employee representative director(s), namely appointment by the Group Works Council. The director representing employees was supposed to take up office within six months of the 16 May 2017 Annual General Meeting. However, in view of the transfer of control of the GPS division that took place on 28 September 2017 (see Chapter 1 of this Registration Document), the existing Group Works Council was automatically dissolved on 13 September 2017. A new Group Works Council is currently being formed and its scope will include ECP and BGQ which were acquired in late 2017 (see Chapter 1). The Company plans to have an employee representative director on the Board by 30 June 2018. See Chapter 2 of this Registration Document for further information. 186 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 16 MAY 2018 PURPOSE OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS TWELFTH RESOLUTION – SHARE BUYBACK PROGRAMME Purpose In the 12th resolution, shareholders are invited to renew, for an 18-month period, the authorisation for the Board of Directors to buy back Assystem shares on behalf of the Company, either directly or indirectly, for a maximum purchase price of €35 per share. The total amount that could be invested in this share buyback programme would be €25 million and the shares bought back could not exceed 10% of the Company’s capital. The objectives of the share buyback programme are listed in the twelfth resolution below and in the description of the programme that is available on the Company’s website. This new authorisation would supersede the authorisation previously granted for the same purpose. 8.2.2 EXTRAORDINARY RESOLUTIONS SUMMARY TABLE OF AUTHORISATIONS SOUGHT AT THE 16 MAY 2018 AGM Authorisation Ceiling Duration (expiry date) To reduce the Company's capital through the cancellation of shares purchased under share Cancellation capped at 10% of the 18 months (up to buyback programmes. shares making up the Company's 16/11/2019) (13th resolution) share capital at the transaction date To increase the Company's capital through the issuance of shares and/or securities carrying Maximum nominal amount of capital 26 months (up to rights to shares, with pre-emptive subscription rights. increase(s): €4,500,000 16/07/2020) (14th resolution) To increase the Company's capital through the issuance of shares and/or securities carrying Maximum nominal amount of capital 26 months (up to rights to shares, without pre-emptive subscription rights. increase(s): €3 million 16/07/2020) (15th resolution) To increase the Company's capital through the issuance of shares and/or securities carrying Maximum nominal amount of capital 26 months (up to rights to shares, without pre-emptive subscription rights, by way of a private placement. increase(s): €1,500,000 16/07/2020) (16th resolution) To set the issue price for issues of shares and/or securities carrying rights to shares carried out 10% of the Company's share capital 26 months (up to without pre-emptive subscription rights, subject to a ceiling of 10% of the Company's capital as per 12-month period, and subject to 16/07/2020) well as the ceilings provided for at the AGM. the ceilings provided for at the AGM (17th resolution) To increase the amount of issues carried out with or without pre-emptive subscription rights Up to 15% of the original issue 26 months (up to pursuant to the 14th to 16th resolutions. 16/07/2020) (18th resolution) To set a blanket ceiling for the overall amount by which the Company’s capital may be increased €4,500,000 maximum nominal 26 months (up to (pursuant to the 14th, 15th, 16th and 18th resolutions). amount for issues of shares and 16/07/2020) (19th resolution) €45 million maximum nominal amount for issues of debt securities To increase the Company's capital by capitalising share premiums, reserves, profit or other Maximum nominal amount of capital 26 months (up to eligible items. increase(s): €15 million 16/07/2020) (20th resolution) To award free shares/performance shares (existing or newly-issued shares) 3% increase in the nominal amount 38 months (up to (21st resolution) of the Company’s capital at the 16/07/2021) award date To issue BSAAR or BSA stock warrants (without pre-emptive subscription rights) to employees and €470,046, representing a 18 months (up to officers of the Company and its subsidiaries. maximum total of 470,046 shares, 16/11/2019) (22nd resolution) i.e. 3% of the Company’s capital To set a blanket ceiling on the issues carried out pursuant to the 21st and 22nd resolutions. Ceiling: Same period as that in (23rd resolution) 940,092 shares the resolution concerned To increase the Company's capital through the issuance of shares and/or securities carrying Maximum nominal amount of 1% of 26 months (up to rights to shares for members of a company or Group savings plan. (24th resolution) the Company's capital at the issue date 16/07/2020) 8 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 187 8 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 16 MAY 2018 PURPOSE OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS THIRTEENTH RESOLUTION – AUTHORISATION TO REDUCE THE COMPANY'S SHARE CAPITAL BY CANCELLING TREASURY SHARES Purpose At the 16 May 2017 Annual General Meeting, the shareholders authorised the Board of Directors to cancel, on one or more occasions and at its sole discretion, all of some of the Assystem shares purchased under the share buyback programme and to reduce the Company’s capital accordingly. The ceiling on the number of shares cancelled pursuant to this authorisation was 10% of the Company’s capital. This authorisation was used on 21 December 2017 to cancel 550,000 treasury shares as well as 6,000,000 Assystem shares repurchased under the share buyback offer whose settlement-delivery date was 22 December 2017. In the 13th resolution, shareholders are asked to renew this authorisation for a period of 18 months. Under the new authorisation, the total number of shares cancelled in any 24-month period may not represent more than 10% of the Company’s capital (as adjusted for any corporate actions carried out subsequent to this Meeting). FOURTEENTH RESOLUTION – INCREASING THE COMPANY'S CAPITAL THROUGH THE ISSUANCE OF SHARES AND/OR OTHER SECURITIES, WITH PRE-EMPTIVE SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS Purpose In order to finance the Group’s expansion capital expenditure, at the 16 May 2017 Annual General Meeting the shareholders authorised the Board of Directors to increase the Company’s capital by a maximum nominal amount of €10 million, corresponding to approximately 50% of the total capital at 31 December 2016. This authorisation, which was given for a 26-month period, has not been used. In the 14th resolution, shareholders are invited to give the Board of Directors a new authorisation to increase the Company’s capital, this time by a maximum nominal amount of €4,500,000, corresponding to approximately 30% of the total capital at 31 December 2017, through the issuance, on one or more occasions, of ordinary shares and/or dilutive hybrid securities. Existing shareholders would have pre-emptive rights to subscribe for the securities issued pursuant to this resolution, pro rata to their existing holdings. This authorisation would be valid for a period of 26 months. FIFTEENTH RESOLUTION – INCREASING THE COMPANY'S CAPITAL THROUGH THE ISSUANCE OF SHARES AND/OR OTHER SECURITIES, WITHOUT PRE-EMPTIVE SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS Purpose In order to finance the Group’s expansion capital expenditure, at the 16 May 2017 Annual General Meeting the shareholders authorised the Board of Directors to increase the Company’s capital by a maximum nominal amount of €3 million. This authorisation, which was given for a 26-month period, has not been used. In the 15th resolution, shareholders are invited to renew this authorisation for the Board of Directors to increase the Company’s capital by a maximum nominal amount of €3 million, through the issuance, on one or more occasions, of ordinary shares and/or dilutive hybrid securities, without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders. This authorisation would be valid for a period of 26 months. 188 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 16 MAY 2018 PURPOSE OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS SIXTEENTH RESOLUTION – INCREASING THE COMPANY’S CAPITAL THROUGH THE ISSUANCE OF SHARES AND/OR OTHER SECURITIES BY WAY OF A PRIVATE PLACEMENT, WITHOUT PRE-EMPTIVE SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS Purpose In order to finance the Group’s expansion capital expenditure, at the 16 May 2017 Annual General Meeting the shareholders authorised the Board of Directors to increase the Company’s capital by a maximum nominal amount of €1,500,000. This authorisation, which was given for a 26-month period, has not been used. In the 16th resolution, shareholders are invited to renew this authorisation for the Board of Directors to increase the Company’s capital by a maximum nominal amount of €1,500,000, through the issuance, on one or more occasions, of ordinary shares and/or dilutive hybrid securities by way of a private placement (i.e. an offer to qualified investors or a restricted group of investors), without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders. This authorisation would be valid for a period of 26 months. SEVENTEENTH RESOLUTION – AUTHORISATION FOR THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO SET THE ISSUE PRICE OF ORDINARY SHARES OR OTHER SECURITIES Purpose At the 16 May 2017 Annual General Meeting, the shareholders granted the Board of Directors a 26-month authorisation to set the issue price of ordinary shares and/or securities carrying rights to shares issued without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders, by way of a public offer or a private placement as defined in paragraph II of Article L. 411-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code. Under this authorisation, for issues representing up to 10% of the Company’s share capital in any given 12-month period, the Board was entitled not to apply the pricing conditions specified in the resolutions concerned and to set the issue price of the securities at an amount at least equal to the weighted average of the prices quoted for the Company’s shares over the twenty trading days preceding the pricing date, less a discount of up to 20%. This authorisation has not been used. In the 17th resolution, shareholders are invited to renew this authorisation for a further 26-month period, i.e. to authorise the Board not to apply the pricing conditions set in the fourteenth and fifteenth resolutions and to set the issue price of securities issued in accordance with those resolutions at an amount at least equal to the weighted average of the prices quoted for the Company’s shares over the twenty trading days preceding the pricing date, less a discount of up to 20%. The new authorisation would be subject to the same ceiling of 10% of the Company’s share capital in any given 12-month period. EIGHTEENTH RESOLUTION – AUTHORISATION FOR THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO INCREASE THE AMOUNT OF ANY ISSUES CARRIED OUT PURSUANT TO THE FOURTEENTH, FIFTEENTH OR SIXTEENTH RESOLUTIONS Purpose In the 18th resolution, shareholders are asked to grant the Board of Directors a 26-month authorisation to increase the amount of issues of ordinary shares or other securities carried out, with or without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders, pursuant to the fourteenth, fifteenth or sixteenth resolutions, provided that the additional shares or securities issued do not represent more than 15% of the original issue. NINETEENTH RESOLUTION – BLANKET CEILINGS FOR THE AUTHORISATIONS GRANTED TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO INCREASE THE COMPANY’S CAPITAL Purpose 8 In the 19th resolution, shareholders are invited to set an overall ceiling (“blanket ceiling”) for the authorisations given in the above resolutions at the following maximum aggregate nominal amounts: ● €4.5 million for capital increases; ● €45 million for debt securities. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 189 8 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 16 MAY 2018 PURPOSE OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS TWENTIETH RESOLUTION – AUTHORISATION FOR THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO INCREASE THE COMPANY’S CAPITAL BY CAPITALISING SHARE PREMIUMS, RESERVES, PROFIT OR OTHER ELIGIBLE ITEMS Purpose In the 20th resolution, the Board of Directors is seeking a 26-month authorisation to increase the Company’s capital by a maximum aggregate nominal amount of €15 million by capitalising share premiums, reserves, profit or other eligible items. TWENTY-FIRST RESOLUTION – CONDITIONAL SHARE GRANTS The purpose of the 21st resolution is to renew the authorisation given to the Board of Directors in 2017 to carry out conditional share grants to employees and executive officers of the Group with a view to making Assystem’s compensation packages more attractive. The new authorisation would be given for a period of 38 months and the features of the conditional share grants would be as follows: ● Beneficiaries: employees and/or executive officers. ● Ceiling: 3% of the Company’s capital (2% for executive officers). ● Vesting conditions: performance conditions and the requirement for the beneficiary to still form part of the Group on the vesting date. ● Vesting period: minimum of one year (minimum of two years for combined vesting period and lock-up period). TWENTY-SECOND RESOLUTION – AUTHORISATION FOR THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO ISSUE STOCK WARRANTS TO EMPLOYEES AND OFFICERS In the 22 nd resolution, the Board of Directors is seeking an 18-month authorisation to issue stock warrants (BSAAR and/or BSA) exercisable for a maximum of 470,046 shares, representing 3% of the Company’s capital. TWENTY-THIRD RESOLUTION – BLANKET CEILING ON THE NUMBER OF SHARES ISSUED AND/OR ALLOCATED PURSUANT TO THE AUTHORISATIONS GIVEN IN THE TWENTY-FIRST AND TWENTY-SECOND RESOLUTIONS In the 23rd resolution, shareholders are invited to set an overall ceiling (“blanket ceiling”) on the number of shares issued and/or allocated pursuant to the twenty-first and twenty-second resolutions, corresponding to 940,092 shares with a par value of €1 each. TWENTY-FOURTH RESOLUTION – AUTHORISATION FOR THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO ISSUE SECURITIES TO MEMBERS OF A COMPANY OR GROUP EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLAN In the 24th resolution, the Board of Directors is seeking a 26-month authorisation to carry out one or more capital increases by issuing securities to members of a company or Group savings plan, subject to a ceiling of 1% of the Company’s capital. TWENTY-FIFTH RESOLUTION – POWERS TO CARRY OUT FORMALITIES Purpose The 25th resolution is a standard resolution giving the necessary powers to carry out legal filing and other formalities. 190 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 16 MAY 2018 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS 8.3 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS 8.3.1 ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS FOURTH RESOLUTION Appropriation of 2017 profit and approval of a dividend payment FIRST RESOLUTION Having noted that: Approval of the parent company financial statements for the year ended ● the Company’s profit for 2017 totalled €387,767,535.39; and 31 December 2017 Having considered the Board of Directors’ management report and the ● the retained earnings account amounts to €23,888,419.29; Statutory Auditors’ report on the parent company financial statements, the shareholders place on record that distributable profit for 2017 totals the shareholders: €411,655,954.68, and in accordance with the Board of Directors’ recommendation, resolve: ● approve the parent company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017, as presented, together with the transactions ● to pay a dividend of €1 per share for 2017, representing an reflected in said financial statements and summarised in said reports; aggregate payout of €15,143,811 based on the shares making up ● approve the amount of non-tax-deductible expenses referred to in the the Company’s capital at 31 March 2018 (excluding the 524,405 Board of Directors’ report, corresponding to €26,209. shares held in treasury at that date); and ● to appropriate the balance of distributable profit to the retained earnings SECOND RESOLUTION account, which will subsequently amount to €396,512,143.68. Approval of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended Consequently, the shareholders give full powers to the Board of Directors 31 December 2017 to proceed with the above dividend payment by 30 June 2018 at the Having considered the Board of Directors’ management report and latest. the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements, the shareholders: At the time of the dividend payment, the amount actually paid out will be calculated taking into account the exact number of treasury shares ● approve the consolidated financial statements for the year ended bought back under the share buyback programme. If the number of 31 December 2017, as presented, together with the transactions treasury shares held at the date of the dividend payment is not the reflected in said financial statements and summarised in said reports. same as at 31 March 2018, the difference will be accounted for by THIRD RESOLUTION increasing or decreasing the amount allocated to the retained earnings account. Discharge given to the Board of Directors for its duties performed in 2017 The shareholders give full discharge to the members of the Board The dividends paid for the last three years were as follows (information of Directors for the performance of their duties in the year ended disclosed in accordance with Article 243 bis of the French General 31 December 2017. Tax Code). Amounts eligible for tax relief Year Dividends Other distributed profit 2014 €0.75/share None 2015 €0.80 per share None 2016 €1 per share None FIFTH RESOLUTION Tikehau Capital will replace Salvepar (following Salvepar’s merger Ratification of the Board’s appointment of a director into Tikehau Capital) for Salvepar’s remaining term of office, which Having considered the Board of Directors’ report, the shareholders ratify expires at the Annual General Meeting to be called to approve the the decision taken by the Board on 30 November 2017 to appoint 2019 financial statements. as a director Tikehau Capital – a partnership limited by shares whose registered offi ce is located at 32, rue de Monceau, 75008 Paris, France and which is registered under no. 477 599 104 – represented by Vincent Favier (as permanent representative). 8 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 191 8 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 16 MAY 2018 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS SIXTH RESOLUTION the Company’s shareholders in the fourteenth resolution of the 16 May Approval of a related-party agreement 2017 Annual General Meeting, and as presented in Chapter 2 of the 2017 Registration Document (“Corporate Governance”) in the section Having considered the Statutory Auditors’ special report on related-party on the components of the compensation and benefits due or awarded agreements and commitments governed by Articles L. 225-38 et seq. for 2017 to Dominique Louis. of the French Commercial Code, the shareholders approve the amounts rebilled to Assystem by HDL Development SAS for services relating to TENTH RESOLUTION strategy definition, management, organisation and oversight for the Approval of the components of compensation and benefits due or Assystem Group provided by HDL SAS on behalf of HDL Development awarded for 2017 to the CFO & Deputy CEO, Philippe Chevallier SAS, under the same financial terms and conditions as those specified in Having considered the Board of Directors’ management report, in the services agreement signed between HDL SAS and HDL Development accordance with paragraph II of Article L. 225-100 of the French SAS on 1 April 2014, namely: Commercial Code, the shareholders approve the fixed, variable and ● fixed compensation of €348 thousand for 2017; and exceptional components of the compensation and benefi ts due or ● variable compensation of €280 thousand for 2017, calculated based awarded for 2017 to the CFO & Deputy CEO, as determined by the on Assystem’s consolidated EBITA and free cash flow. Board of Directors in line with the principles and criteria approved by the Company’s shareholders in the fifteenth resolution of the 16 May SEVENTH RESOLUTION 2017 Annual General Meeting, and as presented in Chapter 2 of the Approval of the compensation policy applicable to the Chairman & 2017 Registration Document (“Corporate Governance”) in the section CEO, Dominique Louis on the components of the compensation and benefits due or awarded Having considered the Board of Directors’ report drawn up in for 2017 to Philippe Chevallier. accordance with Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code, the shareholders approve the principles and criteria used for determining, ELEVENTH RESOLUTION allocating and awarding the fixed, variable and exceptional components Setting directors’ fees for 2018 making up the Chairman & CEO’s total compensation and benefits for Based on the recommendation of the Board of Directors, the shareholders 2018, as presented in the detailed report set out in Chapter 2 of the set the aggregate amount of directors’ fees for 2018 at €215,000. 2017 Registration Document (“Corporate Governance”) in the section concerning the compensation policy applicable to the Company’s TWELFTH RESOLUTION executive officers. Authorisation for the Board of Directors to carry out a share buyback programme EIGHTH RESOLUTION Having considered the report of the Board of Directors, the shareholders: Approval of the compensation policy applicable to Philippe Chevallier, CFO & Deputy CEO ● G rant the Board of Directors an authoris ation – which may be delegated as provided for by law – to buy back Assystem shares on Having considered the Board of Directors’ report drawn up in behalf of the Company, either directly or indirectly, in accordance accordance with Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code, with Articles L. 225-209 et seq. of the French Commercial Code and the shareholders approve the principles and criteria used for determining, market practices approved by the French securities regulator (Autorité allocating and awarding the fixed, variable and exceptional components des marchés financiers – AMF) making up the CFO & Deputy CEO’s total compensation and benefits for 2018, as presented in the detailed report set out in Chapter 2 of the ● Resolve that under this share buyback programme, shares may be 2017 Registration Document (“Corporate Governance”) in the section purchased, sold or otherwise transferred by any method in accordance concerning the compensation policy applicable to the Company’s with the applicable stock market regulations and market practices executive officers. approved by the AMF, and notably: ● through public purchase or exchange offers; NINTH RESOLUTION ● through the use of options or other forward financial instruments Approval of the components of the compensation and benefits due or awarded for 2017 to the Chairman & CEO, Dominique Louis traded via regulated markets, multilateral trading facilities, systematic internalisers or over the counter, through the allocation Having considered the Board of Directors’ management report, in of shares on conversion, redemption exchange or exercise of accordance with paragraph II of Article L. 225-100 of the French securities carrying rights to the Company’s shares, or by any other Commercial Code, the shareholders approve the fixed, variable and method, either directly or via an investment services provider; exceptional components of the compensation and benefi ts due or awarded for 2017 to the Chairman & CEO, as determined by the ● through block trades (without limitation) or via multilateral trading Board of Directors in line with the principles and criteria approved by facilities or systematic internalisers. 192 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 16 MAY 2018 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS ● Resolve that the shares purchased under the buyback programme In addition, the number of shares purchased for subsequent delivery as may be used for the following purposes: payment or in exchange for shares in another company in connection ● to maintain the liquidity of the Company’s shares under a liquidity with a merger, demerger or asset transfer may not represent more than contract entered into with an investment services provider that 5% of the total number of shares making up the Company’s capital. complies with a Code of Conduct recognised by the AMF; ● Give full powers to the Board of Directors – which may be delegated ● to honour obligations associated with stock option and/or free as provided for by law – to use this authorisation, and notably to (i) share/performance share plans, employee savings schemes or judge the timing of the buyback programme and set the applicable other share allotments made to employees and offi cers of the terms and conditions, (ii) place any and all buy and sell orders, (iii) Company or related companies; sign any sale or transfer deeds, (iv) enter into any and all agreements, including liquidity contracts and option contracts, (v) allocate the ● for allocation on exercise of rights attached to securities purchased shares to the various specified purposes, (vi) carry out redeemable, convertible, exchangeable or otherwise exercisable any and all filings with the AMF and any other organisation, and for the Company’s shares; (vii) generally do whatever is necessary. ● to be held and subsequently used in exchange or as payment in This authorisation is given for a period of 18 months as from the date connection with external growth transactions, in accordance with of this Meeting and supersedes the unused portion of any authorisation market practices approved by the AMF; previously granted to the Board of Directors for the same purpose. ● for subsequent cancellation, subject to the adoption of and the conditions set out in the thirteenth resolution below; or 8.3.2 EXTRAORDINARY RESOLUTIONS ● more generally, for any purpose that may be authorised by law or any market practice that may be permitted by the market authorities THIRTEENTH RESOLUTION in the future, provided that in such a case the Company notifies its shareholders by way of a press release. Authorisation for the Board of Directors to reduce the Company’s capital by cancelling treasury shares ● S et the maximum per-share purchase price (excluding fees and Having considered the reports of the Board of Directors and the Statutory transaction costs) at €35 and the maximum amount that the Company Auditors, and subject to the adoption of the twelfth resolution above, may invest in the share buyback programme at €25 million. The the shareholders: maximum per-share purchase price may, however, be adjusted in order to take into account any corporate actions carried out while ● Authorise the Board of Directors, in accordance with Article L. 225-209 this authorisation is in force (including a bonus share issue paid up of the French Commercial Code, to cancel, on one or more occasions, by capitalising reserves or a stock-split or reverse stock-split). all or some of the Assystem shares bought back by the Company, and to reduce the Company’s capital accordingly. The total number of ● R esolve that the number of shares purchased under the buyback shares cancelled in any 24-month period may not represent more than programme may not exceed 10% of the total number of shares making 10% of the Company’s capital, as adjusted, where necessary, for any up the Company’s capital at any given time (as adjusted for any corporate actions carried out subsequent to this Meeting. corporate actions carried out subsequent to this Meeting). When shares are bought back to maintain the liquidity of the Company’s ● Resolve that any difference between the buyback price and the par shares in compliance with the AMF’s General Regulations, the value of the cancelled shares will be charged against the share number of shares taken into account to calculate this 10% ceiling premium account or any other available reserves, including the legal will correspond to the number of shares purchased less the number reserve, provided that the legal reserve is not reduced to below 10% of shares sold during the period covered by this authorisation. of the Company’s capital after the capital reduction. 8 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 193 8 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 16 MAY 2018 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS ● Grant the Board of Directors full powers – which may be delegated ● these ceilings do not include the par value of any additional shares as provided for by law – to carry out the capital reduction(s) by that may be issued to protect, in accordance with the applicable cancelling shares, and notably to (i) determine the amount and terms laws and any contractual stipulations, the rights of existing holders and conditions of the capital reduction(s), (ii) place on record the of securities and other instruments carrying rights to the Company’s capital reduction(s), (iii) charge the difference between the carrying shares. amount of the cancelled shares and their par value against the share ● Resolve that the maximum aggregate nominal amount of debt securities premium account or any other available reserves, (iv) more generally, that may be issued pursuant to this authorisation is €45,000,000 undertake any and all actions, formalities and fi lings required to (or the equivalent of this amount for issues denominated in foreign complete the capital reduction(s) carried out pursuant to this currency), it being specified that this ceiling: authorisation, and (v) amend the Company’s Articles of Association ● does not include any above-par redemption premiums; to reflect the new capital. ● is included in the blanket ceiling set in the nineteenth resolution This authorisation is given for a period of 18 months as from the date below; and of this Meeting and supersedes any authorisation previously granted for the same purpose. ● is separate to and does not include the amount of any debt securities referred to in Articles L. 228-40, L. 228-36-A and paragraph 3 of FOURTEENTH RESOLUTION Article L. 228-92 of the French Commercial Code whose issue may Authorisation for the Board of Directors to increase the Company’s be decided or authorised by the Board of Directors in accordance capital, on an immediate or deferred basis, by issuing ordinary shares with either (i) the conditions provided for in Article L. 228-40 of and/or equity securities carrying rights to other equity securities of said Code, or (ii) the conditions determined by the Company in the Company or to the allocation of debt securities and/or securities carrying rights to new shares, with pre-emptive subscription rights for compliance with Article L. 228-36-A of said Code. existing shareholders ● Resolve that the shareholders will have pre-emptive rights to subscribe Having considered the reports of the Board of Directors and the Statutory for the ordinary shares and other securities issued pursuant to this Auditors, in accordance with Articles L. 225-129-2, L. 225-129-4, resolution, which may be exercised in accordance with the applicable L. 225-134, L. 228-91, L. 228-92 and L. 228-93 of the French laws and regulations. Commercial Code, the shareholders: ● Resolve that if certain shareholders elect not to exercise their pre● Grant the Board of Directors an authorisation – which may be emptive rights, the Board of Directors may offer the unsubscribed delegated as provided for by law – to increase the Company’s securities to the other shareholders, with each shareholder having the capital by issuing, on one or more occasions, (i) ordinary shares of right to acquire the number of securities applied for unless the issue the Company, and/or (ii) equity securities carrying rights to other is oversubscribed, in which case the securities will be allocated pro equity securities of the Company or to the allocation of debt securities, rata to shareholders’ existing interests. and/or (iii) securities (including any and all debt securities) carrying ● R esolve that if any issue is not taken up in full by shareholders rights to new shares of the Company or of any entity that directly or exercising their above-mentioned pre-emptive rights, the Board of indirectly owns over half of the Company’s capital or in which the Directors may take one or more of the following courses of action, Company directly or indirectly owns over half of the capital. The in the order of its choice: Board of Directors or its duly authorised representative will have full discretionary powers to determine the amount and timing of such ● limit the amount of the issue to the subscriptions received, provided issue(s), which may be carried out in France or abroad and may that at least three-quarters of the issue is taken up; be denominated in euros, foreign currency or any monetary unit ● freely allocate all or some of the unsubscribed securities; determined by reference to a basket of currencies. The issue(s) may ● offer all or some of the unsubscribed securities for subscription on be paid up either in cash or by capitalising receivables. the open market. ● E xpressly note that this authorisation may not be used to issue ● Resolve that if warrants to subscribe for the Company’s shares are preference shares. issued they may be offered for cash subscription or allocated among ● Resolve that the aggregate nominal amount of any capital increase(s) holders of existing shares without consideration. In the latter case, carried out pursuant to this authorisation – on an immediate or the Board of Directors will have full discretionary powers to decide deferred basis – may not exceed €4,500,000 (or the equivalent of that rights to fractions of warrants will be non-transferable and nonthis amount for issues denominated in foreign currency) (representing tradable and that the corresponding warrants will be sold. approximately 30% of the Company’s share capital), it being specified ● N ote that this authorisation automatically entails the waiver by that: shareholders of their pre-emptive rights to subscribe for any shares ● this ceiling is included in the blanket ceiling set in the nineteenth to be issued on exercise of the rights to shares attached to any resolution below; and securities issued in accordance with this resolution. 194 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 16 MAY 2018 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS ● R esolve that the Board of Directors will have full powers to use FIFTEENTH RESOLUTION this authorisation and notably (but not exclusively) to determine (i) Authorisation for the Board of Directors to increase the Company’s the timing and other terms of the issue(s), including the type and capital, on an immediate or deferred basis, by issuing ordinary shares characteristics of the securities to be issued (either with or without and/or equity securities carrying rights to other equity securities of the Company or to the allocation of debt securities and/or securities a premium), (ii) the amounts of the issue(s), (iii) the cum-rights date carrying rights to new shares, by way of a public offer, without pre(which may be retroactive) of the issued securities and the method emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders by which they will be paid up, (iv) the exercise period and exercise Having considered the reports of the Board of Directors and the Statutory price of any rights attached to the issued securities and the terms Auditors, in accordance with Articles L. 225-129 to L. 225-129-6 and conditions for exercising the rights attached to shares and/or and Articles L. 225-135 et seq. of the French Commercial Code and securities carrying rights to shares (i.e. any exchange, conversion, notably Articles L. 225-136, L. 225-148, L. 228-91 and L. 228-92, redemption or allocation rights), all within the limits provided for in the shareholders: this resolution. ● Grant the Board of Directors an authorisation – which may be ● R esolve that the Board of Directors will have full powers – which delegated as provided for by law – to increase the Company’s capital may be delegated – to implement this resolution and to carry out the by issuing, on one or more occasions, by way of a public offer, (i) above-described issue(s), on one or several occasions and at the ordinary shares of the Company, and/or (ii) equity securities carrying times and in the amounts it deems appropriate, as well as to suspend rights to other equity securities of the Company or to the allocation any issue where appropriate, enter into any and all agreements in of debt securities, and/or (iii) securities (including any and all debt order to complete the planned issue(s), place on record the capital securities) carrying rights to new shares of the Company or of any increase(s) resulting from each issue, amend the Company’s Articles entity that directly or indirectly owns over half of the Company’s capital of Association to reflect the new share capital, and more generally: or in which the Company directly or indirectly owns over half of the ● determine, in accordance with the applicable laws, the terms capital. The Board of Directors or its duly authorised representative and conditions for making any adjustments to the rights to the will have full discretionary powers to determine the amount and timing Company’s shares attached to the securities issued pursuant to of such issue(s), which may be carried out in France or abroad and this resolution; may be denominated in euros, foreign currency or any monetary ● suspend, where appropriate, the rights attached to the securities unit determined by reference to a basket of currencies. Except for for a period not exceeding three months; differences in cum-rights dates any new shares issued pursuant to this resolution will rank pari passu with existing shares. This authorisation ● make any deductions from the share premium account, particularly may notably be used to issue ordinary shares or securities carrying for issuance costs; rights to ordinary shares as payment for securities tendered to the ● decide on and make any adjustments required in accordance Company as part of a public exchange offer that complies with the with the applicable laws and regulations and any contractual conditions set out in Article L. 225-148 of the French Commercial stipulations in order to protect the rights of holders of securities and Code (including an offer for securities issued by the Company). other instruments carrying rights to the Company’s shares; ● E xpressly note that this authorisation may not be used to issue ● take all necessary measures and carry out all the requisite formalities preference shares. for listing the issued securities on Euronext Paris or any other market ● Resolve that the securities issued pursuant to this authorisation may on which the Company’s shares are listed at that time. consist of debt securities, or may be issued jointly with debt securities, ● Note that if the Board of Directors uses this authorisation, it will report or else allow the issue thereof as intermediate securities. thereon at the following Annual General Meeting in accordance with ● Resolve to waive shareholders’ pre-emptive rights to subscribe for the applicable laws and regulations. the ordinary shares and/or other securities to be issued pursuant to ● Resolve that this authorisation is given for a period of 26 months this authorisation. However, the Board of Directors may offer existing as from the date of this Meeting and supersedes any authorisation shareholders a priority right to subscribe for all or part of any issue, for previously granted for the same purpose. a specified period and subject to terms and conditions to be set by the Board pursuant to Article L. 225-135 of the French Commercial Code. This priority subscription right will not be transferable or tradable and will be exercisable in proportion to shareholders’ existing interests. If certain shareholders elect not to exercise this right, the Board may offer the unsubscribed securities to the other shareholders. ● N ote that this authorisation automatically entails the waiver by shareholders of their pre-emptive rights to subscribe for any shares 8 to be issued on exercise of the rights to shares attached to any securities issued in accordance with this resolution. ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 195 8 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 16 MAY 2018 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS ● Resolve that the aggregate nominal amount of any capital increase(s) at the time of issue plus the amount to be received on conversion, carried out pursuant to this authorisation – on an immediate or exchange, redemption or exercise of said rights is, for each share deferred basis – may not exceed €3,000,000. This ceiling does not issued, at least equal to the issue price defined above. include the par value of any additional shares that may be issued to ● Resolve that the Board of Directors will have full powers – which protect, in accordance with the applicable laws and any contractual may be delegated as provided for by law – to use this authorisation stipulations, the rights of holders of securities and other instruments in accordance with the conditions set by law and the Company’s carrying rights to the Company’s shares. Articles of Association, and notably to: ● Resolve that the above ceiling is included in the blanket ceiling set ● determine the timing and other terms of the issue(s), including the in the nineteenth resolution below, type and characteristics of the securities to be issued (either with ● Resolve that the aggregate nominal amount of debt securities carrying or without a premium); rights to shares that may be issued pursuant to this authorisation may ● set (i) the amounts of the issue(s), (ii) the cum-rights date (which may not exceed €45,000,000 (or the equivalent of this amount for issues be retroactive) of the issued securities and the method by which they denominated in foreign currency), it being specified that this ceiling: will be paid up, and (iii) the terms and conditions for exercising the ● does not include any above-par redemption premiums; rights attached to shares and/or securities carrying rights to shares ● is included in the blanket ceiling set in the nineteenth resolution (i.e. any exchange, conversion, redemption or allocation rights); below; and ● decide on and make any adjustments required in accordance ● is separate to and does not include the amount of any debt securities with the applicable laws and regulations and any contractual referred to in Articles L. 228-40, L. 228-36-A and paragraph 3 of stipulations in order to protect the rights of holders of securities and Article L. 228-92 of the French Commercial Code whose issue may other instruments carrying rights to the Company’s shares; be decided or authorised by the Board of Directors in accordance ● suspend, where appropriate, the rights attached to the securities with either (i) the conditions provided for in Article L. 228-40 of for a period not exceeding three months; said Code, or (ii) the conditions determined by the Company in ● in the case of securities issued as payment for securities of another compliance with Article L. 228-36-A of said Code, company tendered as part of a public exchange offer: ● Resolve that if any issue is not taken up in full, the Board of Directors – prepare the list of securities tendered to the offer, may, in accordance with the law and in the order of its choice, – set the terms and conditions of issue, the exchange ratio and any take one or more of the following courses of action provided for in balance to be paid in cash, without applying the pricing method Article L. 225-134 of the French Commercial Code: described in this resolution, ● limit the amount of the issue to the subscriptions received, provided – determine how the securities will be issued, and that at least three-quarters of the issue is taken up; – more generally, take all necessary measures, enter into any and all ● freely allocate all or some of the unsubscribed securities among agreements, and apply for the admission to trading of the securities the investors of its choice; issued pursuant to this resolution. ● offer all or some of the unsubscribed securities on the open market ● Resolve that the Board of Directors may: in France and/or abroad. ● at its sole discretion, and when it deems appropriate, charge the ● Resolve that the issue price of the shares and other securities that costs and fees resulting from the capital increase(s) carried out in may be issued pursuant to this resolution will be set by the Board of accordance with this resolution against the related premiums and Directors in accordance with Article L. 225-136 (paragraph 1) and deduct from said premiums the amounts necessary to increase Article R. 225-119 of the French Commercial Code. For information the legal reserve to 10% of the new capital after each operation; purposes, as at the date of this Meeting, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the issue price of shares issued pursuant to ● take any and all decisions relating to the admission to trading of this resolution must correspond to at least the weighted average of the issued securities on Euronext Paris; and the prices quoted for the Company’s shares over the three trading ● more generally, take all necessary measures, enter into any days preceding the pricing date, less the legally authorised discount commitments and carry out any formalities required for the successful (currently 5%) and adjusted for any differences in the cum-rights dates completion of the issue(s) and the resulting capital increase(s), and of the new shares. The issue price of securities carrying rights to shares amend the Company’s Articles of Association to reflect the new must be set in such a way that the amount received by the Company capital. 196 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 16 MAY 2018 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS ● Resolve that this authorisation is given for a period of 26 months applicable laws and any contractual stipulations to protect the rights as from the date of this Meeting and supersedes any authorisation of existing holders of securities and other instruments carrying rights previously granted for the same purpose. to the Company’s shares. SIXTEENTH RESOLUTION ● R esolve that any capital increases carried out pursuant to this resolution will be included in the blanket ceiling set in the nineteenth Authorisation for the Board of Directors to increase the Company’s capital, on an immediate or deferred basis, by issuing ordinary shares resolution below. and/or equity securities carrying rights to other equity securities of ● R esolve that the aggregate nominal amount of debt securities the Company or to the allocation of debt securities and/or securities carrying rights to new shares, by way of a private placement as defined that may be issued pursuant to this authorisation may not exceed in paragraph II of Article L. 411-2 of the French Monetary and Financial €45,000,000, it being specified that this ceiling: Code, without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders ● does not include any above-par redemption premiums; Having considered the reports of the Board of Directors and the Statutory Auditors, in accordance with Articles L. 225-129, L. 225-129-2, ● is included in the blanket ceiling set in the nineteenth resolution L. 225-129-4, L. 225-135, L. 225-136 and L. 228-91 et seq. of the below; and French Commercial Code and paragraph II of Article L. 411-2 of the ● is separate to and does not include the amount of any debt securities French Monetary and Financial Code, the shareholders: referred to in Articles L. 228-40, L. 228-36-A and paragraph 3 of Article L. 228-92 of the French Commercial Code whose issue may ● Grant the Board of Directors an authorisation – which may be be decided or authorised by the Board of Directors in accordance delegated as provided for by law – to increase the Company’s with either (i) the conditions provided for in Article L. 228-40 of capital by issuing, on one or more occasions and without pre-emptive said Code, or (ii) the conditions determined by the Company in subscription rights for existing shareholders, (i) ordinary shares of compliance with Article L. 228-36-A of said Code. the Company, and/or (ii) or equity securities carrying rights to other equity securities of the Company or to the allocation of debt securities, ● Resolve to waive shareholders’ pre-emptive rights to subscribe for and/or (iii) securities (including any and all debt securities) carrying the ordinary shares and/or other securities issued pursuant to this rights to new shares of the Company or of any entity that directly or authorisation, in accordance with the applicable legislation. indirectly owns over half of the Company’s capital or in which the ● Resolve that if any issue is not taken up in full, the Board of Directors Company directly or indirectly owns over half of the capital. The may, in accordance with the law and in the order of its choice, Board of Directors or its duly authorised representative will have full take one or more of the following courses of action provided for in discretionary powers to determine the amount and timing of such Article L. 225-134 of the French Commercial Code: issue(s), which may be carried out in France or abroad and may ● limit the amount of the issue to the subscriptions received, provided be denominated in euros, foreign currency or any monetary unit that at least three-quarters of the issue is taken up; determined by reference to a basket of currencies. The issue(s) may ● freely allocate all or some of the unsubscribed securities among be paid up either in cash or by capitalising receivables. the investors of its choice; ● E xpressly note that this authorisation may not be used to issue ● offer all or some of the unsubscribed securities on the open market preference shares. in France and/or abroad. ● Resolve that the issue(s) carried out pursuant to this resolution may ● Resolve that the issue price of the shares and other securities that form part of a private placement as defi ned in paragraph II of may be issued pursuant to this resolution will be set by the Board of Article L. 411-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code (i.e. Directors in accordance with Article L. 225-136 (paragraph 1) and an offer to qualified investors or a restricted group of investors). Article R. 225-119 of the French Commercial Code. For information ● Resolve that the aggregate nominal amount of any capital increases purposes, as at the date of this Meeting, in accordance with the carried out pursuant to this authorisation – on an immediate or applicable legislation, the issue price of shares issued pursuant to deferred basis – may not exceed either (i) €1,500,000, or (ii) the this resolution must correspond to at least the weighted average of ceiling provided for in the laws and regulations in force at the date of the prices quoted for the Company’s shares over the three trading the issue(s). For information purposes, as at the date of this Meeting, days preceding the pricing date, less the legally authorised discount issues of equity securities carried out accordance with paragraph II (currently 5%) and adjusted for any differences in the cum-rights dates of Article L. 411-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code may of the new shares. The issue price of securities carrying rights to shares not exceed 20% of the Company’s capital in any given 12-month must be set in such a way that the amount received by the Company period, based on the amount of the capital at the date of the Board’s at the time of issue plus the amount to be received on conversion, decision to carry out the issue(s). Neither of these ceilings include exchange, redemption or exercise of said rights is, for each share the par value of any additional shares to be issued pursuant to the issued, at least equal to the issue price defined above. 8 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 197 8 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 16 MAY 2018 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS ● N ote and resolve that this authorisation automatically entails the SEVENTEENTH RESOLUTION waiver by shareholders of their pre-emptive rights to subscribe for Authorisation for the Board of Directors to set the issue price for issues any shares to be issued on exercise of the rights to shares attached of ordinary shares and/or equity securities carrying rights to other to any securities issued in accordance with this resolution. equity securities of the Company or to the allocation of debt securities and/or securities carrying rights to new shares, carried out without pre● R esolve that the Board of Directors will have full powers – which emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders, subject to a ceiling may be delegated as provided for by law – to use this authorisation of 10% of the Company’s capital and the ceilings set at the Annual General Meeting in accordance with the conditions set by law and the Company’s Having considered the reports of the Board of Directors and the Statutory Articles of Association, and notably to: Auditors, in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article L. 225-136 of the ● determine the timing and other terms of the issue(s), including the French Commercial Code, the shareholders: type and characteristics of the securities to be issued (either with or without a premium); ● Grant the Board of Directors a 26-month authorisation as from the date of this Meeting – which may be delegated – whereby for issues ● set (i) the amounts of the issue(s), (ii) the cum-rights date (which may carried out pursuant to the fifteenth and sixteenth resolutions, the Board be retroactive) of the issued securities and the method by which they of Directors will have full powers to decide not to apply the pricing will be paid up, and (iii) the terms and conditions for exercising the conditions provided for in said resolutions and instead to set the issue rights attached to shares and/or securities carrying rights to shares price of the securities concerned in accordance with the conditions (i.e. any exchange, conversion, redemption or allocation rights); described below. The issues for which the Board of Directors may set ● decide on and make any adjustments required in accordance the issue price in this way will be subject to a ceiling representing with the applicable laws and regulations and any contractual 10% of the Company’s capital (as at the issue date) in any given stipulations in order to protect the rights of holders of securities and 12-month period. The applicable conditions will be as follows: other instruments carrying rights to the Company’s shares; ● the issue price of ordinary shares must be at least equal to the ● suspend, where appropriate, the rights attached to the securities weighted average of the prices quoted for the Company’s shares for a period not exceeding three months. over the twenty trading days preceding the pricing date, less a ● Resolve that the Board of Directors may: maximum discount of 20%. In all circumstances the amount received ● at its sole discretion, and when it deems appropriate, charge the for each share must be at least equal to the par value. For issues costs and fees resulting from the capital increase(s) carried out in of securities carrying rights to shares, the issue price of the shares accordance with this resolution against the related premiums and resulting from the exercise, conversion or exchange of the rights deduct from said premiums the amounts necessary to increase attached to the securities may be set, at the discretion of the Board, the legal reserve to 10% of the new capital after each operation; using a calculation formula chosen by the Board and applicable subsequent to the issue of said securities (for example at the time ● take any and all decisions relating to the admission to trading of of their exercise, conversion or exchange). In such a case, if the the issued securities on Euronext Paris; and Board deems it appropriate, the above maximum discount may be ● more generally, take all necessary measures, enter into any assessed at the date on which the calculation formula is applied commitments and carry out any formalities required for the successful rather than the pricing date; completion of the issue(s) and the resulting capital increase(s), and ● the issue price of securities carrying rights to shares must be set in amend the Company’s Articles of Association to reflect the new such a way that the amount received by the Company at the time capital. of issue plus the amount to be received on conversion, exchange, ● Note that if the Board of Directors uses this authorisation, it will report redemption or exercise of said securities is, for each share issued, thereon at the following Annual General Meeting in accordance with at least equal to the issue price defined above. the applicable laws and regulations. ● Resolve that the Board of Directors will have full powers to use this ● Resolve that this authorisation is given for a period of 26 months authorisation in accordance with the terms and conditions provided as from the date of this Meeting and supersedes any authorisation for in the resolution(s) used to carry out the issue(s) concerned. previously granted for the same purpose. 198 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 16 MAY 2018 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS EIGHTEENTH RESOLUTION stipulations in order to protect the rights of holders of securities and Authorisation for the Board of Directors to increase the number of other instruments carrying rights to the Company’s shares. securities issued in the event of issues carried out pursuant to the ● T he aggregate nominal amount of debt securities that may be fourteenth to sixteenth resolutions above, with or without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders issued pursuant to the above-mentioned resolutions may not exceed Having considered the reports of the Board of Directors and the Statutory €45,000,000 (or the equivalent of this amount at the issue date Auditors, in accordance with Articles L. 225-129, L. 225-129-2, for issues denominated in foreign currency). This amount does not L. 225-135-1, L. 228-91, L. 228-92 and L. 228-93 of the French include any above-par redemption premiums and does not apply to Commercial Code, the shareholders: any debt securities referred to in Articles L. 228-40, L. 228-36-A and paragraph 3 of Article L. 228-92 of the French Commercial ● Authorise the Board of Directors to increase the number of securities Code whose issue may be decided or authorised by the Board of issued in the event of issues carried out with or without pre-emptive Directors in accordance with either (i) the conditions provided for in subscription rights pursuant to the fourteenth to sixteenth resolutions Article L. 228-40 of said Code, or (ii) the conditions determined by above, in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in the Company in compliance with Article L. 228-36-A of said Code. Article L. 225-135-1 of the French Commercial Code (at the date of this meeting said Article provides that the additional securities must TWENTIETH RESOLUTION be issued within thirty days of the close of the original subscription Authorisation for the Board of Directors to increase the Company’s period, at the same price as for the original issue, and may not capital by capitalising share premiums, reserves, profit or other eligible items represent more than 15% of the original issue amount). Any shares issued pursuant to this authorisation will rank pari passu with existing Having considered the Board of Directors’ report, in accordance with shares, except for differences in cum-rights dates. Articles L. 225-129, L. 225-129-2 and L. 225-130 of the French Commercial Code, the shareholders: ● Resolve that the nominal amount of any capital increase(s) carried out pursuant to this resolution will be included in the €4,500,000 blanket ● Grant the Board of Directors an authorisation – which may be ceiling for the capital increases that may be carried out under the delegated as provided for by law – to increase the Company’s fourteenth to sixteenth resolutions above. This ceiling does not include capital on one or several occasions, to be paid up by capitalising all the nominal amount of any additional shares or other securities that or part of the Company’s reserves, profit or share premiums, and to may be issued pursuant to the applicable laws and any contractual subsequently issue bonus shares and/or raise the par value of existing stipulations in order to protect the rights of holders of securities and shares. The Board of Directors will have full powers to determine other instruments carrying rights to the Company’s shares. the timing and terms and conditions of such capital increase(s), which may not exceed an aggregate amount of €15,000,000. ● Note that if the Board of Directors uses this authorisation, it will report This ceiling (i) is separate from the ceilings set for capital increases thereon at the following Annual General Meeting in accordance with carried out pursuant to the other resolutions above, and (ii) does not the applicable laws and regulations. include the par value of any additional shares to be issued pursuant ● Resolve that this authorisation is given for a period of 26 months to the applicable laws and any contractual stipulations in order to as from the date of this Meeting and supersedes any authorisation protect the rights of holders of securities and other instruments carrying previously granted for the same purpose. rights to the Company’s shares. NINETEENTH RESOLUTION ● Note that the total amount of any capital increases carried out using Blanket ceiling for the authorisations granted to the Board of Directors this authorisation may not exceed the amount of the Company’s to increase the Company’s capital reserves, share premiums or profit existing at the time of the capital Having considered the Board of Directors’ report, the shareholders increase(s). resolve that: ● R esolve that if the Board of Directors uses this authorisation, in ● The aggregate nominal amount of any capital increases carried out compliance with Article L. 225-130 of the French Commercial Code, pursuant to the authorisations granted in the fourteenth, fi fteenth, any rights to fractions of shares will be non-transferable and nonsixteenth and eighteenth resolutions above may not exceed tradable and the corresponding shares will be sold in accordance €4,500,000 (or the equivalent of this amount at the issue date for with the applicable regulations, with the proceeds of such sale issues denominated in foreign currency). This ceiling does not include allocated to the holders of the rights within the timeframe provided the nominal amount of any additional shares or other securities that for in the regulations in force at that date. may be issued pursuant to the applicable laws and any contractual 8 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 199 8 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 16 MAY 2018 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS ● Give full powers to the Board of Directors to use this authorisation and criteria set by the Board have been met (notably performance and generally take any and all necessary measures and carry out all conditions and the condition that the beneficiary remains with the the formalities required in order to complete each capital increase. Group during the Vesting Period). The beneficiaries of the vested ● Resolve that this authorisation is given for a period of 26 months shares may be required to hold their shares for a period set by the as from the date of this Meeting and supersedes any authorisation Board of Directors (the “Lock-up Period”) which, combined with the previously granted for the same purpose. Vesting Period, may not be less than two years. ● R esolve that, as an exception to the above, the shares may vest TWENTY-FIRST RESOLUTION before the end of the Vesting Period if a beneficiary suffers from a Authorisation for the Board of Directors to grant new or existing shares disability classified in the second or third categories provided for in free of consideration Article L. 341-4 of the French Social Security Code. Having considered the reports of the Board of Directors and the Statutory ● Resolve that in the event of a beneficiary’s death or if a beneficiary Auditors, in accordance with Articles L. 225-197-1 et seq. of the French suffers from a disability classified in one of the above categories of Commercial Code, the shareholders: the French Social Security Code, the vested shares will become freely ● Authorise the Board of Directors to grant, on one or more occasions transferable following a request made by the beneficiary in the event and free of consideration, existing shares (notably treasury shares of disability or by his or her heirs in the event of death. purchased under a buyback programme) or new shares of the ● Resolve that the durations of the Vesting Period and the Lock-up Period Company, to beneficiaries designated by the Board in accordance will be set by the Board in accordance with the above minimum with the applicable laws and regulations from among: timeframes. (i) the employees, or certain categories of employees, of the Company ● Note that, in accordance with Article L. 225-197-1 of the French and/or of directly or indirectly related entities or economic interest Commercial Code, in the case of grants of new shares, this resolution groupings as defined in Article L. 225-197-2 of the French automatically entails the waiver by existing shareholders of their Commercial Code; or pre-emptive rights to subscribe for any such shares and that the (ii) executive officers of the Company and/or of directly or indirectly corresponding capital increase will take place at the end of the related entities as defined in Article L. 225-197-2 of the French applicable vesting period. Commercial Code. ● N ote that this resolution automatically entails the waiver by ● Resolve that the total number of free shares granted may not represent shareholders of their entitlement to the portion of reserves, profit or more than 3% of the Company’s capital at the grant date, it being share premiums that will be capitalised if new shares are issued at specified that: the end of the Vesting Period, and that the Board will have full powers (i) the total number of free shares that may be granted to executive to carry out such issues of new shares. officers that fall within the scope of paragraphs 1 and 2 of ● Grant the Board of Directors full powers – which may be delegated Article L. 225-197-1 II of the French Commercial Code may not as provided for by law – to use this authorisation and notably to: represent more than 2% of the total number of free shares granted ● place on record that there are sufficient reserves to pay up the by the Board of Directors under this resolution; new shares to be granted, and where necessary, at the time of (ii) any free shares granted to executive officers who fall within the each grant, transfer the amounts necessary for said purpose to a scope of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article L. 225-197-1 II of the French blocked reserve; Commercial Code will be subject to the terms and conditions set ● set any eligibility conditions and draw up a list of the names of the out in Article L. 225-197-6 of said Code; beneficiaries and the number of shares that may be granted free (iii) the Board of Directors may adjust the number of shares granted, of consideration to each beneficiary subject to the above ceilings; subject to the ceiling specifi ed above, following any corporate ● set any conditions (notably performance and/or presence actions that may be carried out; and conditions) that must be met for the shares to vest at the end of the (iv) the number of free shares that may be granted under this authorisation Vesting Period, it being specified that these conditions may vary will be included in the blanket ceiling set in the twenty-third resolution from one grant and/or one beneficiary to another; below, ● take the decision to carry out the corresponding capital increase(s) ● Resolve that the shares granted will vest after a period of at least when the shares granted free of consideration correspond to new one year (the “Vesting Period”), provided any pre-defined conditions shares; 200 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 16 MAY 2018 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS ● acquire any shares required for delivering to beneficiaries when the as the methods of the issue and terms and conditions of the issue shares granted free of consideration correspond to existing shares; contract. ● take all necessary measures to ensure that the beneficiaries respect ● Resolve that for as long as the Company’s shares are listed on Euronext the lock-up period; and Paris or another stock market, the exercise price of the BSA and ● more generally, do everything required to use this authorisation, in BSAAR warrants – which will be set by the Board of Directors at the accordance with the applicable legislation. issue date – must be at least equal to the weighted average of the prices quoted for the Company’s shares over the twenty trading days ● Resolve that this authorisation is given for a period of 38 months as preceding the warrant issue date, it being specified that each BSA from the date of this Meeting. or BSAAR warrant will be exercisable for one share of the Company. Each year, the Board of Directors will report to the Annual General ● Resolve that this authorisation is given for a period of 18 months Meeting on the share grants made during the year pursuant to this as from the date of this Meeting and supersedes any authorisation resolution, in accordance with Article L. 225-197-4 of the French previously granted for the same purpose. Commercial Code. ● Resolve that in accordance with Articles L. 228-91 and L. 225-132 of TWENTY-SECOND RESOLUTION the French Commercial Code, this authorisation automatically entails Authorisation for the Board of Directors to issue stock warrants the waiver by shareholders of their pre-emptive rights to subscribe (BSAAR and/or BSA) to employees and officers of the Company and for any shares issued on exercise of the BSA or BSAAR warrants. its subsidiaries, without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders ● Give full powers to the Board of Directors – which may be delegated Having considered the reports of the Board of Directors and the Statutory as provided for by law or the applicable regulations – to: Auditors, in accordance with Articles L. 225-129-2, L. 225-138 and ● issue and allocate the BSA and BSAAR warrants and set their L. 228-91 of the French Commercial Code, the shareholders: subscription price, exercise conditions and final terms, in accordance with the provisions of this resolution and the ceilings ● Grant the Board of Directors an authorisation – which may be set herein; delegated as provided for by law – to issue, on one or more occasions, stock warrants (“BSA warrants”) and/or redeemable stock ● draw up the list of Beneficiaries and determine the number of BSA warrants (“BSAAR warrants”). and/or BSAAR warrants to be granted to each Beneficiary; ● Resolve that the aggregate nominal amount of any capital increases ● set the issue price of the shares for which the warrants will be carried out as a result of this authorisation, on an immediate or exercisable, in accordance with the terms and conditions described deferred basis, may not exceed €470,046, corresponding to a above; maximum of 470,046 shares with a par value of €1 each and ● place on record the number of shares issued on exercise of the representing 3% of the Company’s capital. This ceiling does not BSA and BSAAR warrants and undertake, either directly or through include the par value of any additional shares to be issued pursuant an authorised representative, any actions and formalities required to the applicable laws and any contractual stipulations to protect the to complete any capital increase(s) that may be carried out on rights of holders of securities and other instruments carrying rights to exercise of the warrants and amend the Articles of Association to the Company’s shares. The number of BSA and BSAAR warrants that reflect the new capital; may be issued under this authorisation will be included in the blanket ● take all measures required to protect the rights of the holders ceiling set in the twenty-third resolution below. of BSA and BSAAR warrants in the event of a corporate action ● R esolve to waive the pre-emptive subscription rights of existing relating to the Company, in accordance with the applicable laws shareholders in favour of the employees and officers of the Company and regulations; and and its French and foreign subsidiaries (the “Beneficiaries”). ● more generally, carry out all measures and formalities required in ● A uthorise, in accordance with Article L. 225-128-I of the French order to use this authorisation. Commercial Code, the Board of Directors to draw up the list of TWENTY-THIRD RESOLUTION Beneficiaries and to set the maximum number of BSA and/or BSAAR warrants that may be subscribed by each Beneficiary. Blanket ceiling for share issues carried out pursuant to the twenty-first resolution (free share grants) and twenty-second resolution (stock warrant ● Grant the Board of Directors full powers to determine all of the issues) characteristics of the BSA and BSAAR warrants, notably the Having considered the reports of the Board of Directors and the Statutory subscription price which will be set based on the opinion of an Auditors, the shareholders resolve that the aggregate number of (i) the independent valuer by reference to factors influencing their value shares issued for the purpose of granting shares free of consideration (such as exercise price, lock-up period, exercise period, triggering pursuant to the twenty-first resolution above and (ii) the shares issued 8 threshold and redemption period, interest rate, dividend payment on exercise of warrants issued pursuant to the twenty-second resolution policy, trading price and volatility of the Company’s shares) as well ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 201 8 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 16 MAY 2018 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORTS above, may not exceed 940,092 shares with a par value of €1 each. ● Give full powers to the Board of Directors to use this authorisation This ceiling does not include any additional shares to be issued pursuant and to: to the applicable laws and any contractual stipulations in order to protect ● draw up the list of entities whose employees will be entitled to the rights of holders of securities or other instruments carrying rights to subscribe for the shares or other securities; the Company’s shares. ● set the seniority conditions required for employees to subscribe for TWENTY-FOURTH RESOLUTION the issue(s), subject to the limits provided for in the applicable laws, and set the maximum number of shares that may be subscribed for Authorisation for the Board of Directors to increase the Company’s capital by issuing shares and/or securities carrying rights to the by the employees concerned; Company’s shares to employees who are members of a company or ● set the number of new shares to be issued and their cum-rights date; Group employee savings plan Having considered the reports of the Board of Directors and the Statutory ● set the issue price of the new shares, in accordance with the Auditors, in accordance with Articles L. 225-129-2, L. 225-129-6, applicable laws, as well as the period during which employees’ L. 225-138 and L. 225-138-1 of the French Commercial Code and subscription rights may be exercised; Articles L. 3332-1 et seq. of the French Labour Code, the shareholders: ● set the terms and conditions and timeframes for payment of the subscription price; ● Give the Board of Directors full powers – in accordance with Articles L 225-129 and L. 225-138-1 of the French Commercial ● place on record the capital increase(s) and amend the Articles of Code and Articles L. 3332-1 et seq. of the French Labour Code – to Association to reflect the new capital; increase the Company’s capital on one or more occasions by issuing ● if it deems it appropriate, charge the issue costs against the related shares and/or securities carrying rights to the Company’s shares to premiums and deduct from the premiums the amount necessary to employees who are members of an employee savings plan (Plan increase the legal reserve to 10% of the Company’s new capital d’Épargne d’Entreprise) set up by the Company or any French or after each issue; foreign related entity as defined in Article L 225-180 of the French ● carry out any and all actions and formalities required in connection Commercial Code and Article L 3344-1 et seq. of the French Labour with the capital increase(s). Code, subject to a ceiling of 1% of the Company’s capital as at the This authorisation automatically entails the waiver by shareholders of date this authorisation is used. their pre-emptive rights to subscribe for any shares or other securities ● Resolve that the subscription price of the shares or securities carrying issued pursuant to this resolution. rights to shares will be set in accordance with the conditions and ceilings provided for in the applicable laws and regulations, notably This authorisation is given for a period of 26 months as from the date Article L. 3332-19 of the French Labour Code. of this Meeting and supersedes any authorisation previously granted for the same purpose. ● A uthorise the Board of Directors to grant the subscribers, free of consideration, new or existing shares or securities carrying rights to TWENTY-FIFTH RESOLUTION shares, in accordance with Article L. 3332-21 of the French Labour Powers to carry out formalities Code. The Board of Directors may (i) use such grants to replace all or The shareholders give full powers to the bearer of an original, extract part of a discount on the issue price in accordance with the ceilings or copy of the minutes of this Meeting to carry out any and all filing provided for in the applicable laws and regulations, or (ii) deduct and other formalities required by the applicable law and regulations. the value of such grants from the total amount of an employer’s top-up payment, or (iii) use both of the possibilities provided for in (i) and (ii), 8.4 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORTS The Statutory Auditors’ reports can be found in Chapter 6, Sections 6.2, 6.3.4 and 6.3.5 of this Registration Document. Additional reports will be available within the legal timeframes on the Company’s website at www.assystem.com in the “Regulated information” section. 202 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 9 APPENDICES 9.1 STATEMENT BY THE PERSONS 9.2 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES 205 RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 2017 Cross-reference table for disclosures required in accordance REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 204 with Annex I of European Commission Regulation (EC) No. 809/2004 205 Cross-reference table for information required in the management report 208 Cross-reference table for disclosures required in the Annual Financial Report 210 Cross-reference table for disclosures required in the corporate governance report 211 Cross-reference table for HR, environmental and socioeconomic information 212 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 203 9 APPENDICES STATEMENT BY THE PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 9.1 STATEMENT BY THE PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT We hereby state that having taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case, the information contained in this Registration Document is, to the best of our knowledge, in accordance with the facts and contains no omission likely to affect its import. We further state that, to the best of our knowledge, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and results of the Company and the consolidated Group as a whole and that the management report as referred to in the cross-reference table on pages 208 and 209 of this Registration Document presents a fair view of the business, results and financial position of the Company and its consolidated entities and contains a description of the main risks and uncertainties to which they are exposed. We obtained a completion letter from the Statutory Auditors confirming that they have read the whole of the Registration Document and verified the information about the Group's financial position and the accounts contained therein. Paris, 10 April 2018 French original signed by: Dominique Louis Philippe Chevallier Chairman & CEO of Assystem SA Person in charge of financial information Chief Financial Officer & Deputy CEO 204 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 APPENDICES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES 9.2 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE FOR DISCLOSURES REQUIRED IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANNEX I OF EUROPEAN COMMISSION REGULATION (EC) NO. 809/2004 The following cross-reference table can be used to identify the information contained in this Registration Document that is required in accordance with Annex I of European Commission Regulation (EC) no. 809/2004 dated 29 April 2004. Information Chapter(s) Page number(s) 1 Persons responsible 9 204 1.1 Persons responsible for information given in the Registration Document 9.1 204 1.2 Statement by the persons responsible for the Registration Document 9.1 204 2 Statutory Auditors 7.3 180 2.1 Information about the Statutory Auditors 7.3 180 2.2 Information relating to any resignation or non-reappointment of the Statutory Auditors 7.3 180 3 Selected financial information Key figures, 9 4, 5, 208 3.1 Selected historical financial information Key figures, 9 4, 5, 208 3.2 Selected financial information for interim periods N/A N/A 4 Risk factors 5 83 5 Information about the issuer 1,7 7, 167 5.1 History and development of the Company 1.1 8 5.1.1 Legal and commercial name of the Company 7.1 168 5.1.2 Place of registration and registration number of the Company 7.1 168 5.1.3 Date of incorporation and term of the Company 7.1 168 5.1.4 Registered office and legal form of the Company and legislation under which it operates 7.1 168 5.1.5 Important events in the development of the Company's business 3 37-45 5.2 Investments 3 37-45 5.2.1 Description of the principal investments made by the Company 3 37-45 5.2.2 Description of the Company's principal investments that are in progress and their geographic location 3 37-45 5.2.3 Information concerning the Company's principal future investments N/A N/A 6 Business overview Key figures, 3 4, 5, 37 6.1 Principal activities Key figures, 3 4, 5, 37 6.1.1 Description of the issuer's operations and its principal activities 3 37 6.1.2 Presentation of new products/services introduced on the market 3 37 6.2 Principal markets in which the issuer operates Key figures, 3 4, 5, 37 6.3 Message from the Exceptional factors Chairman & CEO, 1, 3 2, 4, 5, 7, 37 6.4 Extent to which the issuer is dependent on patents or licences, industrial, commercial or financial contracts or new manufacturing processes N/A N/A 6.5 Basis for any statements made by the issuer regarding its competitive position 3 37 7 Organisational structure 1 14 7.1 Description of the Group 1, 3 7-14, 37 7.2 List of significant subsidiaries 3 43 8 Property, plant and equipment 6 119 8.1 Major tangible fixed assets 6 119 8.2 Environmental issues that may affect the issuer's use of its tangible fixed assets 4 55 9 Operating and financial review 3 40 9.1 Financial condition 3 40 9.2 Operating results 3 40 9 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 205 9 APPENDICES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES Information Chapter(s) Page number(s) 9.2.1 Factors affecting the issuer's income from operations 3 40 9.2.2 Explanation of the reasons for significant changes in net sales and/or revenues 3 40 9.2.3 Presentation of any governmental, economic, fiscal, monetary or political policies or factors that have Message from the materially affected, or could materially affect, the issuer's operations Chairman & CEO, 3 2, 37 10 Capital resources 3 40 & s 10.1 Information concerning the issuer's capital resources 3 40 & s 10.2 Sources, amounts and a description of the issuer's cash flows 3 40 & s 10.3 Information on the issuer's borrowing requirements and funding structure 3 40 & s 10.4 Information regarding any restrictions on the use of capital resources that have materially affected, or could materially affect, the issuer's operations 3 40 & s 10.5 Information regarding the anticipated sources of funds needed to fulfil commitments 3 40 & s 11 Research and development, patents and licences 37 & s, 55 & s, 3, 4, 7 170 12 Trend information 3 37 & s 12.1 Significant trends in production, sales and inventory, and costs and selling prices since the end of the last financial year 3 37 & s 12.2 Information on any known trends, uncertainties, demands, commitments or events that are reasonably Message from the likely to have a material effect on the issuer's prospects for at least the current financial year Chairman & CEO, 3 2, 37 & s 13 Profit forecasts or estimates N/A N/A 14 Administrative, management and supervisory bodies and senior management 2 15-36 14.1 Information concerning members of the Company's administrative, management or supervisory bodies 2 17-30 14.2 Conflicts of interest of members of the Company's administrative, management or supervisory bodies and key senior managers. 2 17-30 15 Compensation and benefits 2 30-36 15.1 Amount of compensation paid and benefits in kind granted to members of the Company’s administrative, management or supervisory bodies and key senior managers 2 30-36 15.2 Total amounts set aside or accrued by the issuer or its subsidiaries to provide pension, retirement or similar benefits 2 30-36 16 Board practices 2 16.1 Expiry dates of Board members’ current terms of office 2 17-30 16.2 Information about members of the administrative, management or supervisory bodies' service contracts with the issuer 2 17-30 16.3 Information about the issuer's Audit Committee and Compensation Committee 2 17-30 16.4 Statement of compliance with the applicable corporate governance regime(s) 2 15 17 Employees Key figures 4, 5 17.1 Number of employees Key figures 4, 5 17.2 Shareholdings and stock options 7 181, 182 17.3 Description of any arrangements for involving the employees in the capital of the issuer 7 181, 182 18 Major shareholders Key figures 4, 5 18.1 Shareholders owning more than 5% of the share capital 7 172 18.2 Existence of different voting rights 7 170 18.3 Ownership or control of the issuer 7 172 18.4 Description of any arrangements whose implementation may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the issuer 7 170 19 Related party transactions 6.35 164 20 Financial information concerning the issuer's assets and liabilities, financial position and profits and losses 6 91-142 20.1 Historical financial information 6 20.2 Pro forma financial information N/A N/A 20.3 Financial statements 6 91-142 20.4 Auditing of historical annual financial information 6 20.5 Age of latest financial information 6 20.6 Interim and other financial information N/A N/A 20.7 Dividend policy 7 174 206 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 APPENDICES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES Information Chapter(s) Page number(s) 20.8 Legal and arbitration proceedings 5 88 20.9 Significant changes in the issuer's financial or trading position 3 37 21 Additional information 7 21.1 Share capital 7 172 21.1.1 Amount of issued capital and information about each class of shares 7 172 21.1.2 Number and characteristics of any shares not representing capital 172 21.1.3 Number, book value and par value of shares in the issuer held by or on behalf of the issuer itself or by subsidiaries of the issuer 7 172 21.1.4 Amount of any convertible securities, exchangeable securities or securities with warrants 7 172 21.1.5 Information about and terms of any acquisition rights and/or obligations over authorised but unissued capital or an undertaking to increase the capital 7 172 21.1.6 Information about any capital of any member of the Group which is under option or agreed conditionally or unconditionally to be put under option 7 172 21.1.7 History of share capital for the period covered by the historical financial information 7 179 21.2 Memorandum and Articles of Association 7 168 21.2.1 Corporate purpose 7 168 21.2.2 Provisions concerning the members of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies 2 17-30 21.2.3 Description of the rights, preferences and restrictions attached to each class of shares 7 172 21.2.4 Description of what action is necessary to change the rights of shareholders 7 169 21.2.5 Conditions governing the manner in which Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meetings are called 7 169 21.2.6 Any provisions that would have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the issuer 7 170 21.2.7 Any provisions governing the threshold above which shareholder ownership must be disclosed 7 170 21.2.8 Conditions governing changes in the capital 7 171 22 Material contracts 7 170 23 Third party disclosures, statements by experts and declarations of interest N/A N/A 24 Documents available to the public 7 168 25 Information on holdings 1, 3 14, 43 9 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 207 9 APPENDICES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE FOR INFORMATION REQUIRED IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT The following cross-reference table identifies the information contained in this Registration Document that constitutes Assystem's management report, as required in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations and in particular Articles L. 225-100 et seq. of the French Commercial Code. Topic Chapter(s) Page number(s) 1 Information about the Company's business 1.1 Overview of the business (in particular progress made and difficulties encountered) and the results of the Company, each subsidiary and the Group as a whole 3 38 1.2 Analysis of the business, results and financial position (notably debt) of the Company and the Group 3 38-42 1.3 Outlook of the Company and/or Group 3 42 1.4 Key financial and non-financial indicators of the Company and the Group 3 1.5 Significant events after the reporting date affecting the Company and the Group 3 42 1.6 Information about the use of financial instruments including financial risks, market risks, credit risks, liquidity risks and cash flow risks of the Company and the Group 5 85-86 1.7 Main risks and uncertainties of the Company and the Group 5 84-88 1.8 Information about financial risks related to climate change and description of the measures that the Company takes to reduce these risks by implementing a low-carbon strategy in all aspects of its business 4 1.9 Information about the R&D activities of the Company and the Group 3 37 & s 2 Legal, financial and tax information about the Company 2.1 Choice between the two available forms of governance structure if the Company's governance structure changes 2 16 2.2 Breakdown of and changes in the ownership structure 7 179 2.3 Name of controlled entities holding Assystem shares and the percentage ownership interest held 7 179 2.4 Significant equity interests acquired during the year in companies registered in France 3 43 2.5 Notice of any interests of over 10% in other publicly traded companies; disposal of cross holdings 7 179 2.6 Treasury share transactions (share buyback programmes) 7 177/178 2.7 Employee share ownership 7 181/182 2.8 Presentation of factors likely to have an impact in the event of a takeover bid 7 171 2.9 Summary table of authorisations currently in force granted by shareholders concerning capital increases 7 175 2.10 Disclosure of any adjustments made to: • securities carrying rights to shares and stock options in the event of share buybacks; • securities carrying rights to shares in the event of corporate actions. 7 177 2.11 Amount of dividends paid over the past three financial years 7 174 2.12 Amount of non-tax-deductible expenses 3 44 2.13 Payment times for trade receivables and payables and maturity schedule 3 44 2.14 Injunctions or fines for anti-competitive practices N/A N/A 2.15 Agreements entered into between a subsidiary and an officer of the Company or a shareholder that holds more than 10% of the voting rights (apart from agreements entered into in the normal course of business) 2 32,33 In accordance with Article 28 of European Commission Regulation ● the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December (EC) no. 809/2004 of 29 April 2004, the following information is 2015, the accompanying notes, the Statutory Auditors’ report and incorporated by reference into this Registration Document: the related management report, presented on pages 78 to 148, 149 and 35 to 44 of the Registration Document filed with the AMF ● the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December on 13 April 2016 under number D.16-0326. 2016, the accompanying notes, the Statutory Auditors’ report and the related management report, presented on pages 79 to 142, 143 and 144, and 35 to 44 of the Registration Document filed with the AMF on 31 March 2017 under number D.17-0273; 208 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 APPENDICES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES Topic Chapter(s) Page number(s) 3 Information concerning company officers 2 3.1 List of offices and posts held by each officer in any company during the year 2 17-30 3.2 Compensation and benefits paid during the year to each officer by the Company and entities that control or are controlled by the Company 2 30-36 3.3 Commitments related to taking up, ending or changing duties 2 30-36 3.4 If stock options are awarded, disclosure of the information on which the Board of Directors based its decision to: • either prohibit executives from exercising their options during their term of office; or • require executives to hold in registered form, until the end of their term of office, all or some of the shares issued on exercise of their options (specifying the proportion set). N/A N/A 3.5 Summary of transactions in the Company's securities carried out by executives and related parties 7 173 3.6 If free shares are awarded, disclosure of the information on which the Board of Directors based its decision to: • either prohibit executives from selling their unrestricted free shares during their term of office; or • require executives to hold in registered form, until the end of their term of office, all or some of their unrestricted free shares (specifying the proportion set). N/A N/A 4 CSR disclosures 4 4.1 Consideration of the social and environmental impact of the Company's business and its commitments to sustainable development, the circular economy, antidiscrimination and furthering diversity in the workplace 4 55-81 4.2 Information about hazardous activities N/A N/A 5 Other information 5.1 The amount of loans due within less than two years granted by the Company on an ancillary basis to micro-enterprises, SMEs or middle-market companies with which it has economic ties justifying such loans N/A N/A 5.2 Information about payments made to the authorities of each country in which the Company exercises the following business activities: exploring, prospecting, discovering, extracting or mining Oil & Gas, coal and brown coal, ores, stone and sand and clay, inorganic minerals and mineral fertilizer, peat, salt, and any other mineral resources, and logging virgin forests N/A N/A 5.3 The main characteristics of the internal control and risk management procedures put in place by the Company relating to the preparation and processing of accounting and financial information 3.8 45 9 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 209 9 APPENDICES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE FOR DISCLOSURES REQUIRED IN THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT The following cross-reference table identifies the information contained in this Registration Document that constitutes Assystem's Annual Financial Report, as required in accordance with Article L. 451-1-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code and Article 222-3 of the AMF's General Regulations. Topic Chapter(s) Page number(s) 1 Statement by the persons responsible for the Annual Financial Report 9 204 2 Management report 3 37-54 2.1 Analysis of the business, results and financial position (notably debt) of the Company and the Group 3 38-42 2.2 Key financial and non-financial indicators of the Company and the Group 3 2.3 Information about financial risks related to climate change and description of the measures that the Company takes to reduce these risks by implementing a low-carbon strategy in all aspects of its business 4 2.3bis Information about the use of financial instruments including financial risks, market risks, credit risks, liquidity risks and cash flow risks of the Company and the Group 5 85-86 2.4 Main risks and uncertainties of the Company and the Group 5 84-88 2.5 Treasury share transactions (share buyback programmes) 7 177-178 2.6 3 Financial statements and reports 6 3.1 Parent company financial statements 6.3 142-166 3.2 Statutory Auditors' report on the parent company financial statements 160 3.3 Consolidated financial statements 6.1 92-137 3.4 Statutory Auditors' report on the consolidated financial statements 6.2 137 4 Other information 4.1 Fees paid to the Statutory Auditors 7.3.3 180 4.4 Description of the share buyback programme 7 210 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 APPENDICES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE FOR DISCLOSURES REQUIRED IN THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The following cross-reference table identifi es the information contained in this Registration Document that constitutes Assystem's corporate governance report, as required in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations and in particular Articles L. 225-100 et seq. of the French Commercial Code. Topic Chapter(s) Page number(s) 1 List of offices and posts held by each officer in any company during the year 2 17-30 2 Agreements entered into, either directly or indirectly, between any officer of the Company or any shareholder holding over 10% of the Company’s capital and any other company in which said officer or shareholder directly or indirectly owns half of the capital 6.3.5 164 3 Summary table setting out the authorisations currently in force granted by shareholders concerning capital increases and the use of such authorisations during the year 7 175 4 Choice of corporate governance structure 2 16 5 Draft resolutions drawn up by the Board of Directors concerning shareholders’ binding sayon-pay vote concerning the components making up the total compensation and benefits of the Company’s officers 8 192 6 Information relating to directors’ and officers’ compensation 2 30-36 Compensation policy applicable to executive officers (say on pay) 2 30-36 Information on pension benefit obligations 2 30-36 7 Membership of the Board of Directors and the conditions for preparing and organising its work 2 17-30 8 Any restrictions placed on the Chief Executive Officer’s powers by the Board of Directors 2 30 9 Corporate Governance Code applied by the Company and any provisions of that Code that are not applied 2 30 10 Specific terms and conditions for participating in General Shareholders’ Meetings 7 169 11 Information concerning factors likely to have an impact in the event of a takeover bid 7 171 9 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 211 9 APPENDICES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE FOR HR, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIO-ECONOMIC INFORMATION The following cross-reference table shows the pages of this Registration Document (Chapter 4) that contain the HR, environmental and socio-economic information required pursuant to Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. Topic Page number(s) 1 HR information 1.1 Employment 63 1.1.1 Total headcount and breakdown by gender, age and geographic region 63 1.1.2 New hires 63 1.1.3 Redundancies 63 1.1.4 Compensation and changes in compensation 64 1.2 Work organisation 64 1.2.1 Organisation of working hours 64 1.2.2 Absenteeism 64 1.3 Employee relations 65 1.3.1 Organisation of employee dialogue (rules and procedures for informing, consulting and negotiating with employees) 65 1.3.2 Overview of collective agreements 65 1.4 Health and safety 67 1.4.1 Workplace health and safety conditions 67 1.4.2 Overview of agreements signed with trade unions and employee representatives on workplace health and safety 63 1.4.3 Frequency and severity rates of work-related accidents and occupational illnesses 63 1.5 Training 70 1.5.1 Training policies implemented 70 1.5.2 Total number of training hours 63 1.6 Equal opportunities 65 1.6.1 Measures taken to promote gender equality in the workplace 65 1.6.2 Measures taken to promote the recruitment, employment and integration of people with disabilities 66 1.6.3 Anti-discrimination policy 65 1.7 Promotion of and compliance with the principles of the fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organisation relating to: • the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining; • the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation; • the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour; • the effective abolition of child labour. 79 212 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 APPENDICES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES Topic Page number(s) 2 Environmental information 2.1 General environmental policy 73 2.1.1 Organisational measures to take into account environmental issues in business activities and any environmental evaluation and certification processes 73 2.1.2 Training and information provided to employees on environmental protection 73 2.1.3 Resources devoted to the prevention of environmental risks and pollution 73 2.1.4 Amount of provisions and guarantees in place for environmental risks 73 2.2 Pollution and waste management 73 2.2.1 Measures to prevent, reduce or clean up discharges into air, water and soil which seriously affect the environment 73 2.2.2 Measures taken to prevent, recycle and eliminate waste 73 2.2.3 Management of noise pollution 73 2.2.4 Management of other forms of pollution specific to an activity 73 2.3 Sustainable use of resources 73 2.3.1 Water use and water supply based on any local restrictions 73 2.3.2 Consumption of raw materials and related efficiency measures 73 2.3.3 Energy consumption, energy efficiency measures and use of renewable energy 73 2.3.4 Land use 73 2.4 Climate change 73 2.4.1 Greenhouse gas emissions 73 2.4.2 Adapting to the consequences of climate change 73 2.5 Protecting biodiversity 73 2.5.1 Measures taken to limit damage to biological balances, natural environments, and protected plant and animal species 73/74 3 Socio-economic information 3.1 Impact of the Company's business from a regional, economic and social perspective 77 3.1.1 Impact on regional development and employment 77 3.1.2 Impact on local residents and populations 77 3.2 Relations with stakeholders 61 3.2.1 Conditions of dialogue with stakeholders 61 3.2.2 Partnerships and corporate sponsorship 77 3.3 Subcontractors and suppliers 75 3.3.1 Factoring social and environmental issues into the purchasing policy 75 3.3.2 Extent of recourse to subcontracting and taking into account suppliers' and subcontractors' CSR policies when selecting external providers 75 3.4 Fair practices 75 3.4.1 Action taken to prevent all forms of corruption 3.4.2 Measures taken in favour of consumer health and safety 3.4.3 Measures aimed at promoting human rights 72 9 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 213 214 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 215 216 ASSYSTEM REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 This document is printed in compliance with ISO 14001.2004 for an environmental management system. WWW.ASSYSTEM.COM
