As a member of the UN Global Compact (GC) Roslagens Sparbank commits to annually disclose information on activities and results related to the ten principles for human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Roslagens Sparbank uses the yearly Sustainability Report for this disclosure. The report for year 2018 (“Hållbarhetsredovisning” in Swedish) was published on www.roslagenssparbank.se in April 2019, as an integrated part of the Bank’s Annual Report. As the report only is published in Swedish, this summary in English has been made in effort to live up to the Global Compact standards. With this summary, we express our continued support and commitment to the Global Compact and its principles. Norrtälje, August 1, 2019 Sten Törnsten, head of social responsibility, Roslagens Sparbank 1 ÖPPEN Roslagens Sparbank, communication on progress 2018 As a local savings bank, Roslagens Sparbank’s vision is “an attractive and open Roslagen in growth” – that is, our long term goal is intimately connected to sustainable long-term growth and development of our region. One important measure to ensure this, is the yearly contribution of 5-10 % of the bank’s net result to support of local projects, activities and initiatives in line with our vision. Since year 2001, over SEK 126 Million this way have been returned to our customers and our society, mainly via the bank’s foundations for support and development of education, research, culture and local business. They are also presented on our homepage. Human Rights Principles Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Roslagens Sparbank supports the international declaration of Human Rights, and works for them according to Swedish legislation, which is also reflected in our bank’s policy documents. We publish our support for the HRP on our website. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses internationally proclaimed human rights. Roslagens Sparbanks internal follow-up and both internal and external revision focuses on securing compliance to national laws, rules and regulations which in turn is meant to prevent any violations of Human 2 ÖPPEN Rights. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Roslagens Sparbank follows Swedish labor laws, including full freedom of assembly and union. The unions SACO and Finansförbundet both have had a number of meetings during 2018, collective agreements and are since many years represented in the bank’s Board of Directors. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Roslagens Sparbank follows Swedish labor law and the Swedish Finance market’s collective agreements which ensure the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Roslagens Sparbank follows and applies Swedish labor law, including age regulations for employment. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Roslagens Sparbank follows and applies Swedish anti-discrimination laws which are also part of the bank’s internal policies. No discrimination incidents have been reported in 2018. Environment Principles Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental 3 ÖPPEN challenges. Roslagens Sparbanks policies and instructions focus on a preventative approach both internally and towards clients and stakeholders. For larger credit applications (> 5 MSEK), an environmental risk-analysis is obligatory as one way of encouraging businesses to undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Recurring activities are co-operation with local food producers promoting an annual “Harvest Market” in Norrtälje town; active participation in Earth Hour and the bank’s own local annual environment award to a company or organization (in 2018 the recipients was a local school for their work against mobbing and discrimination). Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We do, but have no actual new case in 2018. Anti-corruption Principle Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Roslagens Sparbank follows Swedish legislation on corruption. Our internal rules and regulations include clear instructions and all co-workers are trained on topics such as money laundering. No incidents of corruption have been reported in 2018. Measurement of achievements 4 ÖPPEN Goal 1: Reduction of CO-emissions. The bank’s emissions due to consumption of electrical power increased by 4 per cent between 2017 and 2018 which mainly is explained by construction/rebuilding projects of the bank’s premises. Our electricity is local and green and the supplier (Norrtälje Energi) has an ambitious program for social sustainability. Goal 2: Reduce usage of cash. This goal is achieved also in 2017. The amount of cash withdrawals has decreased ; cards and internet services share of transactions has increased; and numbers of customers with Swish and/or Personal Telephone Banking services has also increased. Agenda 2030 During 2019, the Bank’s Board of directors also decided to use the 17 global Sustainable Development Goals of Agenda 2030 as base for all future commitment to society and sustainability. From the report for year 2019, we will report our continuing work in this area in relation to the 17 SDG. Prioritized SDG:s are: Goal 1, 3, 4, 11 and 14. Detailed reports on activities and results in these and other SDG:s are listed in our annual sustainability report mentioned above. 5 ÖPPEN
