United Nations Global Compact C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 8 December 2017 – March 2019 S TAT E M E N T O F C O N T I N U E D S U P P O R T B Y OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER To Our Stakeholders: I am pleased to attest that Abt Associates is deeply committed to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We disclose specific actions and activities undertaken from December 2017 to March 2019 to advance the Principles, and commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. For more than 50 years, Abt has been guided by our mission, to improve the quality of life and economic well-being of people worldwide. We are committed to living our mission by making a positive impact both through our work and in our workplace. Respect for human rights, dedication to ethics, transparency, governance and a reverence for the natural environment—these aren’t just policies and words—this is how we live our values as we move people from vulnerability to security worldwide. Kathleen L. Flanagan President & Chief Executive Officer Abt Associates Learn more at abtassociates.com About Abt Founded in 1965, Abt Associates provides research, consulting and technical assistance services to clients worldwide in the areas of health, environmental and social policy, technology and international development. As an engine for social change, our mission is to improve the quality of life and economic well-being of people worldwide. We are fueled by caring, curiosity, cutting-edge research and the desire to solve the world’s most pressing challenges. Our diverse staff of more than 3,600 bold thinkers operate on the ground in more than 50 countries alongside our clients, enabling us to tailor our solutions to meet their needs and the needs of those they serve. O U R VA L U E S Mission Driven. Accountable. We are united by our mission to improve the We take responsibility for what we do and how lives of people worldwide. We work with our we do it. We strive to be a healthy, growing clients and communities to enhance the quality company and recognise that every action and of life and economic well-being of people inaction has consequences for our colleagues, around the world. clients and the world around us. Collaborative. Committed to Excellence. We know that working collaboratively produces We strive to meet and exceed the highest excellence. We reach within and beyond professional standards. We take pride in our organisation to forge enduring working the quality of our work and seek innovative relationships based on trust, mutual respect solutions to today’s and tomorrow’s challenges. and shared pride in our work and its impact. Balanced. Global. We sustain the energy and commitment we We are a global community, bringing diverse bring to our roles by promoting a healthy knowledge, expertise and perspectives to balance between our personal and professional the many challenges faced by today’s world. lives. We are invigorated by meaningful work, We embrace people’s cultural, ethnic and supportive relationships with our colleagues and geographic backgrounds to facilitate the clients and the pursuit of personal interests. exchange of ideas and the development of successful practices. 2 3 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. The first of our six core values is Mission Driven. We require all Abt Associates U.S. employees We partner with our clients and communities to to complete training modules on human rights, improve the quality of life and economic welltrafficking, child protection, preventing sexual being of people around the world. Counter to this exploitation and abuse, reporting harassment, value is the abuse of human rights. We believe investigations and retaliation and zero tolerance. every person deserves to be treated with dignity, In FY 18, from April 1, 2017 through March 31, 2018, respect and compassion within our workplaces 100 percent of Abt Associates U.S. staff completed and programs around the world. In accordance training on all modules. We have two 24-hour with our corporate policies, we will not tolerate anonymous helplines for reporting any potential trafficking in persons, use of child labour, and use misconduct, as well as robust required training on of forced labour or procurement of commercial the aforementioned policies. Across sex acts by an Abt employee, subcontractor Abt Associates Britain and Abt Associates or supplier. Australia, formal training is provided for child protection, fraud and sexual harassment, with While businesses and customs vary, and each the modern slavery and human trafficking formal individual who works for Abt Associates is training currently in development. unique, certain standards and responsibilities are shared wherever we do business. We have a Abt is compliant with all of its U.S. Government strict, zero-tolerance policy for sexual misconduct contracts containing the Federal Acquisition of any kind. This type of behavior is contrary Regulations (FAR) clause found at FAR 52.222to our values and prohibited by our Code of 50, entitled “Combating Trafficking in Persons”. Conduct. Abt Associates U.S. has several longAdditionally, upon issuance of a subcontract under standing policies in place that address these a U.S. Government prime contract, Abt includes topics, including Freedom from Harassment, Child this same FAR clause and ensures compliance Safeguarding, Combating Trafficking in Persons, by its subcontractors. Our work performed Non-Retaliation and our Workplace Non-Violence under agreements with the U.K. Department for Policies. These policies are reviewed and updated International Development (DFID) requires that we biennially unless circumstances arise that would likewise adhere to and be compliant with relevant otherwise require an immediate update. anti-trafficking and human rights policies. 4 Our work for the Australian Government’s Our researchers study some of the most Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade important and relevant questions facing (DFAT) strictly adheres to the Environmental the world today, from the effects of Postand Social Safeguard Policy. Abt Associates Traumatic Stress Disorder, to evaluating the Australia implements a robust child protection effectiveness of strategies to reduce barriers policy in compliance with DFAT’s stringent to family planning services. Social, behavioral, requirements driving adherence to international and educational research can pose risks to child safeguarding standards. In accordance privacy and confidentiality as well as ethical with a ‘do no harm’ approach, a number of key challenges, especially studies involving vulnerable safeguarding requirements are implemented as populations. As part of its commitment to part of our operations and program activities conducting research that meets the highest including rigorous recruitment and screening ethical standards, Abt Associates maintains its measures, comprehensive child protection own Institutional Review Board (IRB) to safeguard training for staff and partners, dedicated child research participants’ rights and welfare and to protection resourcing across programs, detailed protect their personal information. risk management processes and partner capacity building. Child protection is considered both a In calendar year 2018, our IRB reviewed 100 key risk area and an important cross-cutting issue new research studies and monitored 71 ongoing in the aid and development sector, with studies. The IRB review typically includes the organisation committed to ensuring best assessment of: 1) the informed consent process practices in this regard. Without question, and research design; 2) compliance with country wherever and for whomever we work, we take or state privacy laws; 3) a safety plan for studies these commitments very seriously. involving vulnerable populations to ensure those in need were referred to appropriate resources, Abt’s own policies on Child Safeguarding and e.g., helplines for veterans, and study teams Combating Trafficking in Persons ensure that complied with mandated reporting requirements, we comply with our stated values as well as e.g., potential child neglect and abuse, 4) a international laws regarding child abuse and detailed data security plan and data agreements; severe forms of trafficking in persons, defined as, “the recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision, or obtaining of a person for labour or services, through the use of force, fraud or coercion for the purpose of subjection to involuntary servitude, peonage, debt, bondage, or slavery, and sex trafficking.” It is an ethical obligation for all Abt employees, and anyone who represents the interests of Abt anywhere in the world, to comply with these policies. Prior to undertaking an international assignment, and as part of the induction process, all staff, regardless of background, experience, or position receive information on organisational policy and procedure for safety and security. 5 and 5) certificates of confidentiality or privacy certificates to protect participants’ sensitive research data. The Abt Associates IRB also ensures that staff take training on research integrity and protection of human research participants every three years. In 2018, 79 staff completed a three-hour on-line training, which is available in 10 different languages. The IRB supplements the on-line training with role-based training on other topics such as privacy laws, e.g., HIPAA, open data policies, e.g., USAID’s, and ethical issues specific to a methodology, e.g., qualitative research with vulnerable populations. In 2018, the IRB received only 2 complaints from research participants who called the IRB’s toll-free hotline. One complaint was regarding the high number of follow-up messages the participant received. The participant requested to be removed from the study. The second complaint was regarding the nature of random assignment, once described, the participant was no longer upset. Finally, Abt has had zero reported violations of human rights abuses through any of our employees, clients, suppliers or research participants. 6 Our Work Combating Human Trafficking Forced labour, involuntary domestic servitude, sex trafficking —these are all aspects of modern slavery, and represent an egregious violation of human rights. We work closely with government agencies, providers and survivors to better understand both the issues faced by trafficking survivors and the programs that work to reduce human trafficking. Our research has addressed human trafficking offenders, victims and justice system responses using a wide range of qualitative and quantitative methods. We are now developing and testing a methodology for producing valid estimates of human trafficking prevalence across the United States, using surveys in shelters, emergency medical facilities and jails. Advancing the Sustainable Development Goals 7 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should uphold the Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective abolition of child labour. effective recognition of the right PRINCIPLE 6 to collective bargaining. Businesses should uphold the PRINCIPLE 4 elimination of discrimination Businesses should uphold the in respect of employment and elimination of all forms of forced occupation. and compulsory labour. It is the policy and practice of Abt Associates to We are an affirmative action and equal abide by all applicable local, state and federal laws opportunity employer and compensate and regulations affecting employee compensation our employees fairly, without regard to any and comply with applicable international protected status or personal characteristic. regulations and contractual obligations related to Abt celebrates different perspectives, cultures, our company status as a Government contractor. expertise and points of view and believes that Compliance with DFID’s Supply Partner Code diverse teams deliver better solutions for our of Conduct, DFAT’s Environmental and Social clients. Across Abt, our senior-level leadership Safeguard Policy, and the nature of our U.S. positions have consistently been held by a federal work have supported the advancement higher percentage of females than males. In of our responsible labour practices over time. addition to our President and Chief Executive We will not tolerate trafficking in persons, use of Officer, Kathleen Flanagan, our corporate offices child labour, use of forced labour or procurement in the U.K. and Australia are led by women. of commercial sex acts by an Abt employee, subcontractor or supplier as stated in the Human Abt Associates leads the list of 50 privateRights section of this document, above. In FY19, sector companies and consultancies rated Abt had zero incidents of policy breach or in the Global Health 50/50 2019 report, misconduct towards the labour principles as laid tied with Unilever for first place. The report, out by the UNGC Principles. compiled by the University College London Centre for Gender and Global Health, rated Beyond our responsibility to meet and 198 organisations on performance across 10 respect the basic tenets of human rights domains, including commitment to gender and responsible labour practices, Abt makes equality, senior management parity, gender of voluntary, positive contributions to support executive and programmatic gender strategy. diversity and inclusion within our workplace. 8 Our Work As of the end of FY19, 56 percent of Abt’s U.S. leadership and 51 percent of the U.K Advancing Equality and Australia leadership teams are female, Gender inequality is both a social issue exceeding industry norms. We are also leading and a critical economic challenge. the norm with 67 percent of our non-senior U.S. Harnessing and leveraging women’s staff and 51 percent of our non-senior U.K and economic potential has the power to Australia staff being female. create jobs, drive growth and transform countries’ GDP. Investing in Women Abt recently expanded its focus on Gender is an Australian government initiative Equality & Social Inclusion, which includes led by Abt Associates and working in programs on empowering women and girls, partnership with major employers in ending gender-based violence, promoting the Philippines, Indonesia, Vietnam social inclusion and engaging men to advance and Myanmar. rights for everyone. The company has also formally adopted the Minimum Standards for The goal of the initiative is to accelerate Mainstreaming Gender Equality. women’s economic empowerment in the region, and in turn, contribute To engage and empower our global staff, Abt to inclusive economic growth in fields an annual global survey of all staff to assess Southeast Asia. A key strategy of this alignment with our strategy and to surface issues initiative is building partnerships with and concerns of importance to staff. large employers to prioritise gender equality as a business imperative. To Actions as a result of the most recent staff survey date, Investing in Women has brought include enhanced professional development together 28 leading employers that support to encourage employees’ efforts to together employ nearly 500,000 people develop their skills, knowledge and advance their and formed four business coalitions careers within the company. Employees may to lead the way on achieving gender receive financial assistance when attending an equality goals in their organisations accredited university or upon completion of a and beyond. Member companies are professional certification. Any employee working committed to advancing gender equality 30 hours is eligible for a Learning Account, in their workplaces and measuring their which will accrue hours to be spent toward progress using EDGE – the leading professional development outside of the office. global assessment methodology and In FY19, 144 global employees participated in the business certification standard for Professional Development Assistance benefit. gender equality. Abt also supports internal mobility through the Mobility Marketplace. The Mobility Marketplace allows staff to post open assignments and provides the means for staff across the company to apply their skills on new projects. This Advancing the Sustainable Development Goals program facilitates simple and effective internal movement, resulting in more opportunities for our staff. In FY19, 175 mobility assignments were posted on the Mobility Marketplace. 9 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Recognising that protection of natural resources A major initiative undertaken in 2018 was the is a vital element of achieving our mission, we relocation of Abt’s two largest U.S. offices to new have pledged to apply our creativity, technical spaces, both of which were designed and built to expertise and collective efforts to reduce our Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design own environmental footprint and the footprint (LEED) specifications. The offices feature motion of services we offer our clients. Through our sensor LED lights, zero volatile organic compound corporate-wide Global Sustainability Program (VOC) paint, carbon-neutral carpeting, high(GSP), we evaluate environmental performance, recycled content workstation furniture, and Forest develop mitigation actions, and measure and Stewardship Council (FSC) certified millwork and report progress on a regular basis in the following wood flooring. These offices not only substantially areas: energy use, materials consumption, waste reduce the energy intensity of our office space, but generation, procurement, travel and greenhouse also provide our employees a healthy and welcoming gas (GHG) emissions. work environment. We are committed to applying the same sustainability-conscious considerations to The GSP’s primary governance and accountability all office spaces that approach their lease end. mechanism is the GSP Operations Committee, which is an executive-level body responsible In 2015, Abt issued a goal to decarbonise its for guiding the meaningful integration of operations by 2050. To ensure success, Abt set sustainability into decision-making, business interim GHG reduction targets, the first of which processes and department strategies. Abt’s was a 25 percent reduction in emissions by 2021 emitted tonnage of GHGs is one of the key from the 2012 base year. We met our 2021 GHG metrics tracked and communicated publicly to reduction target four years ahead of schedule and to The Climate Registry and through Abt’s annual date have reduced our emissions by 28 percent. In corporate reporting. Emissions accounting for the 2018, air travel continues to be the highest source years 2012 through 2016 have achieved external of GHG emissions for Abt. verification, and we will continue to audit and verify our emissions on a biennial basis. 10 Our Work Providing technical assistance in more than 50 countries makes air travel a necessity. To increase Facilitating Investment efficiency, we are bundling meetings, regionalising in Clean Energy services, increasing use of virtual collaboration Abt is promoting clean energy in technology and enhancing connectivity. These developing countries by overcoming efforts have led to a decrease in emissions by 60 barriers to financing. Barriers, including metric tonnes of CO2eq in the past year. Electricity those pertaining to investment, institutional, is the second largest source of emissions for Abt. policy and capacity development, depress The 2018 relocation of our two largest U.S. offices or eliminate incentives for the commercial accounted for a combined 51 percent reduction in lending sector to commit to this rapidly electricity use over the previous site locations in evolving market opportunity. 2017. We continue to improve our GHG accounting methods and expand the scope of what is captured For example, countries in the Lower Mekong in our emissions inventory. In 2019, we have begun region – Cambodia, Lao PDR, Thailand and expanding our GHG accounting to include Abt’s Vietnam – have grown an average of six Australia and U.K. operations and emissions from percent per year since 2011. This growth has operating data centers. improved livelihoods, but rising demand for energy and dependence on fossil fuels Eliminating office-generated waste continues threaten to put the region firmly on the to be a priority. In 2018, we made significant path to dangerous and unsustainable improvements to our system, and have emissions. USAID’s Abt-led Clean Power standardised systems across our U.S. locations. Asia encourages power-sector investments In Maryland and Massachusetts, we separate and in environmentally-friendly, clean energy track waste generation data and thus are able sources, including bringing more renewable to set a landfill diversion goal of 80 percent by energy into electricity grids. Our approach 2020 for those offices. We have made strong – enabled by the public sector and led progress towards this goal as indicative by our by the private sector – integrates flexible Massachusetts office achieving a 75 percent activities that strengthen power systems landfill diversion rate to date. within and across borders. The project Across the world, all of Abt’s programs abide also gathers datasets to support national by the environmental regulations and standards renewable energy targets and integration required by the relevant funding entity. In the of the targets into power development and case of USAID-funded programs, we ensure that integrated resource plans. To date, Clean the programing is in adherence with the 22 CFR Power Asia has reported $16.5 million in 216 (USAID Agency Environmental Procedures). investment in clean energy. In the case of U.K.-funded programs for DFID, we adhere to the U.K. International Development Act and DFID’s Environmental Operations Policy, which is to conserve resources, reduce waste and Advancing the Sustainable Development Goals phase out the use of volatile organic compounds and other substances damaging to health and the environment. In the case of Australia-funded programs for DFAT, we ensure compliance with the Environment Protection Policy for the Aid Program, and the Environmental and Social Safeguard Policy. 11 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Ethical behavior and a strong moral compass that protects anyone who raises a concern or are expected from all Abt staff, from entryparticipates in an investigation from reprisal. level to senior management, up to the Board of In addition, Abt maintains and promotes two Directors. We maintain a strong tone at the top 24-hour anonymous helplines for reporting any that Abt will conduct its business according to potential misconduct. One of the helplines is the highest standards, and unethical behavior monitored by Abt’s General Counsel and the will not be tolerated. Our Code of Conduct other one is monitored by the Board Chair of clearly states corruption will not be condoned at Abt’s Finance and Audit Committee. any level nor within any country of operations. We employ a number of measures to ensure staff behave in accordance with our standards and in compliance with regulations that govern our work. Beyond a comprehensive Code of Conduct, our policies on business process and procedures are easily accessible to all employees. We train staff on various ethics and compliance topics annually and implement robust controls to ensure that policies and procedures are followed. It is an ethical obligation for all employees, and anyone who represents the interests of Abt anywhere in the world, to act with the highest levels of honesty and integrity. To this end, Abt has developed an Anti-Bribery Policy and procedures for complying with the global anti-bribery laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and Australian anti-bribery and corruption laws. We also have a strict non-retaliation policy 12 Our Work Fighting Corruption USAID’s Abt-led Mexico Economic Policy Program (MEPP)—Programa de Política Económica de México—works with the Mexican government to improve its business environment and competiveness by strengthening public sector economic governance and integrity. MEPP is carrying out targeted transparency and anti-corruption initiatives focusing on procurement reform and business regulation and driving civic empowerment through public accountability. For example, MEPP developed a Corruption Risk Index to evaluate public contracts in the federal procurement system. This analytical model and database —the first of its kind in Mexico—flags barriers to competition, lack of transparency and legal violations in the contracting processes, helping government and independent experts focus resources to clean up federal procurement. MEPP achieves results via collaboration with government counterparts and local institutions, guiding policy change and building organisational capacity. For example, working with Petroléos Mexicanos (Pemex)—the national oil producer that recently became Mexico’s largest state-owned productive enterprise—MEPP is developing an operational code of conduct that promotes compliance with ethical practices among executives and managers. Advancing the Sustainable Development Goals 13 FOUNDER Clark C. Abt, Ph.D. YEAR FOUNDED 1965 PRESIDENT & CEO Kathleen L. Flanagan EMPLOYEES 3,600 + LOCATIONS Atlanta l Baton Rouge l Boulder l Brisbane Cambridge, Mass. | Canberra | Chicago Durham l London l New York Washington, DC PROGRAM OFFICES IN MORE THAN 50 COUNTRIES Australia & Asia-Pacific | Latin America & Caribbean | Middle East & North Africa North America | South & Central Asia Sub-Saharan Africa abtassociates.com
