COP (Communication on Progress) Human Rights Labour Standards Environment Anti – Corruption New Link/ CSR/ UNGCC o P (Nov 2019) 1 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure Businesses are not complicit in human right abuses LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. New Link/ CSR/ UNGCC o P (Nov 2019) 2 The Global Compact's self-assessment tool is used to assess the situation of New Link Marketing Limited in relation to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights. The following results are corroborated by written and unwritten policies that need further improvements. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Make sure Businesses are not complicit in human right abuses. Assessment, policy and goals New Link Marketing Limited is committed to being a responsible corporate citizen, contributing to the society of Myanmar within which we operate. New Link fully supports the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, to which every human being is entitled. New Link/ CSR/ UNGCC o P (Nov 2019) 3 Implementation • New Link ensures all our employees benefit from freedom of thought and expression and we also ensure there is no discrimination in the workplace. • Through implementation of continuous health and safety procedures, we provide safe, healthy, and pleasant work environment. • In the workplace, fire extinguishers are installed and readily available. Workplace is maintained to ensure work is done under clean and comfortable conditions, including a suitable temperature, good ventilation, maximum usage of natural lighting and clean sanitation area. • We practice 44 hour’s work week and pay overtime allowances for extra hours as stated in our company’s workers’ Manual. • We close all the gazetted public holidays announced by Government. • The company pays salary timely and regularly. Incentive payment is provided monthly. • Employees are entitled to take sick leave. Women employees are entitled to at least 12 weeks of paid maternity leave per child. • New Link grants compassionate leave or parental leave to workers. • The company protects employees against workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats. • The company respects the privacy of its employees whenever it collects confidential information. • New Link ensures that employees are fully aware of the company’s policies on employees’ rights and responsibilities. New Link/ CSR/ UNGCC o P (Nov 2019) 4 • New Link coach and train our employees not only for company benefit but also for their career and life development. • Apart from regular annual charitable activities held according to Myanmar Traditional and culture, New Link is engaged in a number of CSR activities. New Link/ CSR/ UNGCC o P (Nov 2019) 5 Measurement of outcomes • New Link management is committed to paying close attention to the measurement of outcomes on the human rights issues. • No cases of human rights violations or complaints were reported during the reporting period. • ZERO case of human rights contravention was reported by our management team over the last year. • The company will continue to promote and advocate human rights norms and respect fundamental human rights of all our stakeholders: customers, suppliers, partners and government regulators. New Link/ CSR/ UNGCC o P (Nov 2019) 6 LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, policy and goals New Link is committed to align with ILO declaration and its articles on effective abolition of child labour, the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour, the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and freedom of association and common bargaining. We created a Workers’ Manual incorporating standards of work from the Ministry of Labour for the responsibility of employers and employees. Our HR Department has clearly written policies of employee rights and responsibilities for compensation and benefits, rules and regulations. We practice equal employment opportunities for every individual, regardless of race, color, sex, religion, disability and marital status. We encourage each and every employee to engage in continuous learning and development. New Link/ CSR/ UNGCC o P (Nov 2019) 7 Implementation • We follow the law of the Labour Union of Myanmar and accordingly we have done the training workshop held by the labour Union of Myanmar. • No employee is subject to any form of discrimination based on gender, race, or physical abilities, or religion. • Employees are only hired at a minimum age of 18 years. • Any form of physical or verbal harassment is strictly forbidden. • All employees are free to be part of any association or nongovernmental foundation. • Every employee has the right to negotiate his or her salary. • Employee is given a working contract of two years. • HR benefits cover fair monthly salaries, overtime allowances, lunch for all office employees on working days, travel and meal allowances, transportation provision, and social security insurances at Social Security Board of the employees. • Moreover, each and every employee has the right to request for short term petty cash loan without interest around 20th of each month. • Yearly leave entitlements include 10 days of casual leave, (according to the Labour Law casual Leave are 6 days) 10 days of earned leave, 12 weeks of maternity leave, 2weeks of paternity leave, 30 days of fully paid medical leave as clearly expressed in Workers Manual of our New Link. New Link/ CSR/ UNGCC o P (Nov 2019) 8 • New Link also allows employees to get 7 days of leave for Funeral and Bereavement of close relatives, and Study leave (University Students) for 14 days which is not mentioned under Labour Law. • New Link collects Kyat 1,000 from every employee to be used as staff fund to be used for social activities including weddings, births, funerals of immediate families, and birthday gifts. • New Link has set up a mini library with 300 books on various topics including business management, health, religion, fiction/non-fiction, etc. for the knowledge enrichment of employees thereby promoting learning environment. New Link/ CSR/ UNGCC o P (Nov 2019) 9 Measurement of outcomes • We aim to measure the outcome of our rules and mechanism in place by counting and evaluating any case of labour-related issues that may arise. • The organizational structure is flat and there is an effective line of communication between management and employees that allows ideas and suggestions to be sent directly and unhindered. • New Link has a good gender balance, female also have equal opportunity to male. • New Link give full maternity leave to pregnant employee according to law and we do not discriminate against women and violate the right to work for female. • All employees with one-year service period have the opportunity to receive bonus at the end of each year subject to the financial situation of the company. • New Link has various races and religions. Moreover, all employees have the right to believe and practice their religions. • New Link has internal Human Rights policy and also checks with our vendors to ensure that they also follow our terms and conditions, such as Anti-Corruption, and No Child Labor Policies. • Finally, we aim to monitor staff turnover and work place satisfaction, and take the necessary actions if we observe any areas that need improvement. New Link/ CSR/ UNGCC o P (Nov 2019) 10 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, policy and goals New Link recognizes and understands the need to emphasize the environmental impact caused by the rapid growth of businesses and industries. We actively promote the objective of reducing negative impact on the environment internally and externally. We try to cut any kind of waste (time, paper, electricity, pollution) in every way possible. We always consider the avoidance of environmental risks. We are fully committed to tackling the challenges brought about by climate change. New Link/ CSR/ UNGCC o P (Nov 2019) 11 Implementation • We put priorities not only for the safety of the people but also for the safety of the environment. • We conduct safety for all level of employees to be responsible for the environment and the communities. • We always strive to avoid environmental damage such as air pollution, waste disposal and wastewater drainage. We use recycled rainwater system to take advantage of monsoon period. • Our offices are equipped with energy saving lamps to promote clean energy in the environment. We used the spark-proof lights and energy saving LED Light in our company. • A fish pond in a garden with other flowering plants and shady trees placed in the compound ensure greenery and relieve the people from mental fatigue. • New Link has improved and implemented rules and regulations internally to reduce the usages of paper by using both sides of paper. • Our various departments are connected via local area network(LAN) and we distributes the customer order forms, meeting minutes, work instructions through e-mails or via shared folders. • Car Pooling is being implemented whenever possible. • Usage of petrol and other natural resources are closely monitored to minimize waste. • The employees volunteer to plant trees around the office environment during rainy season. New Link/ CSR/ UNGCC o P (Nov 2019) 12 Measurement of outcomes • We make it a culture to conserve energy whenever and wherever possible. • We always monitor environmental issues in order to maintain a good relationship with our environment and our neighbors. • New Link Marketing Limited saves office energy and promotes clean energy in the environment. • Moreover, awareness trainings were also conducted on regular basis to make sure the entire workforce fully understand company’s sustainable practice for the environment. New Link/ CSR/ UNGCC o P (Nov 2019) 13 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals New Link promotes peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development. We have a policy of zero tolerance towards any forms of corruption, bribery or collusion therewith or any failure to report cases thereof. New Link is fully committed to integrity, fair dealing and adopts good corporate governance practices. All levels of employees have to strictly adhere to the company’s policies and procedures. Any gifts or presents shall not be accepted in favour of the performance of work either. The integrity of the staff is essential in the way New Link Marketing Limited handle all issues. The company combats all forms of corruption: not only among its employees, but also with external companies and organizations. New Link/ CSR/ UNGCC o P (Nov 2019) 14 Implementation • The company is aware of the anti-corruption commitment and practices by all employees up to management. • We train and expect employees at all levels to understand and respect our policies as an obligation in their terms of work. All new employees are trained to understand and commit to these policies as a part of their induction programme. • In case of any corruptions occurred in our organization, our management always take very careful investigation into detail scenario and never hesitate to take serious action accordingly regardless of the level of staff. New Link/ CSR/ UNGCC o P (Nov 2019) 15 Measurement of outcomes • Every employee is fully aware of all forms of corruption and anticorruption / anti-corruption measures. • The company anti-corruption policy is circulated amongst all stakeholders: employees, customers, business partners and its affiliates, to ensure that the entire company’s activities are acting in accordance of these rules. • New Link Marketing Limited monitors the behavior of staff and suppliers towards corruption. If any violation found, we will take necessary action according to the relevant policies. • We ensure the basic needs of employees are fulfilled properly i.e. (free lunch provided every office days, pure water, transportation, uniform, and so on.) Hence, employees have fewer chances of being engaged in any corruption, or extortion since their basic needs are fulfilled and their social welfare is well taken care of. • There was no corruption case found or reported by Management Team. New Link/ CSR/ UNGCC o P (Nov 2019) 16 New Link Marketing Limited CSR Activities Photos Training on Human Rights New Link/ CSR/ UNGCC o P (Nov 2019) 17 Personal hygiene training for young students. Donation of hygienic items as CSR initiative. Donated nutrition at Mental Health Hospital as CSR initiative New Link/ CSR/ UNGCC o P (Nov 2019) 18 Teaching material and Monthly Teacher Salary support at a Monastic School Donations for YOUNG HIV/AIDS Patients New Link/ CSR/ UNGCC o P (Nov 2019) 19 Environmental conservation activity By planting trees New Link/ CSR/ UNGCC o P (Nov 2019) 20 Clean environment activity New Link/ CSR/ UNGCC o P (Nov 2019) 21
