1 Content 13 CMD’s Message 15 About the Report 19 GAIL’s Story 29 Corporate Governance 37 Risk Management 45 Sustainability at GAIL 49 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality 59 Business Growth 73 Operational Excellence 83 Energy and Environment 93 Health and Safety 101 Public Policy and Advocacy 109 Human Capital at Core 119 Our Corporate Social Responsibility 127 Customers 131 Suppliers 137 Performance Snapshot 143 Independent Assurance Statement 147 Glossary 149 GRI Content Index 161 Linkages with NVG SEE Principles 162 Linkages to API/IPIECA, UNGC, ISO 26000 Principles GAIL Highlights for 2017-18 Clean, affordable and sustainable supply of energy 1st Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) cargo under long-term contract with Russia that arrived at Dahej was received by Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister for Petroleum & Natural Gas and Skill Development & Entrepreneurship. International Energy Forum at New Delhi 1st Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) cargo under long-term contract with Russia arrived at Dahej was received by Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister for Petroleum & Natural Gas and Skill Development & Entrepreneurship 1 Energizing our Cities with Cleaner Fuel The Urja Ganga project is a 2,655 km long project, also known as Jagdishpur-Haldia & BokaroDhamra (JHBDPL) Pipeline project. This pipeline has been further extended by adding 727 kms from Barauni to Guwahati. The current capacity of Regasified Liquefied Natural Gas (RLNG) terminals in India is 30 Million Metric Tonne Per Annum (MMTPA). 2 Energizing our Cities with Cleaner Fuel – Continuation A Proud Moment to share GAIL turns a new leaf in gas retail marketing with Jagdishpur-Haldia & and Bokaro-Dhamra Pipeline (JHBDPL) by executing Joint Venture Agreement (JVA) with GCGSCL ( a Govt. of West Bengal entity) for operating city gas network in Kolkata Geographical area extending over 1500 sq.kms This historic agreement paves the way for GAIL to steer the JointVenture Company with 76% equity stake. The new subsidiary Bengal Gas Company Limited has set an ambitious target of connecting over 1.4 million households and setting-up 70 plus CNG stations at an investment of over ` 500 crore within the next five years. The addition of Kolkata into GAIL’s CGD portfolio provides us with a unique distinction of emerging as a major operator of City Gas Distribution across metropolitan cites in India. Kolkata JVA was signed in the presence of CMD, GAIL and Chief Secretary, Govt. of West Bengal today at the Sate Secretariat, Kolkata. 3 Natural Gas for a Cleaner Tomorrow 4 Energizing tomorrow with cleaner fuel Sustaining the growth momentum through strong financial performance Natural Gas Marketing up by 8%, Natural Gas Transmission volumes up by 5%, Liquid Hydrocarbon EPS rose to sales rose Total INR 21.28 by 17%, LPG dividend of per share in Transmission INR 7.18 per Group FY 2017-18 volumes share on Group Turnover as against increased post bonus PAT of INR of INR INR 14.94 by 8% and enhanced 4,799 54,556 per share in petrochemical equity crore crore FY 2016-17 sales up by 3% Financial Performance for FY 2017-18 While all segments contributed positively to the company’s profit, Gas Trading and Petrochemicals Segments performed better than the last quarter due to improved physical performance in Gas Trading segment and better margin in Petrochemicals segment. Shri B.C. Tripathi CMD GAIL (India) Limited 5 Customer Centricity, Safety and Mobility Partnership agreement between Uber and GAIL signed at Hardware Technology Park, Bengaluru GAIL signs Rupee term Loan Agreement with SBI 6 Creating Value beyond Business 7 Community Connect Mobile medical units (MMU) for providing health checkups Glimpse of GAIL Speedstar athletes during to nearby villages of GAIL installations under GAIL’s flagship the felicitation event healthcare project “Aarogya”. Free Health checkup camp organized by GAIL on 04.05.2018 Minimarathon organized for women at GAIL, Noida under GAIL CSR Project “Aaroga”. Respectable Sh. Ram Naik, Governor , Uttar Pradesh was present as Chief Guest of the event 8 Committed to Nation’s Development 9 Swachh Bharat Pakhwada Global Recognition GAIL (India) Limited has been included in the FTSE4 Good Emerging Index for second year in a row. 10 Our Commitment towards Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) came into force on January 1, 2016. The unprecedented scope of the 17 SDGs and its 169 sub-targets have laid a comprehensive vision for the future. They offer a tremendous opportunity to move towards a more equitable, socially inclusive, safe and sustainable world. The Government of India is focused towards tracking and evaluating the impact of its present initiatives and scaling up successful interventions with regards to the SDGs. Achieving the SDGs in a country as diverse as India may be seen as difficult but not unachievable. “There is no cause greater than shaping a world in which every life that enters it can look to a future of security, opportunity and dignity; and, where we leave our environment in a better shape for the next generation. And, no cause that is more challenging” – Sh. Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of India. We have mapped our key initiatives with SDGs relevant to business approach. The details of these initiatives are appropriately captured in the Report. 11 Mapping GAIL Initiatives with SDGs • GAIL Pankh • EIC Coaching Program • Public Procurement Policy • GAIL Kaushal • Bio-based fuel Generation • Promotion of Khadi • Digital yatra • Pipeline Integrity Management • GAIL Saksham • Health and safety at Workplace • GAIL Arogya • GAIL Unnati • GAIL Raftaar • Project Shrijan • GAILUjjwal • Energy Efficiency Initiatives • Project Utkarsh • Waste Management and Land Reclamation • Emission Management • GAIL Sashakt • Cloud Based Emission Monitoring IIOT • Hawa Badlo • Swachh Bharat Pakhwada • Green Belt and Biodiversity Management • Urja Ganga • Rooftop Solar Power Plant • Partnership with TERI • Clean Energy Development 12 CMD’s Message As the pace for gas-based economy accelerates and forays in new markets and geographies through expanding national gas grid and city gas projects, at GAIL, our emphasis have been on expansion across gas value chain and achieve a deeper market penetration. eing India’s flagship With gaining more visibility as a Global 11,400 km of Natural Gas pipeline natural gas company, GAIL player, this year marked a turning point and over 2,030 km of LPG pipeline in promotes natural gas in all for GAIL as we foray into new business India, our company is now developing spheres of economic and area of international trade of LNG. By Natural Gas pipeline network of more social growth in the country. It has been virtue of its LNG Portfolio, GAIL today than 4,000 km across the country to our consistent endeavor to achieve our is among top 10 Global LNG players. make access-to-energy for all a reality. goals and objectives. We have made As an industry pioneer, undertook systematic investments in building innovative measures of destination GAIL has been entrusted with new gas pipelines and undertaking and time swap of term contracts with responsibility of ‘Pradhan Mantri City Gas Distribution projects to cater global players to optimize value under Urja Ganga’ (PMUG) project. This to the increasing energy needs of the long-term LNG contracted from USA. project would help achieve our country. Today, GAIL has a marked its The LNG carrierMeridian Spirit which government’s aspiration of increasing presence in the entire gas value chain has been charter hired at extremely the percentage contribution of natural ranging from exploration, processing, competitive rates is pressed into gas in India’s energy mix to ensure transmission and marketing of Natural service for voyaging scheduled a sustainable economic and social gas as well as processing of gas based cargoes from US east coast. value-added products such as LPG This year, GAIL became the GAIL receives and its transmission, other Liquid first Indian public-sector st Hydrocarbons and Petrochemicals. company to source LNG from 1 LNG Cargo Russia on a long-term. GAIL under long term During FY 17-18, GAIL registered a has contracted to import gross sale of INR 53,825.49 crore and 2.5 MMTPA of LNG from a highest ever Profit after Tax (PAT) Gazprom Marketing and of INR 4,618 crore. This rise in PAT has Trading Singapore. In midst been achieved along with 5% growth of geopolitical uncertainties, in Natural Gas Marketing segment and LNG imports from Russia will Natural Gas Transmission volumes. go a long way in mitigating Sales quantity in Petrochemicals, these risks. Liquid Hydrocarbons and LPG Transmission segment also went up by In addition to an existing Energy cooperation 17%, 15% and 11% respectively. pipeline network of over contract with Russia 13 102-14 growth through clean fuels. PMUG In order to amplify its outreach was envisaged to bring eastern states efforts, GAIL contributed 2.63% of of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, the average net profit of the preceding West Bengal, Odisha and Assam three years on CSR projects in FY 2017under National Gas Grid. This pipeline 18 amounting to INR 91.65 crore as has been further extended by adding against the stipulated 2% spend of INR 727 kms from Barauni to Guwahati. 69.67 crores. GAIL’s CSR philosophy Gas supply through pipeline and of ‘HRIDAY’ emphasises on a multicascades has commenced in Varanasi, stakeholder approach. We have been Bhubaneswar and Cuttack in the first effectively engaging and collaborating quarter of FY 2018-19. Ground work reputed institutions and NGOs to for laying the CGD network in Patna, develop, assess, execute and monitor Ranchi and Jamshedpur has also projects and effectively respond started. Physical progress is in line to community challenges. GAIL with the envisaged schedule. Health, Safety and Environment has supported 31 GPS enabled and sustainability is of highest priority at geo-fenced Mobile Medical Units City Gas Distribution networks GAIL. In keeping with this philosophy, (MMU) under our flagship healthcare along the pipeline at Varanasi, Patna, various initiatives were undertaken project ‘Arogya’. The project Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Cuttack and such as Behavior Based Safety (BBS) includes Free Doctor’s consultation, Bhubaneshwar are being concurrently and SAP training on Environment, distribution of medicines, basic developed. GAIL has also turned a Health & Safety Module (EHSM) diagnostic tests and referral to other new leaf in gas retail marketing along to employees to upgrade their healthcare facilities. GAIL with its Jagdishpur-Haldia & Bokaro-Dhamra performance in their respective HSE focus on long-term approach and Natural Gas Pipeline (JHBDPL) pipeline functions. With these efforts, FY 17-18 consistent endeavor through our CSR by executing Joint Venture Agreement has been an incidence free year with projects, GAIL has been recognized with Greater Calcutta Gas Supply zero Fatalities and zero reportable and awarded for excellence in CSR Corporation Limited (GCGSCL), for injuries. In addition, GAIL achieved the practices under Hindustan PSU Award operating City Gas Network in Kolkata HSE Score of 93.45% as against the 2018. extending over 1,500 km and have set MoU target of 90%, Zero fatalities an ambitious target of connecting and Zero reportable injuries. With the commitment and efforts over 1.4 million households. of our employees, GAIL treads We are proud to announce that the towards the holistic success of the GAIL, through its focussed measures, ‘FTSE4Good Emerging Market Index’, organization to create long-term has also contributed to the National a market-leading tool for investors value for its stakeholders. With every initiatives that includes Make in India, seeking to invest in companies that year our approach to sustainability Smart Cities, Skill India, Ujjawala strong management of ESG risk, has agenda becomes more enriched and scheme among others. Further, in a included GAIL for second year in a refined through our experiences and bid to contribute to the Government’s row. GAIL as a responsible Corporate learnings. At this exciting dawn of a effort to combat air pollution, GAIL citizen is committed towards the new GAIL in the making, I, look forward supports and promotes the ‘Hawa Sustainable Development Goals to deepening engagement and trust of Badlo’ initiative which aims to (SDGs). We aim to align our business our stakeholders as we tread newer bring change in air quality through goals with national and global paths together and scale uncharted environment friendly practices in priorities. milestones. In the end, I would like day-to-day life. to thank our stakeholders for their valuable support and continued belief in GAIL. B. C. Tripathi Chairman and Managing Director GAIL (India) Limited 14 01 About the Report Execution Efficiency Excellence GAIL’s growth story is based on the strong foundation of Ethics, Transparency and Inclusiveness 15 About the Report Since 2011, GAIL has been sharing lobal Reporting Initiative set by any organization that wants its social, environmental and (GRI) is the first independent to report about its impacts, and the economic impacts of its operations international organization organization’s contribution towards with all its stakeholders through that pioneered sustainability sustainable development. its annual Sustainability Report. reporting in 1997. GRI helps Through the sustainability businesses and governments GRI Standard has two “in accordance” reports, we communicate the worldwide understand and options of core and comprehensive. company’s performance targets communicate their impact on critical The general disclosures are to be and corresponding results related sustainability issues enabling real reported for both options, with to sustainability commitment so as action to create social, environmental a larger number reported for the to ensure a transparent disclosure and economic benefits for everyone. comprehensive option for standard practice. They feature a modular and disclosures on an organization’s interrelated structure and also strategy, analysis, governance and This report has been prepared with represent the global best practices ethics. With an objective to improve reference to the latest version of for reporting on a range of economic, readers’ reference to guidelines, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) environmental and social impacts. we have mapped the GRI Standard Standards: Core Option. The content They are designed to be used as a indicators in the footer of the relevant has been defined taking into sections of the report. consideration the reporting principles as referred in Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards document that is available on the GRI website. The content index is included on page 149 of the report. This report also complies with National Voluntary Guidelines (NVG) on social, environmental and economic responsibilities, International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues, guidelines of the American Petroleum Institute (API), United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), and ISO 26000:2010. 16 102-48, 102-49, 102-54 the GAIL Board recommended highest an easy readability for the readers and ever total dividend pay-out of `1,619 provide them with an understanding crore that is a historic dividend about the organization. The GRI distribution at 35% of profit after tax. content and linkages with other guidelines is available in the later We at GAIL believe in growth with section of the report and purposefully responsibility. With a reassuring kept at the end to maintain the flow of present, our focus remains on kaizen, readability. the continual holistic improvement in our systems, processes, operations, The above Design Frame is used contracts, technology and ultimately through out this Report to highlight the way we do our business. New Information/Initiative taken during Fy 2017-18 This philosophy forms the foundation of our theme for our Sustainability Report for FY 17-18 “Execution, Efficiency, Excellence”. “Execution, Efficiency, Excellence” Reporting Year Growth of an organization is GAIL follows the financial year, imperative for the sustenance of a April 01 to March 31 for the purpose business. However, growth in these of reporting its financial accounting times is more inclusive, centred not and performance. The same period only on the financials of the business has been used for reporting its but also value creation for its sustainability performance. This is stakeholders. the company’s 8th sustainability report and the reporting content GAIL’s growth story is based on is based on GAIL’s economic, social the strong foundation of ethics, and environmental performance in transparency and inclusiveness. financial year 2017-18. The electronic Fiscal 2017-18 has been a landmark version of this report is available on year for GAIL. GAIL’s strong pursuit our website for sustainability report of investments and growth along www.gailsustainabilityreport.com . the natural gas value chain resulted in delivery of highest-ever profits grossing over `4,618 crore in FY Data Management 2017-18 increasing by 32% from last This report covers economic, social financial year (FY). This year has and governance related data from also been significant in terms of April 01, 2017 to March 31, 2018. The strengthening our sourcing of natural data presented in this report has been gas. GAIL, now with LNG/RLNG captured using GRI Standards and portfolio of over 15 MMTPA, is being their methodologies. The report also recognized as a significant player in presents a detailed description of the the global industry. GAIL’s engagements with the various stakeholders and myraid initiatives Our continued commitment and action that were undertaken to meet the towards consolidating leadership stakeholders’ aspirations. The report position in natural gas business by also covers material aspects that expanding the transmission and are important to our business as well distribution infrastructure, gas as stakeholders. In addition to this, trading portfolio, city gas distribution various plans, projects and strategic infrastructure, optimizing our LNG approaches to various sustainability contracts and marketing of LNG issues have also been discussed. cargoes has helped us reap the accomplishments that exceeded our This year we have tried to adapt a new growth metrics. In line with our vision structure of reporting in order to offer of creating value for our stakeholders, 17 102-45, 102-46, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52 the locations of the company except views are among the most crucial Our commitment joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased elements that help us in this respect. Our stakeholders can share their to Sustainable facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities. constructive feedbacks or queries Development Goals about the report to Shri R K Choubey, This report is based on a manuscript CGM (SD) at choubeyrk@gail.co.in, As a responsible corporate citizen compiled by functional departments Shri Arvind Kumar Namdeo, GM (SD) and a government undertaking, GAIL and each of the process owners at arvind.namdeo@gail.co.in and also consistently endeavors to create a identified for the respective material reach us at sustainability@gail.co.in. positive value for our stakeholders. aspects. We aim to align our business goals with In legalese: No part of this report may national and global priorities. With be reproduced, or transmitted in any this perspective, we have highlighted Data validation and form or by any means, electronic or our initiatives aligned to achieve the assurance mechanical, including photocopying, SDGs. The relevent SDGs have been recording, or by any information mapped to different sections of the This report has been assured by storage or retrieval system, without report and depicted through the SDG external assurance agency, M/s the prior written permission of icons. Emergent Ventures India Pvt. Ltd. This the company. is a Type 2 moderate level assured report based on AA1000AS (2008) Report scope and standard. The assurance process boundary includes data veriﬁcation at diﬀerent sites of GAIL that will help in improving This year we have added a new our processes and data management operational location, Kochi Pipeline mechanisms. region, into the boundary of the report. Communicating GAIL’s sustainability The scope of the company’s reporting performance to its stakeholders in on the various parameters covers all a transparent manner is of utmost importance to us. Stakeholder 18 102-53, 102-56 02 GAIL’s Story Operates 75% of total Natural Gas transmission in India 19 GAIL’s Story GAIL (India) Limited, previously principles of transparency and ethics. known as Gas Authority of India Limited, was established on August An overview of the 16, 1984 and is headquartered in organization We are now striving to expand our footprint to international markets. New Delhi, India. GAIL is a limited In line with this strategy, we recently company domiciled in India with its eeping in sync with the acquired participating interest equity shares listed on the Bombay developmental needs of in shale assets in the US, LNG Stock Exchange (BSE) and the the economy, GAIL has operations trading in Singapore and National Stock Exchange (NSE). undergone strategic diversifications CGD joint ventures in Egypt and China. GAIL has two overseas whollyinto petrochemicals and liquid Further, we are now sourcing gas owned subsidiaries, viz., GAIL Global hydrocarbons over the years. We through international Sale Purchase Singapore Pte. Limited in Singapore have also ventured into various Agreement (SPAs) from different and GAIL Global USA Inc. in the US. collaborative projects and further regions and countries, including As on March 31, 2018, Government diversified the company’s portfolio the Middle East, the US, Russia and of India holds 53.59% in the paid-up into power, liquefied natural gas re– Australia. equity capital of the company. gasification and city gas distribution (CGD). GAIL is India’s apex natural gas GAIL was conceptualized with an company with an extensive state-ofobjective to leverage the natural At present, GAIL is the largest natural the-art natural gas pipeline network gas reserves of India and create gas provider company of India, of 11,400 km and over 2,030 km of gas sector infrastructure for an also holds the reputation of having uninterrupted energy supply to the widest and the most reliable fuel the country’s economic and services in the country. We industrial growth. With this objective were conferred Maharatna in mind, GAIL received a massive status by the Government economic and strategic push from of India, recognizing our the government during its formative huge market penetration years. We have now become a selfand service quality. We are sustained natural gas company with currently a major contributor presence in all aspects of the natural in meeting the energy needs gas value chain including exploration of the nation and further and production, processing, aspire to drive an era of transmission, distribution and industrial growth fueled by marketing. clean energy. Further, we conduct our business strong compliance management. Our systems built on the 20 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7, 102-9, 102-10 LPG’ pipeline, benefiting millions important contributor towards India’s base, it has also successfully marked of customers. Being a natural gas dream of “access-to-energy-for-all”. its presence on the world map for its company, GAIL makes substantial This is also in line with the increased developed supply capacity and market contribution towards India’s energy thrust being placed by the Government penetration. GAIL aspires to drive security and also plays a vital role of India (GoI) in progressing towards India towards a gas-based economy in the socio-economic development a gas-based economy. While GAIL for a greener tomorrow. of the country. This makes GAIL an enjoys a huge domestic customer MISSION To accelerate and optimize the effective and economic use of Natural Gas and its fractions VISION for the benefit of the national economy. To be the leading company in Natural Gas and beyond, with Global Focus, Committed to Customer Care, Value Creation for all Stakeholders and Environmental Responsibility 21 102-2, 102-4, 102-6 Key elements of GAIL’s Vision Customer We strive relentlessly to exceed the expectations of our Ethics customers, both internal and external. We are transparent, Our customers fair and consistent prefer us. in dealing with all people. We insist on honesty, integrity and trustworthiness in all our activities. Shareholders We meet the objectives of our shareholders by providing them superior returns Technology and value through their investments We believe in us. technology is the key to the future success of our organization. We advocate use of ‘best-in-class’ technologies. People We believe our success is driven by the commitment and excellence of our people. We attract and retain result-oriented people who are proud of their work and are satisfied with nothing less than the very best in everything they do. We encourage individual initiative by creating Safety, Health and opportunities for our Environment people to learn and grow. We respect the individual rights We promote highest levels and dignity of all people. of safety in our operations, health of our employees and a clean environment, We strive for continuous development of the communities in which we operate. 22 102-48, 102-49, 102-54 Business Portfolio Natural Gas • Over 11400 km of Natural Gas Pipeline and Sophisticated Gas Management System • Total Sales Volume of 85 MMSCMD achieved during 2017-18 • 26 new Last Mile Connectivity rolled out during 2017-18 Petrochemicals • Total Sales of 674 TMTs of polymers from Pata Liquid Hydrocarbon • Total Production of 666 • 6 Gas Processing Plants Producing TMT and 205.56 TMT of LPG, Propane, Pentane, Naphtha etc. Polymer from Pata and • Total Production Capacity of 1.3 MT BCPL respectively • Total Production of 1.28 MT during • Marketer of subsidiary 2017-18, of which 80% is LPG and BCPL’s polymers propane • Participation in OPAL LPG Transmission • First company in India to own and operate pipelines for LPG transmission • Share of about 8% of Indian LPG market in LPG production and 4 % in LPG sales • 2038 km LPG pipeline network • Supplies to PSU Oil Marketing Companies namely IOCL, BPCL and HPCL ex-GPUs at Import Parity Price 23 102-45, 102-46, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52 City Gas Distribution • CGD networks along the pipelines at Varanasi, Patna Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Cuttack and Bhubaneshwar being developed • Set up Rich-Lean Gas Corridor and the Waste Heat Recovery Projects at Hazira & Vijaipur, respectively E&P • A part of vertical integration Participation Power & Renewables in 10 blocks (operator-1 on-land block) • 118 MW Wind Power Plant and 10 MW Solar Power Plant • Discovery of hydrocarbons and crude oil from these • Participation in RGPPL (Capacity blocks 500 MW) • Revenue of INR 631 crore from these blocks during 2017-18 • Presence in Myanmar & USA GAIL Timeline Formation HVJ Entry into Entry into Navratna of GAIL Pipeline LPG CGD Status 1984 1988 1990 1994 1997 Entry into First LNG First SPOT LNG GAIL Gas Petrochemicals Import at Dahej Formed 1999 2004 2006 2008 24 DVPL KochiBengaluru Maharatna Pata-II Upgradation (IP/L) Status & BCPL 2008-11 2011-13 2013-16 USA Shale Vijaipur-DadriDabhol Asset Bawana Nangal. Bengaluru Initiative LNG Contract LNG imports PANKH With Sabine Pass From Russia 2017 2018 New Contracts Bengaluru Highest PAT for PMUGY CGD of INR 4,618 crores 25 Our Footprints 26 Our presence, subsidiaries and joint ventures Domestic Subsidiaries Overseas Subsidiaries • Brahmaputra Crackers & Polymers • GAIL (Global) Singapore Pte. (100%) Ltd. (BCPL-70%) • GAIL (Global) USA Inc. (100%) GAIL • GAIL Gas Ltd. GAIL’s wholly owned Global (USA) Inc.(100%) subsidiary subsidiary (100%) of GAIL (Global) USA Inc.) City Gas Distribution (CGD) Joint Ventures • Mahanagar Gas Limited MGL (32.50%) • Petronet LNG Limited (125%) • Indraprastha Gas Limited IGL (22.50%) • GAIL China Gas Global Energy Holding Limited (50%) • ONGC Petro Additions Limited (49.21%) • Bhagyanagar Gas Limited BGL (49.97%) • TAPI Pipeline Company Limited (5%) • Green Gas Limited GGL(49.97%) • Natural Gas Company ‘Nat Gas’ (5%) • Central U.P. Gas Limited CUGL (25%) • Fayum Gas Company (19%) • Maharashta Natural Gas Ltd. MNGL (22.50%) • GAIL China Gas Holding Limited (5%) • Aavantika Gas Limited AGL (49.97%) • Talcher Fertilizers Limited (29.67%) • Tripura Natural Gas Co. Limited TNGL (48.98%) • South-East Asia Gas Pipeline Company Limited (4.17%) • Vadodara Gas Limited VGL (32.93%) Through GAIL Gas Limited • Goa Natural Gas Private Limited • Haridwar Gas Private Limited • Kerala GAIL Gas Limited • Andhra Pradesh Gas Distribution Corporation Limited 27 2018 by CIM Global and CMAI • GAIL Hazira-Vijaipur-Jagdishpur Awards and Association of India. (HVJ) compressor station, Vijaipur was declared as a winner of the recognitions • “The Golden Globe Tigers second level award –Shreshtha Award 2018 for Excellence & Suraksha Puruskar (Silver Trophy) Corporate Leadership”Fun & Joy at Work. in the “manufacturing sector • GAIL was included in the category”. • “2nd ICSI CSR Excellence Award “FTSE4Good Emerging Market 2017 for Best Corporate (in Large • GAIL GPU & Compressor Station, Index”, a market-leading tool Companies Category)” by ICSI. Vaghodia was declared as the for investors seeking to invest in companies with a strong • “FICCI CSR Awards 2016-17 for winner of the fourth level award management of Environmental, Category 2: Education, Skill (Prashansa Patra in the above Social and Governance (ESG) risk, Development and Livelihood category. for second year in a row. under Public Sector Companies • GPU Vaghodia and Gandhar (PSUs)” for Project Avant by won the British Safety • GAIL was amongst the finalists of FICCI. Council “International Safety S&P Global Platts-Global Energy Award in the “Industry Leadership • “Economic Times 2Good CSR Award-2018”. Award Midstream” category. Rating”the only PSU to be feted • GAIL was conferred with the in “All Round Excellence” category award for “Best Implementation • GAIL reached the final stage of by The Economic Times. of BBS in Indian Industry” by the “BML Munjal Awards-Business Excellence through Learning and HSE Forum of Behavioural Safety, Development”. Mumbai. • GAIL was conferred with two CSR National Safety Council of India TQM Awards for the year 2016 under • GAIL was conferred with “Best • CSR Project of the Year Award two different categories. Overall Performance Award for for Srijanby India CSR Network Social Footprints CSR Award Upstream Sector Company” by PCRA/MoP&NG for Saksham activities. The Presidential Award was presented to Dr. Ashutosh Karnatak, Director (Projects) by NACE International 28 03 Corporate Governance 29 Corporate Governance Governance structure Non-Executive Directors (Government Nominee) and Non-Executive he Board of Directors Directors (Independent). As on 31st We aim to ensure that the highest is governed by a formal March, 2018, there were 14 Directors on standards of corporate governance Board Charter setting the Board comprising of 5 Functional and accountability to support out its composition, processes, and Directors including the Chairman & the effective management of our responsibilities. One of the Board’s Managing Director, 9 Non-Executive businesses. Our focus remains on key responsibilities is to ensure Directors (comprising of 2 Government ascertaining the highest standards that the corporate governance Nominee Directors and 7 Independent of ethical and responsible conduct within the organization is in line with Directors). The Board includes two of business to create value for the industries best practices. The women Directors out of a total all our stakeholders including Board undertakes various strategic representation of 14 Directors. Details regulators, employees, customers, decisions critical for successful on the composition of the Board and vendors, investors, and society. business operations while upholding its committees is available in the GAIL’s corporate governance good corporate governance. Annual Report for FY 2017-18, which processes are designed to We have implemented advanced is available at http://gailonline.com/ ensure efficiency, transparency, systems and processes for the proper pdf/InvestorsZone/AnnualReports/ accountability, responsibility, ethics, Annual_Report_2017_18.pdf. and integrity across the entire functioning of the internal controls. value chain. We review our internal audit and compliance procedures intensively and We firmly believe in building efficiently. GAIL complies with SEBI a sustainable company that (Listing Obligations and Disclosure recognizes the short and longRequirements) Regulations, 2015 and term impact of its activities on the Department of Public Enterprise the economy, society, and the (DPE) guidelines on corporate environment. governance. The Board of Directors has an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge required to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively. All the Board members carry expertise and competencies for addressing environmental, social and governancerelated criticalities through a strategic approach. The Board constitutes of Functional Directors (Whole Time), 30 102-18, 102-19, 102-20, 102-21, 102-24, 102-26, 102-27 Our Board of Directors Mr. BC Tripathi Chairman & Managing Director Mr. Ashutosh Karnatak Mr. Subir Purkayastha Mr. P.K. Gupta Mr. Gajendra Singh Director (Projects) Director (Finance) & Director (HR) Director (Marketing ) Chief Financial Officer Mr. Manoj Jain Director (Business Mr. Ashish Chatterjee Ms. Indrani Kaushal Development) Part Time Director Part Time Director Mr. S. K. Srivastava Mr. Anupam Kulshreshtha Mr. Sanjay Tandon Part Time Non-official Part Time Non-official Part Time Non-official (Independent) Director (Independent) Director (Independent) Director Mr. Dinkar Prakash Srivastava Dr. Anup K. Pujari Mr. Rahul Mukherjee Part Time Non-official Part Time Non-official Part Time Non-official (Independent) Director (Independent) Director (Independent) Director Mr. Jayanto Narayan Chaudhary Ms. Banto Devi Kataria Ms. Suchitra Sharma Part Time Non-official Part-time Non-official Chief Vigilance Officer (Independent) Director (Independent) Director 31 As a Central Public Sector Enterprise matters in their areas or purview. All to improving the performance and (CPSE) under the administrative decisions and recommendations of effectiveness, we identify areas of control of the Ministry of Petroleum the committees are placed before the improvement and benchmark against and Natural Gas (MoPNG), Government Board for information or approval. best practices. The evaluation of of India, the Directors are nominated/ the directors’ performance with appointed by the Government of Board Committees play a crucial role respect to governance of economic, India through MoPNG. Appointments, in the governance structure of the environmental and social topics is preparation of eligibility criteria company. The Committees deliberate done by the appointing authority, and the process of selection of the on the matters referred to it by the Government of India. Board members are carried out by Board. Important information and Public Enterprise Selection Board data is distributed in writing to the Continuous evaluation ensures that the (PESB) as per the applicable statutory members of the committees well in board is staffed and led appropriately, provisions. As per Articles of advance of the meeting so as to allow Directors are effective in fulfilling their Association of the company, the Board them to discuss. Recommendations obligations, and reliable processes are has delegated the powers to CMD and of the committees are submitted to in place to satisfy important oversight Functional Directors of the company. the Board to take decisions on the requirements. S.No. Committees of the Board Number of meetings held in FY 17-18 1 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 3 2 Audit Committee 13 3 HR Committee 4 4 Stakeholders Relationship Committee 1 5 Stakeholders’ Grievance Redressal Committee 3 6 Business Development and Marketing Committee 10 7 Finance Committee 2 8 Nomination and Remuneration Committee 4 9 Sustainable Development Committee 2 10 Empowered Contracts and Procurement Committee – ECPC 3 11 Empowered LNG/Polymer 3 Further, as per delegation of powers, the CMD is empowered to delegate the powers vested in him to any of the referred matter. As a part of the Performance regulatory requirement, various Board executives of the company. committees have been constituted by evaluation, We have adopted “The Code of the Board to meet regularly, ensuring remuneration and efficient implementation of strategic Conduct for Board Members and Senior Management Personnel” which decisions. The number of meetings incentives reaffirms GAIL’s commitment to of each committee is held during At GAIL, performance evaluation enhancing the ethical and transparent the reporting period 2017-18 are is based on the composite score of processes while managing the affairs mentioned in the table above. financial and non-financial parameters, of the company. prescribed in GAIL’s MoU with the Performance of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas (MoPNG). This composite score helps Committees of highest governance determine the company’s MoU rating, the Board body based on which, the variable pay bracket is determined. Corporate MoU The Board is primarily responsible The Board is strongly informed score is a part of the performance the for the constitution of the Board about the company, its businesses, parameter of CMD, Director, EDs and Committees, which focus on specific and concerns, which enables them CGMs. Corporate MoU encompasses areas and make informed decisions to take effective decisions, thereby the parameters on business, financial within the framework of delegated meeting stakeholders’ aspirations and non-financial aspects such as authority, and make specific and ensuring positive impacts on CSR, sustainability, human resource, recommendations to the Board on environment and society. With a view 32 102-23, 102-28, 405-1 research and development (R&D), etc. Secretary (P&NG), Government of Related Party Transactions) for any India on 03 July 2017. issues pertaining to related party GAIL has achieved an MoU rating transactions. The issues related to of ‘Excellent’ for the financial year The MoU 2017-18 was majorly aligned conflict of interest are disclosed to 2017-18. The MoU for the year 2017towards achieving GoI’s vision of stakeholders through annual and 18 was signed between Chairman India being a gas-based economy. sustainability reports. GAIL also & Managing Director, GAIL and The thrust, while fixing MoU targets, maintains a quarterly corporate was on increasing the number of governance report for the disclosure. PNG connections, CNG stations, implementation of green corridor and other critical aspects including Sustainability the key financial parameters, gas marketing, gas transmission, project governance The ratio of the highest annual implementation, capital expenditure, We have a comprehensive and well laid compensation of an individual etc. out “Sustainable Development Policy” to the median annual total to integrate economic, environmental compensation of all employees (excluding the highest paid Avoidance of conflict and social concerns into our core business and to create value for our individual) is 2.99 of interest internal and external stakeholders. As a public sector enterprise, we Further, we have a board-level understand the vitality of maintaining “Sustainable Development Committee” stakeholders’ trust. Thus, effective (SDC) which is not only responsible for management of conflict of interest strategizing sustainability processes, at the Board-level becomes an policies, and initiatives at GAIL, but imperative task for the organization. also reviews the emergency response plan and the Health, Safety, and In terms of conflict of interest, we Environment (HSE) performance. maintain a sophisticated system, the Since stakeholders also play a crucial description of which is given below, to role in building an organization’s avoid and deal with such situations. sustainability ecosystem, their The median percentage increase • In case a Director is directly or consultation is incorporated in the in annual total compensation of indirectly interested in a particular Board’s identification and management all employees (excluding highest agenda/matter, he abstains himself of economic, environmental and social paid individual) for the year from participation in discussion of impacts, risks and opportunities. 2017-18 is 0.78% such an agenda; The committee is headed by an • Related Party Disclosure(s) is Independent Director with Director made as per applicable Accounting (Projects) and Director (Business Standards and The Companies Act, Development) as members, who 2013. As per this Act and clause 49 regularly meet to oversee and monitor of the Listing Agreement, approval the sustainability developments and of the Audit Committee and /or initiatives at the company. Board and/or Shareholders as With ethical, social, environmental required is taken for Related Party and health issues under the umbrella Transactions; of sustainable development, SDC met • Each Director gives the disclosure twice in FY 2017-18 and concluded of his interest in any company’s with the following decisions for driving Percentage increase in the or body’s corporate firm, or other sustainability practices across the total annual compensation association of individuals by giving organization’s operations. for the highest paid a notice in writing and the same is individual from FY 2016-17 to put up to the Board. FY 2017-18 is 79.29% As per the SEBI Listing Obligation and Disclosure Requirements (LODR) Regulations, 2015, GAIL has a dedicated policy, “Related Party Transaction Policy” (Policy on Materiality of Related Party Transactions and Dealing with 33 102-22, 102-18, 102-31, 103-3 Sustainable Development Committee Review of approval of GAIL sustainability report 2016-17 Review of Emergency response Review of HSE Independent and disaster performance of management plan Director (ERDMP) of HVJ various sites compressor stations and pipeline network Review of Director Director materiality topic for (Projects) (BD) SR 17-18 HoD (HSE) HoD (SD) Sustainable Development Steering HoD Committee (C&P) HoD The Sustainable Development (F&A) Steering Committee is responsible for direct supervision of the Director sustainability initiatives and (Projects) processes at GAIL. HoD Chairperson (CST) It is a multi-disciplinary committee HoD comprising of departmental (RM) heads and aims to provide a focused solution for the on-ground issues related to HoD sustainability. (CC & HoD CSR) (Mktg-PC) HoD (MktgGas) procedures for business units and of the organization’s assets. We have Internal control service entities. This system ensures also undertaken an exercise through a efficiency, reliability, completeness consultant to reassure adequacy and systems and their of accounting records and timely effectiveness of internal controls. The adequacy preparation of reliable financial consultant has conducted International and management information. In Finance Corporation (IFC) compliance Our internal control system consists addition, it also ensures compliances study and framed Risk Control Matrix of a well-defined organizational of all applicable laws and regulations, (RCM) for several processes. structure, manuals and operating optimum utilization and protection 34 102-35, 102-36, 102-37, 102-38, 102-39 Some of the important policies that articles and case studies related to We have an independent, inare applicable across GAIL are: vigilance is hosted on our intranet for house Internal Audit department, easy accessibility for our employees. consisting of professionally • Code of Conduct qualified persons from the In order to promote transparency and • Conduct, Discipline and Appeal accountability, GAIL has nominated accounting and engineering fields. The Internal Audit department (CDA) Rules/Standing orders Central Public Information Officer functionally reports to the Audit • Fraud Prevention Policy (CPIO)/Central Assistant Public Committee and administratively Information Officer (CAPIOs)/ reports to the Chairman and • Whistle Blower Policy appellate authorities across its various Managing Director. units to provide information to citizens • Code of Fair Disclosure and Conduct under the provisions of the Right to Internal Audit, through riskfocused audits, reviews the • Code of Conduct to regulate, Information (RTI) Act, 2005. Further organization’s risk management, monitor and report trading by details on GAIL’s incorporation of the business processes and insiders Right to Information(RTI) Guidelines, internal controls. The audit Management Information System assignments are conducted as per • Code of Conduct for board members (MIS)report on RTI applications the annual audit program approved and senior management personnel received by GAIL, Record Retention by the Audit Committee. The Audit Schedule, RTI Audit Reports and other Besides, the above codes, we have Committee of the Board regularly related information can be found on also incorporated the Policy for reviews significant findings of the http://www.gailonline.com/final_site/ Determination of Materiality and Internal Audit department and the RTI.html. Disclosure for timely disclosure of Controller and Auditor General information to help facilitate our GAIL has been “live” on Government of (CAG) audit. investors in making well-informed India’s (GoI’s) RTI portal since July 2016 investment decisions. This policy is and provides information online as Internal audit also suggests measures in accordance with Regulation 30 of well as offline for the RTI applications on economy, effectiveness and SEBI LODR, 2015. received in hard copies. GAIL also efficiency, with which resources are observes Vigilance Awareness Week Related party transactions: In keeping employed and utilized, which further annually, to instill a transparent, with the requirement of Regulation 23 helps the organization to design accountable and corruption-free work of SEBI LODR, 2015 and the Companies preventive measures to avoid errors culture across all its units. Various Act, 2013, the audit committee of GAIL or irregularities. activities like poster making, essay, reviews the details of Related Party painting, slogan writing, quiz and These preventive measures are being Transactions on a quarterly basis. debate competitions are organized regularly reviewed for effectiveness The approval of audit committee/or to attract huge participation at this and improvement by the internal audit board/or shareholders as required, is awareness program. department. Besides this, the team of taken for related party transactions. internal audit department also carries For FY 2017-18, GAIL’s Corporate RTI In order to ensure transparency in the out promoters’ audit of subsidiaries, Cell has 100% disposal rate in respect system for the benefit of vendors and joint ventures and Exploration and of RTI applications received and suppliers, various initiatives such as Production (E&P)blocks disposed of. As on 31 March 2018, we e-tendering, e-payments, Bill Watch had a pendency of 17 RTI applications, Ethics and Integrity: We believe System,etc. have been put in place. which were disposed-off subsequently in maintaining the highest ethical Anti-corruption: GAIL abides by the within time schedule/as per the standards in executing all business guidelines and circulars of the Central provisions of the RTI statute. Further, processes. There are various regulatory Vigilance Commission (CVC) for GAIL has received no penalty/adverse requirements and internal codes dealing with issues related to bribery remarks from the Central Information that are required to comply across or corruption at the organization Commission (CIC) for the year 2017-18 the organization and any sort of nonlevel. The policy applies to the whollyin respect of the second appeal filed compliance calls for disciplinary action owned subsidiaries of GAIL as well by appellants. or penalization within organizational as to the joint ventures where equity jurisdiction. These codes and The Whistle Blower Policy, Fraud held by GAIL is over 50%. As per CVC regulations are applicable for all Prevention Policy, and Integrity Pact guidelines, we also organize various employees, including the senior leaders have been instituted to strengthen programs and events for schools and of management and contractual the organization against corruption colleges and also for GAIL employees employees. These laws include antiand make the vigilance system more and their families to sensitize the corruption, anti-trust, anti-boycott, robust. These policies are applicable stakeholders about the ill effects trade sanctions and export control laws to all GAIL employees, including GAIL’s of corruption, during the Vigilance of other countries applicable to crosssubsidiaries and joint ventures. Awareness Week. A magazine titled border business activities. “Jagrook” containing CVC circulars, 35 102-25 Grievance redressal: Stakeholders There is a separate online grievance from across all work centers are trust is of paramount importance redressal system for employees’ uploaded. The portal is accessible to to GAIL and we strongly believe in grievances, which is under the all citizens for lodging their grievances responsible and timely redressal supervision of the Corporate HR and complaints online, which are of stakeholders’ grievances. An team. The HR manager in-charge received by MoPNG. During 2017-18, a online grievance redressal forum is responsible for addressing total of 139 public grievances through called “Samadhan” is accessible to the grievances registered by the CPGRAMS were received, out of which all the stakeholders for reporting employees and ensuring their 136 (98%) have since been resolved, and resolution of any grievance timely redressal. The grievances get while the remaining three are in the related to the organization. The escalated to higher authorities in case final stages of reply. complaints regarding vigilance, of non-redressal within an assigned corruption, forgery, cheating, period. An option to appeal further In addition to these forums, misappropriation, favors, willful is also available to the employees in we understand the importance negligence, reckless decision making, case dissatisfaction is received in the of regularly engaging with our the blatant violation of systems response. stakeholders. We have established and procedures, irregularities in the various forums and platforms to exercise of delegated power can Customers can also provide address grievances and engage with be lodged on to GAIL’s website at feedback regarding product quality our stakeholders such as investors, http://www.gailonline.com/final_site/ by registering service requests/ customers, suppliers, communities onlineComplants.html . There has been complaints/incidents through our and NGOs, among others. We have no confirmed incident of corruption webpage. There is a Centralized Public elaborately explained these platforms that has been reported to the vigilance Grievance Redress and Monitoring in the Stakeholder and Materiality department. System (CPGRAMS) in place where section of this report. all the written complaints are received Note: The grievances given in the table pertain to the year 2017-18 and have been received through CPGRAMS portal, handled/ monitored by Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances, Government of India. 36 102-29, 102-32, 102-33, 102-34, 102-16, 102-17 04 Risk Management Results of risk assessment are reported to all relevant stakeholders for 37 Risk Management he risk management policy effectiveness of the company’s risk lays out an Enterprise Risk management system on an annual Management Framework basis. with an objective to integrate risk We, at GAIL, follow a holistic, As shown in the figure adjacent a management in the overall strategic integrated, structured and dedicated Corporate Level Risk and operational practices, as a disciplined approach to manage Steering Committee (CLRSC) is also comprehensive set of components risks with the objective of established to review the status that provides the foundation and maximizing shareholders’ value. of all corporate level key risks organizational arrangements for Our approach to manage risks including economic, environmental designing, implementing, monitoring, particularly includes identification, and social on a quarterly basis. In reviewing and continually improving assessment and prioritization addition, there is a Risk Management risk management. The risk of risks followed by coordinated Committee that meets on a bi-annual management framework broadly and economical application of basis to deliberate on the matters constitutes of a well-defined resources to minimize, monitor before placing them in front of the risk management process and and control the probability and/ risk management institutional or impact of unfortunate events structure. or to maximize the realization of opportunities. We have a comprehensive “Risk Risk management Management Policy” to ensure institutional sustainable business growth with stability. At GAIL, we structure establish a structured approach The Board of Directors is the to risk management. The primary highest governance body that objective of the policy is to promote reviews the effectiveness a proactive approach for analysis, of our risk management reporting and mitigation of key processes. The Board, through risks associated with the business the audit committee, oversees in order to ensure a sustainable the establishment and business growth. implementation of an adequate system of risk management across the company. The board comprehensively reviews the 38 102-11, 102-30, 102-31, 201-2 audit committee. The status is then on identification, strategizing and • CSR groupCoordinates all risks presented to the board for approval in reporting the environmental and pertaining to social and CSR-related the annual meetings. social risks: issues While GAIL’s top management looks • HSE group Coordinates all risks after business and economic risks, pertaining to environmental and there are specific groups that work safety issues The specific objectives of the Risk Management Policy are: To establish a risk intelligence To ensure that all the current and expected risk framework for the organization exposures of the organization are identified, qualitatively and quantitatively evaluated, analyzed and appropriately managed To establish ownership throughout the To enable compliance with the relevant legal organization and embed risk management as and regulatory requirements and international integral part of the business rather than a norms standalone system To help the decision makers of the organization explicitly take account of uncertainty, the nature To assure demonstrable achievement of of that uncertainty, and work towards a solution objectives and improvement of financial to address it stability of the organization 39 102-15 Risk management organizational structure GAIL Board of Directors consider GAIL’s Risk Profile Annually Risk Management Audit Committee to Committee (RMC) consider GAIL’s Risk Profile meets Bi-Annually Bi-Annually Director (BD) Corporate Level Risk Chief Risk Officer Steering Office Committee of CRO Site Level Risk Steering Committee Quarterly reports to Chief Risk Officer Meets Quarterly & reports Bi-Annually report to Risk Risk Unit Management Risk Unit Risk Unit Owner Committee Owner Owner (Site 1) (Site 2) (Site N) Risk management process The risk management process adopted has been customized to the business processes of our company and is schematically shown in the figure. Reporting is an integral part of our processes and critical from a monitoring perspective. Results of risk assessment are reported to all relevant stakeholders for review, inputs and monitoring. The existing risk reporting structure followed in GAIL is shown in figure above. 40 Process diagram depicting the process of reporting risk Management Responsibility Risks Objectives of Risk Management Identified and Policy and Procedure Deliberated in • High, Medium & Low categories of risks the Corporate review by Chief Risk Officer & Site Level Level Risk Risk Steering Committee (SLRSC) • Establish risk intelligence Steering framework, ownership and Committee • As per approved Risk Management embed risk management in policy, Corporate Level Risks Steering the business Committee (CLRSC) is required to review the status of Corporate Level • Aid decision makers to take Key Risks on quarterly basis. Prior account of uncertainty and to placing before Audit Committee, find solutions Corporate Risks the status is deliberated in Risk are illustrated in Management Committee (RMC) on Bi • Qualitatively and the table below Annual basis. The status is put up to the quantitatively analyse, and the other Board Annually evaluate and manage key risks from current and expected risk • Audit Committee & Board of Directors sites/ corporate exposure who also review the policy and functions are procedures periodically • Compliance with relevant presented from legal and regulatory time to time • The Unit Level Risk Steering Committee requirements and along with new maps, monitors and formulates international norms emerging risk mitigation measures of Key Risks on a quarterly basis, including social and • Demonstrate achievement environmental risks and non-key risks of objectives and on annual basis improvement of financial stability • Risks associated with specific groups are managed by respective department and management is updated on the same • Establish risk intelligence framework, ownership and embed risk management in the Measures business Taken to • Aid decision makers to take account of uncertainty and find solutions Mitigate • Qualitatively and quantitatively analyse, evaluate and manage current and expected risk exposure Exposure to • Compliance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and international norms Risk • Demonstrate achievement of objectives and improvement of financial stability Key corporate been identified, backed by GAIL’s risk The next section lists the identified level risks management framework and policy. risks and briefly describes the During the Corporate Level Risk mitigation strategies for the GAIL has also developed mitigation respective risks Steering Committee (CLRSC) strategies for the identified risks. meetings, the following risks have 41 Top risks and mitigation strategies adopted In general, the risks faced by GAIL have a long gestation period and it is difficult to bind them in terms of FY. The following risks have been identified and deliberated in Corporate Level Risk Steering Committee (CLRSC) meetings as well as other corporate level meeting in line with the risk management framework and policy of GAIL. GAIL is initiating efforts to adapt strategies to mitigate the identified risks. 1 2 3 Risk description: Take or pay risk Risk description: Risk of Risk description: Risk of delay on 8.73 MMTPA internationally reduction in profitability of in project execution due to sourced LNG petrochemicals delay in obtaining right of use (RoU), land Cheniere (USA) 3.5 MMTPA March 2018, DCP (USA) 2.3 MMTPA Dec 2017, Gazprom (Russia) 2.5 MMTPA January 2018 and Gorgon Mitigation measure (Australia) 0.43 MMTPA January 2017. • Liasioning with state and district Mitigation measure administration for resolving the issues and expectations • Production of marketable of farmers and land owners is grades. Aggressive marketing being done for RoU acquisition to ensure enhanced polymer in addition to CSR activities Mitigation measure sale and profitability and sensitization as well as by educating through awareness • Take or pay risk on 5.8 MMTPA • Expanding market by export campaign for the local populace sourced from USA measure in the project area (s). • Take or pay risk on 2.5 MMTPA • Optimization of feed stock • Approved policy for acquisition LNG from Gazprom and conversion cost (C2,C3 of permanent land through and polymer) government procedures and • Take or pay risk on 0.43 MMTPA direct negotiation with farmers LNG from Gorgon and land owners is in place. 42 4 Mitigation measure • Targeted liquid fuel consumers around GAIL’s pipelines to switch over to natural gas • Last mile connectivity (LMCs) Risk • Introduced more flexible terms in GTA, uniform guidelines for fasters description: connectivity of CGD entities. Risk of • Approved guidelines on amicable settlement of disputes with consumers, underutilization shippers under Gas Transportation Agreement applicable for small shippers of pipeline up to 0.1 Million Metric Standard Cubic Meter per Day (MMSCMD). due to low downstream • Taken up with Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Body (PNGRB) and drawl and MoPNG for synchronization of CGD bidding along with upcoming pipelines low pipe line and providing priority to those cities that are already connected with capacity pipelines. trade • Organized (through Zonal Offices) Customer Meets regularly. Mitigation measure • Regular monitoring of health and integrity of pipeline as per 5 integrity management system • Monitoring of any pipeline leakage by utilizing online leak detection system (LDS) Risk Description: Major LPG leakage in Receipt Terminal • Implementation of emergency response and disaster management (RT) and Sectionalizing plan (ERDMP) Valve (SV) stations, and LPG • Hot and mobile flare system as well as evacuation of LPG into pipeline OMCs storage • Installation of the flare systems 6 Mitigation measure • Regular monitoring of pipeline Right of Use (ROU) for new encroachment Risk • Implementation of integrity management system and adherence to Operations and Description: Maintenance (O&M) guidelines. Risk of • Increased ROU surveillance by helicopters and foot patrolling third party • Propagating information regarding the pipeline locations, sensitizing people to inform damage and GAIL prior to carrying out any activity, and disseminating awareness about the possible encroachment consequences due to pipeline damage. in pipelines due to • Displaying warning and safety boards at vulnerable locations and wall writing at developmental prominent places in villages and towns through which the pipeline crosses. and road • Implementation of Pipeline Intrusion Detection System (PIDS) on a trial basis construction completed and widening • Drone trial has been completed at SV, IP section and Kulwara (MP) in GREP and VDPL activities monitoring of ROU through drone has to be explored. 43 7 Mitigation measure Risk description: Risk of 8 • PNGRB MWP for Inch km of pipeline to be laid (cumulative) regulatory noncompliance • 3rd year MWP (cumulative) of PNGRB 1266 Risk For example,unbundling of description: (achieved) business of GAIL Risk • PNGRB domestic connection cumulative target emanating was 65,578 (as on 17 February 2018). A catch up out of GAIL’s plan for achieving the balance work of initial five comfort letter years MWP and request for relaxation in the to bank for timeline of third year of MWP to Q1 of 2018-19. Mitigation measure providing • Details of promotional scheme launched Prime Bank PNGRB regulation on • Exemption of application fee from domestic Guarantee unbundling of Natural Gas (NG) customers for registration. (PBG) transportation and marketing (` 5,200 • Exemption of payment of domestic PNG bill business has been challenged crore) to for a period of three months from the date of in the high court by GAIL, an GAIL gas in commencement of PNG supply for customers affidavit has been filed by connection registered under this scheme. MOPNG in support of GAIL’s with • Customer awareness about PNG through FM position. Bengaluru Radio and leaflets through newspaper are being CGD Project done on regular basis 9 Mitigation measure • Impairment of GAIL’s equity ` 783 crores in Ratnagiri Gas and Power Private Risk description: Limited (RGPPL) considered in FY 2016-17. Upside risk (opportunity) of an • The mitigation efforts are being made to gain on an upside risk (opportunity) early turnaround for of an early turnaround of this impairment. impaired investment • Demerger of RGPPL in process in RGPPL • Break water 44 05 Sustainability at GAIL Sustainability Charter for GAIL’s objectives, actions and aspirations 45 Sustainability at GAIL AIL is guided by the efforts. Being transparent and taking principles of accountability accountability is the key direction and transparency. In 2011, while dealing with stakeholders. From we formally began our sustainability FY 10-11, we began communicating journey. We believed that although and transparently disclosing the we were a few steps behind, taking company’s performance on the Since its inception, GAIL has been small yet strategic measures in the economic, social and environmental committed to being a responsible right direction undert he dynamic fronts through our sustainability corporate citizen. Our vision leadership of the top management reports. statement, “Be the leading company was even more imperative. in natural gas and beyond, with global Over the years, we have strengthened focus, committed to customer care, GAIL pro-actively took up its the internal system and data value creation for all stakeholders sustainability issues by actively management that has helped GAIL in and environmental responsibility” involving the Board-level measuring, monitoring and managing focuses on national economic Sustainability Committee headed sustainability performance. It has development through securing by an Independent Director, to served as a management tool helping cleaner energy and value creation regularly monitor the sustainability the company re-look at its systems, for all stakeholders while ensuring initiatives and performance. A policies and procedures. our responsibility towards the Steering Committee involving environment. heads of departments was formed In 2017, with strengthened awareness to plan, oversee and implement onand sensitivity at sites over the GAIL became the youngest PSU to years, we initiated the Annual ground sustainability activities. be accorded the “Maharatna” status Sustainability Work Plan for GAIL’s Subsequently, to effectively among all the public sectors in India, sites. This gives a flexibility to the implement the initiatives at the site which demonstrates Government of sites to take up relevant projects in level, we have a multi-disciplinary siteIndia’s confidence on us. The onus level committee along with lies on the company to reciprocate focused sustainability team through a responsible growth without working at corporate level. A compromising on the environment part of the corporate planning and society. and strategy during the initial years, sustainability has now become an independent department in 2017. In 2012, we formulated Sustainability Policy providing direction to sustainability 46 103-2, 103-3 Dr. Ashutosh Karnatak, Director (Projects) inaugurating the Sustainability Seminar titled “Aligning with Sustainability trends and defining actions” by lighting the lamp on 08.10.2018 at GAIL, Noida the various aspects of sustainability. which the start and the competition project in achieving the sustainable To monitor the progress made after dates are also present. Whenever a development targets of the company the implementation of these projects, milestone is completed by the site, are also provided on the portal. a digital platform “e-Pragati” has the system automatically displays the been established. The e-Pragati next milestone due for completion. At GAIL we understand that module captures the details of all The expenditure made against each sustainability is an umbrella concept, the projects and tracks the progress project can also be tracked through the which includes aspirations and targets made through listed milestones. Every budget column present in the module. that encompass various parameters project is distinguished through a The system also allows providing a of the social, governance, economic unique work ID and its completion detailed information that needs to and environmental aspects. Earlier date is displayed in the system. There be updated against each milestone. aspirations target covered mainly are some milestones against every Further, information regarding environmental parameters. In order project with unique milestone IDs for the benefits and impact of every to cater sustainable development 47 103-2, 103-3 holistically, it was considered prudent to align the Sustainability Aspirations of GAIL with our bussiness objectives. Inauguration of Waste Composite Machine at GAIL Thus in 2018, we initiated the process Jubilee Tower, Noida to revisit the sustainability aspirations after top-level deliberations. As a first step to form a well-rounded sustainability roadmap, an Executive Director (ED)-level committee was formed which included members from varied business segments of GAIL. The initial deliberations, feedback and recommendations/suggestions from the various subject matter experts, has taken into consideration. These recommendations have also been deliberated in the 9th Sustainable Development Steering Committee (SDSC) meeting chaired by Director (Projects) with representation from major sites of Pata and Vijaipur. The Finalization of the Sustainability aspirations is under progress. Inauguration of Waste Composite Machine at GAIL Jubilee As a step towards mainstreaming Tower Noida sustainability across the organisation, GAIL developed the Sustainability Charter. This charter will serve as the guiding force for GAIL’s future objectives, actions and aspirations. The Charter follows an integrated approach for embedding environmental and social concerns into the corporate DNA while establishing a leadership platform towards sustainability and climate action. Our Pata Petrochemical Plant is working on energy efficiency benchmarks in collaboration with the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) to set the standards of carbon emissions and specific energy consumption with the petrochemical sector becoming a part of the PAT (Perform, Achieve & Trade) Scheme. Sh. Narendra Kumar, ED (O&M), inaugurating Waste Composite Machine at GAIL Jubilee Tower Noida During the reporting period 2017-18, a total expenditure of `7.43 lakh was incurred by GAIL for the purpose of training and educating its employees Our initiative towards environmental protection and Swachh on topics related to environment. Bharat Abhiyaan, a Waste Composite machine has been set up at Additionally, all the 65 new recruits GAIL Jubilee Tower Noida on 26/03/2018. Using the kitchen and were trained for sustainabilityhorticulture waste, organic manure will be prepared from this related programs along with 47 other machine. GAIL Jubilee Tower maintenance department has added employees of GAIL. one more point to its green building certificate. 48 103-2, 103-3 06 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality 49 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality GAIL conducts a detailed stakeholder Stakeholder analysis as the first step towards stakeholder engagement. Through engagement stakeholder analysis, we aim to eing a public sector identify and understand the nature enterprise, we not only of impact, direct or indirect, on Every organizational decision aim at continued business individuals, groups or entities. The impacts its stakeholders, both profitability but also strive to achieve a following steps are followed as a part directly and indirectly. These socially and environmentally balanced of the stakeholder analysis process: stakeholders primarily influence the decision making and are critical growth in the long run. The concept opinion makers. Therefore, GAIL of stakeholder engagement is firmly makes it a priority to engage with embedded in the strategic management of the organization its stakeholders to understand their and we believe in perspective and incorporate these in creating an atmosphere its strategy and policies. Stakeholder of cooperation and management concept is, thus, now compassion in amicably a widely accepted norm among solving the issues that corporates to ensure accountability arise in this domain. of the organization towards society. At GAIL, we adhere to the concept of strategic engagement and holistic management of stakeholders for a sustainable growth. 50 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 103-2 Hon’ble President felicitates students from CSR initiative ‘GAIL Utkarsh’ who cleared JEE IIT advanced exam Hon’ble President of India Shri Ram Nath Kovind felicitated students from underprivileged sections of society who cleared the JEE IIT Advance 2018 examination after intensive coaching under GAIL Corporate Social Responsibility initiative ‘GAIL Utkarsh’. The felicitation program was held at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) campus here. The occasion was also graced by Dr. Ashutosh Karnatak, GAIL officiating Chairman and Managing Director • Identify and map all internal and influence and importance their influence on the organization. external stakeholders Depending on their influence and the • Monitor and manage stakeholders’ value they create for the organization, • Assess the nature of each relationships we design a suitable engagement stakeholder’s influence and mechanism for them. The key importance We have identified eight key stakeholder groups for which we stakeholders and essential elements • Construct a stakeholder priority conduct materiality assessment of engagement process and sample matrix to identify stakeholder and attempt at under standing dates are schematically represented below: Stakeholder Engagement Frequency of Meetings in Engagement Engagement Mode engagement 2017-18 teams focus Employees Satisfaction Annual, GAIL Foundation HR Dept., HR Project action survey, grievance quarterly, Day: August 16, – Employee planning, redressal, monthly, daily 2017 Relations and best practice suggestion and also as Policy, Corporate implementation, Samvaad: July schemes, and when it is HSE training, skill 05, 2017 Operations and CMD Open required development, Maintenance, House, emails, Sustainability tracking Sustainability Health Safety performance Workshop: Survey, December 7-8 and Environment indicators, Committees and13, 2017 Department, and grievance Meets, journals, and Corporate redressal associations Certification Sustainability and union Course on Department meets, cultural Metering: 8-15 functions January 2018 51 102-40, 103-3 Stakeholder Engagement Frequency of Meetings in Engagement Engagement Mode engagement 2017-18 teams focus Suppliers Analyst Meet, Annual, MSME Meet: Human Resource Relationship Annual General quarterly, July 12, 2017 Department, building, Meet and monthly, daily Corporate progress reports Vendor Meet: conference calls and as and when Operations and submissions, June 15, 2017 it is required Maintenance, and discussions on GAIL-Gazprom: Health Safety procurement Jan16, 2018 and Environment agreements Department and Sales Sabine Pass LNG and Purchase Import: Mar 06, Agreements 2018 (SPAs) Gas Turbine Operators Meet: Oct 10, 2017 Customers Customer Annual, quarterly Customer Meet: Marketing Understand Interactive and need-based 19 July 2017 Department and customers’ needs, Meets and Total Quality getting customer GST Awareness customer Management feedback on the Meet: 14 July feedback Department new product, 2017 customer satisfaction index, customer ledger Communities Community Annual, Swachh Bharat Corporate Social Executing CSR meetings, quarterly, Pakhwada: 1-31 Responsibility initiatives and project monthly, daily July 2017 Department interventions meetings, annual and need-based GAIL Utkarsh Grievance reviews, and Super 100: 13 redressal samvaad February 2018 (Dehradun) Government and MoUs, QPR, Annual, quarterly PMUG Regulatory Aﬀairs Relationship regulators open house and need-based Clearance: 1 Dept., Law Dept., building, sessions, November 2017 Corporate Planning performance meetings, and Dept., Liaison & appraisal Bengaluru CGD: written views/ Parliamentary through MoUs, 19 June 2017 comments Aﬀairs Dept. progress reports to PNGRB Bhubaneswar and Company submissions, on various PNG supply: 20 Secretariat discussions on regulatory October 2017 major investment matters plans 52 102-44, 102-47, 102-49, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Stakeholder Engagement Frequency of Meetings in Engagement Engagement Mode engagement 2017-18 teams focus Shareholders Analyst Meet, Annual, IIFL’s Enterprise For institutional Company’s ESG Annual General quarterly, India Investors shareholders and Performance Meet, monthly and Conference: analysts: finance Reporting, need-based 21-23 February and accounts addressing Conference call 2018 concerns of the and website For small future challenges hosting of shareholders: and mitigation ﬁnancial Press information measures information from Company Secretariat Industry Supplier Annual, Oil & Gas HSE Contracts and Integrity Pact, associations meet, emails, quarterly, Conclave: 6 Procurement Pre-Tender and meetings, monthly and December 2017 Department, and Pre-Bid Meeting, Samadhan and need-based (New Delhi) Projects Settlement Samvaad Advisory Department Committee, Reverse Auction, Bill Watch System, File Movement System, e-Tendering Financial Analyst Meet, Annual, Bankers’ Meet: For institutional Company’s ESG institution Annual General quarterly, 21 August 2017 investors and Performance, Meet and monthly and analysts: Finance addressing Website hosting need-based and accounts concerns on future of ﬁnancial challenges, and For retail investors: information financial risk Company management Secretariat are prioritized and strategically • Preparatory phase: In this phase, Materiality analysis addressed. These identified issues are GAIL’s (internal and external) analyzed to help shape the company’s stakeholders were mapped In the context of this report, sustainability strategy, thus providing alongside a list of the “universal” materiality refers to the principle the basis for goal setting and resource topics relevant to the company’s of focusing on the company’s allocation. This further helps the business. A total of 70 universal sustainability initiatives and reporting company in outlining the reporting topics relevant to the gas industry on the issues that have the most priorities. The most recent materiality were listed in this phase. significant impact on the economic, assessment was carried out during the social and environmental aspects of reporting year, i.e., FY 2017-18. • Discussion phase: To identify key the business as well as those that are focus areas important to GAIL, the of an interest to GAIL’s stakeholders. 70 universal topics identified were We conduct materiality assessment Process and further screened by departmental heads of Total Quality Management on a periodic basis to ensure that methodology (TQM), Corporate Communications the sustainability issues critical and Corporate Social Responsibility The materiality study comprises of to the business and stakeholders (CSR),Marketing – Petrochemicalsfour phases: 53 102-47, 103-1 Marketing, International Sourcing, areas were finalized for further • Consultation phase: In Contracts and Procurement, consideration and discussion this phase, GAIL's internal Sustainability, Finance and Accounts, including areas of significant stakeholders (employees), and Domestic Gas Marketing, Regasified organizational impact, as well as external stakeholder groups Liquefied Natural Gas (RLNG) and broader sustainability trends that important to GAIL (customers, Corporate Strategy Planning and affect GAIL. suppliers, contractors, NGOs and Advocacy. In this phase, 15 key focus communities) were validated and ranked according to their key focus Step-wise Identification of areas. Focus Areas from Universal Topics • Response analysis and identification of focus areas: The feedbacks received from stakeholders on the 15 key Preparatory Consultation focus areas were qualitatively Phase Phase and quantitatively analyzed to Response identify the top priorities for each Discussion Analysis and stakeholder. Phase Identification of Focus Areas 54 axis represents the importance of material topics are done as per the Materiality matrix these issues to our stakeholders. The laws of the land to ensure compliance matrix for FY 17-18 is depicted on the and better course of strategic actions. The primary result of our materiality adjacent page Each material topic has been discussed assessment process was a set of in detail in the subsequent chapters. sustainability issues mapped on a In this report, we have highlighted The mapping of the final material materiality matrix. The vertical axis GAIL’s approach towards the identified topics ranked high with stakeholders of the matrix denotes importance to material topics and company-specific is given in the table below. the company, whereas the horizontal aspects in detail. The review of the Sustainability Seminar organized at GAIL and TERI. The event was chaired by Dr. Ashutosh Karnatak, Director (Projects) Material aspect Sub-aspect Boundary Major stakeholder Occupational Health and Safety Employees Customer Health and Suppliers Health and safety Within and beyond GAIL Safety Contractors Asset Integrity and Process NGOs and Communities Safety Material Water Energy Biodiversity Emission Customers Effluents and waste Employees Operational Excellence Within GAIL Asset productivity Suppliers Environmental investments Contractors Grievance mechanism for impact on society Transport Overall environmental grievance mechanism 55 Material aspect Sub-aspect Boundary Major stakeholder Economic performance Customers Diversification and Employees Business growth and opportunities Within and beyond GAIL Suppliers profitability Market presence Contractors Indirect Economic Impacts NGOs and Communities Anti-competitive behavior Customers Anti-corruption Employees Public policy and advocacy Public Policy Within and beyond GAIL Contractors Compliance management NGOs and communities Procurement practices Supplier environmental assessment Supplier assessment for impact on society Supplier human rights assessment Customers Supplier assessment for labor practices Suppliers Stakeholder Relationship Indigenous rights Within and beyond GAIL Contractors Management Marketing and NGOs and communities communication Product service labelling Products and services Local community Procurement practices Adequacy of transparent communication GHG emission management Customers GHG reduction Employees Climate Change Other emissions Within and beyond GAIL Suppliers management Contractors Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) reduction NGOs and communities 56 Material aspect Sub-aspect Boundary Major stakeholder Employment Workforce management Training and education Employee Diversity Employment and Labor Practices Human Rights Investment Non-discrimination Human rights grievance Employees Human capital management mechanism Within GAIL Contractors Freedom of association and collective bargain Forced and compulsory labor Child labor Equal remuneration for men and women Labor practices grievance mechanism Security practices Exploration and production Gas pipeline network Customers Investment by GAIL vis-à-vis LNG terminals Suppliers Within and beyond GAIL projected Gas-based manufacturing Government and regulatory industries bodies City gas distribution Gas-based economy Investments across product Customers value chains Growth in changing market Suppliers Policy reforms Within and beyond GAIL dynamics Government and regulatory Clean energy market bodies SPAs and purchase contracts LNG and LPG transmission Customers City gas distribution Suppliers Business model and Exploration and production Within and beyond GAIL Contractors innovation Gas marketing Government and regulatory Market presence bodies Supply chain 57 Material aspect Sub-aspect Boundary Major stakeholder Gas-based economy Government policies Government and regulatory Changing business/market Clean energy market bodies Within and beyond GAIL dynamics Market share Suppliers Diversification and opportunities Suppliers Ethical procurement Government and regulatory Opportunities for MSEs bodies Supply chain management Supplier engagement Within and beyond GAIL Contractors Digitalization NGOs and communities Green procurement Employees Suppliers SPAs and purchase contracts Government and regulatory Domestically sourced gas to bodies Within and beyond GAIL imported gas competition Government policies Contractors Mergers and acquisitions Customers Research and development Employees Emergence of disruptive Diversification and Within GAIL Suppliers technologies opportunities Contractors Technological utilization Climate change initiatives Procurement practices Employee Water management Contractors Alignment with Sustainable Effluent and waste Suppliers Development Goals and Within and beyond GAIL COP21 management Government and regulatory Investment on bodies Environmental Protection NGOs and communities ESG Risk Mitigation 58 07 Business Growth 59 Business Growth Owing to the fast-paced economic growth over the period, India has become world’s sixth-biggest economy, as per World Bank figures for 2017 with a gross domestic product (GDP) of $2.597 trillion. In “GAIL operates in a scenario of volatile market terms of the energy consumption, prices, ever-fluctuating demand side, complex our country is fourth largest in regulatory regimes and compliance framework and the world. As per BP Statistical tight project scheduling. Despite these challenges, Review 2018, world’s primary energy GAIL has been able to register a growth in sales consumption grew at 2.2% while that volume in all segments, viz., liquid hydrocarbons, of India’s rose by 4.6% in 2017 with natural gas sales and transmission and a share of 5.6% of global primary petrochemical. GAIL registered highest-ever Profit energy. Globally by fuel, natural gas after Tax (PAT) of `4,618 crore, during the financial accounted for the largest increment year 2017-18. This has been possible through a in energy consumption (3%), robust financial planning, eye on cost control and followed by renewables and then oil. better risk mitigation.” Our country’s gas consumption rose by 6.9% in 2017, increasing for a Director (Finance) second successive year and its share in India’s energy mix is around 6.18%. The Indian market has consumed around 143 MMSCMD of natural gas during 2017-18 and net LNG and domestic gas sales stood nearly Economic Performance equal. India has imported a record of GAIL (FY 2017-18) 72 MMSCMD of gas i.e., 20 MMTPA of LNG during the period. As per BP Statistical review 2018, natural gas or the current reporting imports in the country rose by 9% period (2017-18), we y-o-y. These volumes will further registered a turnover of grow as delivery of cargoes from new `53,690 crore, an increase of 10% contracts has already commenced. against previous reporting period. Natural gas is seen to dominate the The PAT for current reporting period mainstay sectors of fertilizer and increased by 31.8% to `4,618 crore. power. It is also a preferred fuel in households and industries. 60 201-4, 102-7, 201-1, 203-1, 203-2, 103-2, 103-3, 102-9 Segment-wise financial performance FY17 vs. FY18 (INR crore) SL.No. PARTICULARS 2016-17 2017-18 Growth Apr-Mar 17 Apr-Mar 18 % (I) SALES TURNOVER (GROSS) 1 Natural Gas Transmission 4,195 4,446 6 2 LPG Transmission 514 558 9 3 Gas Marketing 34,630 38,021 10 4 Petrochemicals 5,626 5,788 3 5 LPG and Other Liquid Hydro Carbons 3,139 4,179 33 6 Unallocated 686 697.59 2 TOTAL SALES 48,789 53,690 10 (II) PROFIT BEFORE TAX (PBT) 1 Natural Gas Transmission 2,252 2,815 25 2 LPG Transmission 257 273 6 3 Gas Marketing 1,519 1,256 (17) 4 Petrochemicals 216 106 (51) 5 LPG and Other Liquid Hydro Carbons 1,246 2,304 85 6 Unallocated (78) 204.25 360 TOTAL PBT 5,411 6,958 29 Key Financial Highlights Gross Sales (Stand alone) (In ` Crore) 58,012 60,000 58,000 ` 57,292 ` 53,690 56,000 54,000 52,003 ` 48,789 ` 52,000 50,000 ` 48,000 46,000 44,000 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 61 Gross Margin (Ebidta) (In ` Crore) 7,945 9000 8,000 ` 7,287 ` 8,649 5,620 ` 7000 6000 ` 5,172 ` 5000 4000 3000 2000 11,786 974 1,310 1,397 1,415 1000 366 361 275 800 479 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Finance Cost Depreciation & Amortisation PROFITABILITY (In ` Crore) 8,000 6,402 6,958 7000 ` 5,411 ` 6000 5000 4,375 ` ` 4,284 3,039 3,062 ` 3503 4,618 ` 4000 ` ` 2,226 ` 3000 2000 ` 1000 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Profit Before Tax (PBT) Profit After Tax (PAT) 62 103-2, 103-3 Economic value generated and distributed * Economic value generated Economic value generated FY 16-17 (`million) FY 17-18 (`million) Total revenue including other income (net of ED) 4,98,306 5,46,535 Economic value distributed Economic value distributed FY 16-17 (`million) FY 17-18 (`million) Operating cost 4,17,317 4,60,563 Employee Wages and Benefits 14,588 17,505 Payments to providers of capital 19,873 20,342 Payment to government 22,032 26,925 * Economic value generated and distributed calculation methodology is different from other reported data Financial assistance received from fresh strategy exercise to define the coupled with burgeoning population, GoI for Urja Ganga project during the next phase of growth. In this exercise, will increase the demand for energy reporting period, 2017-18 GAIL shall be chartering strategic exponentially. Moreover, India is initiatives under business areas of striving to reduce its dependency gas marketing, gas transmission, on crude oil imports while moving Initiatives petrochemicals, liquid hydrocarbons, towards cleaner fuels for meeting and strategy city gas distribution and other businesses, including imperatives on its energy needs and conserving the environment. This scenario is expected for future growth the skill and talent development. to put a tremendous demand pressure on domestic production of natural gas. In line with the strategy formulated during the year 2011, GAIL has been Business outlook GAIL has been involved in natural treading on the path of moving gas sourcing, trading, marketing and from being a natural gas company Natural Gas transmission for more than three to an integrated energy company Continued economic growth and higher decades. GAIL’s natural gas pipeline with global footprints, which is industrial consumption of energy infrastructure is primarily connecting reflected from the strategic moves taken in the past particularly in the area of international LNG sourcing, expansion of gas infrastructure and expansion of polymer portfolio, etc. In the period from 2014 to 2016, GAIL faced temporary setbacks in gas marketing and polymer segments Natural Gas due to a drastic slump in global crude prices and reduced domestic gas Key Business : consumption. However, GAIL showed Natural Gas Transmission, strong resilience in the 2017-18 and Gas marketing, LNG Trading achieved highest-ever profitability with enhanced gas sales and liquid hydrocarbons production. With changed business environment in India as well globally, GAIL has taken up 63 103-2, 103-3, 201-1, 201-4 various gas sources to different gas Natural Gas sourcing and trading taking requisite steps for contracting markets. It is essentially helping in gas. GAIL had contracted LNG from bridging the physical gap between To meet the growing energy demand the US (5.8 MMTPA) and Russia demand and supply centers of various of the Indian economy, enhancing (2.5 MMTPA). The reporting year industry sectors including power, energy security of India and ensuring witnessed supplies from Sabine Pass fertilizer and CGD in an efficient, safe that availability of gas supplies do not in March 2018, Cove Point in April 2018 and eco-friendly manner. GAIL is also act as a bottleneck in the development and GMTS (a subsidiary of Gazprom, exploring new markets for the natural of gas sector in India, GAIL has been Russia) in June 2018. gas and liquefied natural gas trading. Despite the intense volatility in global gas sector, we have been able to connect and synchronize our strategic plans with market assessment and have executed it to achieve the desired results. The year has seen several firsts for GAIL in LNG, like mid-term destination swaps, international LNG sales, ship chartering to use our resources in most optimal manner; and successfully put GAIL as a notable player in LNG industry. Our efforts to provide India a reliable, secured and an uninterrupted supply of clean energy continues unabated through extending our reach to new areas and customers. Director (Marketing) 64 102-2, 102-7, 102-9, OG-1, 103-2, 103-3, 103-2 Further, to cater to the requirement With commencement of supplies from Sabine Pass, Cove Point and of the domestic market, GAIL has Gazprom, GAIL joined the league of top 10 LNG portfolio holders (around also imported 53 LNG cargoes 14 MTPA). (approximately 3.43 MMTPA) during the reporting year from various international sources on short-term and spot basis. Marking an important milestone, we sold four LNG cargoes in the international market during the reporting year. As part of GAIL’s energy sourcing strategy, the first Russian long-term LNG cargo arrived at the Dahej LNG terminal in Gujarat in June 2018. The cargo is part of contract signed by GAIL with Gazprom Marketing & Trading Singapore (GMTS), a subsidiary of Gazprom, Russia. The LNG vessel “LNG Kano” which carried 3.4 TBTU (Trillion British Thermal Unit) of LNG was received by India’s Union Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas and Skill Development & Entrepreneurship, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan. With this milestone, GAIL has now become the first Indian public-sector company to source LNG from Russia on a long term. It has contracted to import 2.5 MMTPA of LNG from Gazprom Marketing and Trading Singapore on a long-term basis. leader. The Shareholders Agreement country has already been signed. TAPI and the Investment Agreement For importing gas from Turkmenistan, Pipeline Company Limited (TPCL), pertaining to initial equity infusion GAIL is pursuing the Turkmenistanthe Pipeline Consortium, has been by the shareholders have also been Afghanistan-Pakistan-India (TAPI) incorporated in Isle of Man to build, signed. During the current reporting Pipeline project. Gas Sales and own and operate the TAPI Pipeline, period, the front end engineering Purchase Agreement (GSPA) to and State Concern Turkmengas has design (FEED) of the project has been import 38 MMSCMD gas into the been appointed as the consortium completed and bids of long lead items (LLIs), such as line pipes and valves, have also been received. In addition, GAIL continues to source and market LNG from Qatar and Australia, besides cargoes, through spot purchase and medium-term contracts. We have been taking focused measures which have resulted in substantial savings and ensuring availability of natural gas in the Indian market at a reasonable price. Some of the key measures are listed below: • Through our long-term contracts, we have created geographical and indexation diversification of 1st Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) cargo under long-term contract LNG supplies. Linkage to different with Russia that arrived at Dahej was received by Shri Dharmendra indices in our LNG portfolio has Pradhan, Minister for Petroleum & Natural Gas and Skill mitigated risk and has allowed GAIL Development & Entrepreneurship 65 to offer stable and competitive first loading at Sabine Pass Terminal regasification capacity in the country. pricing to our consumers. in Louisiana, US and discharged at It is in the process of booking1.5 Dabhol terminal, India in March 2018. MMTPA capacity at the proposed • GAIL is now actively trading LNG GAIL is planning to hire additional ships Dhamra LNG Terminal. This is over in the international market and in future based on the requirement of and above existing booked capacity at chartering ships which is in line transporting volume to India and/or Dahej, Kochi and Dabhol. with the company’s globalization elsewhere subsequent to international strategy and allows GAIL to sales and swap transactions. Dhamra LNG Terminal Private Limited channelize supplies as per the (DLTPL), a wholly-owned subsidiary demand in the Indian market. • GAIL has concluded various deals towards de-risking the portfolio significantly including time swap and destination swap transactions to ensure delivery of competitively priced LNG in the Indian market. • GAIL is actively undertaking hedging to manage commodity price risk. • Demerger of Ratnagiri Gas and Power Private Limited (RGPPL) resulting in separation of LNG terminal into Konkan LNG Private Limited (KLPL) has further strengthened GAIL’s position in the Indian gas market. The access to the Dabhol LNG terminal would provide 1st Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) cargo under long-term contract with greater operational flexibility to USA that arrived at Dahej was received by Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, GAIL in the LNG business. During Minister for Petroleum & Natural Gas and Skill Development & the reporting period, 17 LNG cargoes Entrepreneurship were unloaded at the Dabhol Terminal. of Adani Petroleum Terminal Private LNG Regasification Limited (APTPL), is developing a LNG Shipping Terminals 5 MMTPA LNG regasification terminal at the Dhamra Port in Odisha. This GAIL hired its first LNG vessel Presently, GAIL is evaluating various will act as a feed for the Jagdishpur‘Meridian Spirit’ on time charter basis opportunities for setting-up LNG Haldia-Bokaro-Dhamra Pipeline in September 2017. The vessel did its (JHBDPL). During 2017-18, the ground breaking ceremony for the project was held at Dhamra Port. Post demerger of RGPPL and formation of Konkan LNG Private Limited to run the LNG terminal at Dabhol, the terminal has been successfully revived and is capable of importing 1.9 MT of LNG. Further, the terminal’s ability to run 5 MT capacity would be possible once the construction of breakwater begins, which is scheduled to be completed by March 2022. Natural Gas Marketing Natural gas trading continues to be GAIL’s 1st LNG cargo from the US aboard ‘Meridian Spirit’ the focus area of GAIL. During FY 66 2017-18, gas sales clocked 84.05 MMSCMD in India (out of total sale of 85 MMSCMD), compared to 81.21 First phase of Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga project is likely to be MMSCMD in the previous financial completed before scheduled target of December 2018 year. Domestic gas available to the company for marketing increased GAIL (India) Limited has placed a pipe laying orders of `780 crores for to 51.94 MMSCMD in FY 2017-18 as approx. 530 km for pipeline connectivity from Bokaro (in Jharkhand) against 48.8 MMSCMD in the previous to Angul (in Odisha) Jagdishpur-Haldia and Bokaro-Dhamra Natural financial year, while contributing 61% Gas Pipeline (JHBDPL) project. With these awards, major contracts to the marketing volume. The balance of the project, i.e., pipe supply and laying contract orders for 2200 volume of 39% was serviced through km have been finalized. imported long-term and spot volumes. The prestigious 2655 km-long JHBDPL project, also known as the Major supplies of natural gas include ‘Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga’ project was inaugurated by Hon’ble fuel to power plants, feedstock for Prime Minister of India in July 2015. The project is progressing in gas-based fertilizer plants, CGD, LPG full swing and first phase of the project will be completed before extraction and consumption in other the scheduled target date of December 2018. GAIL till date has industrial sectors. GAIL holds around committed over `7400 crores for the project which will pass through 60% market share in India’s gas the state of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and marketing business. Odisha. Fertilizer sector: GAIL’s total sale of natural gas in the fertilizer sector during the current reporting period was 28.85 MMSCMD (including 11.67 MMSCMD of domestic gas) as against 27.58 MMSCMD (domestic 12.09 MMSCMD) Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas in previous reporting period. During Government of India the reporting period, GAIL firmed up Gas Supply Agreement with upcoming fertilizer plants for about 12 MMSCMD, supply of gas shall commence from early 2019. Power sector: GAIL’s total sale of natural gas in the power sector during current reporting period was 23.27 MMSCMD (including 18.97 MMSCMD of domestic gas) as against 23.91 MMSCMD (domestic 19 MMSCMD) in 2,655 km Gas Pipeline previous reporting period. The Power of Prospertiy System Development Fund (PSDF) Scheme of the Ministry of Power # Pradhan MantriUrjaGanga for the gas-based power sectors, w.e.f. April 1, 2017 expired and GAIL continues to explore the opportunities for the supply of natural gas to gasbased power generation units at affordable prices. Natural Gas Transmission City gas distribution: GAIL’s total GAIL owns and operates a network of around 11,400 km of natural gas high sale volume to CGD sector continues pressure trunk pipeline with a pan-India capacity to handle volumes of around 206 to show positive growth. GAIL sold MMSCMD constituting 75% of natural gas transmission capacity in the country. 17.43 MMSCMD to the CGD sector as The average gas transmission during the current reporting period 2017-18 was against 15.4 MMSCMD in the previous 105.23 MMSCMD, compared to 100.4 MMSCMD in the previous reporting period. reporting period. As on March 31, 2018, GAIL caters to 26 CGD companies supplying gas (CNG, PNG and industrial gas) to 70 cities. 67 • Imported gas primarily consists of long-term RLNG, Sector Wise Supply mid-term RLNG and spot • Major sources for domestic gas are ONGC (Administrative Price Mechanism and Non Administrative Price Mechanism), Panna-Mukta and Tapti (PMT) at Administrative Price Mechanism & Production Sharing Contract prices, Ravva, Ravva satellite, etc. • Highest demand of Natural Gas is from Power and Fertilizer companies * Others include Steel, Refineries, Sponge Iron, overseas Petrochemicals, GAIL Internal consumption etc. 68 Liquid Hydrocarbon Liquid Hydrocarbons Sales GAIL operates six gas processing units (GPU), located in Vijaipur (two units), Pata, Vaghodia, Usar and Gandhar, having a production capacity of 1.3 million Metric Tonnes (MT) of LPG and other liquid hydrocarbons. LPG is only being sold to PSU oil marketing companies (OMCs) while other LHC products are being sold directly to the industrial customers. In the current reporting period, total liquid hydrocarbon production was about 1.28 million MT, which included LPG, 0.16 million MT of propane, 0.03 LPG Transmission million MT of pentane and 0.09 million MT of Naphtha. Over 80% of the total GAIL is the first and the only company hydrocarbon production constituted in India to own and operate 2,038 of LPG and propane. km of exclusive pipelines for LPG transmission for third-party usage We are planning to set up Propane across two major networks namely Dehydrogenation (PDH)-based Jamnager-Loni Pipeline (JLPL) and polypropylene Petrochemical plant the Vizag-Secunderabad Pipeline in Usar. The possibility of setting (VSPL). A pipeline network of 1,415 up a polypropylene plant of 60 KTA km of pipelines connect the western capacity at Pata, Uttar Pradesh, based and northern parts of India and the upon the available propylene from the remaining 623 km of pipeline is in existing plant, is also being explored. the southern part of the country We are under discussions with various connecting Eastern Coast. The LPG stakeholders regarding greenfield transmission system has a capacity LPG naphtha/ethane-based petrochemical complex in Andhra Pradesh. to transport 3.8 MMTPA of LPG. With laying of exclusive pipelines for LPG Transmission transmission in the various parts of Key Business : the country, GAIL has contributed to replace the mode of transportation LPG Production, by road required to deliver LPG Transmission and from production facilities to various Marketing customers, which is less emission intensive. During the current reporting period, JLPL and the VSPL networks together achieved a throughput of 3.72 MMTPA as against 3.36 MMTPA in the previous reporting period. The design capacity of JLPL is being augmented from 2.5 to 3.25 MMTPA and is expected to Liquid be commissioned in 2018. Hydrocarbons GAIL also produces LPG through Key Business : fractionation in gas processing units, known as straight run LPG and LHC Production, LPG. GAIL’s LPG is an ecoPolymer Production and friendly fuel and provides a LHC Marketing cheaper and effective means of reducing pollution and increasing productivity. GAIL’s 69 GAIL has a share Banker’s Meet 2017 by GAIL of about 8% in LPG production GAIL annually organizes interactive meet with its partners in and 4% in LPG financial sector including bankers, lenders, arrangers, credit rating sales in India. agencies and consultants to sustain cordial relationship with them. Continuing with the trend and to further enhance the corporate image of GAIL and to strengthen the good relationship with our LPG is being supplied to PSU Oil financial partners, GAIL Bankers’ Meet 2017 was successfully Marketing Companies namely IOCL, organized on 21 September, 2017 at New Delhi. BPCL and HPCL, ex-GPUs at import The meet was chaired by parity price. Currently, GAIL has six Honourable Director (Finance) fractionating units at five locations Sh. Subir Purkaystha and other in the country having a production senior officials from finance capacity of 1.5 million MT. In total, department also attended an increase of about 15% has been the meet. The officials of our observed in GAIL’s LPG sales for the banker, lender, arranger, credit current reporting period as compared rating agency and consultant to previous reporting period. participated in the event and approx. 200 members attended Petrochemicals the meet. The meeting began with presentation on GAIL’s financial performance followed by an GAIL is producing a slew of polymer interactive session. products while creating, maintaining and ensuring a safe and clean environment. GAIL’s polymer products are environment-friendly and fully recyclable. GAIL owns and operates a gas phase Unipol PE Process with a In order to be placed as a market gas-based petrochemical complex at nameplate capacity of 400 KTA to leader in petrochemical production Pata, District Auraiya, in Uttar Pradesh. produce HDPE/LLDPE. and marketing, especially in Asia, the The company has a world-class focus remains on developing export GAIL’s petrochemical subsidiary (70% capability by increasing the capacity Sclairtech solution polymerization equity holding) Brahmaputra Cracker process to produce Linear Low Density utilization as well as by improving and Polymer Limited (BCPL) has a the number and quality of grades Polyethylene (LLDPE) and High capacity of 280 KTA. We have the Density Polyethylene (HDPE), with a produced. During the current reporting marketing rights of the BCPL plant period, we exported 56,345 MT of nameplate capacity of 210 KTA and taking the total marketing portfolio has two slurry-based polymerization polymers to Asian markets as a step in to 1.09 MTPA. Further, we have a joint this direction. The company’s market processes to produce HDPE, with a venture with ONGC and GSPC, i.e., nameplate capacity of 100 KTA each. share in the domestic polyethylene ONGC Petro-Additions Limited (OPAL) market has improved significantly and As a recent advancement, GAIL has with a 1.4 MMTPA capacity plant at doubled the polymer production we have become second largest player Dahej. During the current reporting in the Indian market with a portfolio of capacity from 410 KTA to 810 KTA at period, the overall production from the Pata Plant by commissioning a new over 1 MMTPA of polyethylene. GAIL petrochemicals complex was 671 TMT. and BPCL together have a combined production share of 21.4% of the HDPE and LLDPE market in the country. The objective of GAIL’s investor relations activities is to Petrochemical Marketing Group develop a long-term relationship of trust with various (PMG) stakeholders and in particular the shareholders, investors and GAIL’s marketing network consists analysts, though fair process of information disclosure. GAIL of Petrochemical Marketing Group maintains open channels of communication as it engages (PMG), Noida, Marketing Services with the various stakeholders. In order to pursue these Group (MSG), Pata, 13 zonal offices, objectives at all times, GAIL continuously discloses necessary GAIL Polymer Technology Centre information and conducts various investor relations activities (GPTC), Noida, SAP Centre, Noida including interactive meetings and is strategically located network Director (Finance) of 42 consignment stockists with 58 70 OG1 installations, PNG replaces fuels like furnace oil (FO), light diesel oil (LDO), propane, commercial LPG, coal, wood, petcoke,etc. Currently, we are operating in 38 cities throughout India, directly and through our eight joint ventures/subsidiaries in the major cities of Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Pune, Varanasi, Patna, etc. Out of the total 43 lakh PNG household stock points located across India, connections in India, GAIL is which are being augmented to ensure catering to more than 50% of the City Gas that the customer needs are met on households. As on 31 March 2018, time and efficient preand post-sales GAIL is operating 915 CNG stations Distribution services are provided. GAIL has plans across the country. During the current reporting period, we registered Key Business : to approximately double the strength of consignment stockists in the near additional five lakh households and Commercial Projects for future. 120 CNG stations. Gas Distribution PMG looks after the marketing With the vision of being the leading activities pertaining to petrochemical company in retail, distribution and products in GAIL. Main functions of marketing of natural gas, GAIL Gas PMG include: Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary • Product pricing, sales and of Maharatna GAIL (India) Limited, production planning • Sales policy was establised in May 2008. GAIL Bengaluru Gas Ltd. and its JVCs are operating in CGD project • Consignment stockist 11 geo-graphical areas. appointment and management Around `600 crore has been • Setting and monitoring of sales During the current reporting period, incurred towards laying of targets GAIL Gas Ltd registered an increase the 2,684 inch-km pipeline • Coordination with zonal offices of 63.9% in its annual turnover and network, providing connections • Budgeting 24.6% in PAT as against previous to over 50,000 households, • Exports and imports reporting period. and commissioning of five CNG • New projects and strategy stations. • MIS As part of URJA Ganga project, GAIL has been awarded with six cities Around 5000 households are GAIL annually caters to more than namely, Varanasi, Bhubaneshwar, already drawing PNG along with 2,086 customers, spread throughout Cuttack, Patna, Ranchi and 70 industrial and commercial the length and breadth of the country, Jamshedpur. GAIL has also added a connections. to meet their requirement of LLDPE new leaf in gas retail marketing in and HDPE. addition to Jagdishpur-Haldia and Bokaro-Dhamra Natural Gas Pipeline (JHBDPL) by executing a joint venture Exploration and City Gas Distribution agreement with Greater Calcutta Production GAIL has been a pioneer in the Gas Supply Corporation Limited implementation of city gas distribution (GCGSCL), for operating city gas GAIL entered into exploration and (CGD) since early 1990s and has been network in Kolkata extending over production (E&P) as a means to secure involved in secondary distribution of 1,500 km and have set an ambitious more reserves for energy security of natural gas to domestic, industrial target of connecting over 1.4 million the nation. E&P segment of business and commercial customers through households. was conceived to not only give a pipes as piped natural gas (PNG) and strategic push to GAIL’s business but Further, GAIL has set up more than also to secure reserves and ensure in compressed form to the automotive 1,200 km of green corridor, namely, supply. E&P has given a competitive segment as compressed natural gas Delhi-Mathura-Agra, Mumbai-Pune edge to GAIL in many ways. These are: (CNG). In the domestic segment, PNG Expressway, Kanpur-Lucknow is used as substitute of LPG and other • Integration in supply chain andUdaipur-Agartala-Khowai. more polluting fuels like coal, wood, etc. In industrial and commercial • Secured natural gas supplies 71 103-2, 103-3 • Balancing of business portfolio Production of crude oil is in progress • Environment clearance has been • Exploiting global opportunity from Cambay Onland blocks CBreceived ONN-2000/1 and CB-ONN-2003/2 @ • Project DFR has been approved GAIL is currently participating in 10 650 barrels per day. Production of gas E&P blocks, out of which eight blocks is in progress in two blocks in Myanmar • MoU signed with IOCL for supply of are in India (two in Assam, four in (A-1 & A-3). Development activities pet coke in August 2017 Cambay, one Cauvery one in Kutch, have been initiated in Tripura Onland • Comfort letter assuring 12% post Gujarat) and two blocks are overseas Block (AA-ONN-2002/1). Further, tax project IRR issued by DoF and (A-1 and A-3 blocks in Myanmar). GAIL we have participated in blocks on NITI Aayog has partnership in these blocks with offer under Open Acreage Licensing • Financial appraisal of project DFR various companies such as ONGC Policy (OALP) – I bid round in Cambay, done (one), OIL (one), GSPC (two), BPRL Rajasthan and Assam basins. (one), Hardy Exploration & Production • In principal captive coal mine (one), JOGPL (one) and Daewoo (two) GAIL is also a member of National Gas allotment received as operators. Hydrate Programme (NGHP) being coordinated by Directorate General • One critical activity viz.,site grading Hydrocarbon discoveries are in of Hydrocarbons (DGH) and is actively work has been awarded on 30 July place in nine E&P blocks. Blocks involved in activities related to gas 2018 with hydrocarbon discovery are: hydrate exploration. • Drilling activities for mining DFR CB-ONN-2000/1, CB-ONN-2003/2, preparation commenced at North CB-ONN-2010/11, CB-ONN-2010/8 Arkhapal coal mine from May 2018 (Cambay Onland in Gujarat), Block A-1 Coal Gasification • Bids for coal gasification and and A-3 Myanmar, AA-ONN-2002/1 GAIL is also entering into coal ammonia/urea tender have been (Tripura Onland), GK-OSN-2010/1 gasification by setting up a surface received and same are under (Gujarat Kutch Offshore) and CY-OS/2 coal gasification-based urea project at evaluation (Cauvery Offshore). Talcher, Dist. Angul, Odisha through a JV company namely “Talcher Fertilizers Ltd.”. The JV has been formed with A Proud Moment to consortium partners namely GAIL, Coal India Limited (CIL), Rashtriya share Chemicals and Fertilizers (RCF) (each GAIL turns a new leaf in gas retail having a stake of 29.67%) and Fertilizer marketing along JHBDPL by executing Corporation of India Limited (FCIL) Joint Venture Agreement (JVA) with (10.99% equity). The JV company will GCGSCL ( a Govt. of West Bengal be the first coal gasification plant for entity) for operating city gas network production of ammonia/urea in India. in Kolkata G.A. extending over 1500 The project, with an estimated cost sq.kms of `11,611 crores, is envisaged for the production of 2200 MTPD ammonia This historic agreement paves the way and 3850 MTPD urea. The success of for GAIL to steer the Joint Venture this project would pave the way for Company with 76% equity stake. The the production of fertilizers from the new subsidiary Bengal Gas Company abundantly available domestic coal, Limited has set an ambitious target of Exploration and thus resulting in lesser dependency on connecting over 1.4 million households and setting-up 70 plus CNG stations at production their imports. an investment of over Rs. 500 crore Details of the TFL JV company within the next five years. Addition Key Business : (Promoters: GAIL-29.67%, of Kolkata into GAIL’s CGD portfolio RCF-29.67%, CIL-29.67% Exploration, Extraction provides us with a unique distinction of andFCIL-10.99%). and production of emerging as a major operator of City Hydrocarbons The following major activities have Gas Distribution across metropolitan either been completed or are under cites in India. completion: Kolkata JVA was signed in the • Coal gasification technology presence of CMD, GAIL and Chief shortlisted Secretary, Govt. of West Bengal at the Sate Secretariat, Kolkata. 72 08 Operational Excellence Integrated Management System (IMS) implemented at GAIL Pipeline RoU Monitoring through Satellite imaging 73 Operational Excellence GAIL (India) Limited Group has been included in the “FTSE4Good Emerging Index” for second year in a row. FTSE is a market-leading tool for investors seeking to invest in companies that have strong management of Over the years GAIL has ESG risk. established itself amongst the top natural gas companies in the world. It has marked its presence in the entire gas value chain We aspire for from exploration of natural gas (NG), NG marketing, NG and LPG transmission to processing of gasbased value-added products such Deviation in as LPG, LHCs and petrochemicals. Zero implementing preventive/ Besides expansion of GAIL’s Zero predictive measures business portfolio along the value to curb corrosion chain, the company has expanded Accidents to new geographies through enhanced business development Zero activities leading to new business areas and improved scale of Encroachments operations. Through a combination of experienced team of employees, Deviation in project management skills Zero Statutory and effective operation and compliances Deviation in maintenance capabilities, GAIL Zero Statutory is providing its customer with compliances with an efficient and timely response Standard Operating as well as quality products and Procedures (SOP) services. 74 • Developing competency and throughout the value chain of O&M Our Approach skills of employees and promoting • Performing business in a long-term employee motivation AIL’s sustainability approach sustainable manner, while rightfully is driven by the company’s • Maintaining efficient stakeholder fulfilling the interest of the sustainable strategy which management relationship and organization and its stakeholders aims to create a better tomorrow delivering quality products and that extends beyond the clean energy services to achieve customer • Complying to all statutory, legal business. This strategy helps in satisfaction and regulatory requirements and improving the operating standards, government guidelines as efficiently as possible, minimizing • Adapting to newer technologies to promote efficient and environment• Empowering employees by defining adverse impacts on natural resources individual roles, responsibilities, and and the environment and maximizing friendly O&M activities accountability to drive performance positive impact on society, while • Embedding safety, quality and improvement continuing to deliver excellence to integrity management of all assets GAIL’s customers. It influences all aspects of the company’s business decisions, from designing and operating plants to engaging with the customers, employees and the “Safety First is the mantra we operate with. It is our consistent communities where we operate. endeavor to develop a world-class natural gas infrastructure with a focus on safety of pipelines, systems and processes. Operational We have given priority to environmental consideration throughout the various phases of project execution and Excellence operation. Our aim is to grow with a long-term approach to systematically improve our efficiency and quality in the GAIL’s approach for achieving the way we operate. Excellence at GAIL, rests on the trinity of vision for world-class performance people, health and perception (PHP) with due importance is outlined in the company’s O&M to performance. By focusing on continuous improvement objectives which focuses mainly of processes and increased efficiency across project sites, on low operating cost, high energy GAIL has focused on overcoming the challenges in this efficiency, high reliability, inventory dynamic sector. While aiming for excellence and efficient control, safety and an uninterrupted systems and processes, the organization looks towards supply of NG and LHC with quality. improvements in project execution, energy management and The company’s policy resonates energy efficiencies, among other areas. With growing global with the belief of ensuring the and national concerns on climate action, GAIL focuses on highest level of operate-ability and providing energy security and cleaner alternatives to India’s availability. We aim at achieving the burgeoning population while also acting on opportunities maximum productivity of assets by to control emissions, improve efficiencies and protect the regular maintenance and monitoring sustainability of our operations. We believe our endeavors controlling and reporting. Individual will be enablers of change and we strive to build excellence roles and responsibilities are defined in our systems, procedure, practices, policies and strategies.” across the operational systems and are assessed from time to time for Director (Projects) their efficient functioning. GAIL’s operational excellence is driven by numerous components which lead to enhanced efficient asset performance, which in turn helps in Leadership profit maximization. Responsibility The components of operational Leadership is one of the defining The company’s organizational culture excellence help GAIL in: factors of operational excellence. encourages employees to take GAIL’s department heads recognize responsibility to ensure that these • Ensuring delivery of best quality the importance of the sustainability systems and procedures have fully and products to the customers approach and take a leadership role effectively complied with national and • Ensuring safety of employees, in setting up relevant systems and international regulations. associated communities, properties processes, priorities, performance and assets of GAIL measures and monitoring of progress. 75 Operations and In recognition to outstanding contribution in combating Maintenance at GAIL corrosion issues in pipelines, and generating awareness in the GAIL’s approach for achieving its industry, NACE International, USA has awarded prestigious vision for world-class performance “Presidential Award” to Dr. Ashutosh Karnatak, Director forms the core of the company’s (Projects), GAIL. The award was presented to Director O&M objectives. The O&M policy (Projects) by Dr Samir Degan, President NACE International determines the objectives, targets, on 18 April 2018 at Phoenix, Arizona, the US, in presence of and actions for asset maintenance, incoming President of NACE International for 2018-19 Mr. their life cycle assessment and review Jeffrey L. Didas. This prestigious award is given for the first for refurbishment and replacement. time to any Indian national in the history of 75 years of NACE International. For efficient functioning of the pipelines, we have empaneled certiﬁed subject matter experts (SMEs) of international repute. A system has been developed for carrying out root cause analysis of incidents through a three-tier investigation mechanism, i.e., an internal committee at ﬁrst level, External Technical Consultants such as Engineers India Limited (EIL) at the second level and an internationally-reputed independent agency at the third level. To prevent the recurrence of any similar incident, the recommendations of the three committees are integrated and corrective measures are taken. Components of operational excellence Performance Ensure timely, assured and best quality product delivery and services to customers Safety of people and Ensure safety for employees, associated communities, properties, and assets of the organization asset Talent management Develop competency and skills of employees and promote employee motivation Culture of excellence To maintain an efficient stakeholder management relationship and deliver quality products and and customer services to achieve customer satisfaction delight 76 Components of operational excellence Best in class • Adapt to newer technologies to promote efficient and environment friendly O&M activities standards and systems across the • Embed safety, quality and integrity management of all assets throughout the value chains of value chains O&M • Perform business in a long-term sustainable manner, while rightfully fulﬁlling the interest of the Sustainable organization and its stakeholders business operations and compliance • All statutory, legal and regulatory requirements and government guidelines to be complied by and performing beyond internal targets set Responsibility and Empowering employees by deﬁning individual roles, responsibilities and accountability to drive accountability performance improvement 77 Focus areas for functional excellence • Adopting a state of art Technology undertaken by O&M department, 20 has been abbreviated as S2OMESof which could be completed within • Education and Learning TEA which stands for: the reporting period and five have • Safety & Security • Award and Appreciation been carried forward to 2018-19. • Efficient Operation Various initiatives were taken to The details of the initiatives and adopt emerging technology, align with benefits reaped, both tangible and • Best Maintenance Practices global best practices and to improve intangible, during 2017-18 is provided • Environment Management operational efficiency. During the in table below: reporting period, 25 initiatives were • Stakeholder Management S/N Initiatives details Impact Implementation of OFC-based pipeline intrusion detection system (PIDS) PIDS has been implemented in Piyala to Loni section of JLPL and Vizag to IP-1 section of VSPL on a trial basis. The basic principle of operation is based on the optical fiber sensing technique to define and detect any event, produce alarm and spread the necessary communication to all concern by the way standard OTDR display. The system employs distributed acoustic sensing (DAS)This is a proactive mitigation measure for third party based technology. intrusion detection in pipeline RoU (Right of Use). Unlike other methods which are reactive in nature, it provides 1 Types of events detected by the system are: a real-time detection and identification of third party • Manual excavation using hand tools events in RoU. Thus the security of the pipeline system is improved as compared to other methods. • Machine excavation • Vehicle movement in RoU • Agricultural activities in RoU • Seismic activity • Valve detection • Fiber break • Pig location, etc. Quarterly Integrity Report introduced elaborating the 2 Performance monitoring and analysis on the five zeroes performance of the KRAs and KPIs of the Pan-India pipeline Network on the five zeroes The pipeline installations/terminals, viz. intermediate pigging stations, SV stations, PR stations, receiving terminals, and gas dispatch terminals have been commissioned in different phases and with different philosophies. Hence, it felt essential to develop Concept of model terminals introduced to standardize guidelines for upkeeping the GAIL’s stations in a design across all GAIL installations, including the upkeep 3 unified standard. The model station guidelines are of terminals aesthetically and documenting it as per the conceptualized by integrating the various aspects of regulatory requirements, gas installations which includes entrance, sign boards, control room, process area, boundary wall, color coding, approach road and internal pathways, electrical system, sewerage system, sanitation and sustainability initiatives. System (IMS) consists of Pipeline The company’s IMS ensures a Integrated Integrity Management System; seamless functioning of operations Quality Management System, and helps us to achieve the objectives management systems Energy Management System, and of manufacturing of a quality product GAIL’s Integrated Management Environment Management System. and uninterrupted operations. 78 Directorate (OISD) and Petroleum and • Identify and eﬀectively manage all Natural Gas Regulatory Body (PNGRB). the potential threats to pipeline We also observe guidelines used by integrity the American Petroleum Institute (API), British Standards (BS), Canadian • Strategize, identify, monitor, Standards, Deutsches Institut für control, audit and demonstrate Normung (DIN), National Association improvement on risk prevention/ of Corrosion Engineers (NACE) and mitigation of each hazard National Fire Protection Association (NFPA). GAIL’s Central Pipeline Monitoring and Integrity Management System (CPIMS) maintains the integrity of the managing pipeline RoU extensive network of gas pipelines, Encroachment Policy which is done by showing the status derived by recording threats, risks, the With the increase in activities of possibility of failure and compliance inhabitants and their subsequent to statutory regulations through GIS consequences, encroachments in data and temporal data consolidation. pipeline RoU are a potential source This results in the reduction of risk of threat to the safety and integrity of pipeline failure, insurance cost, of the pipeline. It is observed that a and the downtime. Accordingly, the signiﬁcant number of encroachments life of the pipeline is also increased have come up over a period of time by initiating preventive maintenance in GAIL RoU. After analyzing the data based on data collection and analysis collected from the various sites on at an appropriate time. pipeline encroachment, it is observed Asset integrity and Asset performance is ensured by that some encroachments exist since GAIL either took-over the pipeline or productivity service reviewing the risk assessment and laid them and some have come up in reliability prioritizing the identiﬁed risks on the basis of the data collected for the due course. The company’s policy for asset diagnosing threats, fitness for purpose GAIL Sahyogi Scheme integrity management recapitulates (FFP) assessment and corrosion its view to determining the objectives, growth so that the mitigation GAIL Sahyogi Scheme is an effort targets, and actions. It also covers measures can be sorted out. Pipeline towards improving the engagement the policy of asset maintenance by design and standardized integrity with villagers/farmers/stakeholders/ predictive, preventive schedules, assessment processes are also stored general public and to create followed by turnaround schedules. on the system and seamlessly made awareness about pipeline safety and available to relevant and authorized security among nearby population/ We, at GAIL, ensure the safety of users across operations. villagers along the pipelines. They will pipelines from the initial phase. report any unwanted activities such as The pipelines and their supporting NG and LPG pipelines are monitored excavation, encroachment, washout, infrastructure is designed in through application software (APPS) exposure, drilling, boring, leakage (if accordance with the national and in a phased manner. The tool also any), construction in or nearby pipeline international standards such as the provides operation and planning RoU and attempt of any pilferage, etc. American Society of Mechanical tools for safe, reliable, optimum and to nearby maintenance base of GAIL. Engineers (ASME), Oil Industry Safety economic operation of the pipeline Sahyogis get a suitable incentive/ networks. reward during their association with GAIL. Currently, this scheme is being For the creation of systems and implemented at four locations on a processes for managing the integrity pilot basis and based on the outcome, of all owned and operated pipelines, we it will be implemented at other have a Central Integrity Management locations also. Group (CIMG) within the corporate O&M Department at Noida, India. In this scheme, one or more person, Further, to formulate the integrity identiﬁed by GAIL in villages/towns/ management at the regional level, we cities/RoU land owner etc., who are have Regional Integrity Management living in the vicinity of the pipeline Groups (RIMG), having the following route keep vigil on GAIL’s asset and major functions: report/stop/inform any activities which are detrimental to the pipeline’s safety. The respective regional 79 pipeline headquarters implement the sound and fair business activities that scheme by engaging an agency for conform to corporate rules and social Digital extending their services for managing norms, to meet the expectations of the Sahyogi Scheme. In the year 2017stakeholders and earn their trust. We transformation 18, at NCR of JLPL, NG network under have an in-house legal compliance GAIL is giving paramount importance Khera jurisdiction and Cherlapally of management system (LCMS) that to digitalization of data and adoption VSPL, 93 incidents (mostly pertaining ensures compliance with all national of advanced modern technologies. to digging and excavation) have been and relevant international regulations. In December 2017, GAIL undertook a averted due to timely information by new initiative of utilizing advanced GAIL Sahyogi. We undertake a regular audit to review technology of Unmanned Aerial the compliance and implementation Vehicle (UAV/DRONE) for ensuring Foot patrolling along RoU of of our standards. These audits are safety and reliability of its pipelines pipelines conducted by health, safety and against encroachments, washouts, environment (HSE) corporate teams One of the important O&M activities sabotage, excavations and and internal audit team and include for monitoring the condition of construction work for a 27 km stretch inspections, employee interviews and pipelines is foot patrolling along of pipeline RoU in the Shivpuri district detailed reviews of regulatory issues the RoU of pipelines. The frequency of Madhya Pradesh. at each facility to ensure complete of foot patrolling is being done compliance with national, regional The technology of having aerial on a fortnightly/monthly/quarterly and local regulations. The board-level surveillance through UAVs equipped basis by security guards. In addition, audit committee reviews and assesses with cameras and sensors for crossGAIL engineers are also doing foot the compliance level of projects. The country pipelines passing through patrolling along the pipelines once responsibility of compliance lies with forests, inaccessible areas, rivers in a year. The foot patrolling with gas the respective heads of departments. and environmentally sensitive areas detector adds value to the exercise. is an effective option overcoming the The cross country pipelines cross During the reporting period, 2017limitations of present practices of through diﬃcult terrains like canals, 18, no incidents of non-compliance pipeline monitoring undertaken by ponds, mushy ﬁelds, etc. which cannot concerning product and service foot patrolling and air surveillance be accessed especially during the information and labeling, marketing using helicopters. monsoon. Remote detection allows communication, customer data privacy the user to safely survey areas which and socio economic compliance were Information Security Management are difficult to reach. This method, reported. System (ISO 27001:2013) has been saves time during detection of leakage successfully implemented in our which leads to productivity gains, reduced operation and maintenance costs and a safer survey. RoU monitoring through satellite imaging In order to establish the eﬃcacy of the latest pipeline monitoring technology, namely, high resolution low orbit satellite imaging, a pilot project on remote surveillance of pipeline RoU through satellite was taken up recently for a stretch of 610 km in DVPL pipeline by the R&D department in collaboration with the National Remote Sensing Centre (NRSC). The process of satellite imaging helps to mark new encroachments, washouts, etc. Compliance management GAIL believes that compliance is not only about complying with laws and regulations, but also about conducting 80 416-1, 416-2, 417-1, 417-2, 417-3, 418-1, 419-1 and National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre (NCIIPC) Various actions have also been undertaken depending on the identified requirements for the application of advanced technological integration and state-of-the-art monitoring systems in order to ensure safety, security and integrity of pipelines using a proactive approach to prevent incidents. A list of the initiatives that have been undertaken so far have been highlighted below: Linked Control Rooms of multiple Plants for joint and synchronised operations along system. Currently, a Security with strong digital support, Digital with intergration of Operations Centre (SOC) has been Yatra initiative was incorporated. critical and sensitive established simultaneously with an This initiative is expected to leverage machines with the advanced persistent threat mitigation the benefits of state-of-the-art ERP systems system to disarm the new kinds of analytics, mobility and collaboration cyber-security risks. For enhancing the platforms to support GAIL’s business network connectivity and information functions, including plant operations Maintenance security, we have put in place the and maintenance by integrating recording at field, latest private cloud infrastructure and Information Technology (IT) systems status monitoring on initiated several new projects. with plant and pipeline systems. Mobile dashboards have been made GAIL implemented an enterpriseThe following steps have been operative for wide Electronic Document identified for accomplishing the goal manintenance need of Management System (EDMS) in 2012 of digitalization: pipelines to move towards a “paper-light” oﬃce, providing an opportunity to reduce • Upgradation of security posture the use of paper as the system not for operational technology (OT) only cuts down cost and time, but also systems As for Internet reduces distribution/handling eﬀorts • Data integration between the OT of Things (IoT) and increases business productivity. and IT systems application, Annalyser Data is linked with We have also taken initiatives to • Security and risk assessments of the online portal of promote and integrate IT into existing OT systems and their interfaces Pollution control systems for quick resolution of issues with IT systems Board. E-Log field and better decision making. One such operators are being initiative is video conferencing for • Assessment by expert agencies implemented meeting targets and accelerating issue certified by, Indian Computer resolution and decision making. The Emergency Response team under graph above shows a gradual increase the Ministry of Electronics and IT in the number of video conferencing (CERT-IN), Government of India Gas billing to hours at GAIL across various reporting customers is • Improvements of infrastructure, automated by periods. architectures, governance models integrating the field and Standard Operating Procedures sensors form Gas Digital yatra (SOPs) Metering Devices to the ERP systems for In order to institutionalize the concept • Alignment of assessments and invoicing and on-line of ‘Digital Thinking’ and establish outcomes to comply with the field reports GAIL as a world-class organization global standards like IEC-62443 81 GAIL hosts Industry Meet on “Digitization to Next Product loading Level With OT-IT Convergence” automation systems have been designed to link the data of loading from weigh bridge sensors and safety inspections with SAP-ERP Real Time Pipeline Intrusion Detection Systems using Oxygen Free Copper (OFC) based acoustic sensing have been up in place IP based cameras have been put across 140 installations along with mobile digital devices interfaced with GPS and sensors on field assets Digital interventions for real time monitoring of critical and emergency Industry meet on Digitization to next level with OT-IT Convergence’ on 27/12/2017 operations have at GAIL Jubilee Tower, Noida been incorporated to improve the response of ‘Quick Response Teams’ Cashless Mobile App for transactions pipeline information at GAIL Township GAIL has developed a mobilebased application software which We have taken an initiative, in line Drones and will facilitate accessibility of ready with the Digi-Dhan campaign, to satellite data based for pipeline parameters impart awareness on digital payment surveillances are covering more than 40 attributes from methods and cashless transactions being used to any location through GSM mobile to the employees, their families, detect pipeline having GPRS. The attributes covers contractual workers, CISF staﬀ, the security breaches pipeline diameter, length, thickness, local vendors, and shopkeepers at design parameters, source details, the township at GAIL Vijaipur (MP), crossing details, statutory permission going completely cashless under this details, integrity survey details, initiative. encroachments and defect repair history. 82 09 Energy and Environment Advanced Day Lighting System Project at Vijaipur Plant utilizes sunlight to provide light. 83 Energy and Environment Energy Management e understand the longnominated for ‘National Award for term environmental and Excellence in Solar Energy’ under Since energy is a critical economic implications of Green Investment, Best Solar Utility requirement for operations at continued high levels of energy usage. of the Company and Rooftop Enabler the company’s facilities, we Hence, we are dedicatedly exploring of the Year categories. make use of a cost-effective and ways to bring energy efficiency and environmentally-friendly energy cost saving in the business processes. mix. Energy management system In a phased manner, we are switching has been implemented at Vijaipur, to renewable sources VSPN, JLPL Network, Gandhar. of energy for business Natural gas – the cleanestoperations. Multiple wind burning hydrocarbon is the main and solar energy projects fuel for GAIL’s total direct energy have been installed and consumption. Natural gas, when commissioned over the used instead of higher carbon past years at various units fuels such as coal and diesel, to incorporate renewable helps meeting the increasing energy in day-to-day demand while lowering the operations at GAIL. Also, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions the combined investment and air pollution. for supply, commissioning and installation of solar power systems at various GAIL units was `1.56 crore. As a result of all these initiatives, GAIL has been 84 Energy saving 4,58,406.5 KWH. • Easy ADS integration with existing electrical initiatives at GAIL IV. Advanced Day Lighting System lighting system I. Roof-top solar plant for Pata (ADS): The ADS project at Complex: In an effort towards Vijaipur plant envisages utilizing • Negligible operation accelerating India’s solar Photo natural sunlight through ADS and maintenance Voltaic (PV) program and units as an alternative to costs as compared to moving towards a more clean energy intensive fluorescent electrical system energy driven operations, GAIL tube lights or conventional electrical lighting systems. The • Human factor Better India Limited commissioned a health, well-being and 5.67 MW captive solar PV plant project included installation of ADS units at C&P and comfort in December 2017, sprawling over a roof area of 65,000 sq.m. EIL warehouses including • Environmental factor This is India’s second largest weather proofing and testing. Less conventional roof top solar PV plant and is Daylight controller sensors energy consumption also first roof top solar plant were installed for measuring ambient illumination levels and V. Heat recovery steam in the hydrocarbon industry. activation electrical lighting as generators: At GAIL’s Vaghodia Captive solar power initiative and when illumination levels fell plant, three heat recovery steam of GAIL has a generation below the set values. Total cost generators (HRSG) are installed. capacity of 79.30 Lakh units/ of ADS installation and project These HSRGs are unfired, annum. Built at a cost of `4.3 execution was reported to be natural circulation, cross flow crore/MW, this solar plant is `8,82,734. type heat exchanger designed expected to reduce carbon to recover maximum waste emissions by 6,300 MT per a. The equivalent cost heat from the flue gases of gas annum and contribute towards reduction in terms of turbine exhaust. Each HRSG achieving India’s climate goals. energy saved amounts to unit is designed to generate 30 GAIL’s solar rooftop project is be `1,26,000 per year with tons per hour (TPH) of steam also a step under ‘Make in India’ a payback period of less at 30kg/cm2 (g) pressure and with Indian vendors entrusted than five years. ADS is 325°C temperature at maximum for manufacture, supply and expected to help Vijaipur continuous rating (MCR) case. execution. plant reduce its carbon foot II. Installation of LED lights: At print in terms of reduced VI. Installation of energy efficient GAIL’s Pata plant, a total of 10511 GHG emissions equivalent equipment: Replacement of LED lights were installed in the to 16 tons of carbon dioxide NCR O&M: For SVs and IPs and various locations inside the equivalents (CO2e)/year. customer terminals, phaseplant and township premises wise replacements of 386 b. Other benefits included: conventional tube lights (36W) such as sub stations, offices and on-field locations at GAIL Pata • Ensured lumen output with LED tubes (20W) were in the year 2017-18. as per industrial undertaken at 105 stations lighting standards along with replacement of 57 III. Total electricity saved due to old ACs with Bureau of Energy replacement of conventional – OISD 149 with a minimum light Efficiency (BEE)-rated inverter lighting system with LED lamps intensity 100 lux technology based ACs. in the FY 2017-18 at GAIL Pata and township premises is equivalently without dark spots schemes like UJALA (Unnat Jyoti by energy audits, corrective actions Energy efficiency Affordable LEDs for All) have been implementation and use of energy initiated by the government to improve saving measures, in order to reduce its Energy security and energy equity, i.e., efficiency considering the existing and energy consumption. the accessibility and affordability of evolving energy scenarios. Supporting energy supply across the population the government’s continuous thrust continue to be amongst the biggest for implementing energy efficiency Material developmental challenges for India. Accessibility of low-cost energy measures, GAIL has deployed consumption integrated energy management requires a significant investment in system with activities like energy GAIL’s key business activities range both improving energy efficiency as consumption monitoring, periodic from gas transmission and marketing well as energy infrastructure. Various to processing (for fractionating LPG, 85 propane, pentane, etc.); transmission at both corporate and site levels to of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG); initiate mapping, monitoring and Other air emissions and production and marketing of formulating mitigation measures for petrochemicals like high-density the identified key risks which are then We have significantly reduced the polyethylene (HDPE) and linear lowpresented to the Board annually for release of air emissions over the past density polyethylene (LLDPE). In 2017decision-making. years and have prioritized improving it 18, GAIL processed 25,496 MMSCM of continuously. Most of the air emissions natural gas, highlighting an increase of We track emissions released by originate due to burning of fuels or 7.5% from 2016-17 and consumed 1700 the facilities and work to reduce venting. Year-on-year air emissions MMSCM of natural gas for making air pollution from operations. We from these activities have decreased products. Besides natural gas, GAIL regularly report our greenhouse due to GAIL’s design initiatives to uses numerous materials in production gas (GHG) emissions in line with minimize environmental impact. which exert an impact on people and the recommendations of the Online plant emission parameter the environment as a result of their Intergovernmental Panel on Climate and effluent discharge parameter procurement, transport, usage and Change. from respective analyzers have been disposal. We make strenuous efforts connected to CPCB and UPPCB to ensure that valuable raw materials GHG emissions website for cloud-based monitoring as are recycled. The company’s aim is to first Industrial Internet of Things (IIOT) For monitoring and reporting our GHG system commissioned at GAIL Pata. ensure that negative impacts on the emissions, we follow the international environment are reduced as much guidelines of the Greenhouse Gas as possible or entirely avoided. This Reporting Standard by World Business Ozone-depleting helps in enhancing GAIL’s reputation and reducing costs. Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), ISO 140642006 and substances American Petroleum Institute (API), GAIL policy prohibits the use of Climate change and a compendium of GHG emissions methodologies for oil and natural ozone depleting substances (ODS) in its premises. Ozone-depleting emission management gas industry 2009. We track the substances are used as refrigerants six major GHGs: carbon dioxide in facility, vehicle air conditioning The momentum to (CO2); methane (CH4); nitrous oxide address the causes systems and various equipment(N2O); hydro fluorocarbons (HFCs); cooling systems. Although, ODS of climate change is perfluorocarbons (PFCs); and sulfur gathering pace and may be released during the normal hexafluoride (SF6). We express our operation or failure of these systems, governments across carbon footprints in terms of carbon the globe are showing the total amount released is not dioxide equivalents (CO2e). Energy increased commitment significant from a company-wide sources account for more than 99% to coordinated action to reduce perspective. Elimination of ODS as of our GHG emissions. GAIL’s GHG carbon emissions. This has, in turn, put refrigerant is managed consistently. inventory includes direct emissions onus on industries to help countries from the combustion of fossil fuels, Compared to 2016-17, there has move gradually towards low carbon primarily natural gas, flaring, venting been 33% reduction in ODS gas economies and help their governments and indirect emissions from purchased consumption. address the climate change risks more electricity at our manufacturing sites, effectively. offices and training centers. Water management In line with this cause, we have signed a Reducing emissions is one of the key Water is an important resource for Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) areas for the company to contribute towards addressing the problem of GAIL and is mainly used for cooling with Federation of Indian Petroleum and sanitary purposes. Rationing Industry (FIPI) for participation climate change. Apart from reduction of energy consumption achieved measures at the sites compromise the in a study “Climate Change Risks: company’s productivity. Therefore, we through efficiency measures, Preparedness for Oil and Gas additional steps undertaken include: are setting the target at all the sites Sector”. The study aims to provide a for making a contribution towards comprehensive analysis and suggest • Using electricity generated from conservation of water resources suitable measures for the threats solar plates installed in plants and keeping its consumption as low posed by climate change to the oil and • Transporting majorly through as possible. The objective of water gas sector. pipeline networks, thereby management is also linked to SDG 6 reducing transportation through which emphasizes on clean water. The Enterprise Risk Management vehicles and subsequently Policy has been rolled out across reducing vehicular emission In 2017, our total water consumption the organization outlines the risk was 23 million cubic meters, an assessment climate change-related • Preventing emissions due to open venting at our storage and increase of 8.5% as against the 2016 issues. Committees have been formed level. Around 96% of total water pumping facilities 86 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, OG-6, 103-3, 103-2, 201-2, OG-2 consumption is from surface water from processes is treated, through period. No water bodies were affected sources and the rest is from ground effluent treatment plants (ETP). by this discharge. A total of 0.5 million water, rain water and municipal The treatment includes adjusting cubic meters, i.e., 2.1% of water was water. We have installed rainwater pH, removing suspended solids and reported recycled and reused as a harvesting system in all the facilities reducing Biological Oxygen Demand percentage of total water withdrawn and corporate offices to improve the (BOD), if any. In addition, the company for consumption. ground water table. engages best management practices to prevent unwanted pollutants Extensive sampling of wastewater Areas affected by withdrawal of from entering waterways via surface ensures that treated water meets water: Zero contamination and run-off. the company’s strict requirements. The treated waste water is used The discharge of water at Many of the GAIL facilities have for various non-potable uses like manufacturing sites is monitored zero discharge buildings except Pata horticulture, gardening, etc. We ensure to validate compliance with Central plant. However, the total waste water reusing maximum amounts of waste Pollution Control Board (CPCB)/ discharge of 1.3 million cubic meters water at all installations. State Pollution Control Board was reported during the reporting (SPCB) effluent limit. Wastewater 87 303-1, 303-2, 303-3, 306-1, 306-5, OG-5 approximately 2900 m3 of water and biodiversity. We conduct regular Increasing Water was reported to be harvested. surveys as well as studies pertaining to environment and ecology of the Efficiency Initiative • At IPS Mansarampura, rain water area in and around GAIL units to ensure harvesting system have been prevention and timely mitigation of Various initiatives aimed at reducing installed at the cost of `2.4 lakh wastage of water and optimizing its issues. which resulted in recharging usage were undertaken at several 9666 m3 of ground water during This system has contributed GAIL units. A brief description of all the reporting period. meaningfully to Goal 14 and Goal 15 of these initiatives is mentioned below: the SDG and are positively impacting life, both, under the water and on the • At NCR, O&M, 10 rain water Greenbelt and land. harvesting systems have been installed in 2017-18 Biodiversity There are no protected habitats • At Gandhar plant, water sprinkler Management within 10 kms of any operating site of GAIL. A bare minimum area is used system have been installed for Environment & ecological for pipelines, which generally have a horticulture management at the sustainability is one lifespan of 25-30 years. Thus, once the cost of `37 lakhs. The sprinkler of the focus areas of pipeline is laid permanently and the system is expected to optimize GAIL which requires forest area is restored, they remain the use of water consumption a scientific plan and untouched until the requirement of and will also enhance the an expert supervision maintenance arises. Also, we utilize wastewater’s utilization capacity. to address the issues arising in this less than 1/3rd of the RoU for the • At GAIL Pata, rain water domain. GAIL has a well-defined pipelines passing through forest harvesting systems have been Environment Management Plant to areas. This strictly limits the pipelines installed in all major buildings. address issues related to environment in creating a negative impact of on the During the reporting period, environment. Flora Diversity at GAIL Fauna Diversity at GAIL 88 304-1, 304-2, 304-3, 304-4, OG-4 Green-belt Areas Green-belt areas have been developed Case Study with the help of local management Recyclable waste recovery at Pata at various premises. These areas comprise of diverse and indigenous This initiative was undertaken at GAIL Pata for disposal of waste/ species of flora and fauna. The water old documents through recyclers with the help of C&P department. bodies within these belts also contain In the first phase, separate departmental committees were formed huge water reservoirs and are home to for the identification of old documents as per the Document various aquatic species. Retention Policy of GAIL Pata. In the second phase, all the identified old documents were handed over to the Document Control Service GAIL sites having signficant greenDepartment. While the confidential papers were shredded in-house belt areas are: by the paper shredder machine, the remaining documents were sent a. Petrochemical Complex at Pata to industrial shredder for further processing. along with the township A contract to dispose off the waste papers was then lined up through b. Vijaipur Complex along with the MSTC by inviting tenders. township c. GPU Gandhar and the township d. GPU Vaghodia We record locally the amount of (Reduce-Reuse-Recycle) and ensure material that has been recycled or a more efficient waste management e. LPG Recovery Plant, Usar sent away for disposal. A distinction procedure. f. Dabhol – Bengaluru Pipeline is drawn in these categories between hazardous and non-hazardous waste. Zero spills reported in FY 2017-18. Reduction of waste that requires Biodiversity disposal is our priority. Research and Assessment All hazardous wastes like used oil, slop Development Biodiversity assessment is carried oil, Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) sludge, tar, molecular sieves, spent As the world transitions towards out periodically to keep a check on the carbon or tar ash are either disposed an environmentally and socially environmental and ecological health to recyclers and reprocessing inclusive approach for development, of the area falling under the greenfacilities approved by State Pollution GAIL’s management has also belt and to identify the mitigation Control Board (SPCB) or sent to SPCB decided to give this momentum measures and preventive actions that authorized Treatment Storage and a thrust through its research and need to be undertaken. Disposal Facilities (TSDFs). development activities in clean fuel GAIL installations are also home to area. GAIL is consistently allocating a few of the species falling under Apart from environment-friendly a budget of 1% of PAT towards R&D. Schedule I of Wildlife (Protection) disposal, various initiatives are The R&D efforts have led to various Act and threatened categories of undertaken frequently to minimize novel developments and eight patent International Union for Conservation the company’s material intensity applications were filed during the of Nature (IUCN). Such species which by implementing the 3R principle have been found at GAIL sites. The data captured during the Biodiversity Assessment carried out for 2017-18 is shown on adjacent page. Waste Management Waste is produced during the gas processing process. We follow the guiding principle of primarily avoiding waste, recycling it or professionally disposing it after the other options have been exhausted, at all the sites. This enables GAIL to protect the environment, reduce negative impacts on local communities and also adopt Tree Plantation During Swachh Bharat fortnight a cost-effective approach in business. 89 OG-7 of July, 2017. 3. Waste management and land Case Study reclamation at Pata • Segregation facility for 1. Wealth-out of-Waste (WOW) organic and inorganic Disposal of waste polymer Project at Cauvery Basin waste has been set up. and other scrap material lying near Pata plant’s nursery was At Vijaipur plant, a waste • All bio-degradable waste undertaken during the reporting segregation and recycling is converted into manure period. initiative was undertaken to – a combined processing ensure reduced dumping of Various decisions related capacity of 1 MT (for both to machine waste, liquefied recyclable waste. Through township and plant). WOW, GAIL promotes the petroleum (LP) wax, flaked material, poly-fills, filters, 3R concept of Reuse-Reuse• The manure, thus obtained, scraps and other waste Recycle. GAIL collaborated is used for internal materials were made in order to with M/S ITC Limited Tiruchy consumption and for streamline the process of waste for segregation and recycling community development. management. of waste paper and managed to save `25,000 without any All segregated nonBased on the decisions made, additional expenditure. biodegradable waste is the following actions were disposed through recycler with taken: 2. Organic Waste Composting disposal certificate. (OWC) Project at Vijaipur • Approximately 15 MT of Benefits non-shredable machine Project details: The WOW waste was collected and program at Vijaipur plant has • Helps in compliance under removed from the site to been taken a step ahead to MSW Rules, 2016 be sold to recyclers. cater to the needs of ecofriendly management of bio• Helps in utilizing rich • Horticulture waste was compost as manure at GAIL lifted from the site and sent degradable waste. This project nurseries thus substituting to burn pit. was implemented as per the proposal made in Sustainable consumption of chemical • Miscellaneous wastes like Development Annual Plan for fertilizers damaged filters, chairs, wooden FY 2017-18 to convert all bioscrap and paper wastes were degradable wastes like kitchen, • Results in savings of `1.23 collected and dumped at C&P garden and horticultural waste lakhs per year yard for further actions. into manure. Any amount of manure that • 1880 kg of LP wax was lifted Actions taken: An integrated is left out after internal from the nursery site, out of Organic Waste Composting consumption is used under CSR which 720 kg of LP flakes were (OWC) project was for community development generated. commissioned in second week through marketing option. year. For FY 17-18, expenditure on • Eco-friendly method of b) Clean energy development R&D was `28.84 crore. biological pretreatment of lignocelluloses of Under this category the following R&D activities are aligned to agricultural residues is being two initiatives were undertaken: improvise clean fuel generation and business process efficiency. The carried out to produce bio• Low-emission natural focus areas of R&D activities are: ethanol. Further, efforts gas combustor as a are being made to make hybrid heating source for this process more energy supercritical CO2 Brayton Key Initiatives efficient. cycle is being developed a) Bio-based fuel • Co-pyrolysis of bio• Methane production from residue through microwave The following two initiatives marine hydrate is also being treatment is also being have been undertaken under this explored to augment the carried out under this category during the reporting availability of natural gas. initiative. period: Studies are being carried out to on low pressure methane storage in micro porous 90 103-2, 103-3 (CDM). Approximately 12000MT of CO2 equivalent of methane has been captured and destroyed through this project since its commissioning. f) Development of PEM Fuel Cell GAIL’s R&D is currently working on development of Novel, a nanocomposite-based adsorbents for storage of hydrogen and development of PEM fuel cells. In addition, new mixed linkers materials was sabotage, excavations and material development works in carried out for its suitability construction work for a 27 km quantum dot, perovskite and dye for the development stretch of pipeline RoU in the sensitized-based PV solar cells adsorbed natural gas Shivpuri district of Madhya are being pursued for enhancing technology. Pradesh. their conversion efficiency. c) CO2 utilization In order to improvise the g) Start-up initiatives reliability of data transfer of In its endeavor to promote startCombustion and sweeting monitoring process, a pilot up culture in India, GAIL came up processes are two main causes project was undertaken to test with initiative ”Pankh” which aims of CO2 emission encountered at the wireless sensor networkat providing financial assistance GAIL. In order to minimize this based data transfer, during the to breakthrough start-up ideas emission, a pilot project was reporting year. that have the potential to grow undertaken for development of new solvent for the gas e) Land Fill Gas Project in scale and become profitable sweeting process. Research companies in the long run. This was also initiated to carry out A pilot Landfill Gas (LFG) project initiative was launched on 25 July microbial fixation of CO2 to the at Ghazipur landfill site, Delhi is 2017 and a web portal was made biomass production and further currently operational in a landfill available for submission of startconversion into useful products area of 10 acre. It comprises up proposals. like fertilizers or biofuels. Besides of landfill gas extraction and flaring stations and a total of 20 To begin with, GAIL created a fund of ` this, a pilot project for production 50 crore to be invested in start-ups of of valuable chemicals using photo landfill gas extraction wells. As a measure for GHG mitigation, both core (up to 80%) and non-core (up bioreactors has been initiated to 40%) areas. A “Start-Up Policy” and at Pata facility. Performance approximately 50 m3/hr of landfill gas is being extracted and safely “Process Manual and Guidelines” were evaluation and validation of prepared detailing the methodology the identified CO2 reforming destroyed in the enclosed flare. This project was validated and and procedures for scrutinizing and catalysts are being carried out for awarding the received proposals. the same. Electro catalysts are registered with United Nations also being tried for Solid State Framework Convention on During the reporting period a total Electrochemical reduction of CO2 Climate Change (UNFCCC) under of 42 proposals were received out of to value added products. Clean Development Mechanism which 32 were found to be complete d) Pipeline integrity management In order to better manage “GAIL consistently strives for collaboration with pipeline network, GAIL continued technology houses to bring the latest technology. the remote monitoring of The company’s start-up initiative “Pankh”, is an effort pipeline RoU through high in this direction to incubate and support new ideas. resolution satellite images. GAIL The initiative, which is also aligned to the priority of undertook a new initiative of the nation to develop an ecosystem that promotes utilizing advanced technology of entrepreneurship and start-ups, supports young Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV/ entrepreneurs and also explores opportunities that align DRONE) for ensuring safety and with our business.” reliability of its pipelines against encroachments, washouts, Director (BD) 91 103-2, 103-3 and were shortlisted During the current reporting period, management, to generate data and for further evaluation. a total 161 QC projects have been information with greater transparency Eventually, investment registered and 132 QC projects were and accountability and ensuring timely agreement was signed successfully completed with financial communication of information from with four start-ups for saving of around `10.68 crores. Additionally, we have implemented sites to top management for a smooth a total commitment Delivering Experimental Learning functioning of Project Directorate. It of `5.12 crore. Further through Application (DELTA) initiative has also worked on the following key investment agreements are in process to bring continual improvement for finalization of six more selected areas: in Project Directorate through start-ups. implementation of improvement ideas • Development of ”Online at sites. Monitoring Tools” for project In addition, GAIL has signed MoUs on cooperation with IIT Madras The TQM scientific approach to implementation, issue resolution Incubation Cell and IIM Lucknow problem-solving includes concepts (like ICE i.e., Issue-ConstraintsIncubation Centre for supporting the of data-based decision-making, Exceptions, Work Registers and start-ups incubated by them. use of statistical tools and a Critical Issue Monitoring Tool), structured approach to solving capturing minutes of meetings/ problems. Considering the above record notes, feedback reports Total Quality specified overarching benefits, an from EDs/GMs/DGMs, etc. in integrated management system Management for our pipelines and transmission coordination with Business assets was incorporated to ensure Information System (BIS). Total quality management (TQM) is a seamless gas transmission process. management system made up of four Remote Monitoring System has also • Ensuring compliance of basic components: been installed to identify and timely instructions and guidelines from • Leadership address any issue arising with the various ministries and aligning pipeline network. actions w.r.t. management • Teamwork instructions and guidelines. Apart from these initiatives, we • Scientific approach to problem• Monitoring schedule progress of have also conducted Stakeholder solving project activities, critical O&M Satisfaction Survey in the month • Satisfying the needs of customers of March 2018 with an objective activities, exception monitoring primarily to assess the satisfaction of and ensuring prompt corrective Leadership at GAIL has provided stakeholders and identify strengths measures. the organization with the necessary strategy and supervision in steering and areas in need of improvement. A • Ensuring compliance w.r.t. the organization towards growth. total of 2,086 active customers were initiatives for sustainable It has also helped the workforce at picked up from SAP based on the development, energy efficiency GAIL realize the direction in which the transactions during the last six months and environment. organization is headed to and how they (September 2017 to February 2018). Details of active customer number as • Innovation in day-to-day working can contribute to it. For this, Enterprise through tools like SLICE and Risk Management Policy was rolled picked up from SAP are as below: organizing technical trainings, out across the organization to help • Petrochemical Marketing workshops and knowledge review high, medium and low risks Business: 1,311 sharing sessions to help form for the organization. Risk Steering SMEs within GAIL for relevant Committees have been formed at • Natural Gas Business: 630 areas. both corporate and site level to review risk status quarterly and deliberate • Liquid Hydrocarbon Marketing in Risk Management Committee biBusiness: 145 annually before placing them before audit committee. The audit committee and the Board of Directors review the Implementation policy and procedures periodically to Improvement Innovation ensure smooth business. at GAIL (IIIG) Various departments work in tandem to ensure uninterrupted operation In order to ensure effective monitoring and timely mitigation of issues in of crucial activities and achieving their the operation. We undertake quality compliance with standard norms circle (QC) projects for cultural and process change through employee and regulation in timely manner, IIIG engagement which helped to improve was constituted in GAIL IIIG provides employee morale and performance. an interface between sites and top 92 103-2, 103-3 10 Health and Safety 93 Health and Safety Our Approach e are committed to ensure Safety is central to GAIL’s culture. high standard of health and our commitment to personal and safety at workplace. Robust process safety begins at the top policies and practices are in place of the organization which is then throughout the operations to measure reinforced at every level. GAIL has a health and safety performance, practice to include key safety metrics demonstrate progress and identify in its annual incentive plan formula areas for improvement have been for executives and employees. conducted. The Company’s safety programs and GAIL’s Health and Safety Policy practices are designed to deliver signed by the Chairman and Managing continuous improvement, with the Director sets out the company’s goal of having everyone across the overarching commitments in relation operations return home safe, every to health and safety including injury day. Each employee and contractor is management. The policy applies to personally responsible for adhering all employees, contractors, products, to the HSE policy and supporting services, and joint ventures under GAIL’s ultimate goal of zero incidents. GAIL’s operational control. The implementation of HSE Policy at G O O D all sites is periodically monitored H E A LT H through internal and external audits, A N D HSE verification checks and periodic WELLvisits by senior officials. Besides BEING having a well-defined health and safety management framework for the employees, we cover all health and safety topics through formal agreements with trade unions and We protect the health and through terms of contracts with the safety of our own employees company’s suppliers. and those of our partner companies. 94 103-2 Leadership Strong and dedicated safety leadership is an essential component of GAIL’s efforts to achieve a “zero harm” and “safe work environment”. An effective safety culture requires proactive commitment, accountability and continuous reinforcement from all levels of management, including the Board of Directors. The Director (Projects) and Director (BD) monthly review safety performance report. The Board Committee reviews the safety performance, audit findings recommendations, strategic priorities and significant incidents in the reporting period. Management System GAIL’s Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) Management System (HSEMS), consisting of 18 elements, forms the framework by which we manage HSE risks across the business. The company’s system is based on the requirements as per the Oil Industry Safety Directorate (OISD) Standards and best practices in vogue in peer industries. The HSEMS provides a systematic and consistent approach for reducing Health, Safety & Environment risks in operating activities. We believe that delivering safe, compliant and reliable operations will lead to sustainable competitive advantage. Safety Monitoring We have safety committees at sites consisting of total 495 representatives (including management and non-management representative). The number of management representatives is 303, while the number of non-management staff is 192. The safety committee meets quarterly providing a planned forum for proactive discussion on health and safety matters across the organization to systematically address any issue with regards to occupational health and safety. In addition to periodical monitoring on implementation of HSE Policy, internal and external audits of the HSEMS are 95 403-4 undertaken to facilitate a culture of Awareness Program on Natural Gas Pipeline Safety with the District continuous improvement at various Disaster management Officer (District Raigad) at Collector’s Office levels in organization. Focus areas We continue to prioritize safety improvement efforts in those areas that have the greatest opportunity both in terms of injury rate and population. As a hazard prone industry, maintaining the highest health and safety conditions within the organization is of utmost importance. Disaster Prevention, Fatality Prevention and Personal Safety are GAIL’s priority areas. Each Photographs taken during Awareness Program on Natural Gas Pipeline Safety with of the priority areas is described in the District Disaster Management Officer (District Raigad) at Collector’s Office dated 25/04/2017 subsequent section. Disaster prevention Fatality prevention Personal safety The company’s focus on prevention of GAIL’s focus on prevention of fatalities Personal safety has been identified high consequence incidents such as a also continued during the year. as one of the most important focus major fire or explosion from process areas for improving the company’s safety hazards in the facilities, or The foundations of fatality prevention safety performance. During the year, during transportation of NG and LPG strategy are near miss reporting, we continued to maintain our focus continued during the year. auditing of significant risks, risk on prevention of common injuries management basics (e.g., permit to from non-fatal risks such as manual The key improvement activities in this work and management of change), handling, trips and falls etc. It has area are and implementation of protocols been analyzed that lack of exercise of that prescribe to higher levels safety practices is one of the primary • In-depth periodic Hazard and of mandatory risk controls than Operability (HAZOP) studies to reasons leading to minor accidents in traditional and historic standards. any organization and with the same ensure that critical risk controls are implemented and sustained. Hazard and near miss reporting stands true for GAIL. We continue to are our foundation for maintaining invest in reducing such risks through • Regular scrutiny of integrity of risk awareness, especially for high the implementation of Behavior Based the pipeline by the Centralized consequence disaster and fatality Safety (BBS) training and sensitization Pipeline Integrity Management risks. of site people on safety aspects. This System (CPIMS) is supported by risk assessments, These practices ensure that actions training in standard operating • Real time surveillance of pipelines are taken before harm occurs. For the procedures, health assessments and to protect them from third last two consecutive years, there has monitoring, and near miss reporting. party damage through the help been no fatalities at GAIL. of Pipeline Intrusion Detection System (PIDS) Fatality Risks • Engaging local communities residing near our pipeline areas for raising awareness regarding the importance of pipeline integrity (under GAIL Sahyogi Scheme) • Training our drivers involved in transportation of inflammable products by seeking professional support. Common fatality risks are due to falls, electrical safety, machine guarding, lifting equipment and reckless driving. 96 103-3 Sustaining “Behavior Based corporate offices, are being monitored * Information communication Safety” drive implementation is a (health check) based on GAIL’s internal through workflow and emails big challenge. Understanding this guidelines. challenge, following actions have * Online availability of been taken to drive/sustain BBS at identified hazards, risk respective sites: Embedding safety levels, controls for safe work as well as root-cause analysis • Development of web-based BBS controls for prevention of recurrence centralized portal to facilitate the We remain vigilant in the company’s of the incident observation feedback process focus on H&S risks, ensuring that and smooth implementation of * Moni tori ng of the appropriate controls are in place to BBS across all GAIL installations. progress/completion/ address these risks and that people delay of implementation are appropriately trained. These • Steering committee headed by of recom m end at i o n s / measures include the following: OICs and functional committees tasks with individual headed by respective HoDs have a) Safety Management System responsibilities been constituted to drive further including Management of BBS at their respective sites. * System-defined investigation Change (MoC) through SAP process for incident and near • 119 lead trainers have been Safety Management System miss developed at sites for further comprises of three main transformation of safety culture * System generated regulatory functionalities such as Incident at their respective sites. and statutory reports Management System, Risk Assessment and Job Safety * Top risk dashboard for all • Eﬀective implementation of Analysis, and Management locations behavioral based safety at all of Change. The primary aim locations and for all employees * Analytical multi-dimensional of implementing Incident working at site through reports for risk analysis and Management System and Risk awareness workshops, training incident management Assessment is to enhance the and sensitization. safety aspects in operational b) Personal protective equipment • BBS promotional schemes environment through systematic to encourage employees and capturing of risk factors, risk GAIL’s aim is to use engineering contract workers. evaluation and risk mitigations controls as the primary method by pro-active approach as well for protecting its employees and • In addition, with site speciﬁc as through the detailed rootcontractors. The second line of awareness program, regional cause analysis post-incident. defense involves an adjustment safety leadership-cum-BBS The purpose of implementing of the work procedure and/or workshops are being organized management of change is to the introduction of mechanical on quarterly to penetrate BBS effectively manage the changes devices to eliminate/minimize further. in the organization through stepthe exposure of workers to Health assessment is undertaken as by-step analysis of the change occupational health or safety per occupational health measures with respect to its nature and hazards. Lastly, the third line of and medical surveillance programs. probable consequences, approval defense against potential hazards Under this set of guidelines, specific of the change by the concerned is the use of Personal Protective procedures to monitor employees’ authority, implementation of Equipment (PPE). These health have been defined and the the change and analysis of its requirements are communicated same is monitored at corporate level post-implementation effects to all employees and contractors through Corporate Occupational and finally updating of relevant through regular training programs Health Committee. documents incorporating the and posters at sites which visually change. Impacts and benefits of depict any specific requirement Additionally we have introduced the Safety Management System of PPE for that particular area stringent HSE requirement in include the following: of work. Mandatory safety the purchase and procurement talks are carried out prior to documents/contracts in order to * Systematic recording of commencement of any job. enhance safety in the company’s incidents, risk assessments Regular audits are conducted supply chain. and management of change on the usage of PPE in areas of * Uniform process for exposure and any noncompliance We ensure that all personnel working is viewed seriously. at sites have undergone health checkincident management, risk ups at least once during the year, assessment and MOC across c) Emergency preparedness while employees at offices, including GAIL 97 103-3 Emergencies and disasters cases were reported for Level 1 of the capability and performance are unpredictable and strike Incident and zero for Level 2 and 3 of those who help us carry out without warning. GAIL’s incident. This number was nine for the work. GAIL’s standard model emergency preparedness the year 2016-17. contracts include health, safety and response program helps and security requirements. protect the employees, the d) Training on safe work practices Bridging documents are surrounding communities and the GAIL’s systems are only as good as necessary in some cases to environment. the competency of the company’s define how our Health Safety individuals. To ensure that the and Environment Management In order to prepare for System (HSEMS) and those of such emergencies, we have two go hand-in-hand, we provide training to individuals for specific contractors co-exist to manage implemented an emergency risk on a site. Contracts involving preparedness plan in accordance procedures and processes laid out by the company. Each process work that could result in the most with PNGRB Regulations known serious safety risks demand our by Emergency Response & has corresponding roles and responsibilities that are allocated highest scrutiny. We conduct Disaster Management Plan pre-contract quality, technical, (ERDMP). The plan aims to assist to individuals across the site. The trainings are structured to include health, safety, security and with the planning and execution of environmental audits for these appropriate actions in response information with respect to legislation and industry guidance, contractors on a risk-prioritized to specific emergencies. The basis, and provide structured company’s plans account for company policy, local rules and procedures, individual and team oversight while the work is common emergencies, such as carried out. responding to fires, location responsibilities, procedures and specific emergencies, such as standards, first aid response and f) Security responding to earthquakes. case histories of accidents or near misses involving failure of Managing security risks is part of The laid out plans are then the safety systems. At the end of GAIL’s efforts to protect its staff, regularly tested for effectiveness, the training program, individuals contractors, nearby communities through management reviews, are assessed through testing on and the environment. In line with audits and annual drills. The the procedures discussed and the goal of no harm to people, discrepancies are noted and demonstration exercises. During we carefully assess the security corrective actions are completed the reporting period, 10.2% of threats and risks to the company’s to ensure these remain effective. full-time employees were trained operations. We work with Central Following an emergency, for health and safety and various Industrial Security Force and business resumption plans are procedures of the organization. partner with them to safeguard implemented to ensure effective our facilities and provide a safe processes are in place to restore e) Contractor safety and secure working environment business operations post any GAIL’s contractors comprises for employees and contractors. such potential emergency. nearly 70% of the total workforce As per the incidents reported to hours. The company’s ability to be PNGRB for FY 1718, a total of six a safe operator depends on part Major Incident Statistics 98 103-3 Health and Safety Performance Mutual Aid Meeting held at GAIL measures and tracks the safety GPU Gandhar performance using a number of lagging On 22.06.2017 meetings with Mutual Aid members from M/s ONGC, performance indicators based on reported safety incidents. GAIL also CPF Gandhar and M/s IOCL, Bottling plant, Gandhar was arranged tracks leading indicators of health and at GPU Gandhar. As part of Mutual Aid Agreement between M/s safety to provide insight into trends. GAIL(India) Limited, Gas Processing Unit, Gandhar with M/s ONGC, CPF Gandhar and M/s IOCL, Bottling plant, Gandhar, regular • We have achieved average HSE meetings with Mutual aid members to be done. Further, in compliance score of 93.45% during FY 2017to the other statutory requirements like OISD, ERDMP, MB Lal 18, which is well above the MoU recommendations, etc. and to have an effective coordination during target of 90%. emergency situations, an interactive session was organized. Meeting • In 2017, following steady and was organized in the chairmanship of Sh. U P Bhagat, GM (O&M)-OIC, significant improvements in our Gandhar. safety performance over the past decade, the number of reportable injuries per million working hours was zero. • During FY 2017-18, Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR), reportable injuries, occupational diseases and fatalities were reported to be zero. Health and Safety Initiatives At GAIL FY 2017-18 saw various health and safety related initiatives undertaken industry in India. carried out to check the suitable by the company’s corporate HSE team: • Consultancy services of M/s. safety and fire protection • Oil & Gas HSE Conclave on theme measures. Safety inspection of DNV GL hired for review of “Shaping HSE Culture Amidst zonal marketing office buildings HSE management system implementation at GAIL Study was carried out at Chandigarh, being carried out at PC-Pata, Chennai, Hyderabad and JLPL, HVJ compressor and Ahmedabad. Corporate HSE covering all • Annual occupational checkup operation segments. Study for status of employees incorporated gap identification with respect to in E-PMS for motivating industry best safety practices is employees to undergo an annual also under scope of study. health checkup. • Center for Chemical Process • Various incidents/measures were Safety (CCPS) Asia Pacific taken and industrial case studies Regional Technical Steering were circulated on monthly Global Challenges” organized Committee Meeting and Process basis to all employees of GAIL on 8th – 9th December 2017 at Safety Awareness Program for better safety awareness and Noida. This HSE conclave was organized at GAIL Jubilee Tower avoiding incidents in future. conducted to draw a focus on the on 23 January 2018. • Various online quiz programs were much-needed paradigm shift in • An in-house incident reporting organized through GAIL Intranet GAIL’s approach and transforming system developed for all sites. It for the benefit of all employees. HSE culture, making business was implemented at all RGMCs, Prizes are also awarded to quiz processes more efficient, NGMC and Process Control winners. maintaining safety and reliability rooms. of high risk organizations. This conclave was organized for the • Safety inspection of GAIL’s benefit of entire oil and gas zonal marketing office buildings 99 103-3 Health and Safety Approach” in the program “Learning from Incidents” of CCPS meeting. Seminars A “Workshop on Process Safety MetricsOil and Gas HSE Conclave Implementing API-RP-754 2nd Edition” Oil & Gas HSE Conclave organized by was also conducted during the program. GAIL (India) Limited on theme ‘Shaping CCPS meeting concluded with the HSE Culture Amidst Global Challenges’ following take away: at Hotel Radisson Blu, Noida on 8th – 9th December 2017. The theme was chosen to • The challenge is to learn as much draw a focus on the well-needed paradigm as possible about the causes of shift in our approach and transforming accidents and near misses that HSE Culture, making business processes have already happened in order to Shri P K Gupta, Director (HR), prevent reoccurrence. state-of-the-art, maintaining safety and addressing the esteemed audience reliability of high risk organizations. during the HSE Conclave. • To continuously improve upon Through this conclave, efforts were process safety performance, it is put the oil and gas industry learnings essential that companies in the and experiences in the field of HSE chemical and petroleum industries Management for the benefit of entire implement effective leading and industry. 324 participants from more lagging process safety metrics. than 40 oil and gas organizations and • Effective process safety institutions, 11 exhibitors and more automation, risk analysis and hazard than 50 speakers participated in this identification in plant operation first of its kind Oil & Gas HSE Conclave. to keep the operations running Internationally renowned speakers within specified limits and to set shared their knowledge and vast pool more precise limits to maximize of experience on various aspects like profitability, ensure quality and HSE leadership, contractor safety, fire safety safety management, process safety, HSE • CCPS Process Safety Professional benchmarking, etc. on the numerous benefits of Certification Course is helpful to Highlights of the conclave not just allopathy, but also the ensure process safety officer’s ancient sciences of Ayurveda and professional knowledge and • Nukkad Natak (skit) was performed homeopathy. by the theatre group Abhigyan commitment to staying updated Nattya Manch, which was based • Ms. Deepa Mallik, an Indian athlete about the latest developments in on the theme “Oil and Gas Pipeline and medalist at the Paralympic the process safety. Safety in the country” Games and a motivational speaker • At the end Sh. Shakeel Kadri, ED was invited to the conclave as a (CCPS) honored GAIL by presenting • Padmashri Dr. K.K. Aggarwal, the guest speaker to share her life story renowned cardiologist and current a memento, which was received with delegates and inspire them. by Sh. S P Garg, CGM (HSE), for President of the Indian Medical Association, gave an enlightening CCPS Asia Pacific TSC meeting and organizing this meeting. speech wherein he attached a Process safety awareness Program philosophical insight to the concept Center for Chemical Process Safety of health and wellness, and spoke (CCPS) Asia Pacific Regional Technical Steering Committee Meeting and Process Safety Awareness Program organized on 23 January 2018 at GAIL Jubilee Tower. Industry experts from ONGC, HPCL, BORL, Reliance, Adani Gas, HMEL, Vedanta cairn, Tata Steel & DNV GL, etc. and process safety officers from process plants shared their views and experiences on this occasion. GAIL Pata team presented “Case Study of High Rise Column’s PSV Discharge Open to Atmosphere” and Reliance Industries Process Safety Executive presented Shri M V Ravi Someswarudu, OIC, Pata Dr. Ashutosh Karnatak inaugurating their case study on “Implementing presenting a memento to Shri Shakeel the HSE Conclave by lighting the lamp. Learnings in Shift Operations ‘Risk Based Kadri, ED (CCPS). 100 103-3, OG-13 11 Public Policy and Advocacy 101 Public Policy and Advocacy s a public sector enterprise, outcome of their sustainability vision GAIL has an underlying and to ensure that the organization’s responsibility of advancing contribution is in sync with it. From its business while ensuring time to time, we also collaborate and public good. GAIL takes this partner with various NGOs, thinkresponsibility as an opportunity to tanks and academic institutions India is currently witnessing do its bit in perpetuating the age-old on various issues to maximize the economic transformation marked maxim of growth through cooperation company’s ability to deliver social and by an unwavering industrial and for a long-term value generation. environmental good. social growth. While on one hand the government is determined At GAIL, we regularly undertake GAIL’s areas of endeavors on public to provide a steady push to this dialogues with the various government policy and advocacy have centered on growth, it also intends to realize its bodies like MoPNG, PPAC, OISD, three focus areas, as shown in figure climate change and sustainability PCRA, etc. to understand an intended below: commitments. The Government of India is considering a gradual shift to Expanding its global presence through its participation a gas-based economy as the solution in projects/ventures along the natural gas value to ensure an undeterred economic chain. With changed business environment in India development while addressing the as well globally, GAIL is revisiting its strategy to climate change issue. GAIL takes define the next phase of growth while enabling us to pride in being a strong facilitator for explore new business opportunities within or outside this strategic shift in the country. energy sector which have the potential to turn into long-term growth engine for GAIL. Through this exercise, GAIL shall be chartering strategic initiatives under various business area of gas marketing, gas transmission, petrochemicals, liquid hydrocarbons, city gas distribution and other businesses including imperatives on the skill and talent development. Director (Business Development) 102 205-1, 205-2, 205-3, 103-3 chains helps build a strong stakeholder relationship. We have set up systems and processes to maintain an eﬃcient and eﬀective communications with all the stakeholders. The details of various modes of communication have been shared in the Stakeholder employees – brings certain elements Engagement and Materiality chapter. Transparency in to the table which are unique and Various complaints received and complementary. Thus, for a long-term doing business profitability and sustenance, a trustresolved during the reporting period for diﬀerent stakeholders is indicated GAIL understands that each driven stakeholder relationship is in graph below: stakeholder – government, suppliers, of paramount importance. Having a customers, community and transparent system across the value Stakeholder Complaint Redressal for FY 2017-18 GAIL’s developments: Support to major initiatives of GoI Government of India has initiated new policies to attract investments in the gas sector so that domestic production can be increased. Some of the key policy initiatives are: • 100% allocation of domestic gas for CNG and PNG • Auction based e-Bid RLNG mechanism for utilization of stranded gas-based power generation capacity • Marketing and pricing freedom for new gas production from deep/ultra deep waters and high pressure-high temperature areas. 103 103-2, 103-3 order of PNGRB and remanded a complaint to PNGRB for reconsiderations. PNGRB again held against GAIL. GAIL has a preferred appeal before APTEL which is pending. • Sabarmati filed a case against GAIL and BPCL before PNGRB claiming RTP, which PNGRB held RTP on part of BPCL and not on the part of GAIL. BPCL has appealed against the judgment in APTEL and has made GAIL a party and same is pending for disposal. • Sravanthi Energy Pvt. Ltd., Beta Infratech Pvt. Ltd. and Gamma GAIL Management at Investors meet 2018 Infraprop Pvt. Ltd. had filed complaint before PNGRB alleging RTP against GAIL which was • Hydrocarbon Exploration The cases which were settled/pending decided against GAIL by PNGRB Licensing Policy, HELP is an with regard to unfair trade practices, vide order dated 11 April 2016 and innovative policy for the future anti-competitive behavior, and imposed a penalty of `10 lakhs which provides for a uniform monopolization as identified against against GAIL and directed GAIL to licensing system to cover all GAIL: cease RTP and pay cost of `2 lakh hydrocarbons such as oil, gas, • GSPCL filed a case against each to each party. Also directed coal, bed methane, etc. under a GAIL before PNGRB claiming to return the BG and SD to the single licensing framework. Restrictive Trade Practice parties. GAIL has filed an appeal • Policy for grant of extension to (RTP) for not allowing to change before APTEL, which stands the production sharing contracts connectivity from GAIL-PLL pending. for small, medium sized and to GSPL-PLL connectivity. • Omax Autos and Rico filed a discovered ﬁelds. PNGRB held against GAIL. GAIL complaint before CCI against challenged the same before • Marginal Field Policy-Discovered GAIL alleging abuse of dominant Appellate Tribunal for Electricity Small Field Policy position in the market. CCI vide (APTEL) which decided in favor order dated 16.10.2016 directed • Uniform Licensing Policyof GAIL. GSPCL appealed against DGI to conduct an investigation Hydrocarbon Exploration and that order before the Supreme against GAIL for such an abuse. Licensing Policy Court which is pending During investigation, two more • Policy on testing requirements • GSPC Gas filed a case against cases were filed by Rathee for discoveries made under New GAIL claiming RTP before PNGRB Steel and Mohan Makein Ltd Exploration and Licensing Policy but the same was held in favor and were also referred to the (NELP) Blocks. of GAIL. GSPC Gas had filed an DGI for investigation. The said appeal against the said order investigation has been completed Anti-competitive behavior: GAIL is before APTEL and the order wherein GAIL has cooperated signatory to United Nations Global of PNGRB was reversed. Now with the DGI by furnishing all Compact (UNGC) India Chapter GAIL has filed an appeal before the relevant information and and abides by its principles on Supreme Court, which is pending. documents as required by the DGI. Human Rights, Labour Standards, The DGI has submitted his report Environment and Anti-Corruption. • GSPCL filed a case against GAIL to the CCI for consideration. GAIL also follows a standard protocol before PNGRB claiming RTP by the Competition Commission of alleging that their request for • Gujarat Industries Power India on ethical behavior and fair booking capacity on Reasonable Company Limited (GIPCL): GIPCL competition in the market. Endeavour (RE) Basis has been had also filed a complaint against rejected by GAIL which amounts GAIL before CCI for alleging GAIL follows national laws and to RTP. PNGRB held against abusing its dominant position regulation to immediately address any GAIL. GAIL appealed against the in the market. However, CCI report on persons involved in unethical judgment in APTEL and Supreme declined the complaint. But GIPCL conduct or anti-competitive behavior Court which vide order dated appealed against that order within the organization. 13 January 2016 set aside the before COMPAT, which directed 104 415-1, 103-2, 103-3 an investigation by DGI against against GAIL for charging ship or all national and relevant international GAIL for such an abuse. GAIL pay charges under the GTA. The regulations and regulatory compliance has filed an appeal against the said complaint is pending before requirements across the various said order before the Supreme PNGRB. segments. Online LCMS also ensures Court, wherein the direction for periodic review and audit. The investigation has been stayed and • RTP complaint filed by Pacific Environmental Management System is pending before the Supreme Development Corporation helps maintain the environmental Court. Limited against GAIL in 2016-17 standards and manage emissions, was amicably settled and later eﬄuents and waste in operational • A RTP complaint has been filed by Pacific Development withdrew processes. Reliance Industries Ltd. against their complaint from PNGRB on GAIL. GAIL filed an application 06.02.2018 Separate budgets are created for before PNGRB for referring the timely adherence to all the statutory dispute to arbitration, which During the reporting period, 2017-18, compliances. The Directorate General was rejected by PNGRB vide 1.46% of employees were given antiof Hydrocarbons (DGH) has been order dated 22 December 2016, corruption training. Apart from these entrusted with the obligation of therefore, GAIL has preferred trainings, GAIL also organizes regular advancing exploration and sound an appeal before APTEL against awareness workshops in order to management of petroleum and the said order of PNGRB. APTEL ensure its workplace and operational natural gas resources as well as has referred the appeal back to processes remains corruption-free. nonconventional hydrocarbon energy PNGRB for consideration. PNGRB We conduct periodic risk assessment while balancing regard for the triple in its hearing dated 04 May 2018 of all operational units for identifying bottom-line. directed the parties to settle the risks related to corruption and during issue amicably. The matter was the reporting period, no significant listed for an update on settlement risk of corruption was identified and Suppliers on 30 August 2018. reported. The company’s business demands • M/s. Pioneer Gas Power Ltd has GAIL’s Legal Compliance Management strong and reliable relationship with filed a complaint alleging RTP System (LCMS) ensures compliance to suppliers and vendors. For this, we have developed a system which ensures transparency in our processes for the beneﬁt of the vendors and suppliers. For the prevention of corruption and endorsing good governance, Knowledge sharing session by Deputy numbers of system reformations Chief Labor Commissioner (Central) at GAIL were implemented enabling eﬀective utilization of its resources. Some of Bengaluru these are: A knowledge sharing session of Labour Law Provisions and its • Integrity pact mechanism Compliances was organized by GAIL Bengaluru. Dy Chief Labour Commissioner (Central), Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) • Pre-tender and pre-bid meeting and Labour Enforcement Officer (Central) of Bengaluru were guest invitee in the program. EICs of GAIL BengaluruDBPL and GGL • Conciliation through Settlement Bengaluru attended the Session. Assistant Labour Commissioner Advisory Committee shared his presentation on Labour Laws-Practical Aspects for • Reverse auction Managers. Interactive session with the EICs was held where EICs of GAIL and GGL got various clarifications on Labour Law Provisions • Bill Watch System and its compliances. • File movement system • e-tendering Clean energy for clean air We believe that the industry’s role must go beyond its own operational boundaries and should be one that seeks to vigorously advocate solutions to the various sustainability 105 205-3, 206-1 challenges. In doing so, the conscious emphasis must be on timely response to potential issues and a strategic business alignment to help prevent them from becoming chronic. One such issue is that of air pollution. In October 2017, the Supreme Court of India banned use of pet coke in DelhiNCR, Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to help curb the recurring air pollution issue in the northern states. It further urged all the states and union territories to gradually shift from pet coke and furnace oil to clean fuels. GAIL Gas Bengaluru signs an MoU with Uber for promotion and Urban air pollution is largely a result adoption of #CNG as the choicest fuel for the commercial fleet of combustion of fossil fuels that at Bengaluru and also collaborate to expand CNG ridership panare used in transportation, power India. generation, industrial sector and other economic activities. The government has formulated National Clean Air and it does not contaminate the GAIL has played a commendable role Program (NCAP) as a medium-term ground water. Further, it is either in combating air pollution in Delhi. A national level strategy to tackle the transported through pipeline as gas or study by the Washington DC-based increasing air pollution problem closed cryogenic vessel as liquid and resources for the future, which studied across the country in a comprehensive therefore does not contaminate air air pollution in the capital for 15 years manner. It puts an emphasis on the during transportation. The diﬀerential (1990-2005), said the conversion to crucial role of natural gas as a cleaner between the life cycle emissions of CNG for public transport had made the form of fossil fuel. air pollutants and greenhouse gases “most significant” impact on air quality. between coal and gas-based power GAIL being a flagship company of Further GAIL has also contributed plants is huge. India in natural gas promotes the towards preserving the world idea of moving towards a gas-based As an emerging economy, India also heritage Taj Mahal by developing gas economy. GAIL has a vast network needs sustainable sources of energy infrastructure at Taj Trapezium and of gas pipelines in India. Most of to keep our growth engines running providing natural gas to Mathura the industries using these fuels can and natural gas can play the role of a refinery and industrial belt of Agra/ switch over to natural gas depending “bridge fuel to the future”. India has Firozabad where coal was being used on the availability of gas pipeline already set a target of raising the during the late 90s. infrastructure. GAIL has the necessary share of gas to 15%. The Government infrastructure for supplying gas to of India realizes that gas can play a Natural gas can play a larger role these industries. significant role in a number of areas: than what it is contributing today for achieving cleaner urban air quality for When burned, natural gas releases • Reducing emissions – supporting India and other emerging developing up to 50% less CO2 than coal and NDC commitments countries. 20-30% less than oil. When used in power generation or as a transport • Supporting clean air in cities (by Further, in a bid to contribute to the fuel natural gas results in negligible phasing out of FO and pet coke for government’s effort to combat air emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO2), industries, diesel for automotive pollution, GAIL supports and promotes nitrogen oxides (NOx), mercury (Hg), for instance) the ‘Hawa Badlo’ initiative to bring and particulates compared with other about a change in air quality through • Providing financially viable environment-friendly practices in dayfuels. The increased use of natural gas solutions as a fuel for longto-day life. oﬀers a signiﬁcant contribution to distance transportation (LNG for improved local air quality and public road transport) The initiative aims to promote electric health. vehicle, switching to CNG, carpooling • Supporting an increased and use of public transport. Currently, Considering the life cycle impact on penetration of renewables by the number of people engaged with environment and health, natural gas providing balancing generation this initiative is 6.8 million and growing. is a more benign fossil fuel compared to coal and liquid fuel. Unlike coal, • Reducing import bill by natural gas does not require huge substituting liquid fuels in amount of water for its puriﬁcation industries 106 103-2, 102-12, 102-13 Salient features • It is a people’s initiative to spread CII Roundtable awareness about hazardous on North East Region levels of air pollution and ﬁnding measures to ﬁght the same Hydrocarbon Vision • It is an independent national 2030 digital movement which aims to A roundtable on North East assemble knowledge, network, Region (NER) Hydrocarbon innovation and outreach to come Vision 2030 was organized by together on a single platform to Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on 30 November 2017 at protect human health and country Agartala. from the eﬀects of air pollution Experts from industry and officials from Government of Tripura, • It also aims to position natural gas ONGC, GAIL, TNGCL, etc. participated in the program. Sh. M. as the plausible solution to the Nagaraju, IAS, Principal Secretary, Department of Industries & menacing problem of air pollution. Commerce, Finance; Government of Tripura gave a perspective of the government on the various aspects of developing a hydrocarbon network in line with the NER Hydrocarbon Vision 2030. Combating climate change risk The presentations on the actions on NER Hydrocarbon Vision 2030 were also given by GAIL. On behalf of GAIL, Sh. Lalit Maurya, GM/ GAIL is working actively towards OIC Agartala gave the presentation on the actions taken by GAIL at addressing the risks related to climate various levels in line with the vision. He informed that GAIL shall act change. Being a clean energy company, as the nodal agency to coordinate the activities for executing crossit is also keen on finding solutions to country pipeline projects to connect NER with national gas grid and problems arising out of these risks implementing city gas distribution projects in various cities of NE and converting them into business states. opportunities. GAIL closely follows global and national developments and studies transported through pipeline as gas Institute to form a Council for Business related to climate change to remain or closed cryogenic vessel as liquid Sustainability (TERI-CBS) in 2015. in tune with the changing risks and and therefore does not contaminate TERI-CBS is a common platform for opportunities. air during transportation. Difference various Indian corporate houses to Natural gas is a good fit for between the emission level of come together in developing a vision on decarbonizing India’s energy system, pollutant and greenhouse gas from understanding and managing climate as it plays a dual role in both replacing entire life cycle of coal and gas-based change issues. The vision of this council carbon-intensive fuels and facilitating power plant is huge and also gasis aligned with various government the development of renewable power. based power plant has a significant schemes and policies. advantage over coal-based plant. The increasing use of gas in non-power We, along with TERI, have also sectors will allow to reduce CO2 Substituting road transportation developed a document which outlines emissions and improve air quality as of LPG With laying of exclusive the Indian corporate vision on gas will replace (or complement) higher pipelines for LPG transmission in various aspects of tackling climate emitting oil products: fuel oil/naphtha various parts of the country, GAIL has change and aligning the vision with and pet coke in the industrial sector, contributed to replace the mode of government schemes in this direction, diesel in transportation and traditional transportation by road required to which was launched at India Pavilion biomass, and LPG and kerosene in the deliver LPG from production facilities of Conference of Parties (COP) 21 held residential/commercial sectors. to various customers, which is less in Paris in December 2015. An MoU emission intensive. between FIPI (erstwhile PetroFed) and Considering the life cycle, benign TERI for undertaking climate change fossil fuel’s impact on environment study was also signed in the presence and health natural gas is much more as Partnership with of Sh. Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister compared to coal and liquid fuel. Being TERI of State (I/C), Petroleum & Natural a clean fuel, it does not require huge Gas and Sh. K.D. Tripathi, Secretary, amounts of water for its purification In its commitment to take leading steps M/o Petroleum & Natural Gas and and it does not contaminate the in tackling climate change issues, GAIL representatives from oil and gas ground water. Further, it is either partnered with The Energy Research industry. 107 102-12, 102-13, 102-2 This study is aimed at providing an of traders in India to work on corruption and labor standards. insight into: issues such as optimization of resources, promoting safety, • CPMA: GAIL is a member of • Threats posed by climate tariﬀ, investments, healthy Chemicals & Petrochemicals change to oil and gas sector and environment, and energy Manufacturers’ Association participating companies. conservation among other issues (CPMA), which is the apex related to industry. forum representing the Indian • Way forward to tackle the petrochemical industry. The challenges as well as risks posed • Standing Conference of Public association oﬀers its members by climate change. Enterprises (SCOPE): It is an a podium to collectively present • Suitable measures for the oil apex body representing the their ideas, voice concern and and gas sector to achieve India’s entire spectrum of public sector oﬀer suggestions on relevant INDC target of reducing emission enterprises (PSEs) in India. issues. It provides a linkage Intensity of GDP by 33–35% SCOPE has representations in between the industry, government below the levels in 2005 by 2030. various high-level committees/ and the society. boards and helps its member PSUs to present their views at • Pipeline Operators Forum (POF): Advocacy through the various platforms. GAIL joined this non-proﬁt, technical forum comprising of coalitions and • Federation of Indian Chambers representatives of global pipeline associations of Commerce & Industry (FICCI): operators for enabling pipeline CMD, GAIL is the member of integrity engineers to share • International Gas Union (IGU): its Executive Committee and and build best practice, thereby It is a global association aimed Co-Chair of FICCI Hydrocarbon raising the standard of pipeline at promoting the technical and Committee. integrity management. The main economic progress of the gas objectives of POF are: industry. It is working with GAIL • FICCI works towards deliberating for developing the gas sector in on issues related to energy * To promote pipeline integrity security of the country and management globally, work India. GAIL represents India as supplement various eﬀorts of with industry to improve “Charter Member” at IGU. GAIL quality of pipeline integrity along with IGU promotes the “Asia the Government of India and management and the Gas Partnership Summit”, a global other bodies engaged in this area services provided. conference aimed at discussing through its intellectual input. industry issues and developing * To upgrade and develop • Governing Body of World Energy in-Line inspection (ILI) gas market in Asia. In the reporting Council (WEC) India: GAIL is the speciﬁcations, best period, we partnered with IGU to country member of WEC and practices and other relevant host the 5th International Energy takes an active participation documentation. Forum-International Gas Union in the activities of WEC for (IEF-IGU) Ministerial Gas Forum * Share experiences and development of natural gas in best-practices of integrity in New Delhi with the theme “Gas India. management issues within for growth; improving economic members (meetings and prosperity and living standards”. • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) forum discussions). Focal Point India’s Sustainability • International Group of Liqueﬁed & Transparency Consortium: GAIL * Maintain an environment Natural Gas Importers (GIIGNL): is the founding member of GRIwith access to developed Oﬀers GAIL a forum for exchange STC. It engages with business d o c u m e n t a t i o n , of information and experience leaders, national governments, speciﬁcations. among the industry counterparts regulators, sustainability to enhance safety, reliability experts, think tank bodies and and eﬃciency of LNG imports professional institutes to discuss activities and the operation of issues related to sustainability LNG imports terminals. reporting. GAIL also represents in • FIPI (erstwhile PetroFed): GRI Corporate Leadership Group GAIL is “Category A” member on Reporting 2025, GRI Gold of FIPI and is also a part of Community and GRI South Asia the governing council. FIPI Advisory Group functions as oil industry • United Nations Global Compact interface with the government, Network India (UN GCNI): UN regulatory authorities, public GCNI promotes principles on and representative bodies human rights, environment, anti108 103-2 12 Human Capital at Core 109 Human Capital at Core Social Performance Other stakeholders including We strive to build a truly inclusive and government and regulators, empowered organization, for which employees, customers, suppliers focused and continuous engagement and community, which have been t GAIL, we determine with stakeholders becomes an discussed in relevant sections of this social performance on two important aspect of all actions. reports. broad stakeholder groups Various inputs gathered as part of the employee and community. company’s materiality determination effort, employee and community While the workforce management is perception survey, satisfaction done through our focused approach indices of employees and community, called “People Strategy” covered feedback received from social audits under human capital at core, we look and impact assessments are taken into community related issues and into consideration to drive GAIL’s responsibilities through “Community efforts towards achieving this goal. Connect” approach covered under our CSR. The company’s approach to soliciting and acting on these inputs determines performance in processes like talent attraction and retention, employee and community engagement. Additionally, being a natural gas company, the operational processes, “Oil and Gas sector is a dynamic sector. Our working environment, organizational employees lie at the heart of our growth culture, social and environmental and aspirations. We at GAIL emphasize on risks at sites of operations, transparency, accountability, collaboration and geopolitical conditions and human capital development. Our recruitment, developments in peer organizations training and development policies and systems also influence value chain and form ensure alignment with our future strategies, a vital input to the company’s social goals and aspirations considering the regulatory performance. environment, national and global priorities.” Director (HR) 110 201-3, 401-2, 405-1, 405-2, 103-2, 103-3, 103-2 online recruitment/e-recruitment in Beneﬁt Fund Trust and Provident GAIL aims to work collaboratively SAP. Fund Trust apart from other beneﬁt with its supply chain to improve plans that include gratuity, postperformance and create shared value. For the interview panel, a selection of retirement medical beneﬁts, earned We consistently review the processes experts from the relevant field is made. leave beneﬁts, terminal beneﬁts, half and procedures to help drive the For facilitating a holistic assessment pay leave and long service award. GAIL right actions and foster continuous of the potential candidate, a trained offers a higher qualiﬁcation incentive improvement. Apart from daily site psychologist is also a part of interview to motivate employees to attain higher level interactions, the period from board apart from other experts. qualiﬁcation relevant to their function. 20th -24th day of every month have Principle of diversity and inclusion are GAIL is also among the ﬁrst PSUs been designated as a “Samadhan” given due attention while drawing the to provide a two year child care paid meeting which is conducted by the interview panel so that candidates leave to female employees. All this has respective Executive Directors to from all possible backgrounds are resulted in a positive environment to effectively resolve any existing and assessed objectively during hiring ensure a higher retention and lower anticipated bottlenecks. Through process. employee turnover. Samadhan, we are finding immediate solutions to ensure uninterrupted vendors services are provided in the most efficient, qualitative and transparent way. GAIL’s success depends on having a great place to work and a highly-skilled workforce that stays motivated to deliver their best throughout their engagement with GAIL. Attracting t the right people ensures a healthy en talent pipeline and providing n irem effective trainings, development Pro Pla requ g n the p Pla r o , opportunities, advancing diversity we nin g on qu unc er all ce f po plan nnin cati tude and ensuring health and safety to help ali an la ifi ti fic tion ocat •M t p al ap the organization achieve business a b io ge qu d an tion, ased n of ud of an growth. All the data related to d a ex • B sis nce workforce is monitored and captured pti pe on Recruitment ba erie tud rie p through SAP ERP system in place and e nce ex Policy Objectives is systematically analyzed to help improvise our workforce management strategies. Facilitate The people strategy at GAIL is broadly Regulate and facilitate divided into two categories, as shown recruitment below: Selection of suitable candidate Talent attraction and retention Recruitment at GAIL comes with Recruitment is undertaken at the attractive compensation packages induction levels to infuse young and several perquisites like house Capability building talent in the organization. Before building advance, conveyance advance, At GAIL, human capital is considered initiation of the recruitment process, furnishing advance, and computer/ to be the most valuable asset that in-house availability of the personnel laptop advance. GAIL also makes accounts for the biggest reason for the is adjudged. GAIL has also leveraged contribution towards Superannuation success or failure of the organization. IT to a great extent by making use of 111 404-1, 404-2, 404-3, 201-3, 405-14 their reporting and recommending executives. Implementation of Based on training needs identiﬁed Learning Management System through TNA, an annual training calendar is prepared in which all the (LMS) employees are allotted with one functional or cross-functional and In order to increase knowledge level of GAIL officials and to ensure behavioral training for that financial access, reach and flexibility of learning across pan-India; the year. necessity of e-learning management system was felt. The Learning Management System (LMS) will host series of e-learning contents The training programs organized like ASME/API standards, OISD standards, PNGRB regulations, by GTI include hazard identiﬁcation SOPs, etc. which are essential for GAIL operations. This will have techniques and risk analysis, learning texts, PPTs, animations, audio-visuals, etc. to help in easy business modelling, and financial interactive learning. Further assessment of the learner will ensure analysis through excel, hedging and that the concerned person has attained the requisite skills. risk management, LNG industry development in the international scenario including shipping and global energy market and competition. A Senior Management Development Centre (SMDC) carries out an annual evaluation of the senior management with an aim to assess the potential on parameters of relationship management, analytical problem solving, building capability, achievement orientation, execution excellence, planning, organizing and foresightedness and communication. This helps GAIL in identifying and promoting talent and further enables As we move deeper and deeper into GAIL believes in developing as a it to create a pipeline of its future a knowledge-based economy that learning organization hence continues leaders. depends on information, knowledge to invest in knowledge sharing with and high-level skills, human capital will new recruits and also amongst peers. GAIL also organizes training program become increasingly important. Hiring people with the required skill for its superannuating employees to sets also ensues a new induct of ideas ensure a smooth transition to their The skills and abilities of individual and knowledge, one from which the new life. These programs include workers outweigh the financial capital, entire organization benefits. trainings on financial investments, technology or processes of the company benefits and other legal organizations which are just off-shoot Capacity building and talent obligations. of human capital. development lies at the core of GAIL’s people strategy and forms one of For the new joiners, apart from the GAIL introduced an objective and the key focus areas for the company existing training and onboarding robust KRA/ KPI and competencyto work upon. We have two training structure, GAIL has introduced a based online PMS framework to ensure facilities: Mentorship Program. In this program, objective and holistic assessment of the new recruits are assigned a individual’s performance. The MoU • GAIL Training Institute (GTI), mentor, working at a senior executive is cascaded down to performance of Noida set up in the year 1997 level, to provide necessary guidance each and every employee. A company• GAIL Training Institute (GTI), on all personal and professional front wide deployment of employees on Jaipur set-up in 2005 rotational program that includes diverse and enriching assignments Both these training institutes roll warrants a rich and uninterrupted out a comprehensive electronic pool of talent for leadership roles. Training Need Assessment (TNA) Besides the focused and intense inSystem for all executives every house training system, the company year where the training needs of all has also looked globally to gain new executives are assessed with the capabilities and access to resources. inputs from employees as well as from 112 The table below shows the percentage 50 49 of employees who were given safety 48 and skill up-gradation training in FY 46 45 17-18: 39 44 Skill and Safety 42 Training 40 38 Permanent A 95.31 employees 36 Permanent 34 B women 94.23 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 employees Permanent male Average Training Hours per Employee C 95.38 employees Casual/ 100% Temporary/ D safety Contractual awareness employees Employees with 14.59 E 99 disabilities 20 12 Apart from the aforementioned 10.25 trainings, a brief description of all the 15 training programs organized at GAIL is mentioned below: 10 • A year-long comprehensive induction, orientation and on5 the-job training program for 65 executive trainees who joined GAIL is in place and being 0 executed for the FY2017-18 .The 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 program encompasses technical, functional, managerial as well as Total Expenditure on Training (in INR Crore) behavioral interventions, apart from on-the-job training at major work centers. during their formation years at GAIL. • Management development program for newly promoted Total number of DGMs/GMs/EDs was conducted GAIL Workforce D employees with 95 at GTI in June 2017. disabilities • As a knowledge management Total number Skill upgradation workshops are initiative, 10th Knowledge A of permanent 4486 organized for respective functional Sharing Seminar was organized employees areas on periodic basis. All the at GTI Noida during 21st–22nd Total number of employees posted at sites and September 2017. Out of total B permanent women 272 projects are given mandatory 90 papers in four different employees safety awareness training. Various categories (O&M of pipelines and knowledge sharing programs like compressor stations, O&M of Total number of gas processing units/LPG/LNG online quizzes and competitive events casual/temporary/ plant, O&M of petrochemical C 15,405 organized on various occasions like contractual plants and corporate functions), Safety Week, National Safety Day, etc. employees 18 shortlisted papers were for bringing out the positive change in behavioral aspects. presented and evaluated by the jury. Best paper was awarded in 113 perception and grievances to help create a congenial working Inhouse certification course on environment for the employees and contractual workers. metering systems In an endeavor to gain an in depth For the first time in GAIL, an in–house certification course on understanding of the views and Metering was conducted from 8 January 2018 to 15 January 2018. concerns of the employees, GAIL The in–house modules developed for imparting a detailed training carries out an organization-wide on the various metering systems installed in GAIL was followed employee engagement survey “GAIL by a written test and an interview. Pulse”. GAIL Pulse aims to share This training helped in enhancing knowledge and skills of the insights on the current engagement participants which got reflected in their day to day metering levels and also on specific areas of related O&M activities. This also helped in developing the in– improvement in the organization that house trainers on the subject. need management’s attention. The GAIL PULSE 2015 detailed report was discussed in an Action Planning Workshop. Action Planning Workshop each category. conducted by GTI for eligible S7 has been conducted on 5 October 2016 and S4 employees for promotion. at GAIL’s corporate office. Senior HR • GTI Organized training programs executives at CO and HR incharges in the capability building areas • A total of 596 programs were at Pata and Vijaipur were invited to identified in Strategy 2020 conducted for skills management participate in the Action Planning Such as Petrochemical and LHC and lifelong learning that support Workshop. Marketing and Pricing; Regulatory the continued employability of Affairs in Oil & Gas Sector; employees and assist them in On the basis of the findings of the LNG Industry Development in managing career endings. engagement survey, various HR/ International Scenario including HRD Initiatives viz., Job Rotation Shipping; Hedging and Risk (i) Employee motivation Framework, Corporate challenge Management; Advance Bidding, For any organization, talent Scheme, Corporate Communication Strategies for Hydrocarbon attraction and its retention Strategy and Youth Engagement Plan Exploration and Licensing Policy depends on its organizational have been conceptualized and are (HELP); Global Energy Markets & culture and the ultimate currently under consideration. Competition and Energy Trading, employee motivation resulting Risk Management. from it. GAIL, thus, invests a Ministry of Petroleum and Natural tremendous amount of effort in Gas (MoPNG) had constituted a task • A Training program-cumforce for giving recommendations familiarization test was understanding the employees’ for improving the HR management in the CPSEs under its administrative control. The task force was chaired by Dr. Santrupt Misra, CEO, Carbon Black Business and Director (HR)-Aditya Birla Mgt. Corp. Pvt., and its main term of reference was talent management in CPSEs. As part of the above task force, an industry-wide engagement platform for young executives named YOUphoria. Under this umbrella, GAIL conducted two contests viz., Name/Logo/Brand contest and Corporate Photography Contest for its executives below 35 years of age garnering a tremendous response for the contests. With the broad objective of sensitizing Photograph taken during minimarathon organized for the different appraising authorities women at GAIL, Noida. regarding various processes related to performance management framework 114 in GAIL and One-day workshop on management executive levels. These Performance Management and art positions are Executive Director (E-9 Enabling systems, of giving feedback was conducted by Grade), Chief General Manager (E-8 processes and policies GAIL at different locations. Around Grade) and General Manager (E-7 370 executives of different grades Grade). GAIL remains committed to equal participated in the workshop. rights for all gender and the same is GAIL Integrated Leadership reflected in our compensation policy. Some key initiatives taken up by Development Framework has GAIL has also allowed Child Care leave GAIL to boost employee retention covered around 1300 senior/middle (CCL) for a period of maximum of two include freedom of expression of level executives in E9 to E5 grades. years (730 days) for female employees thoughts and ideas through a number The development strategy comprises having up to two eldest surviving of communication channels like of two focused talent development minor children in order to take care of suggestion scheme; long service interventions: 360 Degree Feedback them. awards, and attractive perks and Exercise and Senior Management Corporate Medical Cell keeps a regular benefits. We also aim to promote the Development Centre (SMDC) track of individual employee health values of diversity and inclusivity Exercise. check-ups. A doctor is always within throughout our workforce. 360 Degree Feedback instrument the reach for any GAIL employee, is an online tool developed to whether at corporate base or at other Leadership assess the overall developmental sites. Company-wide preventive health check-ups are mandatorily done for development and areas of an executive from the view employees. Centralized Medical Cell point of superiors, co-workers and succession planning subordinates. It was initially launched collates the crucial health parameters and same are analyzed and used as Considering GAIL’s growth strategy for E-6 to E-9 grade executives in a feedback mechanism for review of and business targets for the coming 2015-2016, which was later extended various policies and practices. Various years, it is essential to identify and to E-5 grade executives in 2016programs to spread awareness and develop internal talent pipeline of 17. The exercise got a positive and cope up with changing lifestyles are leaders who are competent and enthusiastic response from the conducted regularly covering issues best suited for taking up leadership executives and as high as 95% like fitness, yoga, stress management, positions. Company’s endeavor in response rate was achieved in the lifestyle management and nutrition. National Gas Grid, LNG Marketing first year of introduction of this exercise. Considering how an employee spends and expansion of CGD business majority of his/her time within office are providing unprecedented We also ensure that the employees premises, GAIL ensures to provide learning and growth opportunities receive regular performance sport activities, gym and recreational to the employees. As part of our appraisals and reviews on their facilities that are made available preparedness for coming challenges, work to keep them skill-efficient at its major work-centers. We also GAIL has put in place an Integrated and motivated towards work. During have a well-structured GAIL Sports Leadership Development Framework the reporting period, 2017-18, 100% Promotion Policy, which underlines our and a Succession Planning of employees received regular commitment to sports and associated Framework for facilitating leadership performance and career development factors, viz., team spirit; healthy development and career planning. reviews. competition and fitness. Events like GAIL Succession Planning Framework Further, SMDC exercise has been Cyclothon were organized for all is primarily an executive developmentundertaken for senior executives employees to promote good lifestyle. oriented initiative. It is aimed to put in E-5 and above grades. SMDC has The feeling of camaraderie and in place a structured framework been conducted for senior executives companionship is created over a host to ensure adequacy of talent pool/ in Chief Manager and above grades of celebrations held as GAIL family. skill set availability, both in terms and as of now, around 1300 senior We celebrate various festivals and of quantity and quality of potential executives have been covered occasions with the extended GAIL successors, in line with the company’s under this exercise. In order to fill family including GAIL Foundation Day, business plan. Ready availability of in the developmental gaps of such Independence Day, Diwali Mela, etc. to sufficient talent pool will help the executives identified through SMDC keep our employees and their family company to take prompt decisions exercise, a comprehensive Individual connected to each other. in cases of unanticipated vacancies Development Plan (IDP) has been and/or business requirements. GAIL drawn up for all the participants of As part of the HR systems integration, Succession Planning Framework is SMDC exercise. performance assessment forms an applicable on the positions up to three important factor in determining the levels below the Board level in senior performance-related pay (PRP). The 115 202-1, 202-2, 402-1, 406-1, 408-1, 410-1, 412-1, 412-2, 412-3 PRP/variable pay scheme is based that employees can take adequate Prohibition, and Redressal of Sexual on the performance of the company; steps. A minimum notice period of 15 Harassment of Women at Workplace unit and individuals. There is an days is given to employees in the event in line with the requirements of the elaborate framework to assess unit of any operational change to ensure Sexual Harassment of Women at the performance which has a linkage to safety and efficiency at workplace. Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal) Act, 2013. An Internal the PRP/variable pay admissible We have also worked on maintaining Complaints Committee (ICC) has been to individual employees. As stated a diverse and inclusive workforce. set up to redress complaints received before, adoption of Bell Curve We promote an environment that regarding sexual harassment. Approach and variable pay has led to is based on virtue and inclusion, generating acute awareness about the where all employees can develop to (i) Employee engagement and individual/team performance and its their full potential and no suffering empowerment leverage on incentive receivables. or discrimination is incurred on GAIL not only believes in an grounds of caste, creed, age, belief, inclusive workforce but also disability, ethnicity, gender, gender Ethical recruitment identity, marital or civil partnership in an inclusive effort to drive a business that is responsible and labor practices status, political opinion, race, religion, and accountable to all its or sexual orientation. Apart from stakeholders. GAIL follows GAIL believes in providing fair and inclusive workforce, we follow ethical equal opportunity to all eligible a no discrimination policy to labor practices. During FY 2017-18, achieve an inclusive workforce candidates during recruitment no incident of child labor or forced process. For most of the entryand employee empowerment. labor or human rights violation was It upholds the freedom of level vacancies, recruitment is done reported. through national level exams. Being association and collective a Maharatna company with a vast In our effort to have a more inclusive bargaining by recognizing and operational boundary, GAIL is in workforce, we made attempts supporting the workers’ unions, constant search for attracting talent, on scouting talent from our local oﬃcers’ associations, women’s which is only possible through an community. forums, SC/ST employees, etc. ethical and transparent selection In GAIL, there are two unions There is complete compliance with representing the interests of procedure. the Equal Remuneration Act, 1976 and their respective workmen/staﬀ. While talent acquisition is an important there is no discrimination in wages activity for the right workforce based on gender. Despite inherent • GAIL Employees Association creation, talent management is challenges within our sector towards (GEA) – A representative another important area identified recruitment and retention of women body of non-executives by GAIL to not only retain this talent employees, we have been focused posted at various field pool but also to provide them with an in our eﬀorts to create a conducive oﬃces/plants/installations environment for them. across the country except excellent work environment. the corporate oﬃce. The Women’s Cell at GAIL is focused on GAIL has 100% representation of its reaching out to the women workforce, • GAIL Karamchari Sangh workforce at formal joint management initiate discussions and adequately (GKS) – A representative health and safety committees that help address their concerns including us create awareness on occupational body of non-executives sexual harassment at workplace. posted at corporate oﬃce. health and safety-related topics so We have a Policy on Prevention, Employee complaints for the FY 2017-2018: 116 102-41, 403-1, 407-1 Parental leave status Gender 2016-17 2017-18 Additionally, we have Number of employees entitled to Male 4,097 4,213 Ladies’ Clubs at our parental leave Female 257 271 operational sites and have instituted GAIL Number of employees that took parental Male 142 157 women’s awards leave Female 18 14 to promote their Number of employees who returned to Male 142 157 involvement and enhance satisfaction. work after parental leave ended Female 18 14 No. of sexual Employee returned to work after Male 141 156 harassment cases parental leave ended who were still employed 12 months after their return Female 18 14 received in 2017-18: Nil Retention rates of employees who Male 100 100% returned to work after parental leave ended Female 100 100% period regarding significant Compensation Information operational changes. GAIL also Percentage increase (from FY 16-17 to FY 17-18) in annual total ensures a fair representation 79.29% compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual for the contractual employees. Median percentage increase (from FY 16-17to FY 17-18) in annual GAIL ensures coverage of all total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid 0.78% relevant health and safety related individual) requirements as applicable for permanent employees and such Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s matters are covered in the formal highest-paid individual to the median annual total compensation 2.99 agreements with trade unions. for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual). (ii) Human rights Decline in the total annual compensation for the highest paid 7% individual from FY 2016-17 to FY 2017-18 Building an engaged, healthy and Increase in annual employee cost from FY 2016-17 to FY 2017-18. 5% inclusive workforce is crucial to GAIL. We follow the highest At GAIL, the total number Discussions with employee standards of professional of permanent employees collectives both at work center behavior and maintain reverence as members of recognized and corporate levels are held on of all associated with the association is 842, i.e., monthly/ bi-monthly/quarterly company. We have zero tolerance 18.65% of the total employee basis. We adhere to Section 9A towards any act to that leads to representation in the collective of Industrial Dispute Act 1947 and the violation of the human rights. bargaining. Schedule 4 for providing notice We also have a zero-tolerance policy followed for child and forced labor and ensure that no such employment occurs at any of our operations. No incident of engagement of child or forced or compulsory labor has been reported in FY 2017-18. One of the company’s core values is to respect and protect human nobility. We are a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) which has speciﬁc focus towards human rights. We are also committed to UN Guiding Principles on business and human rights. We are one of the few organizations in the oil and Women Pride Honor Celebration organized on the occasion of International Women Day 2018 at GAIL natural gas sector in the country 117 Keeping in sync with this momentum, GAIL distributed Promotion of Khadi 12,000 Khadi gift coupons to each and every employee in 2017. The distribution of these gift coupons is aimed From being a popular cottage industry across at promoting this indigenous sector and help benefit India during the freedom movement in Indian prethe underprivileged weaver, SHG, MSME and tribal Independence times, Khadi has come a long way. population dependent on Khadi sales for income According to Directorate General of Foreign Trade, generation. Alok Vardhan Chaturvedi, Khadi sector provide We, at GAIL, feel proud and passionate about employment opportunities to around 80 lakh people being able to contribute meaningfully towards this across the nation and he suggests that a timely push movement. Over the period of time, GAIL has been from government through assistance and promotions able to contribute a total sum of `5.38 crores towards can provide long-term sustainability of this ecothe growth and perpetuation of Khadi sector. friendly and side-effects free fabric. Khadi in present times is being promoted in India by Khadi and Village Industries Commission, Ministry of MSME, Government of India. With further promotion EcoFriendly Zero Carbon of Khadi through Prime Minister’s “Mann Ki Baat” in October 2017, sales of Khadi and handicrafts products Foot print rose by 90% over the previous recorded sales. During e om t Diwali season in 2017, a record rise of 680% in sales Inc ppor E of Khadi gift coupons was observed across the nation. Su SM er Benefits M to Und ed Low d of Khadi ‘Khadi for nation, Khadi for fashion’ is slowly resulting a ivileg n Chemical in placing the fabric as an indigenous fabric on pr Usage the world map and increasing opportunities for Unique weavers, medium-micro-small khadi enterprises and Finish and Natural and handlooms industries. This growth has not only helped Look Side-effects them realize profits through increased demand free but has also served as a means of improving their economic and social conditions. to have implemented the SA time pertaining to Policies and We also have a deﬁned policy in 8000 standard for ensuring Procedures of Government places for prevention of sexual decent working conditions for of India. These directives harassment at the work place. our employees. GAIL’s induction are regarding reservation, It is ensured by the concerned process comprises of training relaxations, concessions, etc. executive at every location to on GAIL’s CDA rules to develop for scheduled castes (SCs), comply with the relevant statutes. understanding on these aspects. scheduled tribes (STs), other All the security personnel Training programs on labor laws backward classes (OBCs) and have been trained on speciﬁc and outsourcing conducted by persons with disabilities (PWDs) procedures on human rights GAIL Training Institute cover in direct recruitment. applicable to security services. almost majority of aspects of human rights. Every year such While 100% of the operations are programs are conducted as a part subjected to regular human right of annual training plan for the reviews and impact assessment, executives, non-executives and in FY 17-18, out of the total contractual employees. employees, 6% received a training 4600 hours on policies We comply with the Presidential and procedures concerning Directives and other instructions/ aspects of human rights that are guidelines issued from time to relevant to operations. 118 13 Our Corporate Social Responsibility 119 Our Corporate Social Responsibility AIL is committed towards creating a better world by making people’s lives better in communities around us and the society at large. We believe that for any organization to operate responsibly, it becomes critical for them to have deep and meaningful engagements with multiple social and ecological challenges being faced by communities around them. Being a clean-energy company, we believe that it becomes all the more important to have long-term commitments to such engagements. “GAIL firmly believes that Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) plays a major role in the development of any country and therefore, it has made CSR an integral part of its ethos and culture. GAIL goes beyond the realms of statutory compliances and makes efforts to the economic development while improving the quality of life of the local community around our work centers, and the society at large. To amplify its outreach efforts, GAIL spent 2.63% of the average net profit of the preceding three years on CSR projects/activities in FY 2017-18 (` 91.65 Crore) against the stipulated 2% spend (` 69.67 crores).” Director (HR) 120 411-1, 413-1, 413-2, OG-10 This, in turn, would not only enlighten “Hriday”, GAIL’s CSR philosophy, is • Sh. P K Gupta – Director (HR) the company’s business interest but an umbrella concept which includes also reflect GAIL’s strategy and intent focused efforts on care for elderly and • Sh. Sanjay Tandon – Independent of contributing to the social good. differently-abled, rural development Director No incidents of violation of rights of and environmental projects. • Sh. Anupam Kulshreshtha – indigenous people were reported in Independent Director 2017-18 at any of the operational site. GAIL has adopted a multi-stakeholder At GAIL, we undertake initiatives approach, collaborating with CSR Policy of GAIL is hosted on the consulting all stakeholders through communities, governmental and company’s website, www.gailonline. proper engagement process in which non-governmental organizations, com . we invite representatives of media, academic institutions and others, in government officials, community, an effort to identify emerging issues, knowledge partners and civil societies develop projects and effectively Social programs and to ensure a holistic approach towards respond to challenges. endeavors to follow best practices in GAIL expenditure decision making in matters related to communities. identifying, implementing, sustaining The total CSR expenditure of GAIL and monitoring its CSR interventions during FY 2017-18 was `91.65 crore. During the reporting period, to maximize sustainability, scalability and transparency. This amounts to 2.63% of the average • Total number of operations with net profit of the preceding three local community engagement, To supervise and drive all CSR financial years. This is beyond the impact assessments and initiatives at GAIL, a CSR Committee mandated limit of 2% as stipulated development programs were was formed in compliance with the under Companies Act, 2013, 100%. provisions of Section 135(1) of the demonstrating GAIL’s commitment Companies Act, 2013. Its composition towards the community. • Total number of operations with as on 31.03.2018 is: significant actual and potential negative impacts on local • Sh. B. C. Tripathi, Chairman of the communities were zero Committee – C&MD People receiving Health services through Mobile medical units (MMU) under GAIL’s flagship healthcare project “Aarogya” 121 Key intervention and outcomes GAIL is resolved to expand and strengthen its community programs to the best of its capacity. This is a reaffirmation of GAIL’s belief that in carrying social responsibility and sustainability, seeing the larger integrated picture is important at the time of execution of programs in the individual domains. The outcome of these well-executed programs, thus, impact the larger canvas of community development. As identified under Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013, GAIL has identified seven broad areas of CSR intervention, each of which is titled by the objective they seek to achieve: I. Arogya (Wellness) Nutrition, health and sanitation and drinking water projects II. Ujjwal (Towards a bright future) Education initiatives III. Kaushal (Skill) Livelihood generation and skill development initiatives and others. This section details out India with a total participation of the key initiatives implemented by 2,69,039 participants so far. In IV. Unnati (Progress)Rural GAIL in 2017-18 and subsequently 2017-18 (Season III), a national development lists activities undertaken under the camp of six days was organized identified focus areas. from 16 to 21 February 2018 V. Sashakt (Empowerment)Women at International Youth Hostel, empowerment initiatives a) Key initiatives undertaken during Chanakyapuri, New Delhi for the year (2017-18) the selected 246 athletes from VI. Saksham (Capable) Care of the elderly and differently-abled 24 atates, wherein they were VII. Harit (Green) Environment GAIL Raftaar provided with best facilities to stay under the guidance of centric initiatives. Athletic Talent Hunt good coaches. An international • Key activities: The GAIL Indian training camp for 25 days was In addition to the identified focus Speedstar talent scouting saw conducted at Racer’s Track Club, areas, GAIL undertakes certain new the participation of 1,29,462 Kingston, Jamaica in February initiatives every year to make a participants from 120 districts in 2018 for 14 extremely talented positive impact on the environment 2017-18. In its 3 years journey, it athletes shortlisted from first and stakeholders including consumers, covered 278 nodal districts across two seasons of the project. At the employees, investors, communities National Finale for Season III,held Preparing Indian athletes to excel in Olympic Mr. P K Gupta, Director (HR), GAIL reviewed the status of GAIL Speed Star training of 25 shortlisted candidates including appointment of full time coach and physiotherapist for athlete, provision of supplements and shoes and spikes, altitude training provided to candidates, taking care of the nutritional need of the selected candidates, engagement of sports biomechanics and video analysing devices. 122 on 22 February 2018, nine athletes and wrapping training to awards and accolades. The most were selected to be further beneficiaries for marketing recent includes India CSR Award trained and nurtured along with the products manufactured 2018. It was also selected as a 14 already selected athletes of at CRTCs finalist for UPS International Season I and II, to bring laurels for Disaster Relief and Resilience the nation in Olympics 2020. * Installation of solar street Award, given by Business in the lights in villages and Community (BITC) Network, UK. • Outcome: This initiative is establishment of sale outlet expected to promote sports in Dehradun and Noida culture amongst the youth of the (GAIL’s residential colony) Mobile Medical country, which is the clarion call of Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri • Outcome: The project has Units (MMUs) (Arogya) Narendra Modi, to encourage the covered over 23,000 people • Key activities: Supported 31 youth to come forth and make directly and indirectly. Skill mobile medical units, spread out sports a part of their life. trainings have been extended in 11 states across India, namely, to over 7,000 individuals in 28 Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, skills. In total, three community Bihar, Jharkhand, Punjab, Delhi/ GAIL Shrijan resource training centers (CRTCs) NCR, Uttarakhand, Gujarat, have been established wherein • Key activities: Started in 2013, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and various income generation as a response to catastrophic Maharashtra. units such as spice making, juice flashflood occurred in making, bakery, etc. have been set Each Arogya MMU includes: Uttarakhand, which wrecked up. havoc in the valley, Project * Qualified MBBS doctor Shrijan (Creation) has extended The project has garnered many * Nurse (ANM) a long-term support to the affected communities in an integrated manner by adopting a multi-sectoral and multihazard approach. The project, aimed at rehabilitation of 10 Swachh Bharat Pakhwada villages of Rudraprayag district Swachhta Pakhwada was observed all across GAIL from 16th to 31st of Uttarakhand, facilitates their July, 2017. During the Pakhwada, various activities were undertaken to return to normalcy with an overall meaningfully contribute towards cleanliness drive and also to spread objective to minimize loss in case the Swachhta message. of future disaster situations. Highlights: Major components of the project in the current year include: • Covered 600 Safai Sathis under health checkup camps at various work centers e.g. Vizag, Lucknow, Gandhar, Bharuch, Vijaipur, * Operation of radio station Chandigarh, Abu Road, Hyderabad, Noida, Corporate Office in Agastyamuni Block, Rudraprayag • Organized special Health Checkup camps for Truck Drivers * Conducting workshops at • Organized Special Health Camps for free health Check-ups villageand block-levels for • Distributed medicines for occupational, life-style and other creating awareness against diseases domestic violence and alcoholism and auto woolen • Carried out cleanliness activities through Shram Daan by garment machine in CRTC employees at the Swachh Iconic Places/adopted monuments of Lawn for skill generation GAILSafdarjung Tomb and Purana Quila on 16th July 2017 and 22nd July 2017 respectively to spread the message of the Swachhta. * Setting up organic roof top café at CRTC Ukhimath for generating revenue for CRTC and make the project sustainable * Establishing sanitary napkin unit to address women hygiene issues * Providing packaging 123 b) Major projects under identified focus areas AROGYA-Overall wellness, covering health and sanitation, drinking water and nutritionrelated initiatives • Description: Supplementing government’s efforts in health, sanitation, water and nutrition, GAIL is taking proactive efforts to address the issues (mentioned above) through its various initiatives. • Key activities * Supported 31 MMUs * Promoted HIV prevention through mass awareness, Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI) treatment and HIV testing through STI clinics for truckers visiting GAIL installations in Pata (Auraiya, UP) and Vijaipur (Guna, MP). * Facilitated installation of 353 hand pumps in various districts of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar to improve access to potable water for thousands of families. * Undertook activities in the domain of sanitation UJJWAL – Education* Lab technician The Project Arogya MMU healthcare services include: centric initiatives * Pharmacist * Free doctor’s consultation • Description: Facilitated * Essential medicines infrastructure development and * Free distribution of renovation programs including * Diagnostic kit (Swashtya medicines Janch Machine) setting up of smart classes at the * Basic diagnostic tests various government schools, in * Information and awareness Karnataka, construction of junior material on health and * Referral to other healthcare colleges in Telangana, etc. hygiene facilities A single MMU covers five to eight • Key activities Information and awareness villages per week, and extends material on rights and entitlements, * Identified 100 students primary health services to approx. government social security schemes through a meticulous 25,000 patients, annually. All and health programs is also provided. MMUs are GPS-enabled and geoselection process, out which Quarterly eye-screening and medical fenced, for remote monitoring 99 students qualified IIThealth check-up camps are also and supervision which enables JEE, as declared on 30 April conducted under Project Arogya. real time monitoring. 2018.. 124 (East Godavari, Andhra programs are aligned to the National Pradesh) wherein over Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF) 1200 candidates trained Level 4 of Government of India in skills ranging from and duly approved by Hydrocarbon General Engineering Sector Skill Council and National Skill programs including welders, Development Corporation. fitters, electricians, solar technicians, CMC operators, UNNATIRural instrument technicians, assistant surveyors, development and assistant masons, welding infrastructure initiatives Candidates trained in skills of various disciplines at assistants, auto CAD, etc. • Description: Guided by the Skill Development Institute (SDI) at Raebareli sustainability line approach, * Conducted training for 126 candidates in plastic i.e. the society’s economic * Started construction of products manufacturing, competitiveness is interlinked to its social, economic and hostel for children from tribal injection molding and raffia environmental health, GAIL has families at Bhubaneswar, plant processing in four implemented initiatives that Odisha; junior colleges centers of Central Institute accelerate rural development. at Kodangal and Kosgi, of Plastics Engineering Telengana and Technology (CIPET) at • Key activities Guwahati, Imphal, Chennai * Made investments in * Supported an incubation and Aurangabad. asset creation through centre at NIT-Rourkela, etc. construction of bridges, * Supporting setting up of * Extended scholarships to drainage systems, roads, Hydrocarbon Sector Skill 174 students through GAIL community resource halls Council (HSSC) and Skill and compound walls. Charitable and Education Development Institutes (SDI) Trust. * Development work in various at Vizag, Kochi, Raebareli and * Provided scholarship to 600 Bhubaneswar. villages, infrastructure development, etc. at violence affected children * Establishing sanitary napkin Anantapur (Andhra Pradesh), in Assam, J&K and Odisha in unit at Guna (MP). East Godavari (Andhra partnership with National Pradesh), Vaghodia (Gujarat), Foundation for Communal In order to provide skills training and and the various districts of Harmony. employment to the youths in U.P., GAIL Madhya Pradesh. has established Skill Development * Undertook various * Installed 1,392 solar street Institute (SDI) at Raebareli in infrastructure development lights units and 675 solar association with an oil and gas PSUs, initiatives in government lanterns in identified villages namely BPCL, ONGC, IOCL, HPCL, schools at Telangana and of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Oil India, EIL, and Balmer and Lawrie. Andhra Pradesh. Madhya Pradesh. SDI, Raebareli has started functioning from its campus at Indian Telephone KAUSHALIndustries, Raebareli since November SASHAKT – Women Livelihood generation 2017 with the launch of first batch of empowerment three-month long program on Pipe and skill development Fitter (city gas distribution). initiatives initiatives Pipe Fitter (city gas distribution) is • Description: GAIL believes that a woman’s position is a true • Description: Enabling and first-of-its kind program to provide reflection of a society’s progress empowering the marginalized, so skilling in city gas distribution sector, and we must focus on womenthat they become agents of change which contributes towards the centric initiatives. through skill development initiatives. development of infrastructure in smart • Key activities cities. Each batch of these programs • Key activities imparts training to 30 students * Conducted gender * Operating two skill schools at as per the norms of National Skill sensitization, legal awareness Guna (MP) and Mamidikuduru Development Corporation. All these 125 and employability skill training GAIL is supporting establishment for 180 adolescent girls and Swachh Bharat of local wireless internet network women from urban slums of Delhi initiatives including IP-based surveillance system with PTZ electronic As a part of Hon’ble Prime Minister’s camera and monitoring hardware/ * Imparted various skill call for a movement towards a cleaner software, etc. with components training to women including India, GAIL supported construction/ focusing on overall development of apparel design, food renovation of 4,305 toilets in underdeveloped Yamunotri Shrine of processing, bee keeping, government schools and other public aesthetic importance. organic farming, product places, spread over ten districts design and financial literacy in Odisha, three districts each in Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, Social Footprints Saksham Care of four districts in Bihar, two districts CSR Award 2018 in Uttarakhand and one district each the elderly and in Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Highlights differently-abled Telangana since 2014 till current • 93 community toilets constructed year. GAIL has also supported for in Bhadohi and Allahabad in Uttar • Description: Focusses on special the maintenance of sanitation Pradesh. education initiatives for persons infrastructure created in these with disabilities. schools in order to ensure continuous • Provided 114,000 household usage of the utilities created. garbage bins and 2,600 100L capacity public dustbins at Agra, Harit EnvironmentGandhar, Nasirabad, Delhi NCR, centric initiatives Swachh iconic Chandigarh and Kanpur. • Description: Focusses on places environment-centric initiatives. GAIL has adopted and committed Contribution for cleanliness and maintenance towards Statue of Employee of Taj Mahal, Agra and Yamunotri, Uttarkashi, under its CSR initiatives. Unity engagement for Swachh Iconic Places (SIP) which GAIL is proud to be associated with communities is a special initiative under Swachh the Statue of Unity project as a part of Bharat Abhiyan, focused on select its CSR initiatives and has contributed GAIL CSR organized “Spread the iconic heritage, spiritual and cultural `25 crores for this project. Warmth” from 11-22 December places in India. The project focusses 2017, wherein GAIL’s employees on overall upkeep and cleanliness of The Statue of Unity is being donated clothes, woolens, winter both the identified places. constructed in the area surrounding essentials and other useable items the Sardar Sarovar Dam in the for the underprivileged, homeless Highlights Narmada district of Gujarat. This and needy people in and around Delhi. • Municipal solid waste statue is an iconic 182 meter tall The employees participated with management landmark dedicated to Sardar enthusiasm and donated woolens, Vallabhbhai Patel, a visionary leader blankets, clothes for men, women • Street sweeping and statesman hailed as the Iron Man and children, shoes, etc. for the lesser of India. The bronze plated statue • Landscape pruning privileged and homeless people. symbolizes a unified India. Similar activities are also conducted • Maintenance and removal of by different sites of GAIL by providing horticulture waste support through visiting nearby communities and providing necessary • Installing fountains in parks items by collective employee • Operation and maintenance of contribution beyond CSR. water vending machines, etc. 126 14 Customers 127 Customers AIL through its subsidiaries specific measures to ensure improved and joint venture companies satisfaction levels and improvised introduced city gas projects contract clauses for its customers. in India for natural gas supplies to We have been taking various households, commercial and transport initiatives including digitalization of GAIL is striving to meet twin sectors. The major supplies of natural procedures, implementing health and objectives of enhancing India’s gas include fuel to power plants (23%), safety measures, collating feedback, energy security and at the same feedstock for gas-based fertilizer addressing customer’s concerns and time providing better value to plants (33%) and LPG extraction. engaging with customers at regular its customers. GAIL regards its Additionally, natural gas is also intervals. The subsequent section customers as partners in growth supplied to steel industry, reﬁnery and details out measures taken under each and works with them to improve household consumers. of the above specified domain. the quality of services and products. Through its mission GAIL supplies the cleaner fuel In order to create an agile environment statement, GAIL acknowledges its across Indian states through its panthat engages customers, delivers commitment towards customers. India pipeline network providing information to them faster, limits We have a legacy of providing connectivity to its customers that number of touch points and reduces an uninterrupted availability of ensures supply of cleaner fuel. In total, natural gas and LPG in order to GAIL has RLNG customer base of 334 serve all its customers round-thecustomers, which includes 18 fertilizer clock. customers, 35 steel customers, 20 Power customers, 41 CGD and 220 others (incl. automotive, ceramics, pharma, paper, glass, chemicals, aluminum, food, etc. We served 2,086 customers during this reporting period. Giving customers an apex priority,, GAIL pays undisputed attention in formulating and implementing 128 and customer services. GPTC is equipped with Customer state-of-the-art world class facilities like Engagement Twin Screw Extruder, GAIL undertakes various customer Lab Scale Film Plant, engagement initiatives with an Capillary Rheometer, objective to develop greater brand Haake Rheocord, loyalty and strengthen its competitive Universal Tensile advantage. Regular customer Tester, MFI Machine, engagement enables access to ESCR Equipment, timely information about market Compression Moulding intelligence, build and strengthen Machine, Izod Impact customer relationships to augment Tester, Colorimeter, sales and address customer’s concern, Tear Tester, Haze Meter, suggestions and grievances. Differential Scanning We organize “customer meets” across Calorimeter, FTIR, locations to appraise all customers of Weatherometer, etc. recent developments and customer processing time, GAIL has digitalized oriented initiatives by GAIL. These several processes. Some of the key meets ensure interaction on mutually digital initiatives implemented during GAIL GPTC Noida beneficial business relationship the current year include: GPTC is committed to provide the and facilitate knowledge sharing • Developed online system to following services to the customers particularly on the benefits of create “Measurement Analysis to forge a long lasting profitable environment-friendly NG fuel, such as partnership with GAIL: ease of use, continuous supply, etc. Report” which analyses the trend in gas consumption data for each • Customer complaint redressal An online suggestion box is also business location and identifies • Guidance to proper selection of available for customers to share any deviation from average GAIL grades their requirements and expectations, consumption of the customer. raise operational concerns and • New application development and This statistical tool flags in case provide feedback on new product promotion for customer benefits of drastic change in consumption development. Online customer pattern. • Continuous development and complaint portal is also available for modification of GAIL grades to customers to register their complaints, • Developed portals for customer meet market needs self certification and Goods and track status and receive responses Service Tax Network (GSTN). • Representation in BIS from the relevant departments with committees related to plastics no delays. • Developed digital system for signing and sending customer • Testing of polymer samples GAIL also organizes third-party sale invoices electronically. • Presentation in various technical Customer Value Management forums (CVM) visits for understanding the • Developed auto alert system perception of a product or service’s for dispatches to facilitate • Entrepreneurial guidance value in the market place through customers to plan their surveys which ask customers a series inventories • Developed GIS mapping project which brings all pipeline assets on a digital platform for planning new customer connectivity. Technical excellence GAIL ensures technical services and product related queries about GAIL polymer grades is provided to all its customers through GAIL Polymer Technology Centre (GPTC), located in Noida, Uttar Pradesh. GPTC acts as an interface between the customers and the plant. It is the core property of GPTC Lab at GAIL GAIL’s polymer product development 129 of predefined questions. These questions are also asked from the competitors’ customers to establish Customer Connect the equivalent value for competitors’ offers. A simple calculation gives a Meet (GAIL, ratio score based around a parity score Mumbai) of one in comparison with our business with the competition. In the recent third party CVM conducted on 75 selected customers, GAIL received a score of 8.0 in petrochemical business, 8.2 for natural gas business and 8.6 for liquid hydrocarbon business, leading to overall score of 8.2 against the Glimpse of GAIL’s stall at a leading international bench mark of 7.0. exhibition of India. All the business segment-wise Photograph taken during Customer summary of interaction with Connect Meet organised by GAIL, customers is provided by third Mumbai dated 24/06/2018 party as “voice of customer” and “quality perspective on strength and MoPNG e-Seva: An improvement area”, which is taken with marketing group for implementation. monitoring progress on the same. official social media In this regard, an annual survey is based grievance Customer conducted to check the level of customer satisfaction on several redressal platform for satisfaction parameters such as our product Oil & Gas Sector quality, usability of product, technical In order to improve the company’s support, delivery of material, The MoPNG e-Seva is an online products and services, we seek packaging, service quality, concerns, portal designed to answer any continuous feedback from our and suggestions for improvement. queries regarding petroleum and customers, which is analyzed On a half yearly basis, this customer gas related service. With a number and deliberated at various levels feedback is collected through an of consumer benefits, this portal for identifying actions areas and online survey. makes it easier for customers to reach out to the government The Weighted Average Stakeholder and have any grievances around Satisfaction Index score for FY 2017petroleum, gas pipelines and Plast India 2018 18 is 88.30%. PNG, CNG. An extension of the Gas Leak Helpline 1906, this service enables consumers to address any Addressing concerns issues through social media itself. Customer complaints are inevitable, With over 50 queries being sent no matter how streamlined our out every day through Twitter, this business. GAIL firmly believes in portal provides a single point of acknowledging and effectively dealing conversation for every consumer. with the complaints. We have a Responses are sent out in realrobust system in place to resolve the time, ensuring there is no further complaints quickly and in the most delay in grievance addressal. All effective way. We also maintain a one needs to do is reach out to comprehensive record of all customer the portal @MoPNGeSeva on complaints, from the initial problem Facebook or @M0PNG_eSeva on to the eventual solution. The record Twitter and response will be sent is periodically assessed to identify back at the earliest. any common complaints, and take necessary steps to improve company. PlastIndia Meetings & Interactions @ GAIL Pavilion, PlastIndia 2018, 7th-12th Feb 2018 130 15 Suppliers 131 Suppliers t GAIL, we understand the ex-servicemen to promote inclusive importance of supplier growth. Rosters are maintained as management and adopt per the directives and are regularly a strategic approach to efficiently inspected by the Liaison Officer(s) manage all suppliers. Various of GAIL as well as the Liaison Officer Suppliers are at the heart of initiatives such as Bill Watch System, of the Government of India to ensure organizational process and e-tendering, e-payments, etc. have proper compliance. activities and are thus, critical already been implemented in the past for the success of organization for the beneﬁt of vendors and suppliers We are one of the few organizations in the market. Suppliers play an to bring transparency in procurement in the oil and natural gas sector to instrumental role in providing systems and processes. We extend have implemented the SA 8000, essential material inputs and Integrity Pact and Fraud Prevention auditable certiﬁcation standards for services that ensure that the Policy to all suppliers to ensure a fair decent workplaces. SA 8000 is based organization is well equipped and robust process of procurement of on the UN Declaration of Human to generate value throughout materials and services. GAIL adheres Rights (UNHR), conventions of the the supply chain. Such a value to the principles of United Nations International Labour Organization created throughout the supply Global Compact (UNGC) which enlist chain results in a long-term principle on anti–corruption. Also, customer satisfaction. A wellall contracts placed by GAIL contain planned and efficient supplier Health, Safety and Environment Policy relationship management, results approved by GAIL. into beneficial effects. GAIL follows the Presidential directives and guidelines issued by the Government of India regarding reservation in services for SC/ST/ OBC/PWD (Persons with Disabilities)/ 132 403-1, 204-1, 308-1, 308-2, 408-1, 409-1, 412-3, 414-1 (ILO), UN and national law was Total procurement of goods and supplies – ` ` 89,970 million implemented at GAIL Hazira. We voluntary commit to these policies Total procurement of goods and supplies from local ` 85,904 million and towards human rights and uphold suppliers them with the right intentions. Percentage of new suppliers that have been screened The issue of human rights is central to through environmental, human rights and labor practice 100% good corporate citizenship leading to criteria a healthy bottom-line. Percentage of new suppliers that has been screened 100% through the criteria for impacts on society Ethical procurement Percentage of suppliers identified having significant Zero actual and potential negative impacts on society We believe in giving equal opportunity to all, thus we follow a Percentage of suppliers identified having significant no discrimination policy in awarding actual and potential negative impacts on society with Zero contracts to suppliers and vendors. which relationship has been terminated We also understand the company’s responsibility is not only maintaining As per the provisions of GCC, the like separate toilets, washing places a transparent and accessible channel supplier engaged with GAIL is required for men and women, compulsory for suppliers and vendors but also to follow all government or statutory canteen facilities and medical services towards society and environment in all policies or rules which require the for all its personnel. All the significant material and service procurements. suppliers to provide various facilities investment agreements and contracts with suppliers include human rights We have thus put various systems clauses for initial screening. No and conditional checks in place grievances related to human rights to ensure that the procurement EIC Coaching were filed during the reporting period. process maintains the highest Program No child labor practice: GAIL does not ethical standards. All the suppliers are screened using environmental Engineer-in-Charge (EIC) endorse child labor within its premises and social criteria before awarding coaching programs were and has strict guidelines to ensure any contract. Upon selection, the organized for EICs of GAIL the same in its engagement with its suppliers are further assessed for to make them aware on the suppliers. Thus, the company’s labortheir impact on environment and various aspects of contracts. supply contractors are required to society to ensure that the supply chain Through this program, they are obtain labor permission from GAIL remains environmentally and socially also given an insight into the authority where there is a mandatory responsible. provisions related to society, clause of declaration by the contractor environment, labor practice that they do not engage in child labor. General conditions of contract: All and human rights and their As per the government’s rules, the vendors and suppliers, that we do implementation during the minimum age limit prescribed for business with, have to comply with all execution of the contracts. employment or contract labor is 18 General Conditions of Contract (GCC). years which is maintained across all This General Conditions of Contract Six EIC coaching programs the units. covers provisions related to the were conducted during impact on: the reporting period which The total distribution of contract saw a total participation of employees working across various approximately 250 EICs of GAIL premises is given in the table GAIL. below: Contract employee distribution (Numbers) 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Security staff male 2,599 2,244 2,118 Security staff female 4 4 4 Regular contract worker-male 15,287 15,672 13,000 Labour Regular contract worker-female 362 329 283 practice 133 414-2, 102-10 , 102-10 Opportunity for MSEs: We have methodology in pipeline coating and arbitration regarding clauses, implemented “Public Procurement works for promotion of Indian methodologies and procedures Policy” for Micro and Small pipe coating manufacturers. As pertaining to award and execution of Enterprises (MSEs) with an aim to a result of this initiative, there contracts. GAIL organized four vendor provide fair opportunity to small are now 19 domestic bidders as coaching programs in this regard vendors and suppliers for an inclusive compared to no domestic bidder during the reporting period. growth. Through this policy, we intend for line pipe in 1985. to encourage participation of these micro and small-scale vendors into GAIL has also Purchase Preferencetender bids. Some of the key highlights implemented Local Content of this policy are: the following • Waiver from Earnest Money Domestically Manufactured Deposit (EMD) and providing policies for Iron & Steel Products purchase preference. providing • Introduction of e-procurement preference to the Domestically Manufactured process to reduce the paper work local manufacturers and to speed up the tendering Electronic Products to promote process. participation from Startup Policy • Conducting pre-tender or prelocal vendors: bid meeting to ensure wider participation and to educate vendors on the tendering process. • Production and procurement of • Understanding the challenges N-hexane (a process fluid/solvent faced by MSEs in bidding process. in HDPE-I, HDPE-2, Butene-l Vendor Coaching All the above measures have helped and new Butene-1 plants earlier Program at GAIL, in bringing down the transaction cost, being sourced from M/s Exxon Mobil Chemical Asia PacificJubilee Tower, helping the local and small vendors to quote in large numbers with ease and Singapore) is now being procured Noida from M/s. Hindustan Petroleum to reduce the tendering cost involved Corporation Limited. in submission of bulky bid documents. Through this policy, we target 20% of procurement from micro and small Supplier enterprises with a sub target of 4% engagement of the procurement to be made from MSEs owned by scheduled caste or We have set up a transparent system scheduled tribe entrepreneurs. of supplier interaction at GAIL. While we ensure interactions with all the Promoting domestic manufacturing suppliers and vendors through various sector: In line with the spirit of Make forums like vendors meet, meet in India, Indigenisation (INDEG) with micro and small enterprises, Groups were formed at the apex industry conclave, etc., we also take and site levels. These groups meet initiatives to make them aware of its regularly to plan and take initiatives on requirements. indigenization. Details of this initiative are mentioned below: In order to encourage more participation of suppliers and vendors • We have established “Meter of varied size and scale into the bidding Photographs taken during Vendor Prover Facility” at Hazira (Gujarat) process, we undertook a unique Coaching Programme held on for developing proving meters initiative of vendor coaching programe, 10/05/2018 at GAIL Jubilee Tower, for GAIL and other companies in wherein the bidders are given coaching Noida India. on the process of participation in GAIL’s tender. They are guided through • Replacing various chemicals the process of both pre-award and used in our business processes post award terms and conditions for A Vendor’s Meet was organized by with indigenously manufactured the live tenders. This is done to reduce Corporate Contracts and Procurement varieties. and subsequently eliminate the Department on 1 November 2017 at instances of disagreements, disputes India Habitat Centre, Delhi during the • Extending “Demo Route” 134 103-2, 103-3 Annual Vigilance Awareness Week. given a grace period of seven days This initiative consists of health The meet was attended by more than for submission of EMD in physical monitoring of contracts (HMC) 200 vendors from across India. The form from bid submission date. Only and preventive dispute resolution objective of the meet was to connect generic BEC like Proven Track Record mechanism (PDRM). The health with all suppliers and make them (PTR), turnover, net worth and working monitoring of the contracts includes aware of the steps taken by GAIL capital are being kept in tender. Preperiodic review of various contract (India) Limited in enhancing efficiency bid meeting is conducted for vendors management aspects like settlement and transparency in its tendering to clarify and educate them on the of claims for additional work done, process. It was also aimed at providing company’s clauses and procedures deviations or amendments in the a platform to the suppliers and relating to tender bidding. contracts, issues and disputes vendors to voice their concerns and related to contact and the work. challenges faced by them. We follow a rate contract system PDRM ensures that these issues are of procurement for the regularly resolved in time. HMC and PDRM purchased items to synchronize the are undertaken quarterly to address plant requirement with phase-wise prompt closure of the issues on these supply provision. These contracts are aspects, avoiding any pile up of issue mostly reviewed within every two or Entrepreneurship three years. for resolution at the time of closure of the contracts. Development Project During the reporting period, 2017Samadhan facilitates timely decision GAIL in association with 18, no major change happened in the making through a collaborative M/s HPCL organized an location of suppliers, the structure approach with the concerned Entrepreneurship Development of the supply chain, or relationships departments within the organization. Project (EDP) for the with suppliers (including selection or development and mentoring termination). No significant actual of SC/ST entrepreneurs. The and potential negative impact of Digital our supply chain on environment or project included a 35-days society was reported. transformation long residential program for selected entrepreneurs. It was In an effort to renovate the company’s operations and streamline them to inaugurated on 09 September Samadhan the new digital economy, we have 2017 at Skill Development Institute at Visakhapatnam. Samadhan is a supplier and contract made gradual movement towards management initiative followed at integrating digitalization in business Thirty-five budding GAIL as stakeholder management processes by putting various tools entrepreneurs were selected practice w.r.t. vendors and suppliers. and mechanisms in place. We have and trained in trading skills by It aims at building the confidence and incorporated online management officials of GAIL and HPCL. trust relationship with vendors and tools like Bill Watch System, cashless suppliers by bringing in consistency transaction, File Movement System, and transparency in tendering paperless transaction, etc. GAIL’s IT procedure (for execution and post team continuously works with various departments to provide solutions to Supply chain execution stages) and prompt the internal and external customers, resolution of disputes in an amicable management manner. and extend IT-enabled services across the entire process. We have taken some major steps in easing the process of bidding in tenders and encouraging a wider participation of suppliers and vendors. All tenders valuing over `7 lakh are hosted on GAIL’s tender website and Government website. Bid Evaluation Criteria (BEC) is also made available online. Bidders who meet the evaluation criteria may bid through a hassle-free e-tendering process. Further, intimations of tender are also sent to prospective vendors. Participating vendors are 135 103-2, 103-3 GAIL’s website to avoid any delay incorporate social and environmental in processing their payments. concerns in our procurement process. Vendor Development • As per the C&P procedure, the We work towards identifying and Initiative Smart requirement of publication implementing measures that could of Notice Inviting Tender help us take positive steps towards Meters on (NIT) in newspapers has been our intent of green and responsible 15 February 2018 discontinued. Instead, tender procurement. We have, thus, taken notices are hosted online on strategic initiatives towards With an objective to develop and GAIL’s website, consultant’s procurement of energy efficient and persuade the vendors having websites (if applicable), Central sustainable products by setting the technological capacity, GAIL Gas Public Procurement Portal and following criteria to be considered: took the initiative of bringing Government e-Marketplace all the participating vendors (GeM) and other websites as • Loading criteria in tenders for in EESL’s tender and emerging advised by the Government of procurements of compressors, vendors of smart meters on India. turbines, generators, etc. for fuel one platform to discuss the consumption. opportunities available in the • Tender notices are also sent to prospective suppliers, • Star rating of electrical smart metering segment of CGD equipment. industries and its future growth. manufacturers, contractors GAIL Gas Limited organized on the current supplier lists • Green building concept in all new an “Interactive Meet on Smart available with GAIL to ensure building projects. Meter Vendors” on 15 February timely communication and proper 2018. Nine prospective players competition. • Compulsory buy back of old including Larsen & Toubro Ltd., PCs, laptops, cartridges, etc. by • We have also developed a supplier supplying such new items HPL Electric & Power Ltd., ITI program for sending mass e-mails Ltd and Genus participated in to help cater to our business-to• Procurement of new lighting and this meet. CGM – HOD (C&P) business (B2B) communication lighting fixture of LED only of GAIL, COO and GM (C&P) of requirements with all our vendors GAIL Gas Limited shared some • Automatic switching off lights and suppliers available in GAIL critical aspects of developing in utility area to avoid extra data base (except blacklisted smart meters with features consumption of power vendors or vendors put on commensurate with the industry holiday). As per the decisions taken by demand while being cost Sustainable Development Steering effective. • E-tendering for all tenders above Committee (SDSC), a minimum three `7 lakh with an objective to reduce star rating has to be considered in the paper consumption both at GAIL specification while procuring electrical and at the supplier side. items and all air-conditioners over 10 The following are some of the years of use have to be replaced after highlights of our digitalization initiatives: Green procurement doing a cost benefit analysis. • Post GST implementation, we We are committed towards creating introduced a web link for the minimal adverse environmental vendors to facilitate them in and social impacts in carrying out submitting their GST details on all operations. We also dedicatedly search for means and methods to 136 103-2, 103-3 Performance Snapshot Material consumption Unit 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 NG Processed MMSCM 22, 060 23,726 25,496 NG to Product MMSCM 966 1,430 1,700 Lean NG to Pipeline MMSCM 19,515 18,880 22,577 Associated Material MT 13,428 16,026 16,079 Packaging Material MT 1,693 3,025 3,451 Recycled material MT 0 0 22.7 Energy Consumption (GJ) 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Direct Energy 3,79,00,494 4,66,47,856 4,95,74,184 Indirect Energy*a 18,47,583 22,05,429 32,27,712 Renewable Energy 80,943 92,075 1,14,120 Energy from NG Flaring*b 3,91,379 5,20,210 7,43,343 Energy from LPG Flaring 5,240 4,914 5,658 Energy from NG Venting 6,63,733 6,27,439 5,95,648 Energy from LPG Venting 5,468 6,809 6,682 Energy Source (GJ) 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Diesel 14,467 18,438 15,900 Natural Gas 3,21,61,593 3,63,96,411 3,53,73,606 Residual Fuel 57,20,433 1,02,33,007 141,86,643 Total Direct Energy 3,79,00,494 4,66,47,856 4,95,74,184 Total Energy Intensity 20 22 25 Energy saving (GJ) 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Total energy saved *c 42,987 3,954 208,497 GHG saving (MTeCO2) 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Total GHG saved *d 3,599 1,005 1, 2955 Renewable energy generation (GJ) 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Wind 5,71,230 8,13,707 7,25,538 Solar 34,790 36,189 40, 416 Total renewable energy 6,06,020 8,49,897 7,65,954 Air emissions (Tons/Annum) 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 SPM 360 476 352 NOx 1,318 1,770 1,794 CO 425 1,432 1,925 SOx 133 206 227 137 301-1, 301-2, 301-3, 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5, OG-3 Air emissions (Tons/Annum) 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 VOC 12 53 75 R-134a 165 264 300 ODS gas consumption 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 R22 (Kg/Annum) 3,154 3,433 2,587 GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Scope 1 emissions 25,49,023 29,50,694 29,28,776 Scope 2 emissions *e 4,20,835 5,05,399 7,33,843 Total GHG emissions 29,69,858 35,49,335 36,62,619 GHG intensity (GHG emissions in tCO2e/turnover in ` 57 72 68 Crore) Water (Million m3) 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Total water consumption 17 21 21.7 Total waste water generated 1.6 1.7 1.7 Total waste water discharged 1 1.3 1.3 Water recycled/reused 0.5 0.2 0.5 Type of Waste disposal 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Solid Liquid Misc. Solid Liquid Misc. Solid Liquid Misc. (MT) (Litres) (No.) (MT) (Litres) (No.) (MT) (Litres) (No.) Incineration 6,058 0 0 6,904 0 0 2,160 0 0 Landfill 9 0 20 3 0 0 9 0 0 Onsite storage 218 19,677 991 0 625 3 1 4,250 193 Recycle 3,549 13,94,264 8,461 3,034 3,88,058 4,464 43,271 6,30,278 4,261 Other 627 44,113 2,236 855 1,10,597 1,105 2,706 73,116 10,487 E&P waste type 2016-17 2017-18 Mud and drill cutting (MT) 1,415 0 (Due no activity in block where GAIL is operator) Environmental fine and notices 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Show cause notice received (Nos) 0 1 0 Environmental expenditure (` million) 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Treatment and disposal of waste 5 6 31 Depreciation and maintenance cost of equipment used 40 11 94 in pollution control External services for environmental management 10 8 13 External certification of management systems 1 3 3 Personnel for general environmental management 31 20 36 activities Extra expenditure for installing cleaner technologies 4 19 9. Insurance for environmental liability 52 56 53 138 301-4, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 305-6, 305-7 Environmental expenditure (` million) 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Other environmental costs 5 11 27 Total environmental expenditures 148 134 264 Environmental fines 0 0 0 Health and safety of employees Unit 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Management representatives in safety Numbers 300 315 311 committees Non-management representatives in Numbers 196 206 199 safety committees Near miss cases-Male Numbers 342 411 750 Near miss cases-Female Numbers 3 2 6 Minor injuries-Male Numbers 2 1 8 Minor injuries-Female Numbers 1 0 0 Reportable injuries-Male Numbers 1 0 0 Reportable injuries-Female Numbers 0 0 0 Lost days due to reportable injuries-Male Numbers 6,045 0 0 Lost days due to reportable injuriesNumbers 0 0 0 Female Fatalities-Male Numbers 1 0 0 Fatalities-Female Numbers 0 0 0 First aid cases-Male Numbers 0 14 6 First aid cases -Female Numbers 0 0 1 Man-hours worked-Male million-man--hours 6.5 6.6 6.4 Man-hours worked-Female million-man--hours 0.2 0.2 0.3 Occupational diseases Contract Numbers 0 0 0 employee-Male Occupational diseases Contract Numbers 0 0 0 employee-Female Reportable injuries per millionLTIFR-Male 0.1 0 0 man-hours worked Reportable injuries per millionLTIFR-Female 0 0 0 man-hours worked Lost Days per million-manSeverity rate-Total 897 0 0 hours worked Fatalities per million-manFatality rate-Male 0 0 0 hours worked Fatalities per million-manFatality rate-Female 0 0 0 hours worked Health and safety of contract employees Unit 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Near miss cases-Male Numbers 198 197 321 Near miss cases-Female Numbers 0 0 0 Minor injuries-Male Numbers 3 2 42 Minor injuries-Female Numbers 0 0 1 139 301-4, 305-5, 305-6, 303-3, 306-1, OG-5, 305-7, 306-2, OG-7 Health and safety of contract employees Unit 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Reportable injuries-Male Numbers 3 0 0 Reportable injuries-Female Numbers 0 0 0 Lost days due to reportable injuries-Male Numbers 6,068 0 0 Lost days due to reportable injuriesNumbers 0 0 0 Female Fatalities-Male Numbers 2 0 0 Fatalities-Female Numbers 0 0 0 First aid cases-Male Numbers 55 54 67 First aid cases-Female Numbers 0 4 4 Man-hours worked-Male million-man-hours 28.3 26.5 25.0 Man-hours worked-Female million-man-hours 0.5 0.32 0.42 Occupational diseases contract Numbers 0 0 0 employee-Male Occupational diseases Contract Numbers 0 0 0 employee-Female Reportable injuries per millionLTIFR-Male 0 0 0 man-hours worked Reportable injuries per millionLTIFR-Female 0 0 0 man-hours worked Lost Days per million-manSeverity rate-Total 211 0 0 hours worked Fatalities per million-manFatality rate-Male 0.07 0 0 hours worked Fatalities per million-manFatality rate-Female 0 0 0 hours worked Permanent Employee Distribution (Numbers) 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Senior management (E7-E9)-Male 259 250 277 Senior management (E7-E9)-Female 7 8 8 Middle management (E4-E6)-Male 1,416 1,508 1544 Middle management (E4-E6)-Female 47 54 58 Junior management (E0-E3)-Male 1,491 1,481 1535 Junior management (E0-E3)-Female 162 160 170 Non-management (S0-S7)-Male 899 854 852 Non-management (S0-S7)-Female 36 35 36 Senior management (E7-E9): <30 years age 0 0 0 Senior management (E7-E9): 30 To 50 years age 64 58 56 Senior management (E7-E9): >50 years age 202 200 229 Middle management (E4-E6): <30 years age 0 0 0 Middle management (E4-E6): 30 To 50 years age 1,144 1,136 1102 Middle management (E4-E6): >50 years age 319 426 500 Junior management (E0-E3): <30 years age 545 464 434 Junior management (E0-E3): 30 to 50 years age 823 838 896 140 306-2, 307-1, 401-3, 403-1, 403-2, 403-3 Permanent Employee Distribution (Numbers) 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Junior management (E0-E3): >50 years age 285 339 375 Non-management (S0-S7): <30 years age 121 125 162 Non-management (S0-S7): 30 To 50 years age 687 645 610 Non-management (S0-S7): >50 years age 119 119 116 Employee turnover-Management 72 76 70 Employee turnover-Non-management 9 7 19 Permanent Employee Distribution (Numbers) 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Employee turnover -Age <30-Male 17 29 23 Employee turnover -Age <30-Female 2 5 1 Employee turnover -Age 30 to 50 years age-Male 13 8 9 Employee turnover -Age 30 to 50 years age-Female 2 3 1 Employee turnover -Age >50 years age-Male 45 41 53 Employee turnover-Age >50 years age-Female 2 1 2 New employee hired during FY: Male 134 107 204 New employee hired during FY: Female 2 12 17 Contract Employee Distribution (Numbers) 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Security staff male 2,599 2,244 2,118 Security staff female 4 4 4 Regular contract worker-Male 15,287 15,672 13,000 Regular contract worker-Female 362 329 283 Training (Hours) 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Management employee (Direct)-Male 1,54,468 1,55,436 1,85,476 Management employees (Direct)-Female 9,456 11,276 12,392 Workmen (Direct employees)-Male 31,192 26,960 8,863 Workmen (Direct employees)-Female 760 792 202.50 Contractual Labor (Operations)-Male 43,266 45,712 54,120 Contractual Labor (Operations)-Female 1,166 900 1,763 Permanent employee-Physically disabled 2,212 2,230 2,967.50 Contract worker-Physically disabled 4 0 0 Training for direct employees (GTI Noida and Jaipur 1,28,160 1,44,672 1,68,640 based) 141 102-7, 102-8, 401-1, 404-1 Employees Returned to Work After Parental Leave Gender 2016-17 2017-18 Male 4,097 4,213 Number of employees entitled to parental leave Female 257 271 Male 142 157 Number of employees that took parental leave Female 18 14 Number of employees who returned to work after Male 142 157 parental leave ended Female 18 14 Employee returned to work after parental leave ended Male 141 156 who were still employed 12 months after their return Female 18 14 Retention rates of employees who returned to work Male 100 100% after parental leave ended Female 100 100% Exploration & Production Reserves 2017-18 Estimated net total resource base (million BOE) 2P 48 Development type Shallow Water / Onland Net total resource base (%) 97%/3% Note: *a The increase in indirect energy consumption is due to recently concluded commissioning activities at some GAIL sites. Energy Consumption patterns are likely to improve post stabilization of these units over some period of time. *b The energy from Natural Gas (NG) Flaring has increased in FY 2017-18 due to Expansion of two major sites Pata and Vijaipur of GAIL. *c The increase in Energy savings is due to the modification done in the methodology of evaluating and calculating the energy savings. *d The increase in Energy savings has resulted in the corresponding increase in the GHG savings *e The scope 2 GHG emissions have increased due to the increase in Energy consumption. 142 401-3, OG1 Independent Assurance Statement GAIL India Limited (“GAIL”) engaged Emergent Ventures India Pvt. Ltd. (“EVI”) for carrying out an independent assurance of their Sustainability Report (“Report”) for the financial year 2017-18 covering the reporting period from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018. The assurance process has been conducted in accordance with the requirements of Assurance Standard AA1000AS (2008). Adherence to the principles laid out in AA1000AS (2008) and GRI Standards including the Oil and Gas Sector Disclosures (OGSD have been used to evaluate the Report. The facilities covered under the Report are GAIL’s Gas Processing units at five locations (Pata, Vijaipur, Vaghodia, Gandhar, Usar), one Petrochemical Plant at Pata, Natural Gas Compressor stations (Hazira, Vaghodia, Jhabua, Khera, Vijaipur, Dibiyapur, Kailaras & Chainsa), LPG pumping / receiving stations (Loni, Mansharampura, Nasirabad, Abu Road, Samakhiali, Jamnagar, Kandla, Vizag, G Konduru and Cherlappali), Regional pipeline offices at NCR, Baroda, Mumbai, Puducherry, Rajahmundry, Agartala and DBPL, office buildings at Corporate office New Delhi , GAIL Training Institute (GTI) at Noida & Jaipur and Offices at Jubilee Tower, Info-Hub at Noida, Zonal Marketing offices. Limitations Assurance is subject to no physical verification of inventory of material consumed, waste generated, emissions and effluents etc. Assurance relied solely on the documentation maintained and provided by the company. The scope of assurance does not cover the statements in the report that describe companies approach, strategy, aim, expectation, aspiration or beliefs or intentions. Independence The verification has been carried out by experts from environment & energy management, climate change and sustainability areas. No member of the verifier team is involved in any way in the preparation of the Report. GAIL’s responsibility GAIL is responsible for preparing the Report in accordance with GRI Standards and for maintaining effective internal controls over the data and information disclosed. Verifier’s responsibility In performing the assurance activities, verifier’s responsibility is to the management of GAIL only in accordance with the terms of reference agreed between EVI and GAIL. EVI do not therefore accept or assume any responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person or organization. The assurance statement should not be taken as a basis for interpreting the GAIL’s overall performance. Scope and level of assurance EVI has been engaged to provide Moderate Level Type 2 Assurance for the following: • Adherence to the principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness laid out in AA1000AS (2008). • Adherence to the principles of accuracy, balance, clarity, comparability, reliability and timelines laid out in the “In AccordanceCore” reporting requirements of GRI standards. • Adherence to General disclosures and Topic specific disclosures for “In AccordanceCore” reporting requirements of GRI standards as follows: General Disclosures and Management approach (GRI 102, GRI103): The reported information on General Disclosure along with Management approach as per disclosure requirements for ‘In Accordance’ – Core option of reporting. * Disclosures 102-1 to 102-13 (Organizational profile) 143 102-56 * Disclosure 102-14 (Strategy) * Disclosure 102-16 (Ethics and integrity) * Disclosure 102-18 (Governance) * Disclosures 102-40 to 102-44 (Stakeholder engagement) * Disclosures 102-45 to 102-56 (Reporting practice) * Disclosures 103-1 to 103-3 (Management Approach) Topic Specific Disclosures: Performance Indicators for identified material Aspects as below: Economic * Disclosures 201-1, 201-3 (Economic performance ) * Disclosures 202-1, 202-2 (Market presence ) * Disclosures 203-1, 203-2 (Indirect economic impacts ) * Disclosures 204-1 (Procurement practices ) * Disclosures 205-1 (Anticorruption ) * Disclosures 206-1 (Anti-competitive behavior ) Environmental * Disclosures 301-1, 301-2 (Materials ) * Disclosures 302-1, 302-3, 302-4 (Energy) * Disclosures 303-1, 303-2, 303-3 (Water ) * Disclosures 304-1 (Biodiversity ) * Disclosures 305-1, 305-2, 305-5 to 305-7 (Emissions ) * Disclosures 306-1 to 306-5 (Effluents and waste ) * Disclosures 307-1, (Compliance ) * Disclosures 308-1 , 308-2 (Supplier environmental assessment ) Social * Disclosures 401-1 to 401-3 (Employment) * Disclosures 402-1 (Labor/management relations) * Disclosures 403-1 to 403-4 (Occupational health and safety) * Disclosures 404-1 to 4043 (Training and education ) * Disclosures 405-1 , 405-2 (Diversity and equal opportunity ) * Disclosures 406-1 (Non-discrimination) * Disclosures 407-1 (Freedom of association and collective bargaining ) * Disclosures 408-1 (Child labor ) * Disclosures 409-1 (Forced or compulsory labor) * Disclosures 410-1 (Security practices) * Disclosures 411-1 (Rights of Indigenous peoples) * Disclosures 412-1 to 412-3 (Human right assessment) 144 * Disclosures 413-2 (Local communities) * Disclosures 414-1 to 414-2 (Supplier social assessment) * Disclosures 415-1 (Public policy) * Disclosures 417-2, 417-3 (Marketing and labeling) * Disclosures 418-1 (Customer privacy) * Disclosures 419-1 (Socioeconomic compliance) Activities undertaken A number of activities have been undertaken for this assurance, maintaining independence and objectivity: a. Review of draft Report to check alignment of reported data reported against respective economic, environment & social topics mentioned in GRI Standards. b. Review (sample check) of the data provided used in the Report and related worksheets; c. Review (sample check) of data monitoring and recording and reporting including other internal processes and controls; d. Site visits to GAIL’s Corporate Office at New Delhi, GAIL Training Institute (GTI) and Jubilee Tower at Noida, Regional pipeline offices and Zonal Marketing offices at Mumbai, four operational sites located in India i.e. Petrochemical Plant at Pata (U.P.), Gas Processing Unit and Compressor Stations at Vijaipur (M.P.) and Vaghodia (Gujarat), and Compressor Station at Jhabua (M.P.) e. Video conferencing with GAIL personnel of two sites , Karaikal (Cauvery PL) and Kailaras. f. Findings on identified gaps on data monitoring, recording and reporting, review of responses & closure of gaps. Conclusion Based on the Moderate Level Type 2 Assurance procedures conducted and evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that, in all material respects the Report is not in conformance with the “In AccordanceCore” reporting requirements of GRI Standards and AA1000 AS (2008). Observations and Recommendations • Principle of Inclusivity: GAIL has applied the principle of inclusivity in engaging with its stakeholders. Different departments engage regularly with their relevant stakeholders through multiple engagement channels. • Principle of Materiality: GAIL has followed a structured process of materiality determination to report key material issues. • Principle of Responsiveness: GAIL has applied the principle of responsiveness with respect to its stakeholders. Company has well defined system for responding to any concern raised by key stakeholders. During assurance activity, no evidence is found which indicates that GAIL has not applied the principles of inclusivity, responsiveness and materiality in engaging with its stakeholders and preparing sustainability report. Without affecting the overall conclusions on the Report, the following recommendations are made: • Data accuracy and reliability is very high in most of the cases. However, in some areas where data is entered manually and data is updated multiple times chances of error exist. Company may go for enhanced usage of SAP, Automation and reduction in manual data management and reporting. • Organization has reported achievements, initiatives and performances clearly. Some areas like supplier assessment and sustainable supply chain may be further explored for possible improvements and adoption of sustainability principles throughout the supply chain. • Well defined process and methodology of materiality assessment has been mentioned. However, company may further elaborate risks to sustainable environment and society due to company’s operations. 145 • Awareness level of onsite personnel towards updated GRI standard reporting requirements may be further enhanced through regular training. • Social and environment impact analysis at critical operations may be conducted due to change in operations, adoption of new technology and CSR initiatives. • Company may consider preparing a roadmap for reduction of GHG emissions. For Emergent Ventures India Private Ltd. Atul Sanghal Business Head – Sustainability & Climate Change Emergent Ventures India Private Ltd. 408, Tower B, Unitech Business Zone, Sector – 50, Golf Course Extension Road, Gurugram – 122018, Haryana, India Date: 14/08/2018 146 Glossary API American Petroleum Institute ASME American Society of Mechanical Engineers CPCB Central Pollution Control Board CPSE Central Public Sector Enterprise CVC Central Vigilance Commission CMD Chief Managing Director CFC Chloro fluoro carbon CGD City gas distribution CNG Compressed natural gas CSR Corporate social responsibility CSI Customer satisfaction index CERT Computer emergency response team DVPL Dahej-Vijaipur Pipeline DGM Deputy General Manager DGH Directorate-General of Hydrocarbons ED Executive Director E&P Exploration and Production Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce FY Financial year FICCI and Industries GTI GAIL Training Institute GPU Gas Processing Unit GJ Giga-Joules GRI Global Reporting Initiative GHG Green House Gas HVJ Hazira-Vijaipur-Jagdishpur Pipeline HSE Health safety and environment IT Information technology IMS Integrated management system International Petroleum Industry Environment IPIECA IA Internal audit Conservation Association JLPL Jamnagar-Loni Pipeline JV Joint venture KG Krishna Godavari LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas LHC Liquid Hydro Carbons MoU Memorandum of Understanding MT Metric Tons MMSCMD Million Metric Standard Cubic Metres per Day Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate MoEFCC MoPNG Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas Change NCR Non Capital region NH National highway NG Natural Gas NGO Non-government organization NACE National Association of Corrosion Engineers NFPA National Fire Protection Association NOx Oxides of Nitrogen NDC Nationally determined contribution 147 API American Petroleum Institute ASME American Society of Mechanical Engineers Occupational Health Safety Assessment OHSAS ONGC Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited Series OISD Oil Industry Safety Directorate OMC Oil Marketing Companies OBC Other Backward Castes ODS Ozone Depleting Substances PNGRB Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board PPAC Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell PNG Piped Natural Gas PCB Pollution Control Board PE Poly-Ethylene PAT Profit After Tax PBT Profit Before Tax PPP Public Private Partnership Petroleum Conservation Research PCRA Association RGPPL Ratnagiri Gas and Power Private Limited RLNG Re-gasified Liquid Natural Gas R&D Research and Development RTI Right To Information SPM Suspended Particulate Matter SD Sustainable Development SDG Sustainable Development Goal SCOPE Standing Conference of Public Enterprises TERI The Earth Research Institute TMT Thousand Metric Tons tCO2e Tons of Carbon Dioxide Equivalent TPA Tons per annum TDS Total Dissolved Solids UNGC United Nations Global Compact VSPL Vizag Secundrabad Pipeline 148 GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Section and Page Nos. Omission Subsection and/or URL GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures Organizational Profile GRI 102: General 102-1 Name of the GAIL’s Story: Organizational 20 Disclosures 2016 organization Overview Section GAIL’s Story: Organization Overview Business Portfolio 102-2 Activities, brands, and Joint Ventures and 20, 21, 6, 107 products, and services Subsidiaries section Business Growth: Business Outlook 102-3 Location of GAIL’s Story: Organizational 20 headquarters Overview Section GAIL’s Story: Organizational 102-4 Location of Overview, Business Portfolio and 20, 21 operations Joint Ventures and Subsidiaries sections 102-5 Ownership and legal GAIL’s Story: Organizational 20 form Overview Section GAIL’s Story: Organization Overview and Our presence, 102-6 Markets served 20, 21 subsidiaries and joint ventures section Performance Snapshot: 102-7 Scale of the Permanent Employee organization Distribution table GAIL’s Story: Organization Overview section Business Growth: Business Outlook Business Growth: Economic Performance of GAIL (FY 201720, 60, 64, 18) and Sector-wise Financial 141 Performance sections Performance Snapshot: 102-8 Information on Permanent Employee employees and other 141 Distribution table and Contract workers Employee Distribution table GAIL’s Story: Organization Overview 102-9 Supply chain 20, 60, 64 Business Growth: Business Outlook 102-10 Significant changes GAIL’s Story: Organization to the organization and its 20, 135 Overview supply chain 149 (102-55) GRI Standard Disclosure Section and Page Nos. Omission Subsection and/or URL Performance: Supply Chain Management section 102-11 Precautionary Risk Management: Risk 38 Principle or approach Management Framework Public Policy and Advocacy: 102-12 External initiatives Advocacy through Coalitions and 108 Associations section Strategy 102-14 Statement from CMD’s Message 13 senior decision-maker Risk Management: Key 102-15 Key impacts, risks, Corporate Level Risks for GAIL 41 and opportunities section Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, Governance: Internal Control standards, and norms of Systems and their Adequacy 34 behavior section 102-17 Mechanisms for Governance: Internal Control advice and concerns about Systems and their Adequacy 34 ethics section Governance Governance: Governance 102-18 Governance Structure and Committees of 30, 32 structure the Board section Governance: Governance 102-19 Delegating authority 30 Structure section 102-20 Executivelevel responsibility for Governance: Governance 30 economic, environmental Structure section and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Governance: Governance 30 environmental and social Structure section topics 102-22 Composition of the Governance: Board of Directors highest governance body 31 section and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest Governance: Board of Directors 31 governance body section 102-24 Nominating and Governance: Governance selecting the highest 30 Structure section governance body Governance: Avoidance of 102-25 Conflicts of interest 33 Conflict of Interest section 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting Governance: Governance 30 purpose, values, and Structure section strategy 150 GRI Standard Disclosure Section and Page Nos. Omission Subsection and/or URL 102-27 Collective Governance: Governance knowledge of highest 30 Structure section governance body 102-28 Evaluating the Governance: Board of Directors highest governance body’s 31 section performance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, Governance: Sustainability 33 environmental, and social Governance impacts 102-30 Effectiveness Risk Management and of risk management 30-32 Governance processes Risk Management: Risk 102-31 Review of economic, Management Framework environmental, and social 38, 32 Governance: Committees of the topics Board 102-32 Highest governance Governance: Sustainability body’s role in sustainability 33 Governance section reporting 102-33 Communicating Governance: Sustainability 33 critical concerns Governance section 102-34 Nature and total Governance: Sustainability 33 number of critical concerns Governance section 102-35 Remuneration Governance: Remuneration and 32 policies Incentives section 102-36 Process for Governance: Remuneration and 32 determining remuneration Incentives section 102-37 Stakeholders’ Governance: Remuneration and involvement in 32 Incentives section remuneration 102-38 Annual total Governance: Remuneration and 32 compensation ratio Incentives section 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder Stakeholder Engagement and 50 groups Materiality chapter Human Capital at the Core: 102-41 Collective Employee Engagement and 116 bargaining agreements Empowerment subsection 102-42 Identifying and Stakeholder Engagement and 50 selecting stakeholders Materiality chapter 102-43 Approach to Stakeholder Engagement and 50 stakeholder engagement Materiality chapter Stakeholder Engagement and 102-44 Key topics and Materiality chapter: Materiality 53 concerns raised section 151 GRI Standard Disclosure Section and Page Nos. Omission Subsection and/or URL Reporting Practices 102-45 Entities included in About The Report: Reporting the consolidated financial 18 Boundary section statements 102-46 Defining report About The Report: Reporting content and topic 18 Boundary section Boundaries Stakeholder Engagement and 102-47 List of material Materiality chapter: Materiality 53 topics section 102-48 Restatements of About the Report 16 information 102-49 Changes in About the Report reporting Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality: Materiality 16, 53 Analysis section About The Report: Reporting 102-50 Reporting period 17 Year 102-51 Date of most recent About The Report: Reporting 17 report Year About The Report: Reporting 102-52 Reporting cycle 17 Year 102-53 Contact point for About the Report: Data questions regarding the 18 Validation and Assurance report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI About the Report 16 Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index 149 Material Topics The material topics include GRI material topics, health and safety, operational excellence, business growth and profitability, human capital management, stakeholder relationship management, public policy and lobbying, climate change, regulatory issues and uncertainty in government policy, communication and relationship with stakeholders, skilled manpower, innovation, changing business/market dynamics (specially renewables and electric vehicles), investment by GAIL visà-vis projected growth in changing market dynamics, GAIL’s position in India in mid-term, supply chain management and alignment with sustainable development goals and COP21). Management Approach Stakeholder Engagement and 103-1 Explanation of the GRI 103: Management Materiality: Materiality Analysis material topic and its 52, 53 Approach 2016 section and Materiality Matrix boundary sub-section 103-2 The management approach and its Health and Safety 94 components Operational Excellence 74 Business Growth and 60 Profitability 152 GRI Standard Disclosure Section and Page Nos. Omission Subsection and/or URL Public Policy and Advocacy 102 Stakeholder Relationship 50 Management Climate Change 86 Human Capital Management 110 Investment by GAIL vis-à-vis 57 Projected Growth in Changing Market 57 Dynamics Business Model and Innovation 129 Changing Business and Market 150 Dynamics Supply Chain Management 135 Domestically Sourced Gas to 58 Imported Gas Competition Emergence of Disruptive 100 Technologies Alignment with Sustainable 11-12 Development Goals and COP21 103-3 Evaluation of the Health and Safety 96, 99 management approach Operational Excellence 74 Business Growth and 62 Profitability Public Policy and Advocacy 102 Stakeholder Relationship 51, 103 Management Climate Change 86 Human Capital Management 110 Investment by GAIL vis-à-vis 57 Projected Growth in Changing Market 57 Dynamics Business Model and Innovation 128 Changing Business and Market 150 Dynamics Supply Chain Management 135 Domestically Sourced Gas to 58 Imported Gas Competition Emergence of Disruptive 100 Technologies Alignment with Sustainable 11-12 Development Goals and COP21 Topic-specific disclosures Economic 153 GRI Standard Disclosure Section and Page Nos. Omission Subsection and/or URL Economic Performance GRI 201: Economic 201-1 Direct economic value Business Growth and 60 Performance 2016 generated and distributed Profitability 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Energy and Environment 86 opportunities due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit Stakeholder Relationship plan obligations and other 110 Management retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance Business Growth and 60 received from government Profitability Market Presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by Human Capital Management 115 gender compared to local GRI 202: Market minimum wage Presence 2016 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from Human Capital Management 115 the local community Indirect Economic Impact 203-1 Infrastructure Growth in Changing Market investments and services 60 GRI 203: Indirect Dynamics supported Economic Impact 2016 203-2 Significant indirect Business Model and Innovation 60 economic impacts Procurement Practices GRI 204: Procurement 204-1 Proportion of Changing Business and Market 132 Practices 2016 spending on local suppliers Dynamics Anti-Corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to Supply Chain Management 102 corruption 205-2 Communication GRI 205: Antiand training about antiDomestically Sourced Gas to 102 corruption 2016 corruption policies and Imported Gas Competition procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents Emergence of Disruptive of corruption and actions 102, 105 Technologies taken Anti-Competitive Behavior 206-1 Legal actions for GRI 206: Antianti-competitive behavior, competitive Behavior Public Policy & Advocacy 105 anti-trust, and monopoly 2016 practices 154 GRI Standard Disclosure Section and Page Nos. Omission Subsection and/or URL Materials 301-1 Materials used by Mentioned in Performance 137 weight or volume Snapshot 301-2 Recycled input Mentioned in Performance 137 GRI 301: Materials 2016 materials used Snapshot 301-3 Reclaimed products Mentioned in Performance and their packaging 137 Snapshot materials Energy 302-1 Energy consumption Performance Snapshot 137 within the organization 302-2 Energy consumption Performance Snapshot 137 outside of the organization 302-3 Energy intensity Performance Snapshot 137 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-4 Reduction of energy Performance Snapshot 137 consumption 302-5 Reductions in energy Energy and Environment: Energy requirements of products 137 Management section and services Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by Energy and Environment: Water 138 source Management section 303-2 Water sources Energy and Environment: Water significantly affected by 138 GRI 303: Water 2016 Management section withdrawal of water Performance Snapshot and 303-3 Water recycled and Energy and Environment: Water 138 reused Management section Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites Energy and Environment: owned, leased, managed in, Greenbelt and Biodiversity or adjacent to, protected Management section 88 areas and areas of high Biodiversity Assessment subbiodiversity value outside section GRI 304: Biodiversity protected areas 2016 304-2 Significant impacts Energy and Environment: of activities, products, and Greenbelt and Biodiversity 88 services on biodiversity Management section Energy and Environment: 304-3 Habitats protected Greenbelt and Biodiversity 88 or restored Management section 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national Energy and Environment: conservation list species Greenbelt and Biodiversity 88 with habitats in areas Management section affected by operations 155 GRI Standard Disclosure Section and Page Nos. Omission Subsection and/or URL Emissions Performance Snapshot and 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Energy and Environment: 137, 138 emissions Climate Change and Emission Management Performance Snapshot and 305-2 Energy indirect Energy and Environment: 137, 138 (Scope 2) GHG emissions Climate Change and Emission Management Performance Snapshot and 305-3 Other indirect Energy and Environment: 137, 138 (Scope 3) GHG emissions Climate Change and Emission GRI 305: Emissions Management section 2016 305-4 GHG emissions Performance Snapshot 137 intensity 305-5 Reduction of GHG Performance Snapshot 137 emissions 305-6 Emissions of ozonedepleting substances Performance Snapshot 137 (ODS) 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), Performance Snapshot 137 and other significant air emissions Effluents and Waste Performance Snapshot and 306-1 Water discharge by Energy and Environment: Water 137, 138 quality and destination Management section 306-2 Waste by type and Performance Snapshot 137 disposal method GRI 306: Effluents and Operational Excellence: Waste 306-3 Significant spills 89 Waste 2016 Management section 306-4 Transport of Operational Excellence: Waste 89 hazardous waste Management section 306-5 Water bodies Energy and Environment: Water affected by water 87 Management section discharges and/or runoff Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with GRI 307: Environmental environmental laws and Performance Snapshot 140 Compliance 2016 regulations Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-1 New suppliers that Supplier: Ethical Procurement were screened using 133 section GRI 308: Supplier environmental criteria Environmental 308-2 Negative Assessment 2016 environmental impacts Supplier: Ethical Procurement 133 in the supply chain and section actions taken 156 GRI Standard Disclosure Section and Page Nos. Omission Subsection and/or URL Employment 401-1 New employee hires Performance Snapshot 141 and employee turnover 401-2 Benefits provided GRI 401: Employment to full-time employees Human Capital at the Core: 2016 that are not provided to Talent attraction and retention 110 temporary or part-time section employees 401-3 Parental leave Performance Snapshot 140, 142 Labour / Management Relations GRI 402: Labor/ 402-1 Minimum notice Human Capital at the Core: Management Relations periods regarding Ethical Recruitment and Labour 116 2016 operational changes Practices section Occupational Health and Safety 403-1 Workers Performance Snapshot and representation in formal Human Capital at the Core: joint management– 116, 132, 140 Employee Engagement and worker health and safety Empowerment committees 403-2 Types of injury and GRI 403: Occupational rates of injury, occupational Health and Safety 2016 diseases, lost days, and Performance Snapshot 140 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of Performance Snapshot 140 diseases related to their occupation 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal Health and Safety: Management 95 agreements with trade System and Suppliers chapter unions Training and Education 404-1 Average hours Performance Snapshot GRI 404: Training and of training per year per Human Capital at the Core: 111, 141 Education 2016 employee Capability Building section 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills Human Capital at the Core: 111 and transition assistance Capability Building section programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving Human Capital at the Core: regular performance 111 Capability Building section and career development reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity 157 GRI Standard Disclosure Section and Page Nos. Omission Subsection and/or URL Corporate Governance: 405-1 Diversity of Governance Structure and governance bodies and 32, 110 Human Capital at the Core: GRI 405: Diversity and employees Talent Attraction and Retention Equal Opportunity 2016 405-2 Ratio of basic salary Human Capital at the Core: and remuneration of 110 Talent Attraction and Retention women to men Non-Discrimination 406-1 Incidents of Human Capital at the Core: GRI 406: Nondiscrimination and Ethical Recruitment and Labor 116 Discrimination 2016 corrective actions taken Practices Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 407-1 Operations and GRI 407: Freedom suppliers in which the right Human Capital at the Core: of Association and to freedom of association Employee Engagement and 116 Collective Bargaining and collective bargaining Empowerment 2016 may be at risk Child Labor Human Capital at the Core: 408-1 Operations and Ethical Recruitment and Labor GRI 408: Child Labor Practices section suppliers at significant risk 116, 132 2016 for incidents of child labor Suppliers: Ethical Procurement section Suppliers: Ethical Procurement section 409-1 Operations and GRI 409: Forced or suppliers at significant risk Suppliers: Ethical Procurement 132 Compulsory Labor 2016 for incidents of forced or compulsory labor Security Practices 410-1 Security personnel Human Capital at the Core: GRI 410: Security trained in human rights Ethical Recruitment and Labor 116 Practices 2016 policies or procedures Practices Rights of Indigenous Peoples GRI 411: Rights of 411-1 Incidents of violations Our Corporate Social Indigenous Peoples involving rights of 120 Responsibility 2016 indigenous peoples Human Rights Assessment 412-1 Operations that have Human Capital at the Core: been subject to human Ethical Recruitment and Labor 116 rights reviews or impact GRI 412: Human Rights Practices assessments Assessment 2016 412-2 Employee training Human Capital at the Core: on human rights policies or Ethical Recruitment and Labor 116 procedures Practices 158 GRI Standard Disclosure Section and Page Nos. Omission Subsection and/or URL 412-3 Significant investment agreements Human Capital at the Core: and contracts that include Ethical Recruitment and Labor Practices 116, 132 human rights clauses or that underwent human Suppliers: Ethical Procurement rights screening Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, Our Corporate Social 120 impact assessments, and Responsibility GRI 413: Local development programs Communities 2016 413-2 Operations with significant actual and Our Corporate Social 120 potential negative impacts Responsibility on local communities Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social Suppliers: Ethical Procurement 201 GRI 414: Supplier Social criteria Assessment 2016 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain Suppliers: Ethical Procurement 201 and actions taken Public Policy Public Policy and Advocacy: GRI 415: Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions Government and Regulatory 104 2016 Bodies Customer Health and Safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts Operational Excellence: 80 of product and service Compliance Management GRI 416: Customer categories Health and Safety 2016 416-2 Incidents of noncompliance concerning the Operational Excellence: 80 health and safety impacts Compliance Management of products and services Marketing and Labelling 417-1 Requirements for Operational Excellence: product and service 80 Compliance Management information and labelling 417-2 Incidents of nonGRI 417: Marketing and compliance concerning Operational Excellence: 80 Labelling 2016 product and service Compliance Management information and labelling 417-3 Incidents of nonOperational Excellence: compliance concerning 80 Compliance Management marketing communications 159 GRI Standard Disclosure Section and Page Nos. Omission Subsection and/or URL Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning GRI 418: Customer Operational Excellence: breaches of customer 80 Privacy 2016 Compliance Management privacy and losses of customer data Socio-economic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with GRI 419: Socioeconomic Operational Excellence: laws and regulations in the 80 Compliance 2016 Compliance Management social and economic area GRI G4 : Oil and Gas Sector Disclosures Volume and Type of Business Growth: Exploration OG1 Estimated Proved and Production section; 70, 142 Reserves and Production Performance Snapshot Total amount invested in Energy and Environment: Energy OG2 84 renewable energy Management section Total amount of renewable Mentioned in Performance OG3 energy generated by 137 Snapshot source Number and percentage of significant operating Energy and Environment: OG4 sites in which biodiversity Greenbelt and Biodiversity 88 risk has been assessed and Management monitored Volume and disposal of Performance Snapshot and OG5 formation or produced Energy and Environment: Water 139 water Management Energy and Environment: Volume of flared and OG6 Climate Change and Emission 86 vented hydrocarbon Management Amount of drilling waste Performance Snapshot and (drill mud and cuttings) and OG7 Energy and Environment: Waste 89, 139 strategies for treatment Management and disposal Number and description of significant disputes with Our Corporate Social OG10 120 local communities and Responsibility chapter indigenous people Number of process safety Health and Safety: Health and OG13 100 events, by business activity Safety Initiatives at GAIL 160 Linkages with NVG SEE Principles Principle NVG-SEE Linkages with sustainability Report FY No. 2017-18 sections Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with 1 Corporate Governance; Risk Management Ethics, Transparency, and Accountability Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe 2 Customers; Suppliers and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle 3 Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all employees Human Capital at Core Businesses should respect the interests of, and be 4 responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who Our Corporate Social Responsibility are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized. 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights Human Capital at Core Business should respect, protect, and make efforts to Operational excellence; Energy and 6 restore the environment Environment Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and 7 Public Policy and Advocacy regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable 8 Business growth development Businesses should engage with and provide value to their 9 Customers; Suppliers customers and consumers in a responsible manner 161 Linkages to API/IPIECA, UNGC, ISO 26000 Principles Section AVI/IPIECA Guidelines UNGC Principles ISO 26000:2010 Clause Governance SE 11, SE 12 Principle 10 4.3, 4.4, 6.2, 6.3.5, 6.3.6, 6.6.1-6.6.3, 6.6.5, Principle 7 Customers; Suppliers 6.6.6, 7.4.3, 7.7.5 Risk SE11, SE12 Principle 10 management Our Corporate Social Principle 7 4.3, 6.2.3, 6.3.5, 6.3.4, Responsibility Stakeholder engagement SE1, SE2, SE4, SE14, SE16, HS1, HS2, HS4, Principle 1 and HS14 materiality Business should respect, protect, and Operational excellence; Energy Principle 6 make efforts to restore the environment and Environment 4.5, 5.2, 5.3, 6.3.6-6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.7.1-6.7.6, Principle 7 Public Policy and Advocacy 6.8.1-6.8.3, 7.3.2-7.3.4, 7.5.3, 7.8 Business 6.6.1-6.6.2, 6.6.4, 6.6.6, SE4, SE5, SE7, SE13 Principle 9 growth 6.8.1-6.8.3, 6.8.7-6.8.9 Operational E1, E2, E3, E4, E5, E6, E7, E8 Principle 8 excellence Principle 9 4.6, 6.5.3-6.5.6, 6.6.6, Health and HS1, HS2, HS3, HS5 Principle 6 6.4.5, 6.4.6, 6.5.3, 6.8.8 safety Public policy 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 6.6.1-6.6.2, SE14 Principle 10 and advocacy 6.6.5 Social SE6, SE8, SE10, SE15, SE16, SE17, SE18 Principle 1 performance Principle 2 Principle 3 Principle 4 Principle 5 4.5, 4.8, 5.2, 5.3, 6.3.1-6.3.8, 6.3.10, 6.4.1Principle 6 6.4.7, 6.5.1-6.5.2, 6.7.8-6.7.9, 6.8.1-6.8.5, 6.8.7-6.8.9 Our value SE8, SE9, SE10 Principle 1 chains Principle 2 Principle 7 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 6.3.1-6.3.8, 6.3.10, 6.6.6, Principle 10 6.7.3, 6.7.4, 6.7.6, 6.7.9, 6.7.1-6.7.2, 7.3.1 Performance E1, E2, E3, E4, E6, E7, E8, E10, HS3 Principle 7 snapshot Principle 8 Principle 9 4.6, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.6, 6.5.3-6.5.5, 6.5.8 162 Global Recognition-2nd Year in a Row CERTIFICATE OF MEMBERSHIP This is to certify that Gail India is a constituent company in the FTSE4Good Index Series June 2018 Mark Makepeace Sir Mark Moody-Stuart Share your Feedback / Queries Our stakeholders can share their constructive feedbacks or queries about the report at Shri R K Choubey, CGM (SD) at choubeyrk@gail.co.in, Shri Arvind Kumar Namdeo, GM (SD) at arvind.namdeo@gail.co.in and also reach us at sustainability@gail.co.in in order to consistently improve GAIL’s reporting performance. 163 164
