Corporate & Social Responsibility Statement from Managing Director, Global Asia Myanmar Travels & Tours Co.,Ltd/ To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Global Asia Myanmar Travels & Tours Co.,Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the Integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Kyaw Bohne Naing Managing Director Global Asia Myanmar Travels & Tours Co., Ltd About us With our prestigious effort and well-educated knowledge ,we ,Global Asia Myanmar Travels & Tours Co.,ltd, contribute to promoting the Myanmar Tourism Industry to meet the needs of our tourists and travellers visiting Golden land Myanmar to feel the experience of friendly Myanmar in unique Asia and by conducting quality, innovative and excellent valuable services. On the other hand, our vision is to keep maintain global environment to be everlasting green, to preserve the biodiversity on the way to becoming a haven for eco-tourism and true adventure travel to experience the mystical Myanmar by fostering and encouraging our social environment to make a sense to keep the value of natural beauty. So, our excellent destinations and itineraries are specifically designed for our visitors to see our beautiful culture, traditional delights of Asia in one fascinating country, virgin jungles, snowcapped mountains and pristine beaches, combined with a rich and glorious heritage spanning more than two thousand years. On top of that, our objective is to offer the visitors to get a knowledge of our unique cultural heritage, ancient and historical sites, arts and crafts, our delicious cuisine and hospitality in order to make sustainable development of our tourism sector in comply with global standards while we caring for environment, social culture and national heritage. As you know, Myanmar is the legendary “Golden Land” not only one of the most exotic countries in the world –a land of astounding beauty and charm but also a paradise to discover a destination for discerning travellers to explore the mystical charm of the East in all its diversity-rich archaeological sites, glittering pagodas, a wealth of cultures, colourful festivals and arts. Moreover, It can not be denied that Myanmar is also blessed with an awe-inspiring range or natural sights-idyllic landscape , lush fertile plains, vast virgin jungles, majestic snow-capped mountains, pristine beaches washed by the crystals waters, fragrant pine trees and sunflowers bathed in abundant sunshine. But the most perfect complemented thing is its most gracious and hospitable people. We are very sure that you will certainly enjoy Myanmar. So, try your best to come and see our Golden Land Myanmar. You will never forget it, knowing that you must surely return again. We are Global ! We are Asia ! We are Myanmar! For more info, Kindly visit www.globalasiamyanmartravels.com,www.globalasiamyanmar.com.mm General Business Activities :: Global Asia Myanmar Travels & Tours Co.,Ltd has been established as a tourism company in Myanmar for over nine years focusing on inbound , outbound and domestic tours. On top of that, we are servicing in selling air tickets, application of visa for outbound travellers, visa and extension of stay application for foreigners, car rental, hotel reservation in local and abroad, Company Strategy Purpose To be a leading role in the tourism industry by providing enhanced services, relationship and profitability. And then, we aim to develop our society’s economy by promoting sustainable tourism and community based tourism. To promote responsible and community-based tourism so that locals can enjoy increased socio economic benefits and improved environment. To develop tourism with dignity, respect and nurture local cultures so that they enrich the tourism experience and build pride and confidence among local communities. To minimize negative social, economical and environmental impacts of mass tourism and promote tourism which is sustainable. To foster the development of community-based tourism products by providing marketing, training, financial and mentoring support. To preserve and enhance local culture, art, handicrafts, monuments and other natural and man-made tourist resources and protect them from over-commercialisation and over-exploitation. To promote and ensure the respect and dignity of people in tourism, marketing and promotion of tourism. To create and promote forms of tourism that provide healthy interaction opportunities for tourists and locals and increase better understanding of different cultures, customs, lifestyles, traditional knowledge and believes. To expand global and regional in the field of Tourism management and develop a strong base of key customers. To increase the assets and investments of the company to support the development of services. Global Asia Myanmar Travels & Tours Co.,Ltd has been established as a tourism company in Myanmar for over nine years focusing on inbound , outbound and domestic tours. On top of that, we are servicing in selling air tickets, application of visa for outbound travellers, visa and extension of stay application for foreigners, car rental, hotel reservation in local and abroad, Company Strategy Purpose To be a leading role in the tourism industry by providing enhanced services, relationship and profitability. And then, we aim to develop our society’s economy by promoting sustainable tourism and community based tourism. To promote responsible and community based tourism so that locals can enjoy increased socio economic benefits and improved environment. To develop tourism with dignity, respect and nurture local cultures so that they enrich the tourism experience and build pride and confidence among local communities. To minimize negative social, economical and environmental impacts of mass tourism and promote tourism which is sustainable. To foster the development of community-based tourism products by providing marketing, training, financial and mentoring support. To preserve and enhance local culture, art, handicrafts, monuments and other natural and man-made tourist resources and protect them from over-commercialisation and over-exploitation. To promote and ensure the respect and dignity of people in tourism, marketing and promotion of tourism. To create and promote forms of tourism that provide healthy interaction opportunities for tourists and locals and increase better understanding of different cultures, customs, lifestyles, traditional knowledge and believes. To expand global and regional in the field of Tourism management and develop a strong base of key customers. To increase the assets and investments of the company to support the development of services. To build good reputation in the field of tourism management and become a key player in the tourism industry. So, that’s why, we,Global Asia Myanmar Travels, are striving all out of our efforts to fulfil the satisfaction of our loyal customers and to meet their travel needs. Vision To provide quality services that exceeds the expectations of our esteemed travel customers, To be innovators, leaders and creative in the concepts of travels, to become a leading role in the not only Myanmar Tourism but also in the World tourism, being recognized for our professionalism and high quality products. We look beyond the horizon to anticipate better change and passionate about shaping the next generation of tourism to be World’s most trusted Tourism Company. . Mission Providing our client’s unforgettable travel, enjoyable ,with guaranteed services that exceed their expectations, and also contribute to our sustainable tourism destinations. To build long term relationships with our customers and clients and provide exceptional customer services by pursuing business through innovation and advanced technology Core values As a member of Global Compact, we always observe and respect ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption enjoy universal consensus and derived from The Universal Declaration of Human Rights The international Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development The United Nations Convention against Corruption We believe in treating our customers with respect and faith. We grow through creativity, invention and innovation. We integrate honesty, integrity and business ethics into all aspects of our business functioning. We value people who are the most important asset and we also value creativity, education, continuous innovation that are the lifeblood of our Company. We also welcome individual differences in order to contribute with their unique views and skills to create better services. Integrity We do deliver what we promise, and only promise what we can deliver. We do what we say with warmth, humor ,and great deal of functioning. Teamwork We’re natural partner with our clients, colleagues, and our community, and we’re at our best when working together to produce extraordinary results. Strength We aim to always exceed our financial goals and the expectations of our clients, our colleagues and our shareholders. We build our human resources by giving exciting opportunities to our own people, and bringing aboard new people whose skills enhance and expand our strong base. We are committed to growing our global footprint together with our customers. Pride Global Asia Myanmar Travel is proud of being a professional tourism Company in friendly Myanmar that filled with friendship, pride for high performance to provide our customers to satisfy their needs and happiness. Goals To strengthen our position as the leading tourism company providing quality, creative, innovative, competitive and socially responsible services not only in the region but also in the global tourism by providing basic infrastructure in transportation, accommodation .and all kind of tourism related services. services. To build good reputation in the field of tourism management and become a key player in the tourism industry. So, that’s why,we,Global Asia Myanmar Travels, are striving all of our efforts to fulfil the satisfaction of our royal customers and to meet their travel needs. We are Global, We are Asia , We are Myanmar. First Class Transportation Our priority is to ensure our clients a 100 percent comfortable trip, This is why we continuously invest in variety of new upgrade Japan Toyota Car, other mini-buses , high class van and tour grade Big bus which are maintained in a daily basis. Our drivers know our country roads pretty well and drive with strict safety measures. Accommodation We only arrange hotels and lodges that we have stayed and we believe to be the best in the respective area, always looking for value, character , and good service. In some of the secluded and undeveloped regions, there may not be good hotels and guest houses, but something special is everywhere, a unique style, a remarkable setting, wholesome comforts, and dedication to protect their natural setting and to please every guest. Sustainable Tourism We, Global Asia Myanmar Travels believe in the right of future generations having a healthy environment and natural resources that contribute to a better quality of life. No matter where you go or how you travel, you will have an effect on the environment and the people you visit. Our company also believes that you can have more authentic and meaningful trip when sustainable tourism practices are applied. Our Trips Our trips are carefully designed to combining cultural and natural riches with, comfort, safety , luxury and adventure to create trips our guests will talk about for a long time. Scope of Work Global Asia Myanmar Travels conducts tourism marketing as well as business consulting. The company undertakes all maintenance duties for real tourism facilities and organizations and conducts all the sustainable development for the tourism not only Myanmar but also in the World. Corporate & Social Responsibility (CSR) Human Right Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. As declared in our Statement of Commitment on Human Rights, Global Asia Myanmar Travels strive to ensure human rights criteria are properly fulfilled in line with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights(UNGP). So, we support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights under the articles of Universal Declaration of Human Rights proclaimed by the United Nations General assembly in Paris on 10 December 1948. Therefore, we always respect the recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of human family is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the World. And also we recognize that all human beings shall enjoy freedom of speech and belief and freedom from fear and want that has been proclaimed as the highest aspiration of the common people. According to the articles of Human Rights Declaration, every human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. All are equal before the law and are entitled without any discrimination to equal protection of the law. All are entitled to equal protection against any discrimination in violation of this Declaration and against any incitement to such discrimination. Recognising the importance of nation-wide collaboration, Global Asia Myanmar Travels helped develop recommendations for implementation of labour and social standards for driving personnel in the tourism sector in Myanmar. In order to support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, we Global Asia Myanmar Travels is working closely with International Organizations such as not only American Society of Travel Advisors,(ASTA) one of the World Largest Travels Trade Association, but Pacific Asia Travel Association (PATA) and some other NGOs, Myanmar Centre for Responsible Business that co-founded by International Institute of Human Rights. Therefore, we always uphold the principles of Human rights in comply with the guidance of UN World Tourism Organization. Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Under the articles of Human Rights Declaration, everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. No one shall be held in slavery or servitude, slavery and the slave of trade shall be prohibited in all their forms. No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. So that, we always make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses in our employments. As being a recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of freedom , justice and peace in the world, we, Global Asia Myanmar Travels make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses in all kind of tourism community . Therefore, we always keep business ethics and follow the code of conduct as far as possible. As a member of American Society of Travel Advisor, ASTA, one of the World Largest Travel Association and Union of Myanmar Travel Association, we always observe the guiding principle of Travel Associations especially not to complicit in Human rights abuse, gender inequality, and any discrimination. Labour Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. In our statement of commitment on Human rights and labour rights under the core value of our strategy, we, Global Asia Myanmar Travels acknowledges the right to collective bargaining and freedom of association in outlined in the ILO I International Labour Organisation) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and rights at Work. As a member of UMTA( Union of Myanmar Travel Association) its constitution outlined by the guidance of ILO , we, Global Asia Myanmar Travels also uphold the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. So, we always stand by the fundamental right of freedom of association not only the objectives and current provisions of Union of Myanmar Parliament Law No.31,2014 but also the articles (20,23) of Universal Declaration of Human Rights which is very first legal documents ratified by United Nations. Under the provisions of Clause 3(b) ,section 2, objectives of Myanmar Parliament Law No.31,2014, Every association has the right to freedom of association and freedom of action according to the Constitutional Rights. Under the article 20 of Universal Declaration of association, Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association. Under the article 23 , Everyone has the right to form and to join Trade Unions for the protection of his interests. So, we always respect the freedom of association. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour We acknowledge that force labour take difference forms, including debt bondage, trafficking and other forms of modern slavery. The victims are the most vulnerable women and girls forced into prostitution, migrants trapped in debt bondage, and sweatshop or farm workers kept there by clearly illegal tactics and paid little or nothing. The principle of the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour is recognized in Myanmar although there is no specific law in the Ministry of Labour and Immigration. However, Order No.1/99 explicitly state that action will be taken against offenders under section 374 of the Criminal Code. On top of that, there is also The Myanmar National Human Right Commission Law No.21,2014 which prevent all kinds of human rights violation including forced labor. Commission will conduct an enquiry under the provisions of penal code procedure if may deem necessary if there is an individual complaint on his own or behalf on person or behalf of group. So, we, Global Asia Myanmar Travels try to uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour and forbids all forms force labour occurs in the locations we operate in our tourism field under the provisions of penal code and other related laws. Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour According to the definition of ILO, forced labour refers to situations in which persons are coerced to work through the use of violence of intimidation or by more subtle means such as accumulated debt, retention of identity papers or threats of denunciation to immigration authorities. So, attention is made to protecting children from sexual exploitation in tourism and fights child prostitution as specific form of forced labour and modern slavery. The prohibition of child labour is prerequisite for business relationships between supplier and Global Asia Myanmar Travels. Hence, we are always trying to uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation We, Global Asia Myanmar Travels also outlines the company commitment to ensuring that within multicultural teams and working environment nobody is discriminated against because of their race, religion, beliefs, nationality, sexual orientation, gender, age or disability. We also have recruitment policy in which hiring, compensation, working conditions and term of employment, access to training, promotion, and termination of employment , the principle of equal opportunity and fair treatment are included. In Myanmar, there are a lot of ethnic groups living together peacefully. So, we also have very diverse workforce, particularly in terms of nationality and is continuously working on improving gender diversity in senior leadership positions. Therefore, we, Global Asia Myanmar Travels, always uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental Under the Rio Declaration on Environment, we recognize the international agreements which respect the interests of all and protect the integrity of the global environmental and developmental system, integral and interdependent nature of the Earth, our home. The precautionary principle is one of the key elements for policy decisions concerning environmental protection and management. It is applied internationally in the circumstances where there are reasonable grounds for concern or uncertainty about the probability of the risk and the degree of harm. So, we, Global Asia Myanmar Travels has committed that where there are threats or serious or irreversible environmental damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall not be used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent environmental degradation. So, we always support a precautionary approach to environmental present and future generation. Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility With our prestigious effort and well-educated knowledge, we, Global Asia Myanmar Travels, contribute to promoting Myanmar Tourism Industry through undertaking initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility by keeping to maintain global environment to be everlasting green, to preserve the biodiversity on the way to becoming a haven for eco-tourism and true adventure travel to experience the mystical Myanmar by fostering and encouraging our social environment to make a sense to keep the value of natural beauty. Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies .In our tourism business, we are selling our products based on the development of environmental friendly technologies by using software system, electronic devices, email, computers in order to save environment ever green. And then, we, Global Asia Myanmar Travels, always aim to implement technical solutions and operational improvements that help reduce the consumption of water, oil, energy consumption and CO2 emissions that make environmental climate change and global warming. So that why, we also encourage our supplier hotels, restaurants to reduce water consumption to protect environmental and natural resources. Anticorruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery According to the United Nations Convention on Anti-corruption, we also aim to promote and strengthen measures to prevent and combat corruption more efficiently and effectively. So, we, Global Asia Myanmar Travels laid down commitment and policy to do business ethically. And then, we also believe that bribery and corruption are wrong and not acceptable. There is also an anti corruption law prescribed by Union Parliament in Myanmar. Global Asia Myanmar Travels’ code of conduct obliges all employees to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations as well as with all internal directives and guidelines, especially anticorruption law.
