Leading the security industry through innovation Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 ABOUT SECURITAS Leading the transformation Securitas is leading the transformation of the global security industry, from traditional guarding to a wide range of protective services, including on-site, mobile and remote guarding, electronic security, fire and safety, and corporate risk management. Founded in Helsingborg, Sweden in 1934, we have a long and successful track record. We are located in 58 countries in Europe, North America, Latin America, Africa, the Middle East and Asia and have 370 000 employees. Securitas serves a wide range of clients of all sizes in a variety of driven and intelligent service solutions, we can be more proactive industries and client segments. With our long experience and inin our security work. At the same time, we pride ourselves on depth security knowledge, we can respond to our clients complex having the best team in the industry, with a culture and values that security needs through tailor-made security solutions. We have 44 guide our way of working in an ethical manner. We believe that the Securitas Operation Centers around the world that help us mitigate combination of people, knowledge and technology will enable risks and take action for our clients 24/7. Through increased dataSecuritas to meet the security challenges of tomorrow. Operations in Total 370 000 58 101 467 employees countries sales, MSEK Earnings per share Free cash flow Proposed 8.26 0.13 4.40 SEK to net debt ratio dividend, SEK More than Global Client 150 000 140 91% clients clients retention rate excluding monitoring-only clients Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 SECURITAS 2018 ABOUT SECURITAS Year in brief 2 CEO statemaent 4 Market and trends 6 Value creation 10 Our strategy 12 Targets 14 The Global goals 15 OUR OPERATIONS Customer segments 16 Our responsibilities 22 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Compliance with the Code 32 Comments by the Chairman 33 Securitas governance model 34 Board of Directors 40 Group Management 42 Enterprise risk management and internal control 44 ANNUAL REPORT Report of the Board of Directors 57 Consolidated financial statements 66 Notes and comments to the consolidated financial statements 73 Parent Company financial statements 128 Notes and comments to the Parent Company financial statements 131 Signatures of the Board of Directors 138 Auditor’s report 139 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES 144 Assurance report 158 Quarterly data 160 The Securitas share 162 Financial information and invitation to the Annual General Meeting 164 This is a translation of the original Swedish Annual Report. In the event of differences ­between the English translation and the ­Swedish original, the Swedish Annual Report shall prevail. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 1 YEAR IN BRIEF Year in brief 2018 was a strong year for Securitas. We achieved a milestone as sales reached over MSEK 100 000 for the first time. Organic sales growth increased to 6 percent (5) and the operating margin improved to 5.2 percent (5.1). HIGHLIGHTS DURING THE YEAR • Sales of security solutions and electronic security were 20 percent of total sales, an increase with 21 percent compared with 2017 • Two major transformation programs in the further digitization of the company were initiated • Important acquisitions of electronic security companies, such as Automatic Alarm in France and Kratos Public Safety and Security in the US • New tools to improve communication and knowledge sharing between employees worldwide were introduced, for example Workplace by Facebook KEY RATIOS MSEK 2016 2017 2018 Sales 88 162 92 197 101 467 Organic sales growth, % 7 5 6 Operating income before amortization 4 554 4 697 5 304 Operating margin, % 5.2 5.1 5.2 Income before taxes 3 764 4 018 4 028 Net income for the period 2 646 2 751 3 021 Earnings per share, SEK 7.24 7.53 8.26 Free cash flow 1 721 2 290 1 884 Free cash flow to net debt ratio 0.13 0.19 0.13 Dividend per share, SEK 3.75 4.00 4.40* * Proposed dividend Diagram_BV_sid 117 / 1 Diagram_BV_sid 117 / 2 TOTAL SALES AND ORGANIC OPERATING INCOME BEFORE Diagram_BV_sid EARNINGS PER117 SHARE /3 SALES GROWTH AMORTIZATION AND OPERATING Operating income MARGIN Total sales and before amortization organic sales growth and operating margin Earnings per share MSEK SEK % MSEK % 10 6 000 5.5 100 000 10 8 5 000 5.3 80 000 8 4 000 6 5.1 60 000 6 3 000 4.9 4 40 000 4 2 000 4.7 2 20 000 2 1 000 0 4.5 0 0 0 14 15 16 17 18 14 15 16 17 18 14 15 16 17 18 Organic sales growth, % Operating margin, % 2 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 YEAR IN BRIEF S T RO N G GLO B A L P RESEN CE Securitas combines global reach with extensive local expertise in our 1 400 branch offices, which promotes close and long-term relationships with our clients. NORTH AMERICA EUROPE IBERO–AMERICA AMEA • Sales in 2018: MSEK 42 366 • Sales in 2018: MSEK 45 040 • Sales in 2018: MSEK 12 315 • Accelerated growth and increased market share in • Number of employees: • Number of employees: • Number of employees: the AMEA region 122 000 128 000 63 000 • The acquisition in Australia • Organic sales growth increased to 6 percent (5) • Organic sales growth increased to 4 percent (2) • Organic sales growth was 12 percent (13) has been successfully integrated • Security solutions and electronic security sales • Security solutions and electronic security sales • Security solutions and electronic security sales • Growing number of global clients represented 17 percent (15) of total sales represented 21 percent (20) of total sales represented 27 percent of total sales (24) • Technology capacity is being built in the region • The operating margin improved to 6.1 percent • The operating margin was 5.6 percent (5.6) • The operating margin increased to 4.5 percent • The AMEA division is included under Other in our seg(5.9) • The client retention rate (4.2) ment reporting • Solid client retention rate of 91 percent (91) increased to 93 percent (91) • Client retention rate was 92 percent (91) Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 3 CEO STATEMENT Strong momentum Securitas has the best offering of protective services in the security industry, and we are growing faster than the market. Our solid growth across all divisions in 2018 is proof not only of a strong portfolio of services but also that our clients value the work we do. Looking at our progress over the last five years, we are delivering on our Vision 2020 strategy to become a leader in protective services. Looking ahead, our strong guarding capability and presence, in combination with technology and data, creates leverage to drive innovation and the creation of intelligent security services. THE POWER OF PRESENCE percent of total Group sales. The operating margin improved to 2018 was my first year as President and CEO and I have spent 5.2 percent (5.1). We have loyal but demanding clients who considerable time with both our clients and our employees to believe in our direction, which is manifested in an excellent client gain a deeper understanding of Securitas’ history, our present sitretention rate. Our average client retention rate in 2018 was 91 uation and the future. We have operations in 58 countries and percent. 370 000 employees. With outstanding people across a vast footSecurity Services North America delivered solid growth and print, our presence – together with our ability to combine different profitability improvement. We enjoyed stronger growth in Secuprotective services into security solutions – creates a strong platrity Services Europe compared with last year, but we were not form for future long-term growth. satisfied with the operating margin in Europe and identified some During 2018, we initiated a strategy review to ensure that we improvement areas. We initiated a cost savings program that will deliver on our Vision 2020 goals, but also to start shaping the contribute to the operating result of the business segment going strategy beyond 2020. Looking back at the last five years, we forward. We experienced a favorable overall development in have greatly strengthened our offering, adding a broad range of Security Services Ibero-America and continued strong growth in protective services, and we now have a significant electronic our AMEA (Africa, the Middle East and Asia) division. security and solutions capability. Looking forward to the next Earnings per share improved by 12 percent, after adjustments phase, our plan is to emphasize client centricity, how to continufor changes in exchange rates, items affecting comparability and ously strengthen our core guarding services, and how we can the impact of the US tax reform. lead the industry through innovation and enhanced knowledge in During 2018, we continued our efforts and investments to a more data-driven, intelligent security future. We are also strengthen our protective services offering. We completed sevemphasizing our purpose as a company and involved thousands eral important electronic security acquisitions in the US, France, of employees around the world to create engagement. We play the Netherlands and Hong Kong, and are happy to welcome an important role in society when it comes to providing security these teams to Securitas. Through these acquisitions, we have and safety, and this is a role that we are proud of. further strengthened our capability in electronic security across The vision for beyond 2020 is to become the leader in intellikey markets. gent security. With our outstanding people and strong protective services offering, we already have a solid presence and capability. INCREASED CLIENT FOCUS The next phase is about increasing knowledge, and we will do We have approximately 150 000 clients globally, excluding monthis by using data and smart data processing to create client itoring-only clients. 140 of these are global clients with complex value in all our protective services. To realize this ambition, and to cross-border security solutions. Our strong, loyal client base be able to scale up, we need to modernize our information sysgives us significant growth opportunities. tems and IT capabilities. With our strong presence and the large One of Securitas’ key focus areas in the short term is client quantities of data available, we are best positioned to continue to engagement. We work close to our clients and continuously lead the industry and create higher value for our clients and develop both our services and client relationships. As a trusted shareholders. security advisor, we are also specialized in the security challenges within different client segments, such as airport and port security, HEALTHY GROWTH IN 2018 retail and data centers. We experienced strong market momentum in 2018, reaching We are in a good position to leverage our global presence to organic sales growth of 6 percent (5). We achieved a sales mileoffer attractive client value propositions. We should be the stone of more than SEK 100 billion and improved profitability, number one choice for multinational companies who want to while at the same time we continued our investments in the engage with a quality provider with a global footprint. security services of tomorrow. We continue to drive our strategy of combining different protective services into security solutions for our clients. Security solutions and electronic security sales grew by 21 percent compared with 2017 and represented 20 4 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 CEO STATEMENT We envision a future where we offer better security and safety to our clients through a combination of our outstanding security officers and a more innovationand data-driven approach. STRONG EMPHASIS ON ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE While we are driving these changes, it is important that we We want to be a good company. Our owners, leaders and protect and develop our Securitas DNA, with a strong emphasis employees have built and developed the business over a long on our culture and values. These are focused around working period of time, and we place a strong emphasis on conducting close to our clients, and having a flat organization and sound our operations in an ethical and compliant manner. As a signatory business principles. of the UN Global Compact, Securitas commits to its ten princiIn 2018, we took important steps and initiatives to put ples. Our core values together with our key policies, such as Securitas in an even stronger position. We have established good Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code, provide guidance for our daily momentum as a company and team, and are now accelerating business and our way of working. All employees are trained in the pace of change to lead the transformation of the global secuSecuritas’ Values and Ethics. rity services industry. There is also a client perspective. We work with large and small clients, well-known global brands and local companies. More and more of our clients are discovering the importance of working with a compliant company with strong values, and we also aim to be the supplier of choice in this area. ACCELERATING THE PACE OF CHANGE Magnus Ahlqvist Our market growth is generated by all of the outstanding people President and CEO within Securitas who are delivering quality services and continuSecuritas AB ously developing the relationships with our clients. We have a March 18, 2019 strong foundation as a company, and I see very exciting opportunities ahead when it comes to driving the development towards intelligent security. We envision a future where we offer better security and safety to our clients through higher knowledge, enabled by a more innovationand data-driven approach, which will allow us to better assess risk and to prevent crimes before they happen. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 5 CEO STATEMENT MARKET AND TRENDS A growing market The global security services market will continue to grow at a pace of approximately 5-6 percent per year in the coming years. The US will remain the largest market, but the strongest growth will be found in developing markets, and especially in China and in India. In mature markets, the best opportunity for growth will be for security providers that can offer security solutions including electronic security. M A RK E T SIZE FOR SEC U RI T Y SERV I CES 2018* 29 USD BILLION 36 USD BILLION 32 USD BILLION 19 USD BILLION 12 USD BILLION NO RT H A M E R ICA E UR OPE ASIA* L ATIN AME RICA AFRICA/ MID D L E E A ST *Outsourced guarding: includes markets where Securitas is not present. Asia excluding Japan 6 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 MARKET CEOANDSTATEMENT TRENDS F E W GLO BA L P L AY ER S In many of our markets, our main competitors are small or medium-sized local players. Our main global competitors are G4S, Allied Universal and Prosegur. EMPLOYEES SALES Securitas Securitas G4S G4S Prosegur Prosegur Allied Universal Allied Universal Source: Securitas and Freedonia Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 7 MARKET AND TRENDS Trends impacting the security industry The development of the security market is driven by global trends, and Securitas has identified five trends in particular that are currently impacting our business and the direction of our strategy. Societal Digital tensions transformation While conventional crime is actually on the Artificial intelligence and the Internet of decline in several mature markets and Things are changing the product mix and growing more slowly or declining in many offerings available within the industry. developing countries, the perception of crime remains high. This is due to a MARKET DRIVERS heightened awareness of threats and The digital transformation is bringing new crime and a rise of geopolitical and societal opportunities, particularly in the area of tensions leading to security breaches and intelligent services and predictive security. more non-conventional crimes, such as Developed regions in particular represent terrorism. long-term opportunities for growth as more end users begin to invest in elecMARKET DRIVERS tronic monitoring and integrated security The perception that crime rates and systems. The data that is captured will threats to society, including terrorism, are provide a bank of valuable information that increasing drives the demand for security can lead to more efficient and effective solutions. Authorities are increasingly outways of handling security. sourcing some services to the private security industry as they face new and SECURITAS’ RESPONSE more complex threats, particularly in times We believe that future market leadership of budget restraints. will be driven by the ability to capture, analyze and respond to rich data and are SECURITAS’ RESPONSE developing the scope of our electronic Securitas can offer support in a number of security. Securitas is at the forefront of this areas traditionally handled by the public development. Advanced analysis of this sector, for example by providing on-site data at our Securitas Operation Centers guarding to public areas and at events will also help us react faster and even prewhere a great deal of manpower is vent crimes from happening. required. We can also offer professional risk analysis and risk management services. 8 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 MARKET AND TRENDS Globalization of Urbanization Sensitive production the economy processes Globalization of the economy has enabled In the coming decade, the urban populaModern production processes are increascompanies to expand their economies of tion is expected to grow faster than the ingly multinational and sensitive to disrupscale well beyond national borders, with total world population. Cities often have tions. Among other things, they are technology making it possible to connect higher rates of both real and perceived dependent on well-functioning infrastruccomplex and interoperable security syscrime, and there tends to be more criminal ture. tems from anywhere in the world. activity in denser populations with growing socioeconomic inequalities. MARKET DRIVERS MARKET DRIVERS The increased vulnerability and cost for Economic activity and prosperity, espeMARKET DRIVERS disruptions is creating a growing demand cially in developing countries, is driving the Especially in many emerging economies, for innovative and qualitative security soluunderlying demand for security services as urbanization often entail a growing middle tions and services for, for example, manuthere are more assets to protect, and more class, which contributes to driving up the facturing industries, airports, ports, data end users with the resources to buy secudemand for private security services. The centers and public transport. rity services. increased confidence in private security providers to protect people and property SECURITAS’ RESPONSE SECURITAS’ RESPONSE also impacts the demand. Securitas possesses in-depth security Securitas is a global leader with both the knowledge from client segments such as technology know-how and the manpower SECURITAS’ RESPONSE manufacturing, logistics, public transport to meet the demands of a global economy. Securitas is currently present in 58 counand ports. We also have the expertise to We are able to provide a strong local prestries and continues to expand its presence create complex cross-border security soluence, offering the same high-quality ser– particularly in the urban areas of the tions and a strong aviation presence, provice and solutions to our 140 global clients world – to ensure close proximity to clividing advanced security services and regardless of country as well as to our ents. In 2018, we expanded our footprint solutions to airports around the world. thousands of national and local clients. both organically and through acquisitions This unmatched presence gives us a comand by the end of the year, we had over petitive edge. 1 400 branch offices in our countries of operation. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 9 VALUE CREATION Our value creation in society W H Y CH O OSE SEC U RI TA S? O U R OF F ERIN G We are an established and responsible security Securitas offers different combinations of player with a wide service offering and a strong protective services for clients of all sizes and global and local presence. industries. PEOPLE CORPORATE RISK MANAGEMENT Our most valued asset is our workforce of 370 000 employees in 58 countries around the world. We strive to have the best team in the security services industry. Our employees are guided by a common set of core values – Integrity, Vigilance and Helpfulness – related to our way of working and how we manage and operate our client relationships. FIRE AND KNOWLEDGE SAFETY With our many years of experience and knowledge, we can offer our clients a higher degree of security and more advanced security solutions as the world becomes increasingly dependent on having stable and uninterrupted operations. This is changing the role of our security officers, triggering the need to expand from only providing on-site guarding to offering a wide portfolio of protective services, including electronic security and corporate and risk management. TECHNOLOGY Significant investments in technology make it possible for us to offer value-added services to our clients, and at the same time as it renders work more efficient for our employees. This puts Securitas in a leading position for protective services. We will continue to lead the transformation of the security industry through data-driven innovation that, in line with our strategy, will also make us the leader in intelligent services from 2020 and beyond. ELECTRONIC SECURITY 10 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 VALUE CREATION HOW W E CO N T RIBU T E We provide several social, economic and environmental benefits. REMOTE GUARDING CLIENTS › Increased security with fewer business interruptions › Added value through tailored security solutions › Clients can focus on their core business SOCIETY ON-SITE › Safer cities and communities GUARDING › Fewer interruptions in critical functions › Reduced risk of violence › Reduced costs for disruptions EMPLOYEES › Safe working conditions › More qualified assignments › Higher job satisfaction SHAREHOLDERS › Enhanced shareholder value › More attractive investment › Long-term stable company MOBILE GUARDING Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 11 OUR STRATEGY Leading the transformation Securitas has experienced solid growth over the past five years and is growing faster than the security market in general. We believe that part of this success can be attributed to our strategy and view of how the industry will develop over the next 10 to 15 years. It is a development that will make us an even stronger partner in the long term. Our strategy is based on our efforts to be the leader in three Our acquisition strategy focuses predominantly on electronic areas: security services; protective services; and intelligent sersecurity companies to help us expand our offering globally. In vices. Since the 1990s, Securitas has been the global leader in 2018, we acquired a number of such companies including Autosecurity services, with a wide presence when it comes to on-site matic Alarm in France, Alphatron Security Systems in the Netherguarding. We continue to build on this strong foundation and lands and Kratos Public Safety and Security in the US. now we are well into the second phase of our strategy: to be the leader in protective services. Our goal for 2020 and beyond is to LEADER IN INTELLIGENT SERVICES complement these two phases and become the leader in intelliData-driven innovation is taking us into the next phase of our gent services through data-driven innovation. strategy, which is to be the leader in intelligent services beyond 2020. We are moving from reactive security to predictive secuLEADER IN SECURITY SERVICES rity. The foundation for predictive security comes from digitizaOn-site guarding is the foundation of our business and remains a tion, which is enabling us to gather large amounts of data from crucial part of the value we create for our clients. We are expandincident reports, camera feeds, sensors and access control. Coming our footprint organically and through acquisitions as we bining this information with data from external sources, such as believe in the power of presence when it comes to gaining a crime statistics, provides advanced analytics that can help us precompetitive edge. By offering competitive salaries, decent workdict criminal activities and stop them before they happen. We are ing conditions, training and an attractive workplace with opportuinvesting in capturing, analyzing and responding to this data, nities for learning and career development, we can attract and which will further enhance client value and increase operational retain the best people. efficiencies. Today, we have 44 Securitas Operation Centers located in key LEADER IN PROTECTIVE SERVICES markets around the world to oversee all activities and officers in The demand for electronic security solutions is growing along with the field. In total, we have close to 740 000 client connections. the demand for on-site guarding. Since 2013, we have been buildThrough highly advanced integration systems, we can act and ing up our electronic capabilities and extended our offering from respond quickly to incoming alarms and dispatch help. As we on-site guarding to a range of different protective services. These enter more data-driven security and predictive risk analyses, services comprise on-site, mobile and remote guarding, electronic these operation centers will become even more critical as the security, fire and safety solutions and corporate risk management. center of connectivity within the operations. When we combine different services into a packaged offering, we are able to offer a security solution that enhances client value and strengthens our position and profitability. In 2018, security solutions and electronic security accounted for 20 percent of our Group sales, and 80 percent was represented by on-site guarding services. Increasing our sales of security solutions and electronic security is at the core of our strategy, and we have achieved double-digit growth annually since 2013. 12 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 OUR STRATEGY W H Y IN T EL L I GEN T SEC U RI T Y A N D W H AT IS O U R IN T EL L I GEN T SEC U RI T Y V ISIO N? By generating and capturing large data sets from multiple sources and transforming this information into intelligence we will enhance existing operations and create new business opportunities through: The officer of tomorrow Technology enhances the officers’ capabilities The future of sensors Built-in intelligence to analyze complex situations Crime prediction Advanced real-time analysis The intelligent Securitas Operation Center Machine learning to automate the best response to an incident We will take the position as the global intelligent security company, leading the transformation of the security industry from low-tech to high-tech From 2020 Leader in Intelligent Services Data-driven innovation From 2015 Leader in Protective Services Integration of solutions From 1990 Leader in Security Services Guarding and security capabilities Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 13 TARGETS Targets and targets fulfillment F IN A N CI A L TA RGE TS EARNINGS PER SHARE FREE CASH FLOW TO NET DEBT IMPROVEMENT RATIO TARGET: An annual average TARGET: A free cash flow to net increase of 10 percent debt ratio of at least 0.20 Outcome 2018: Outcome 2018: 12%* 0.13 2017: 9 percent 2017: 0.19 9.17 ** 0.22 7.87 ** 8.26 0.19 7.24 7.53 0.18 6.67 5.67 0.13 0.13 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 * Real change, adjusted for items affecting comparability ** Adjusted for items affecting comparability SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y TA RGE TS 22% 1.7 SHARE OF WOMEN IN THE INJURY RATE TOTAL WORKFORCE TARGET: 5 percent annual decrease TARGET: By 2021, the share of of the Group injury rate female managers at all levels should be at least the same as the share of women in the total workforce 14 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 THE GLOBAL GOALS W E CO N T RIBU T E TO U N ’S SUS TA IN A B L E DE V ELOP MEN T GOA L S Through the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and across all sectors of society people are mobilizing efforts to end all forms of poverty, fight inequalities and tackle climate change to 2030. Securitas supports the SDGs and we take the chosen SDGs into consideration into our strategy work and in our daily operations. Through our work to improve labor conditions, promote and protect human rights and the environment across our value chain, our greatest opportunity to contribute to the SDGs lies in the following areas. Achieve gender equality and Promote sustained, inclusive and Promote peaceful and inclusive empower all women and girls. sustainable economic growth, full societies for sustainable development, Securitas is an equal opportunity and productive employment and provide access to justice for all and employer and all employees are to be decent work for all. build effective, accountable and ­treated fairly and equally. Discrimination Securitas is a large employer with operainclusive institutions at all levels. of women and discrimination based on tions in many countries around the world. Safety and stability is key in a well-funother characteristics in hiring, compen­ We strive to be a stable and responsible ctioning society. In an increasingly unpresation, training, promotion, termination or employer that offers good working condidictable world, Securitas’ role is to help retirement is never acceptable. We tions and opportunities to grow. Decent companies, infrastructure and governbelieve that diverse work groups contrilabor practices, the right to organize and ment authorities to operate the way they bute to better business and we aim to human rights are all vital to Securitas, our are intended, without interruptions. The increase the number of women in manaemployees and our clients. We work actiprotection of workplaces, public areas and gement positions at all levels in the vely with health and safety issues and our properties, carried out in a responsible ­company. security officers receive training, instrucway, plays an important part in how we tion and equipment in line with the contribute to a safer and more sustainable assignment, to minimize the health and and productive society. Securitas also has safety risks. We do not accept any form of a zero-tolerance policy against all forms child labor or forced labor. of bribery and corruption. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 15 OUR OPERATIONS The power of presence 16 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 OUR OPERATIONS Global reach, local expertise Securitas has a leading position in the security services industry with a strong local and global market presence. We currently operate in 58 countries. Our operations have been organized in a decentralized structure and include three business segments: Security Services North America, Security Services Europe and Security Services Ibero-America. We also have operations in Africa, the Middle East and Asia, which form the AMEA division. This division is reported as “Other” in our segment reporting. Securitas has both global reach and an extensive local presence nization has approximately 770 branch managers and 128 000 through its approximately 1 400 branch offices. Regardless of employees. location, Securitas can offer a broad portfolio of protective services in addition to traditional on-site guarding. These services SECURITY SERVICES IBERO-AMERICA comprise mobile guarding, remote guarding, electronic security, Security Services Ibero-America provides security services for fire and safety services and corporate risk management. Our large and medium-sized clients in nine Latin American countries security services are managed and coordinated through 44 as well as in Portugal and Spain in Europe. Security Services IbeSecuritas Operation Centers (SOC), where operators can quickly ro-America has a combined total of approximately 170 branch address our clients’ security issues. The information gathered by managers and 63 000 employees. our SOCs provides our clients with high-quality security around the clock, along with analytics, analysis and client reports. SALES PER SEGMENT EMPLOYEES PER SEGMENT SECURITY SERVICES NORTH AMERICA of Group total of Group total Security Services North America provides protective services in the US, Canada and Mexico and comprises 15 business units: the national and global accounts organization, five geographical regions and seven specialized business units in the US critical infrastructure services, healthcare, Pinkerton Corporate Risk Management, mobile, manufacturing, oil and gas and Securitas Electronic Security – plus Canada and Mexico. In total, there are approximately 720 branch managers and 122 000 employees. SECURITY SERVICES EUROPE █ Security Services █ Security Services Security Services Europe provides security services for large and North America 42% North America 33% medium-sized clients in 28 countries, and airport security in 15 █ Security Services Europe 44% █ Security Services Europe 35% countries. The service offering also includes mobile security ser█ Security Services █ Security Services vices for small and medium-sized businesses and residential Ibero-America 12% Ibero-America 17% sites, and electronic alarm surveillance services. In total, the orga█ Other (incl. AMEA) 2% █ Other (incl. AMEA) 15% SEC U RI TA S’ M A RK E TS North America Europe Ibero-America Africa, Middle East and Asia (AMEA) ›› Canada ›› Austria ›› Germany ›› Romania ›› Argentina ›› Australia ›› Singapore ›› Mexico ›› Belgium ›› Greece ›› Serbia ›› Chile ›› Cambodia ›› South Africa ›› USA ›› Bosnia and ›› Hungary ›› Slovakia ›› Colombia ›› China ›› South Korea Herzegovina ›› Ireland ›› Slovenia ›› Costa Rica ›› Egypt ›› Sri Lanka ›› Bulgaria ›› Latvia ›› Sweden ›› Ecuador ›› Hong Kong ›› Thailand ›› Croatia ›› Luxembourg ›› Switzerland ›› Panama ›› India ›› The United ›› Czech Republic ›› Montenegro ›› Turkey ›› Paraguay ›› Indonesia Arab Emirates ›› Denmark ›› The ›› The United ›› Peru ›› Jordan ›› Vietnam ›› Estonia Netherlands Kingdom ›› Portugal ›› Morocco ›› Finland ›› Norway ›› Spain ›› Saudi Arabia ›› France ›› Poland ›› Uruguay Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 17 OUR OPERATIONS N ORT H A MERI C A 2018 marked another strong performent. This program focuses on three key commitments. First, to mance in North America. Our sales our employees, a commitment to provide opportunities to growth continued to outpace the develop professionally, personally and to promote and support industry, as did our client retention. personal wellness. Secondly, to our clients, a commitment to Our emphasis on integrated guarding attract, retain and develop the best professionals in the industry solutions continues to be well and to reduce turnover. And finally, to our industry, to lead and received. We further enhanced our raise the standard for security officers. integrated guarding capabilities and We believe a continued strong financial performance is ours our electronic security footprint in the for the taking. To do so, we are increasing our emphasis on being US through the acquisition of Kratos Public Safety and Security. the most locally focused provider in our industry. This includes Our approach to risk-based solution design gives us a comour launch of a major IS/IT transformation program that will sigpetitive advantage and continues to shape the industry. Clients nificantly enhance our technology tools and processes while are also increasingly recognizing the value of our unique specialenabling more productive client engagement. Being exceptionized business units, such as healthcare, critical infrastructure and ally close to our clients helps us understand their operational mobile, as well as our newest unit: manufacturing. Collectively, needs which, in turn, enables us to build more valuable solutions these approaches offer solutions and alternatives not otherwise for them. available in the industry. We are committed to continually integrating and increasing sustainability throughout our operations. In 2018, Securitas in SANTIAGO GALAZ Divisional President the US launched the multi-phased program, Securitas CommitSecurity Services North America OPERATING TOTAL NUMBER INCOME BEFORE CAPITAL OF OPERATING SALES AMORTIZATION EMPLOYED EMPLOYEES MARGIN,% Rest of countries SECURIT Y in segment* SERVICES Mexico NORTH Canada 42% 49% 51% 33% 6.1 USA AMERICA 41 MSEK 42 366 MSEK 2 589 MSEK 16 495 122 000 * Pertains to Pinkerton Corporate Risk Management 18 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 OUR OPERATIONS EU RO P E Our focus on providing high-quality serWe are also working to reduce our carbon dioxide emissions vices has made us the leader in the by 1 000 tons from 2015 to 2020, for example by shifting from European security market, and we expefossil fuel-driven vehicles to electric vehicles for our mobile serrienced good organic growth in the vice personnel in urban areas. Going forward, we aim to create business segment in 2018. At the same closer client relationships through our Client Excellence Program time, we have not been satisfied with and by improving our capabilities when it comes to differentiating our operating margin in Europe and our competitive edge. We intend to continue to lead the market therefore launched a cost-saving prowith our combination of protective services that meet client gram during the summer that was implemented during the needs and will improve coordination between the countries in second half of 2018. We identified areas for improvement in order to further improve efficiency. about half of the countries in Security Services Europe and the savings generated will mainly take effect in 2019. Some of the savings will be re-invested in intelligent security capacity that will benefit our clients and the company in the long run. Sustainability is an important focus area for Security Services Europe and an increasingly important requirement from our clients. MAGNUS AHLQVIST Divisional President In the UK, Securitas is working closely with the Living Wage Security Services Europe Foundation to end low pay in the lowest paid service sectors. Peter Karlströmer assumed the position as Divisional Securitas UK offers a “Living Wage” option to all prospective and President, Security Services Europe on March 4, 2019. current clients in the hope that more people will see its benefits. Magnus Ahlqvist left the position in connection with this. OPERATING TOTAL NUMBER INCOME BEFORE CAPITAL OF OPERATING SALES AMORTIZATION EMPLOYED EMPLOYEES MARGIN,% SECURIT Y Rest of countries in segment Sweden Norway SERVICES 47% 35% 35% 5.6 Eastern Europe 44% Denmark E UROPE Turkey Finland Switzerland Germany Netherlands 44 Belgium France UK MSEK 45 040 MSEK 2 511 MSEK 11 417 128 000 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 19 OUR OPERATIONS IB ERO –A MERI C A In 2018, the consolidation trend in the In accordance with the strategy of selective growth based on Iberian market changed, as it increased. client segment, we continued to develop and grow in aviation, Spain continued to display favorable particularly in Argentina, Colombia and Peru. We focus on offergrowth in general and particularly ing our clients differentiated and specialized services – and on within mobile guarding services. Other being a model of change for employees in the region. We offer protective services also experienced a our employees continuous training and we implement clear busipositive trend. ness practices in less developed markets. Latin America has continued to Our ambition is to assume a proactive role in the development grow at a good pace despite the unfaof sustainability initiatives in our markets, where we also see this vorable economic situation in some countries, especially Argenas a strong competitive advantage. We promote labor inclusion tina. We have continued growing in all countries and our clients both internally and among our clients, for example by hiring value our specialization and mix of service offerings. Our secuemployees with disabilities. We are also working on activities to rity solutions and electronic security concept performed very improve the gender balance within the segment. well in all markets in the region. We have Securitas Operation Centers located in all countries in the business segment and these will be increasingly important to add value to our services. LUIS POSADAS Divisional President Security Services Ibero–America OPERATING TOTAL NUMBER INCOME BEFORE CAPITAL OF OPERATING SALES AMORTIZATION EMPLOYED EMPLOYEES MARGIN,% SECURIT Y Rest of countries in segment SERVICES 12% 10% 11% 17% 4.5 Chile IBEROArgentina Spain AMERICA Portugal 13 MSEK 12 315 MSEK 550 MSEK 3 428 63 000 20 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 OUR OPERATIONS A F RI C A , MIDD L E E A S T & A SI A 2018 was a strong year for Securitas in the markets are Indonesia, Thailand and Vietnam. We are in a strong AMEA region. We accelerated our growth position to meet our clients’ demand for compliant, productive and increased our market share by working and efficient security services in these markets and to serve our in close partnership with our key clients, at global clients. Securitas has also built technology capacity in the the same time as the overall client retenregion to be able to deliver effective solutions combining mantion rate improved. This was achieved power and technology. mainly by improved service delivery and In 2018, we initiated a project to create a framework for attractclient management. ing, developing, retaining employees and working on talent manOur recent market entry into Australia agement. As a start, we have selected a number of employees that has been well received by the local industry and clients, leading have been invited to participate in divisional projects to show their to strong growth. An acquisition in Hong Kong in the beginning capabilities under the guidance of divisional management staff. of 2018 has further strengthened our monitoring and security To become the leader in electronic security and security solusolution capabilities. tions across AMEA, we will continue to digitize our client experiThe AMEA region is the largest guarding services market in ence and guard force management, increase our capabilities in the world and a large part of the global growth over the coming electronic security and start utilizing the collected data to pro­ five years is expected to come from the countries within the actively improve our service delivery. region, with China and India leading the way. Other emerging ANDREAS LINDBACK Divisional President Africa, Middle East and Asia (AMEA) The AMEA division is included under Other in our segment reporting. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 21 OUR OPERATIONS Facing a new reality 22 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 OUR OPERATIONS Solving today’s and tomorrow’s security challenges The security needs of our clients are evolving, and we are facing a new reality that requires a holistic approach to security. With sensors, analytics and the knowledge of experienced employees on site, we can mitigate risks before they become threats, act in real time when needed, and provide our clients with added value and peace of mind. A combination of people, knowledge and technology is required in order to solve today’s industry challenges and those of the future. People Knowledge Technology Everything we do starts with people. Our holistic approach to providing secuSecuritas is partnering with well-known People will always be at the center of the rity through a combination of protective global companies to develop innovative security delivery. Our experienced services and the best-trained people in products that will take the company into employees are committed to providing the industry will keep people and busithe next phase of its strategy – to be the and strengthening security in accordance nesses safe. Our access to a wealth of number one intelligent security company with client needs. Unity and collaboration in-depth knowledge and experience on a beyond 2020. Providing our clients with are key to ensuring that we think globally global level is enabling us to lead the the right technology, in combination with and act locally. transformation of the security industry our people and their knowledge, makes towards more intelligent security. As we security more effective and cost efficient. move further into digitization, we can provide our clients with superior analytics, risk assessments and solutions for predictive security. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 23 OUR OPERATIONS 24 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 OUR OPERATIONS Our security officers matter most We believe that future market leadership is about having the strongest presence in the market combined with the ability to capture, analyze and respond to rich data. While technology is becoming increasingly important in the security industry, we also fully recognize the value of our security officers and their collective competence. They are the foundation of Securitas’ operations. They remain our most valuable asset, and they also provide us with strength through their sheer numbers – 340 000 employees, located in 58 countries around the world. FAIR WAGES AND WORK ENVIRONMENT INCLUSION AND NON-DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES Securitas aims to be the employer of choice in an industry where Securitas is firmly committed to non-discriminatory practices and employee turnover is high in some countries. We want to attract equal opportunity for everyone. One of our challenges is to and retain people who share our values and can provide the best increase gender diversity in a male-dominated industry. This is a client service in the market. By offering fair wages and ensuring a growing priority for both Securitas and our stakeholders and we good work environment, we can attract the best and most are working to achieve a better balance. engaged talent in the industry. For more than a decade, Securitas in Latin America has been It is important for us to offer fair wages wherever we operate working on inclusion by employing people with disabilities. In in the world in order to have the highest caliber of staff. In the Colombia, we carry out our inclusive employment initiatives in UK, for example, Securitas works closely with the Living Wage alliance with the Arcángeles Foundation, dedicated to improving Foundation to end low pay in the lowest paid service sectors. the rights of people with disabilities. Other operations in the Securitas UK offers a “Living Wage” option to all prospective and Security Services Ibero-America division have joined this initiacurrent clients in the hope that more people will appreciate the tive as well. In 2018, the division had 249 disabled employees. benefits. We also prioritize good working conditions in our many OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY diverse markets and are involved in discussions with clients, Securitas makes extensive efforts to ensure the health and safety unions and industry associations, for example the National Assoof its security officers. Our security officers are trained not only to ciation of Security Companies (NASCO) in the US. These are all protect themselves, but also to help others while on assignment, important stakeholders for improving workers’ conditions across for example by performing first aid and CPR as well as and ensurmarkets. ing fire safety. Health and safety aspects can vary depending on It is equally important that we ensure good working conditions the assignment, and client sites are therefore assessed from a for our employees when they are on assignments at client sites. health and safety perspective. Security officers receive training, Prior to accepting a contract, we evaluate the working conditions instruction and equipment in line with the assignment. In many at the client site to ensure decent practices and a healthy working countries, the security officers are trained at least annually, and environment. If we see that conditions are inadequate, or we often even quarterly. cannot come to a mutual agreement on how to improve, we will We work actively with occupational health and safety issues in not accept the assignment. all countries, for example through formal health and safety committees that meet regularly. 19 countries of operation have WORKING TOGETHER received OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001 certification. An important Dialog with unions is crucial for strong employee relations. part of our risk assessment revolves around safety issues. Most Securitas has entered into a global framework agreement with of our operations have a “near-miss” reporting system, which UNI Global Union and the Swedish Transport Workers’ Associahelps us identify and scope out safety hazards. Our learnings tion. UNI represents more than 20 million workers from over 900 from our approach have also become part of the services we trade unions in skills and services sectors, including security seroffer our clients. vices. We also have a framework agreement with the European Workers’ Council (EWC) in our European division. In countries where Securitas does not have collective bargaining agreements or union representation, we encourage other ways of maintaining open dialog with our employees, including workplace meetings, employee ombudsmen, call centers, and channels for reporting concerns, such as the Securitas Integrity Line. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 25 OUR OPERATIONS 26 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 OUR OPERATIONS Investing in knowledge Our clients are demanding a higher degree of security and more advanced security solutions as the world becomes increasingly dependent on stable and uninterrupted operations. This is changing the role of our security officers, triggering the need to expand from strictly providing on-site guarding to offering a wide portfolio of protective services, including electronic security and corporate risk management. As the variety of tasks increases, we need to ensure that employINTELLIGENT SECURITY ees have the necessary competence to continue providing our Our transition to protective services has required another layer to clients with high-quality security services based on deep knowlthe knowledge needed today and as we move ahead with our edge. Investing in knowledge, which is an important part of our strategy towards intelligent security in 2020 and beyond, we strategy, will help us deliver to our clients. At the same time, need to invest in further knowledge. improving the knowledge and skills of employees will contribute Our ambition is to use both historical and real-time data gento their own professional growth and understanding of the secuerated by our security officers when they are out in the field and rity profession – and encourage employee retention. by equipment at client sites, such as cameras and sensors, to improve our fact-based risk analysis. Although we are at the TRAINING CENTERS beginning of our intelligent technology journey, client demand for Securitas has its own training centers in most countries where it our risk analysis competence is growing – and with every risk operates. A number of different courses and programs are availanalysis we perform, we increase our knowledge. able, and training is conducted in classrooms or through e-learnContinuing to invest in our security officers through knowling, to reach as many employees as possible. All employees, edge will help Securitas maintain its competitive edge. including security officers, managers and office staff, undergo basic introduction training. Most security officers also receive EXPERIENCE SECURITY training in fire safety and life support. We have experience centers in several places around the world. We offer specialized training to employees working in specific They offer a way for us to share our knowledge about security client segments in order to increase the level of professionalism and solutions with our clients, employees and other stakeholders. within the industry. Today, for example, we have teams around The centers illustrate, for example, realistic scenarios in order to the world that are dedicated to aviation security. We aim to demonstrate how our solutions work. Visitors can test the equipincrease our specialization training to gain a better understanding ment and solutions themselves, for example how biometrics are of our different client segments. Such know-how will help us used in security applications or how technology such as thermal deliver improved and more targeted client solutions. imaging is being used to predict incidents and stop criminals in Further opportunities to grow and learn are provided through their tracks. the Melker Schörling Scholarship, which was established in 1992 to offer employees an opportunity to develop professional knowledge and international experience in a country where Securitas operates. Each year, the scholarship is awarded to three or four employees who consistently make a difference for Securitas’ clients by acting as “everyday heroes” in their work, for example by preventing losses, damage or harm while on assignment. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 27 OUR OPERATIONS 28 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 OUR OPERATIONS Innovate to stay ahead Securitas is working with global partners to develop innovative products such as augmented reality patrol systems and virtual reality fire training systems. Investments in technology make it possible for us to offer value-added services to our clients, putting Securitas in a leading position for protective services. We will continue to lead the technology transformation of the security industry through data-driven innovation that, in line with our strategy, will also make us the leader in intelligent services from 2020 and beyond. CRIME PREDICTION TECHNOLOGY AND OUR PEOPLE The enormous amounts of data that Securitas generates and Technological solutions are growing, but the need for people and captures from multiple sources can be leveraged to help us gain knowledge is not going to diminish. The security officers of insights and advance from being reactive to working proactively. tomorrow will be equipped with sensors that capture data and This will help us deliver better security to our clients through enhance their guarding capabilities. Officers will also be concrime prediction and prevention, generating new business oppornected to each other, to technology installed at client sites, and to tunities. The data we gather can also enhance efficiency within the SOCs in real time so they can be guided to the most suitable our own operations. response in a scenario. The presence and strength of our more than 340 000 security officers will remain a unique differentiator SECURITAS OPERATION CENTERS for Securitas. Our 44 Securitas Operation Centers (SOC) are the center of connectivity within our operations, handling more than one million PROTECTING INFORMATION actions per month. Buildings, cars, objects and people are As we invest in increasingly sophisticated electronic security remotely monitored from the SOCs. We also offer active video solutions, there is an added responsibility to ensure trust in the monitoring services where we verify and follow up alerts from technology and deploy it properly. It is vital that we protect data smart cameras and other remote sensors, and immediately that we process on behalf of our clients or that we process respond to unusual activity based on real-time data and human regarding our employees or other stakeholders. Any such data behavior. that constitutes personal data is only processed in accordance with applicable local law, having the individuals’ privacy rights in SENSORS mind. Much of the technology that we foresee is still emerging, but it is developing quickly. The remote security solutions of the future Securitas has policies, processes and training to protect all kinds will be able to do more than simply record and detect incidents. of data, including personal data. These were developed in accorThey will also analyze, draw conclusions and suggest appropriate dance with the European General Data Protection Regulation actions. Wearables, smart cameras with built-in intelligence, (GDPR), which is applicable from May 25, 2018, and according to drones and sensors can help provide a more detailed picture of local laws and regulations. complex situations and enable the trained employees at our SOCs to evaluate a situation and respond in the best way. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 29 OUR OPERATIONS We have strong core values Our core values are at the heart of our approach. Training on procedures and policies, such as the Securitas Values and Ethics Code, helps us uphold these values and guide employees in their daily work. Securitas strives to have the best team in the security services role in defining and establishing a framework for high ethical and industry. This team is guided by a common set of core values professional standards in the private security industry. Securitas related to our way of working and how we manage and operate has also been a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact our client relationships – Integrity, Vigilance and Helpfulness. We since 2015. Our emphasis on employee safety and fair labor have a flat, non-hierarchal organization that fosters an environpractices and wages also helps ensure that we are meeting the ment of openness, accessibility and empowerment. sustainability requirements of our clients. CLIENT RELATIONS ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES Client focus and engagement are crucial in order to gain trust in We conduct our business within the framework of the laws and our offering, our brand and the way we work. Despite our large regulations of the countries where we operate, and in accordance global presence, clients can expect a similar way of working, with international conventions such as the United Nations Univerapproach and company culture anywhere in the world. Having sal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO’s Declaration on Fundain-depth knowledge and understanding of our clients’ needs and mental Principles and Rights at Work and the OECD’s Guidelines their industry-specific challenges helps us provide clients with for Multinational Enterprises. Our core values form the foundation optimal and cost-effective security solutions. Our 91-percent for the entire company when it comes to our high ethical stanclient retention rate proves that client satisfaction is high. dards and responsibilities, and Securitas’ Toolbox management Securitas is a member of local and international industry orgamodel conveys our corporate culture. nizations, such as the International Security Ligue, that play a vital All employees and business partners must comply with Securitas’ Value and Ethics Code and other key policies, which 30 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 OUR OPERATIONS set the minimum requirements to ensure compliance with appliSustainability is well integrated into our operations, which we cable local and extraterritorial laws. We have zero tolerance for all believe will help secure long-term and profitable growth, espeforms of bribery and corruption, and relevant managers and cially as we see an increasing emphasis on ethics and compliance administrative staff are required to complete a detailed e-learning among our clients. At the same time, we are aware of certain course on our anti-corruption policy. All of our employees are risks that can affect our long-term growth. These include restrictrained in Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code. We also have traintions on private security companies operating in a certain market, ing requirements for other key policies. increased insourcing of security services and diminished confiSecuritas encourages all employees to report incidents of dence in private security companies. non-compliance with Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code or any irregularities that they encounter in their work. This can be done through various channels, for example the Group’s Securitas Integrity Line reporting system, which is publicly available at www.securitasintegrity.com. LONG-TERM PROFITABLE GROWTH Our culture is based on values, ownership and long-term achievement, and we share a great sense of responsibility towards our clients and a commitment to delivering high-quality services. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 31 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | SECURITAS’ RESPONSIBILITIES Corporate COMP L I A N CE W I T H governance T H E S W ED ISH CORP OR AT E GOV ERN A N CE CODE report ( T H E CODE ) The corporate governance report, which has been prepared in accordance with Chapter 6, Section 6 and 8 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, provides key information concerning compliance with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the Code), shareholders, the Annual General Meeting, Nomination Committee, Board of Directors and their work, including committees, remuneration and the division of responsibilities throughout the governance structure. This section also covers Securitas’ system of internal control and risk management, which is the responsibility of the Board of Directors according to the Swedish Companies Act and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. This description does not form part of the Annual Report. In the Internal control section pertaining to risk, we have opted to widen the scope of our description and explain how enterprise risk management works in the broader perspective regardless of the type of risk, which means that our focus is not confined to risk related to internal controls over financial reporting. Fulfilling our strategies and objectives while maintaining an appropriate risk level is imperative, which is why risk management procedures span all levels of the organization. Read more at www.securitas.com / corporate-governance Corporate Governance and Management 32–52 Securitas has published its principles for corporate governance in previous annual reports. A separate section on the Group website Compliance with the Code 32 contains the Articles of Association and other key company Comments by the Chairman 33 documents. Securitas governance model 34 Shareholders 35 Securitas complies with the Code principle of “comply or explain” and Annual General Meeting 35 has two deviations to explain for 2018. Nomination Committee 36 Code rule 2.4 Neither the company chair nor any other member of the Board of Directors 37 Board may chair the Nomination Committee. Audit Committee 38 Comment: Investment AB Latour has appointed Carl Douglas as ChairRemuneration Committee 38 man of the Nomination Committee. The Committee considers it important to have a representative from the major shareholders as Auditors 39 Chairman of the Committee. Facts on Board of Directors 39–41 Code Rule 9.7 For share-based incentive programs, the vesting period, Facts on Group Management 42–43 or the period from the commencement of an agreement to the date on Enterprise risk management (ERM) which the shares are acquired, is to be no less than three years. and internal control 44-51 Comment: Securitas’ share-based incentive scheme was implemented Signatures of the Board of Directors 52 in 2010 and has been renewed annually since then. It was based on the Auditor’s report on then-existing bonus structure of the Securitas Group. In simple terms, Corporate Governance Statement 52 the bonus potential was increased in exchange for a one-time salary freeze and one-third of the cash bonus outcome was to be received in shares in March of the year following the year in which the cash bonus would have been paid out, provided that the person remained employed by Securitas at such time. Since the program replaces an immediate cash bonus payout and is not granted in addition to already existing bonus rights, the Board deems that the two-year period from the commencement of the program until the release of the shares is well motivated and reasonable in order to achieve the purpose of the program. 32 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 GOVERNANCE AND M ANAGEMEN T Introduction COMMEN TS BY T H E CH A IRM A N Securitas plays an important role in ensuring the security and safety of the society at large. Securitas is now in the middle of the journey to transform the internal control and risk management. In addition to formal Board global security industry and to become the leader in protective meetings and committee work, the Board is committed and services. We have been a leading security services company for engaged in Securitas’ operations through site visits and continumany years, with a strong position in the guarding business. This ous interaction with our President and CEO Magnus Ahlqvist and has created a stable platform for future growth and continued Group management. We continuously evaluate the Board’s comvalue creation – a platform based on a long-term strategic focus, position and combined expertise and in recent years we have stable ownership, strong management, loyal clients and a clear reinforced our know-how in important areas. Bringing new comfoundation in the form of our core values. We are also a sustainpetence to the table has been beneficial in our strategic planning able supplier to our clients and play an important role in ensuring for the future development of Securitas. the security and safety of society at large. In addition to being well on our way to becoming the leader in The Board of Directors supports this strategic journey by protective services, a few years ago we also began focusing on working for Securitas’ long-term development in the best interthe next step in our strategic plan – to become the leader in intelests of all our stakeholders. Together with Securitas’ manageligent security in 2020 and beyond, building on our strong founment, we make overall decisions on how Securitas’ assets are to dation in delivering security services. be used for investments, acquisitions and dividends. All our deciOn behalf of the Board of Directors, I would like to express our sions are well founded and thoroughly discussed to ensure that appreciation to all Securitas employees for their commitment and we are moving in a direction that is in line with our strategy, good work during 2018. Special thanks to Magnus Ahlqvist for always taking a long-term perspective into consideration and prohis first successful year as President and CEO. moting responsible and sustainable business. Currently, the focus is on further strengthening our technology capability, consolidatStockholm, March 18, 2019 ing the IT infrastructure, providing innovative client solutions and adding additional competencies within big data, digitization and artificial intelligence to support the strategy going forward. Sound corporate governance is a prerequisite to achieve this. Marie Ehrling To facilitate this purposeful work, we have comprehensive sysChairman of the Board tems, routines and procedures in place for monitoring targets, Securitas AB Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 33 GOVERNANCE AND M ANAGEMEN T Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control Solid system for governance and management Securitas’ structure for governance serves to protect the long-term interests of our stakeholders, ensure value creation and encourage an entrepreneurial corporate culture. A sound corporate governance model also creates the foundation for responsible and sustainable business. Securitas has a decentralized organizational model that promotes employees. All Securitas employees are expected to assume entrepreneurship and focuses on the approximately 1 700 branch responsibility for the clients and operations and for our shared managers who run the company’s daily operations in 58 countries. values. Responsibility is clarified through the measurement and The company’s offerings improve when decisions are made in systematic evaluation of results. close proximity to clients and the employees who perform the As part of our decentralized management approach, we are services. Local decisions are therefore encouraged but require a required to set and follow up on strict financial targets by continusolid governance and management system. To facilitate this work, ously measuring and monitoring the Group’s performance. FinanSecuritas has systems, routines and procedures in place for monicial control is not simply about implementing controls, it also functoring targets, internal control and risk management. tions as an incentive for those employees who are in a position to As a global company, Securitas operates in many different marpersonally influence Securitas’ financial results. kets where laws, regulations, environmental requirements and social conditions may differ. Therefore, it is vital that we always act THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK AND MODEL continuously transparently and ethically. Sustainability is well integrated into measure the Group’s performance, from the branch offices Securitas’ everyday work. Securitas’ sustainability work is based through to Group level. The aim of the Group’s financial reporting on our fundamental values – Integrity, Vigilance and Helpfulness – is to produce the most timely and accurate information possible to and guided by our key corporate policies and principles, such as enable managers and employees to make the decisions necessary Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code. for achieving profitable growth in line with Securitas’ strategies, and to control risks to ensure that the company’s objectives are SECURITAS VALUES ARE STRONGLY LINKED to its manageachieved. Financial reporting also forms the basis for sound interment model – The Securitas Toolbox. A key function of the Toolnal control. The financial model makes it possible to monitor a box is to convey our corporate culture and create a shared platnumber of key figures that can be understood by all managers. form through our values. Securitas’ Toolbox management model Each branch has its own statement of income, for which it is fully has a methodical structure that includes several well-defined responsible. It also helps managers to understand the connection areas or “tools” that serve as a framework at all levels, and is mainbetween risks and opportunities, and how various factors impact tained through continuous training and discussion forums. The their areas of responsibility as well as how we can monitor and different areas of the model describe how Securitas’ managers are control these factors. It visualizes the direct link between income to conduct themselves in various aspects and stages of the comand expenses in the statement of income, capital employed in the pany’s operations. The model also describes the approach we are balance sheet and the generation of free cash flow. Refer to pages expected to take with regard to the market, our clients and 54-55 for more information. 34 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 GOVERNANCE AND M ANAGEMEN T Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control SHAREHOLDERS A NOMINATION COMMITTEE C ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING B AUDITORS K F D E REMUNERATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AUDIT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE I G H PRESIDENT AND CEO AND MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONAL COMMITTEES GROUP MANAGEMENT ASSURANCE J DIVISIONAL MANAGEMENT AND LOCAL MANAGEMENT S SHAREHOLDERS ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING A Securitas is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm in the Large Cap segment since 1991. The shareholders influB All shareholders are able to exercise their influence at the Annual General Meeting, which is the company’s ence the overall direction of the company at the top highest decision-making body. The Annual General of the governance structure. Strong principal shareholders provide Meeting decides on changes to the Articles of Association. The considerable attention and interest in our business and establish Articles of Association contain no limitation on the number of commitment to the success of the business. votes that each shareholder may exercise at a shareholders’ meetOn December 31, 2018, the principal shareholders in Securitas ing. Each shareholder may thus vote for all shares held at the were Gustaf Douglas who, through his family and Investment AB shareholders’ meeting. Latour Group, held 10.9 percent (10.9) of the capital and 29.6 The Annual General Meeting of Securitas AB was held on May percent (29.6) of the votes, and Melker Schörling who, through 2, 2018, and the minutes are available on www.securitas.com, his family and Melker Schörling AB, held 4.5 percent (5.4) of the where all resolutions passed can be found. One of the resolutions capital and 11.0 percent (11.6) of the votes. For more detailed passed in 2018 was the authorization for the Board to resolve information about shareholders, see the table on page 163. upon acquisition of the company’s own shares. Shareholders representing 66.8 percent (63.5) of the votes attended either perNUMBER OF SHAREHOLDERS 2014–2018 sonally or by proxy. For information about election and remuneraYear No. of shareholders tion of Board members, see the Board of Directors section (D). 2014 24 274 ATTENDANCE 2014–2018 2015 25 734 % of voting rights 2016 31 221 66.8 61.9 61.9 63.5 58.7 2017 33 913 2018 32 197 14 15 16 17 18 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 35 GOVERNANCE AND M ANAGEMEN T Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control THE WORK OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING Q4 MEETING1 Business update Q4 and full-year report Strategy Update from Audit Committee DEC JAN Audit report Q3 MEETING 1 V F Remuneration Q3 interim report N O EB AGM preparation Update from Audit Committee Dividend Business Plan 2019 MA OCT Securitas Intelligent Services Q4 Q1 MEETING2 RCH Change of President and CEO MEETING Operational visit and presentations T Q3 Q2 APRI MEETING2 SEP L Annual Report Q2 MEETING1 Q2 interim report G M MEETING2 Remuneration guidelines U Update from Audit Committee AY Strategy and aquisitions A Share bonus scheme proposal E Investor update 2018 JULY JUN Notice convening the AGM 2018 Approval of new Group policy Proposal regarding acquisition of own shares MEETING Q1 MEETING1 Strategy Q1 interim report Update from Audit Committee Approval of Group Policies Strategy 1 In addition to the topics listed, other areas are discussed continuously, such as operational perforSTATUTORY MEETING mance, updates from divisions, strategy, market and competition, acquisitions, insurance, credit Appointment of committee members risk, tax matters, legal matters and funding. Authorization to sign for the ­company 2 Held per capsulam. Work procedures (Board, Audit and Remuneration Committees) NOMINATION COMMITTEE changed. The 2018 Annual General Meeting resolved that the C The Nomination Committee is a body established by the Annual General Meeting with the task of preparNomination Committee shall be composed of representatives of the five largest shareholders in terms of voting rights registered in ing motions regarding the election of Board memthe shareholders’ register as of August 31 in the year prior to the bers, the Chairman of the Board and remuneration to Board memAnnual General Meeting. Refer to the AGM minutes for more bers and Board committees. information on the procedure for replacing members of the NomiAs a basis for its motions, the Nomination Committee takes into nation Committee who leave before its work is concluded or due account the complete outcome of the evaluation of the Board and to changes in the shareholder structure. The Chairman of the its work as well as the competence needed in the future. The NomiBoard, Marie Ehrling, shall convene the first meeting of the Nomination Committee applies rule 4.1 of the Swedish Corporate Governation Committee and shall also be co-opted to the Nomination nance Code as its diversity policy and the committee has endeavCommittee. Based on these principles, the Nomination Commitored to establish a Board composition with an equal gender distritee consists of the following members. bution, characterized by diversity and breadth regarding the NOMINATION COMMITTEE PRIOR TO 2019 AGM qualifications, experience and background of the Board members. The 2018 Annual General Meeting resolved to appoint Board Shares of votes as of August 31, members in accordance with the Nomination Committee’s proposal. Elected member 2018 At the moment, the Board of Directors consists of three Carl Douglas, Investment AB Latour, Chairman 29.58% women and five men, meaning that the percentage of women on Mikael Ekdahl, Melker Schörling AB 10.99% the Board is 37.5 percent, which is in line with the target level stipulated by the Swedish Corporate Governance Board. It is the Maria Nordqvist, Lannebo Fonder 2.60% ambition of the Nomination Committee to continue working to Johan Sidenmark, AMF Försäkring och Fonder 2.52% create an equal gender distribution on the Board. The Committee Jan Andersson, Swedbank Robur Fonder 1.85% has adopted working instructions that govern its work. Share of votes not represented in the ­Nomination Committee 52.46% Before each Annual General Meeting, during which the election of auditors takes place, the Nomination Committee also prepares The Nomination Committee is to hold meetings as often as necmotions regarding the election of auditors and decisions about essary to fulfill its duties. However, the Nomination Committee is fees to auditors and other related matters, in consultation with the to hold at least one meeting annually. The previously elected Board of Directors and the Audit Committee. Nomination Committee held two meetings prior to the 2018 At the 2018 Annual General Meeting, it was decided that the Annual General Meeting. The current Nomination Committee held principles for appointing the Nomination Committee would be one meeting during 2018. 36 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 GOVERNANCE AND M ANAGEMEN T Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control BOARD OF DIRECTORS authority, which is further described in the enterprise risk manageD According to the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors should have between five and ten Board ment and internal control report, beginning on page 44. The Board has formed an Audit Committee (see section E) and a Remuneramembers elected by the Annual General Meeting, tion Committee (see section F). with no more than two Deputy Directors. The Directors and Deputy Directors are elected by the Annual General Meeting for The work of the Board of Directors the period up to and including the first Annual General Meeting to The activities of the Board of Directors and the division of be held in the year after the Director or Deputy Director was responsibility between the Board and Group Management are elected. Securitas’ Board of Directors has eight members elected governed by formal procedures documented in a written instrucby the Annual General Meeting, three employee representatives tion, which is adopted by the Board each year after the Annual and one deputy employee representative. General Meeting. According to these procedures, the Board The Annual General Meeting re-elected Marie Ehrling as should determine, among other things, the Group’s overall stratChairman of the Board and Carl Douglas as Vice Chairman. For egy, corporate acquisitions and property investments above a further information about the members of the Board of Directors certain level, and establish a framework for the Group’s operaincluding remuneration, see pages 39-41. tions through the Group’s business plan. The Board also plays an important role in the ongoing process of identifying and evaluatResponsibilities of the Board of Directors ing significant risks faced by the Group. The Board of Directors is responsible for the organization and The procedures include a work instruction for the President administration of the company and the Group in accordance with and CEO, as well as instructions for financial reporting. The prothe Swedish Companies Act and also appoints the President and cedures also prescribe that an annual evaluation of the work of CEO, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee. the Board of Directors should be carried out. On a yearly basis, all In addition, the Board of Directors determines the President Board members submit their answers to a questionnaire issued and CEO’s salary and other remuneration. The Board meets a miniby the Nomination Committee about the quality of the work in mum of six times annually. the Board. Based on this report, an evaluation is made in the The Board of Directors of Securitas AB has approved a number Board and in the Nomination Committee. of policies that apply to governance. Examples of such policies are The Board held eleven meetings in 2018, of which three were found on page 49. held per capsulam. The auditors participated in the Board meetThe Board ensures the quality of financial reporting through ing that was held in conjunction with the yearly closing of the Group policies, procedures and frameworks, clear structures with books, in February 2018, where they presented the audit. defined responsibilities and through documented delegation of THE WORK OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Q3 MEETING Q4 MEETING Q3 interim report DEC JAN Q4 interim report and full-year report Updates1 F Updates1 V Impairment test N O EB Corporate governance report Corporate governance report Yearly summary of employee Internal audit function assessment benefits (pensions) MA External auditor early warning OCT External auditor report Q4 Q1 and internal control report RCH Internal (MA) Q4 2017 audit activities Internal (MA) Q3 2018 audit activities T Q3 Q2 APRI Q2 MEETING SEP L Q1 MEETING Q2 interim report Q1 interim report Updates1 Updates1 G M External auditor half-year report U External auditor audit plan A AY Internal (MA) Q2 2018 audit activities Internal (MA) Q1 2018 audit activities E JULY JUN Internal (MA) audit plan 2018 1 Topics based on a set rolling agenda format with updates on accounting, treasury, acquisitions, risk / insurance, legal, tax, internal control, sustainability, enterprise risk management, follow-up of on site visits, audit / consultancy costs and auditor independence. (MA) Management Assurance Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 37 GOVERNANCE AND M ANAGEMEN T Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control AUDIT COMMITTEE members of Group Management. The cost of the ­company for E The Board of Directors has established and appointed an Audit Committee, which operates 2018 in terms of its obligations to pay variable remuneration to the Group Management is established to not exceed a total of under the instructions for the Audit Committee and MSEK 84 at maximum outcome. The complete guidelines for meets with Securitas’ auditors at least four times per year. The remuneration can be found on www.securitas.com. Committee supports the Board’s quality-control work in terms of Additional information on remuneration to the Board of Directors financial reports, and its internal control over financial reporting. and Group Management, including the outcome, is disclosed in Specifically, the Committee monitors the financial reporting, the the Notes and comments to the consolidated financial statements effectiveness of internal control, internal audit activities and the risk 2018. See note 9 on pages 94-97. management system. The Committee also stays informed about annual statutory audits. It assesses the external auditor’s indepenPRESIDENT AND CEO AND dence and receives information of, and approves the performance of, significant non-audit services. G GROUP MANAGEMENT The President and CEO and Group Management are The Committee presents its findings and proposals to the charged with overall responsibility for conducting the Board, prior to the Board’s decision. The Committee met four business of the Securitas Group in line with the strategy and longtimes during 2018. The major topics discussed are listed on the term goals adopted by the Board of Directors of Securitas AB. The previous page. primary tool used by President and CEO and Group Management to measure the execution of strategies and to guide the employREMUNERATION COMMITTEE ees and organization toward achieving its objectives is the finanF The Board has formed a Remuneration Committee to prepare decisions related to salaries, bonuses, cial framework and the financial model. In 2018, Group Management comprised the President and CEO share-based incentive schemes and other forms of and 10 executives with representatives from the divisions. For furcompensation for Group Management, as well as other managether information on Group Management, see pages 42-43. ment levels if the Board of Directors so decides. The Committee presents its proposals to the Board, for the Board’s decision. The MANAGEMENT ASSURANCE Committee held two meetings during 2018. H The Management Assurance staff function operates as the Group’s internal audit function and reports to A share-based incentive scheme was adopted at the Annual Genthe Senior Vice President Finance with an open line eral Meeting 2018, enabling the Group to gradually have approxiof communication to the Audit Committee. mately 2 500 of Securitas’ top managers as shareholders. The This function prepares an annual plan for its work, which is scheme strengthens employee commitment to Securitas’ future approved by the Audit Committee. The results of the function’s work, success and development for the benefit of all shareholders. In which includes the execution and coordination of internal audit principal, the adopted incentive scheme entails that one-third of any related activities during the year, are presented at the Audit Commitannual bonus, earned under the performance-based cash bonus tee meetings. The Management Assurance Director participated in all schemes, is converted into a right to receive shares, with delayed Audit Committee meetings during 2018. allotment and subject to continued employment in Securitas. The For more information on the current responsibilities of the Manscope and content of the incentive scheme is unchanged compared agement Assurance function, refer to www.securitas.com. to the share–based incentive scheme that was adopted at the Annual General Meetings in 2010 and forward. FUNCTIONAL COMMITTEES For more information on the actual outcome of the share-based incentive scheme in 2018, see note 12 on page 102. I The Group has established a number of functional committees and work groups, including the functions for Finance / Tax and Assurance, Corporate The guidelines for remuneration to senior management that Finance / Treasury and Legal / Risk and Insurance. These committees were adopted at the Annual General Meeting 2018 primarily include the CFO, Senior Vice President Finance, Senior Vice Presientailed that remuneration to senior management and their terms dent General Counsel and the appropriate functional area experts. of employment should be competitive and comply with market The main purpose of these functional committees is to determine conditions, to ensure that Securitas is able to attract and keep appropriate policies, communicate the policies and ensure local competent senior management employees. The total remuneraunderstanding (including training) of the policies, as well as monition to Group Management should consist of a fixed basic salary, toring key issues within each area of responsibility. Quarterly meetvariable remuneration, pensions and other benefits. ings are held with the President and CEO, at which topics that will Thus, in addition to a fixed annual salary, Group Management be reported to the Audit Committee are discussed. may also receive variable remuneration, which shall be based on the outcome in relation to financial goals within the individual area DIVISIONAL AND LOCAL MANAGEMENT of responsibility (Group or division) and which shall be aligned with the interest of the shareholders. J Securitas’ philosophy is to work in a decentralized environment where local management is primarily The variable remuneration should amount to a maximum of 60 responsible for monitoring and ensuring compliance percent of the fixed annual salary for the President and CEO, and a by local units with the Group Policies, including any division-spemaximum of 42 to 200 percent of the fixed annual salary for other cific policies and guidelines. Local management is responsible for 38 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 GOVERNANCE AND M ANAGEMEN T Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control the establishment and ­continued operations of a system of proceAUDITOR IN CHARGE dures and controls that ensures the reliability of the company’s Patrik Adolfson, born 1973, Authorized Public Accountant, management and financial reporting information in the most ecoAuditor in charge, Pricewaterhouse-Coopers AB. Patrik Adolfson nomical and efficient manner possible. This includes ensuring a has been auditor in charge of Securitas AB since 2015. Other minimum of basic and super­visory controls in order to mitigate relaudit assignments: AcadeMedia AB (publ), Attendo AB (publ), evant risks. Local ­management reports to Group Management Nordstjernan Investment AB, Pandox AB (publ) and Bonava AB through divisional management on operational matters and local (publ). Member of Far. controllers report through divisional controllers on financial reporting matters. AUDITORS K The Annual General Meeting 2018 elected Price­ waterhouseCoopers AB (PwC) as the Group’s audit firm, with authorized public accountant Patrik Adolfson as auditor in charge, for a period of one year. The auditors’ work is based on an audit plan, which is agreed upon in consultation with the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. The auditors participate in all meetings of the Audit Committee and present their findings from the annual audit at the Board meeting held in February. In addition, the auditors should inform the Audit Committee on an annual basis of any services Auditor Patrik Adolfson rendered, other than audit assignments, and any auditing fees received for such services or other circumstances that might affect the evaluation of the auditors’ independence. The auditors should also participate in the Annual General Meeting to present the audit report and its conclusions. The audit is performed in compliance with the Swedish Companies Act, generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden and International Standards on Auditing (ISA). For audit fees and reimbursement to auditors, see note 11 and 45 on page 101 and 134. COMP OSI T IO N OF T H E BOA RD A N D AT T EN DA N CE IN 2018 Position Attendance Board Audit Remuneration Independent Independent Board Board of Audit Remuneration meetings Committee Committee Total fee1, to company to sharemember Directors Committee Committee (11) meetings (4) meetings (2) SEK (8) holders (6) Marie Ehrling Chairman – Chairman 11 – 2 2 100 000 Yes Yes Carl Douglas Vice Chairman – Member 11 – 2 895 000 Yes No Ingrid Bonde Member Member3 – 11 23 – 760 000 Yes Yes John Brandon Member – – 11 – – 580 000 Yes Yes Anders Böös Member Member – 11 4 – 760 000 Yes No Fredrik Cappelen Member Chairman – 10 4 – 865 000 Yes Yes Sofia Schörling Högberg Member Member – 11 4 – 760 000 Yes No Dick Seger Member – – 11 – – 580 000 Yes Yes Susanne Bergman Israelsson2 Member – – 10 – – 0 – – Åse Hjelm2 Member – – 9 – – 0 – – Jan Prang2 Member – – 11 – – 0 – – 1 Total fee includes fees for committee work. In total, SEK 975 000 2 Employee representatives, appointed members of the Board of 3 Appointed member of the Audit Committee at the statutory meetwas paid out for committee work, of which SEK 150 000 for RemuDirectors at the Annual General Meeting. Deputy employee repreing on May 2, 2018. neration Committee work and SEK 825 000 for Audit Committee sentative is Thomas Fanberg. Thomas Fanberg (b. 1961) has been For comparative information about remuneration to the Board of work. For more details, refer to the minutes of the Annual General Deputy Director of Securitas AB since 2008. Employee RepresentaDirectors and senior management, please see note 9 on pages 94-97. Meeting 2018 on Securitas’ website: www.securitas.com. tive, Chairman of Salaried Employees’ Union local branch, Securitas Norrland. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 39 GOVERNANCE AND M ANAGEMEN T Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control B OA RD OF D IREC TOR S MARIE EHRLING CARL DOUGLAS INGRID BONDE Chairman, b. 1955 Vice Chairman, b. 1965 Member, b. 1959 Director of Securitas AB since 2006 Deputy Director of Securitas AB since 1992, Director of Securitas AB since 2017 and Chairman since 2016 Director since 1999 and Vice Chairman since Principal education: BSc in Business and Economics Principal education: BSc in Economics and 2008 Chairman of Hoist Finance AB, The Swedish Business Administration Principal education: Bachelor of Arts, Doctor of climate policy council and Director of Loomis AB, Chairman of Telia Company AB, Letters (h.c.) Danske Bank AS and Swedish corporate Vice Chairman of Axel Johnson AB and Director of Vice Chairman of ASSA ABLOY AB, governance board Axel Johnson International Director of Investment AB Latour Previously: Director, CFO and deputy CEO of Previously: President of Telia Sonera Sverige, Shares in Securitas: 12 642 600 Series Vattenfall AB, President and CEO of AMF Deputy CEO of SAS AB, responsible for SAS A shares and 27 190 000 Series B shares1 Pensionsförsäkringar AB, Vice President Finance Airlines and other executive positions at SAS of SAS AB and Director General of the Swedish Shares in Securitas: 7 000 Series B shares Financial Supervisory Authority Shares in Securitas: 2 600 Series B shares SOFIA SCHÖRLING HÖGBERG DICK SEGER Member, b. 1978 Member, b. 1953 Director of Securitas AB since 2005 Director of Securitas AB since 2017 Principal education: BSc in Economics and Principal education: Master of Science Business Administration Previously: CEO, Chairman of the Board and Director of Melker Schörling AB, Director of Verisure Group Hexagon AB and ASSA ABLOY AB (previous Securitas Direct). Shares in Securitas: 4 500 000 Series A shares Shares in Securitas: 26 Series B shares and 12 071 998 Series B shares2 Alf Göransson left his position as President, CEO and member of the Group Management and Board of Directors as of March 1, 2018. 1 Private holdings and through Investment AB Latour Group. 2 Private holdings and through Melker Schörling AB. In addition, related parties hold 4 800 Series B shares. All figures refer to holdings on December 31, 2018. 40 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 GOVERNANCE AND M ANAGEMEN T Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control JOHN BRANDON ANDERS BÖÖS FREDRIK CAPPELEN Member, b. 1956 Member, b. 1964 Member, b. 1957 Director of Securitas AB since 2017 Director of Securitas AB since 2016 Director of Securitas AB since 2008 Principal education: Bachelor of Arts in History Principal education: Economic studies Upper Principal education: BSc in Business Director of Hexagon AB Secondary School Administration Previously: Vice President of Apple International, Director of Investment AB Latour and Stronghold Chairman of Terveystalo Oy, Vice President of Apple Americas and Asia, Invest AB Dometic Group AB and Transcom AB and President and CEO of Academic Systems. Previously: CEO of H&Q AB and Drott AB, Previously: President and Group Chief Executive Shares in Securitas: 10 000 Series B shares Chairman of IFS AB and Cision AB, Director of of Nobia, Chairman of Dustin Group AB, Byggmax Haldex AB and Niscayah AB Group AB and Sanitec Oy, Vice Chairman of Shares in Securitas: 25 000 Series B shares Munksjö AB Shares in Securitas: 4 000 Series B shares EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES SUSANNE BERGMAN ISRAELSSON ÅSE HJELM JAN PRANG Member, b. 1958 Member, b. 1962 Member, b. 1959 Director of Securitas AB since 2004 Director of Securitas AB since 2008 Director of Securitas AB since 2008 Employee Representative, Chairman of Swedish Deputy Director of Securitas AB since 2007 Employee Representative, Chairman Transport Workers’ Union local Employee Representative, Vice Chairman of of Swedish Transport Workers’ Union local branch, branch 19, Norra Mälardalen Salaried Employees’ Union local branch, Securitas Göteborg Shares in Securitas: 0 Norrland, Chairman of the Securitas Council Shares in Securitas: 0 for Salaried Employees Shares in Securitas: 120 Series B shares Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 41 GOVERNANCE AND M ANAGEMEN T Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control GROUP MANAGEMENT 1 2 3 4 MAGNUS AHLQVIST BART ADAM MARTIN ALTHÉN WILLIAM BARTHELEMY President and CEO of Securitas AB Chief Financial Officer Chief Information Officer Chief Operating Officer, and Divisional President, Born: 1965 Born: 1968 Security Services North America Security Services Europe Employed: 1999 Employed: 2016 Born: 1954 Born: 1974 Shares in Securitas: 37 027 Series Shares in Securitas: 1 544 Series Employed: 1999 Employed: 2015 B shares1 B shares1 Shares in Securitas: 62 109 Series Shares in Securitas: 108 989 Series B shares1 B shares1, 200 000 share options2 5 6 7 8 SANTIAGO GALAZ JAN LINDSTRÖM AIMÉ LYAGRE MARC PISSENS Divisional President, Senior Vice President, Finance Chief Operating Officer President Aviation Security Services North America Born: 1966 and Chief Technology Officer, Born: 1950 Born: 1959 Employed: 1999 Security Services Europe Employed: 1999 Employed: 1995 Shares in Securitas: 11 395 Series Born: 1959 Shares in Securitas: 62 022 Series B Shares in Securitas: 238 406 Series B shares1 Employed: 2004 shares1 B shares1 Shares in Securitas: 26 510 Series B shares1 42 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 GOVERNANCE AND M ANAGEMEN T Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control 9 10 11 LUIS POSADAS FRIDA ROSENHOLM HENRIK ZETTERBERG 6 7 9 4 5 2 3 Divisional President, Senior Vice President, General Chief Operating Officer, Security Services Ibero-America Counsel Security Services Europe 1 10 8 11 Born: 1958 Born: 1974 Born: 1976 Employed: 1995 Employed: 2018 Employed: 2014 Shares in Securitas: 45 149 Series Shares in Securitas: 0 Shares in Securitas: 2 544 Series B B shares1 shares1, 45 000 share options2 Alf Göransson left his position as President, CEO and member of the Group Management and Board of Directors as of 1 The actual allocation of shares to Group Management under the Securitas share-based incentive March 1, 2018. He was replaced as President and CEO by Magnus Ahlqvist. Magnus Ahlqvist holds a Master of scheme 2017 can be found on page 97, and the Science in Economics and Business Administration from the Stockholm School of Economics, and a leadership exam total potential allocation of shares to Group Management under the Securitas share-based incenfrom Harvard Business School. Previously he has held various management positions in Motorola Mobility, Sony and tive scheme 2018 can be found on page 95. Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications. 2 Share options regarding acquisition of Securitas Series B shares, issued by Melker Schörling AB Gisela Lindstrand left her position as Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications and Public Affairs as of May and Investment AB Latour. 15, 2018. Helena Andreas has been appointed Senior Vice President Brand, Communications and Public Relations of Securitas AB and assumed this position on February 1, 2019. She will be a member of Securitas Group Management. Peter Karlströmer has been appointed Divisional President Security Services Europe and member of Group Management. He assumed this position on March 4, 2019. Magnus Ahlqvist left the position in connection with this. For more information about Group Management, visit www.securitas.com / group-management Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 43 GOVERNANCE AND M ANAGEMEN T Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control Proactive Risk Management and Internal Control Securitas’ internal control system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve business objectives. The system provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, as well as compliance with the main policies. Internal control over financial reporting is included as a part of the Manual, which specifically focuses on reporting matters to ensure overall internal control of Securitas and constitutes a central part compliance with reporting requirements and rules. This creates an of the Group’s corporate governance. The description below environment that supports reliable and accurate reporting. covers a broader perspective on how Securitas’ internal control is organized, using a structure based on the COSO model, but also RISK ASSESSMENT makes specific reference to items pertaining directly to internal At the highest level, the Board considers where future strategic control over financial reporting. On pages 48-51 we describe opportunities and risks lie and helps shape the corporate strategy. Securitas’ enterprise risk management process (ERM), which sets Balanced and focused risk management is necessary for the fulfillthe overall process for Securitas’ proactive and continuous work ment of Securitas’ strategies and the achievement of its corporate with risk management and internal control. Securitas’ insurance objectives. and claims strategy is to “act as if uninsured”. Refer to page 49 for Enterprise risk management (ERM) is an integral component of more information about insurance as a risk management tool. Securitas’ operations, and risk awareness is part of the company culture. Risk assessments are conducted within the framework of CONTROL ENVIRONMENT the Securitas ERM process, further described on page 48-51, The key features of the control environment include: clear terms regardless whether the assessments pertain to operational risks or of reference for the Board and each of its committees, a clear financial reporting risks. Securitas does not classify compliance organizational structure with documented delegation of authority risk as a separate category. Instead, it is included in the operational documented in an approval matrix, from the Board to President category. Risk assessment is a dynamic process that aims to idenand CEO and further to Group Management. It also includes the tify and analyze risks in relation to Securitas’ objectives. It serves competence of employees and a series of Group policies, proceas the basis for implementing mitigating actions after considering dures and frameworks. the controls in place (reduce, transfer / share or accept the risk in Emphasis lies on the competence and abilities of the Group’s question). employees, with continuous training and development actively encouraged through a wide variety of training programs. GROUP-WIDE CONTROL ACTIVITIES The Group has three fundamental values – Integrity, Vigilance Internal control covers all divisions and subsidiaries in the Group. and Helpfulness – to help its employees exercise good judgment Internal control activities are established by policies and proand make decisions on a consistent basis. cesses, which help ensure that all management directives to Policies that apply to internal control over financial reporting are manage risks are executed. Controls are performed on several described in Securitas’ Group Policies, which include the company’s levels within the organization and are established based on the model for financial control (for more detailed information on the process concerned. model, refer to pages 54-55), and in the Securitas Reporting 44 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 GOVERNANCE AND M ANAGEMEN T Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control GROUP APPROVAL MATRIX 1 ERM SELFASSESSMENT1 5 LETTER OF CONTINUOUS POLICY DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLE­MENTATION REPRESENTATION1 GROUP-WIDE 4 2 CONTROL ACTIVITIE S FINANCIAL BASIC CONTROL1 CONTROLS1 GROUP-LEVEL 3 BUSINESS REPORTING CONTROLS INSTRUCTIONS AND FRAMEWORK AUDIT, RISK AND CONTROL DIAGNOSTICS1 This illustration shows an overview of the key Group-wide control activities. 1 Described in further detail below. ERM SELF-ASSESSMENT The self-assessments promote control awareness and account1 Every major country throughout the Group performs ability and results are signed off by each country president. The an annual self-assessment, which is a part of the proanswers are compiled at the divisional and Group levels to support cess to manage enterprise-wide risks. It covers key risks, includbenchmarking within and between divisions. The answers are also ing financial reporting risks, measures taken and compliance with used as input for further audit or review procedures, or other risk Securitas Group Policies and Securitas Reporting Manual. The management activities. Group and division create action plans and content is updated on a continuous basis to reflect the risks that activities to follow up and support the countries. Each reporting Securitas is facing, which includes ensuring that risks related to country is responsible for acting on any deviations. the strategy and development of the technology offering are incorporated as appropriate. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 45 GOVERNANCE AND M ANAGEMEN T Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control BASIC CONTROLS >> Guidelines in Securitas’ financial model, which create the frame2 Detailed controls in financial reporting processes such work for a simple and clear internal reporting method, including as revenue, payroll and IT, are included as one compotimely and accurate follow-up of financial key figures (Securitas nent of Securitas’ overall Group-wide control framework called Six Fingers) “basic controls”. Basic controls set the minimum Group require>> Securitas’ Reporting Manual, which provides all managers and ment regarding what needs to be in place based on risk assessfinancial staff with detailed instructions and definitions for finanment. Supplementary controls ensure full protection of the comcial reporting pany’s assets and assure accurate and reliable financial reporting >> The controller, who is responsible for continuously ensuring that tailored to the entity’s company’s specific conditions. These conthe financial information provided is accurate, transparent, reletrols can include manual, application or general IT controls. vant and up to date. The controller receives continuous feedback from the Group regarding reporting quality, which is an Key areas covered: effective tool for enhanced reporting. In addition, each division >>protection of company assets has a divisional controller with corresponding responsibilities at >>completeness and timeliness of client invoicing the divisional level. >>credit collection procedures >>contract management >>HR / payroll LETTER OF REPRESENTATION >>IT (including information security) 5 The Group has a representation process in which oper>>business continuity planning ating unit presidents and controllers sign a letter of >>validity of payments to third parties representation in connection with the year-end report, stating >>accuracy of general ledger their opinion on whether the internal control over financial report>>timeliness and accuracy of Group reporting compliance with ing and the reporting packages give a true and fair view of the local requirements financial position. The letter also covers the broader perspective of internal conAUDIT, RISK AND CONTROL DIAGNOSTICS trol, including compliance with Securitas Group Policies related to 3 One important audit activity is the country diagnostics. financial reporting. The diagnostics comprise a work program covering IFRS compliance, as well as key controls within financial reporting INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION processes, contract management and IT security. These reviews Securitas’ channels for information and communication are conare usually conducted within the first year after an acquisition has stantly developed to ensure that all employees are given clear been made and a follow-up is performed during the second year, objectives and are made aware of the parameters that constitute provided that significant areas for improvement have been identiacceptable business practices, as well as the expectations of the fied. The Group also performs risk and control diagnostics in Board in managing risks. This provides a clear definition of the functional areas which, by nature, have a high degree of inherent Group’s purpose and goals, accountabilities and the scope of perrisk. These diagnostics aim to ensure compliance with key polimitted activities of employees. cies such as the Client contract policy and the Securitas’ Values Systems and procedures have been implemented that support and Ethics Code. Securitas develops this audit and review procomplete, accurate and timely financial reporting and provide mancess on a continuous basis using both internal and external agement with the necessary reports on business performance relaresources. tive to the established objectives. The Group reporting department regularly issues guidance on reporting matters and the reporting FINANCIAL CONTROL manual is available in a Group-wide database. Reporting units reg4 Control activities specifically aimed at managing risks ularly prepare financial and management reports that are discussed related to financial reporting include methods and at review meetings at different levels. These include an analysis of activities for securing assets, controlling the accuracy and reliabilfinancial performance and risks for the organization to understand ity of internal and external financial reports, and ensuring compliits responsibility with regard to internal control and its impact in ance with defined guidelines. relation to risks, goals and objectives. Regular analyses of the financial results at the various levels of the organization using the financial model ensure that financial MONITORING information maintains a high level of quality. Securitas’ financial Monitoring is performed at different levels and by different funcreporting is based on the following foundations: tions within the organization depending on whether it is related to operational or financial reporting matters. Key functions include the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee, Group Man>> Securitas Group Policies for financial planning and reporting, agement, functional committees, Management Assurance, the long-term financing and treasury, risks and insurance, communiGroup risk organization, and local and divisional management. cations, branding, legal issues and IT 46 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 GOVERNANCE AND M ANAGEMEN T Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control Securitas Annual Report 2018 47 GOVERNANCE AND M ANAGEMEN T Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control Four-step process for managing enterprise risk Securitas’ process for enterprise risk management (ERM) is well integrated into in the business and seeks to identify, prioritize and manage the key risks to our operations at all levels and in all parts of the organization. d ris k ut an Inp tification n ide Contract cy Poli and acquisition opment Risk-based vel itoring de Financial / mon Financial Operational reporting Ris t k managemen activities Securitas is exposed to various types of risks in its daily business. IT failure, business continuity, information security and data proWhen providing security services, Securitas manages not only its tection, as well as employee attraction and retention. own risks, but also risks on behalf of its clients. It is important to us to minimize the risk of loss occurring as it also protects our FINANCIAL RISKS stakeholders. Securitas’ risks have been classified into three main The financial risks (and financial integration risks) category categories: contract and acquisition risks, operational assignincludes risks related to financial reporting, as well as financial ment risks and financial risks. The categories are based on the risks related to external financing needs and currency exposure. To allow the divisions, countries and regions to focus fully on their natural flow of our business – entering into a contract, execution of operations, the management of certain risks such as financing and the assignment and the financial result. Similar risk categories are currency is centralized to the Group Treasury Centre. Other examalso relevant for acquisitions, but are then classified as acquisition ples within this category are fraud and error risk, management risks, operational integration risks and financial integration risks. estimates assumptions risk, credit and cash flow risk and regulatory reporting risk. CONTRACT AND ACQUISITIONS RISKS The contract risks (and acquisition risks) category includes risks All the risks in these categories can impact the Group’s financial related to entering into a client contract and risks related to the performance and position if they are not managed in a structured acquisition of a new business. way. Therefore, Securitas has developed its four-step process approach for managing enterprise risks. OPERATIONAL ASSIGNMENT RISKS The operational assignment risks (and operational integration To support the ERM work, Securitas has implemented a web-based risks) category includes risks that are associated with our daily governance, risk and compliance (GRC) system that cover all four operations and the services we provide to our clients. This catesteps in Securitas’ enterprise risk management process and gathers gory also covers all risks related to the infrastructure necessary for the ERM information in one database. It is used to streamline the running the business as well as sustainability risks. Examples are ERM work by structuring and automating processes and workflows, assignment execution risks, Securitas’ Values and Ethics complisuch as reports. The aim is to improve the overall quality of the ance risk and health and safety risks and operational risks, such as ERM work and have one single point of information. 48 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 GOVERNANCE AND M ANAGEMEN T Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control 1 3 The process starts with risk identification and prioritizaThe third step of the process is the risk management tion during the ERM planning process. As part of the activities. The Board of Directors has the ultimate overall annual business plan process, each level of the responsibility for governance of risk management organization prepares an ERM business plan, which sets the focus while the accountability for managing risks and for implementing and priorities for operational risk management within countries, and maintaining control systems in accordance with Group polidivisions and the Group for the coming year. The yearly risk cies is clearly assigned to management at Group, divisional and assessment process is coordinated by the Group risk organization. local level. Specifically, divisional management are responsible The Group function is also responsible for maintenance of the risk for all aspects of the operations in their divisions, including operregister, which is updated annually primarily based on the country ational risk management and risk minimization as well as creatERM business plans, but also on other sources of input. ing risk awareness throughout the division. Operating unit man2 agers and country risk managers are responsible for ensuring The next step in the process is to assess whether new that risk management is part of the local corporate culture at all policies need to be created or existing policies need to levels within a country. 4 be updated. Securitas Group policies, which is one of the cornerstones of Securitas’ ERM process, establish the framework The identified risks and adopted policies set the strucfor all policies and compliance monitoring in the Group. The Group ture for the forth step of the process Risk-based monipolicies are developed by management and key policies are toring. Key risks are monitored through self-assessapproved by the Board of Directors. A general policy update is ments, audits, risk and control diagnostics (described on page released after the statutory Board meeting in May every year, but 45-46), legal reviews, sustainability reviews and/or are subject to specific policies are also issued or updated when necessary other monitoring activities throughout the year. Monitoring perthroughout the year. Some of the key policies adopted that are relmeates all levels throughout the organization and is performed by evant for governance perspectives are Client Contract policy, different functions depending on whether it is related to operaSecuritas’ Values and Ethics Code, Communication policy, Competional or financial reporting matters. tition law compliance policy, Privacy policy and Insider policy. More information on each step of the process is to be found on www.securitas.com INSU R A N CE A S A RISK M A N AGEMEN T TOO L STRATEGY ance premiums are partly determined by the historic loss record, a Securitas’ insurance and claims strategy is to “act as if uninsured.” favorable loss record will contribute to lower premiums and a This means that while external insurance is used to protect the lower cost of risk. balance sheet and minimize fluctuations in earnings, our day-today task is to perform our assignment as if we do not have any PROCUREMENT STRATEGY insurance in place. Insurance programs are procured with the objective of creating a One important part of our risk management work involves balanced and cost-efficient protection against negative financial taking a proactive approach to contracts and assignment instrucimpact. Securitas seeks to achieve economies of scale through tions to prevent claims from occurring. From a risk management coordinated insurance programs and the optimal utilization of the perspective, it is important that the contract clearly defines the Group’s insurance captives. The strategy is to cover the more freassignment to be performed by Securitas and that our employees’ quent claims arising in Securitas’ own books. Using insurance capassignment instructions mirror the contract. tives gives the Group an opportunity to handle part of the claims process internally and provides Group Management with an IMPORTANCE OF ACTIVE CLAIMS MANAGEMENT option to establish some independence from the cyclical nature of Another significant part of Securitas’ risk management work commercial insurance markets. involves active claims management, as well as ongoing claims analysis of frequent and large losses with the aim of identifying BENEFITS FOR OUR CLIENTS the underlying driving forces. The claims are analyzed to find out An important advantage of our Global insurance programs is that if there are certain types of services, contracts, regions and so our clients can be confident that Securitas’ high-quality insurance forth that cause insurance claims. As the Group’s external insurcover is consistent in all markets. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 49 GOVERNANCE AND M ANAGEMEN T Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control SEC U RI TA S K E Y RISK S Securitas’ risk register contains about 50 risks. Out of the 50 risks, considered key Group risks and have been assigned primary focus 14 are selected as top risks that will be subjected to monitoring during the year. For information on our key risks and how they are activities during the year. Out of these, seven risks are currently managed, refer to the table below. Securitas’ Values and Ethics Client contract risk compliance risk Information security risk INPUT AND Risk that unreasonable obligations Risk of non-compliance with Risk of failing to protect the RISK IDENTIFICATION and risks are undertaken in the Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code confidentiality, integrity and/ contract, resulting in unbalanced (the Code) can ultimately result in or availability of data and data 1 terms for the type of assignment reputational damage, lost revenues, processing, which may result in in question, such as excessive penalties, fines, difficulties in operational losses, reputational liability, unrealistic service levels or recruiting, etc. damage, third-party liabilities and/or unfavorable pricing mechanisms. regulatory fines. POLICY DEVELOPMENT The Group has formal policies and The Code is one of the key corporate The Group’s information security guidelines for defining the approval policies that ensures the company policy sets forth Group Management’s 2 process and authorization levels upholds and promotes the highest ambition, expectations and directions for new contracts as well as how ethical business standards. Securitas’ for information security across the to manage existing contracts. basic requirement is to act within the Securitas Group as a further level of All relevant employees receive framework of laws and international detail to supplement the information training in these policies. In addition, conventions, such as the United security strategy established by the operations are protected by a Nations Universal Declaration of Board of Directors. customized Securitas insurance Human Rights. In addition to the program, should unforeseen events Code, the Group has adopted several occur. Read more about Securitas’ policies as a complement to the insurance and claims strategy on the Values and Ethics Code, such as previous page. an anti-corruption policy, emission policy, supplier and subcontracting policy, and competition law policy. RISK MANAGEMENT To manage contract risks in a All our employees are trained in Information security risk management ACTIVITIES structured way in the operations, we the Code. In addition, we also have will remain a focus area over the next use a business risk evaluation model training requirements for the policies few years as the cyber security threat 3 known as the Scale, which is part related to the Code, such as the antilandscape evolves. In 2018, Securitas of Securitas’ management model, corruption policy, competition law created a leadership role at Group “The Toolbox”. The model evaluates policy, and supplier and subcontractor level to lead the further definition the assignment, risk, contract terms policy. and rigorous implementation of the and financial aspects. All employees Group’s information security risk involved in the contract management management system. A Securitasprocess receive training in the model. wide awareness program concerning information security was launched and additional dedicated resources have been mobilized to support further policy implementation. RISK-BASED MONITORING Since contract risk is a key risk, The risk is monitored through The implementation of the Securitas monitors this through sustainability reviews, audits, the information security policy and 4 reviews (called diagnostics) to test ERM self-assessments and business strengthening of relevant capabilities the effectiveness of controls in the plan process. The Group has a in this domain are monitored using contract management process. Sustainability Steering Committee, different sources of assurance, Contract risk is also monitored which establishes the principles for such as reviews, audits, ERM selfthrough the ERM self-assessments Securitas’ sustainability work and assessments as well as local country and business plan process. closely follows up cases of alleged monitoring activities. non-compliance with the Code, reported through Securitas Integrity Line or other reporting channels. 50 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 GOVERNANCE AND M ANAGEMEN T Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control Compliance Business continuity risk Assignment execution risk (regulatory and other) risk including IT failure risk Price risk Risk that agreed contractual Risk that regulatory and other Risk that key business processes Risk of not being able to manage requirements are not met, which requirements are not met or that cannot operate following an incident. prices/wages in a desired manner, for in turn could adversely impact the Securitas does not meet the Includes the risk of disruptions in example wage increases not reflected contract portfolio churn rate, growth, compliance expectations in the the IT infrastructure which could properly in client contracts which client relations and reputation. market or among our clients or cause significant disruption to the could lead to deteriorated margins. investors. This could result in lower operations. quality, higher costs, loss of income, delay, penalties, fines or reputational damage. The Group policy requires local Risks related to compliance with The Group’s business continuity Part of the Group financial reporting human resources policies covering laws and regulations are managed policy requires all entities to have a procedures, reporting of price/wage the areas of hiring employees, at all levels in the organization, by written contingency plan based on KPIs at Group level is mandatory as retaining employees, development all employees. The guiding policy is the classification of key processes. part of the monthly and quarterly and training, and compliance with Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code, but The plan should also cover key IT reporting package. relevant laws and regulations. Proper risks are further governed in separate systems and be linked to controls recruitment procedures and the policies relating to specific topics/ of IT disruptions, including disaster training and supervision of security areas. recovery plans. The plan should cover officers are important for mitigating all relevant areas, including regular the risk. updates and testing. Local procedures for security It is mandatory that local processes During the last couple of years, The processes include measurement, services include a process for written include procedures to ensure Securitas has carried out a Group communication, training and support site instructions ensuring they are compliance with relevant laws and project focusing on business for employees involved in the pricing defined, up to date, known and regulations, that there is an assigned continuity planning with workshops of our services, at the inception of a understood. responsibility for recurring reviews in selected countries throughout contract and for price adjustments. and that action plans are in place for the Group to share methodologies addressing any issues identified. for creating, testing and maintaining The GDPR project has also been a business continuity plans for critical key focus during the year to ensure business processes and IT systems. implementation by May 25, 2018. The risk is monitored through the The review procedures in the Group The risk is monitored through the Price/wage increases are monitored ERM self-assessments and business are designed to identify any changes ERM self-assessments and business and followed up on a monthly basis plan process as well as through local in regulatory requirements that may plan process as well as through a and are part of the monthly reporting branch audits. affect Securitas’ activities and to take specific “BCP project” carried out by package at Group level. the appropriate actions. the Group. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 51 GOVERNANCE AND M ANAGEMEN T Signatures of the Board of Directors and Auditor’s Report Stockholm, March 18, 2019 Marie Ehrling Chairman Carl Douglas Ingrid Bonde Vice Chairman Director John Brandon Anders Böös Fredrik Cappelen Director Director Director Sofia Schörling Högberg Dick Seger Director Director Susanne Bergman Israelsson Åse Hjelm Jan Prang Director Director Director Employee Representative Employee Representative Employee Representative Magnus Ahlqvist President and Chief Executive Officer AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (translation of the Swedish original) To the general meeting of the shareholders in statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conSecuritas AB, corporate identity number 556302-7241 ducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in ­Sweden. We believe that the examinaEngagement and responsibility tion has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the corporate governance statement for the year 2018 (on pages 32-52) and that it has been preOpinions pared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2–6 the The scope of the audit Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing same law are consistent with the annual accounts and the consolidated standard RevU 16 The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance Stockholm, March 18, 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Patrik Adolfson Madeleine Endre Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant Auditor in charge 52 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 53 M A N AG E M E N T AN D FINA NC IA L CONT ROL S EC U R I TA S ’ F I N A N C I A L M O D EL – S I X F I N G ER S How to read and understand our finances Securitas’ model focuses on the factors that impact profit, and are clearly linked to operations. Factors are grouped into three categories: volume-related factors, efficiency-related factors and capital-usage-related factors. SECURITAS’ MODEL FOR FINANCIAL KEY FIGURES GROUP OPERATIONS Volume-related factors The first two key figures, New sales (of contracts) and Net New sales change (of contract portfolio), relate to the development of the Gross margin on new sales client contract portfolio. New sales are newly signed contracts Terminations that will increase the monthly fixed sales. Net change in the Gross margin on terminations client contract port­folio refers to new starts (a newly signed Net change contract that has started) plus increased sales in existing Price change contracts, less terminated client contracts and reduced sales Organic sales growth Organic sales growth in existing contracts. Price changes are measured separately Acquired sales growth and added to Net change to determine the period’s closing Real sales growth balance of the contract portfolio. The closing balance is the Total sales Total sales total value of monthly invoicing on our monthly fixed contracts at the closing date for the current period. The third key figure, taken from the statement of income, is Total sales, which in addition to contract-based sales, includes short-term guarding assignments but also alarm installations, certain maintenance services, product sales and certain risk management services. Efficiency-related factors The efficiency-related key figures provide managers with tools to monitor service efficiency and cost trends. The fourth and Employee turnover fifth key figures are: Gross margin, which is defined as total Wage cost increase sales less direct expenses as a percentage of total sales, and Gross margin Indirect expenses, which pertain to the organization and Indirect expenses include sales and administrative expenses (costs of branch, Operating margin Operating margin area and regional / country offices). Gross income less Indirect Income before tax expenses equals operating income before amortization of Earnings per share acquisition-related intangible assets and acquisition-related costs. When this is expressed as a percentage of total sales, it indicates the Group’s operating margin, which in Securitas’ financial model, comes before acquisition-related items. Capital-usage-related factors In general, Securitas’ operations are not capital intensive. Accounts receivable tie up the most capital. The sixth key Days of sales outstanding figure is Days of sales outstanding (DSO). Payment terms Operating capital employed as % of sales Operating capital employed as % of sales and effective collection procedures are decisive in determining Cash flow from operating activities as % Cash flow from operating activities as % how much capital is tied up in accounts receivable. These of operating income before amortization of operating income before amortization figures are followed up on an ongoing basis at all levels in the Free cash flow organization. Return on capital employed Return on capital employed Free cash flow in relation to net debt 54 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 MANAGEMENT AND FI NANCI AL CONTR O L These factors are then assigned key figures that are measured growth and operating margin. There are also complimentary key continuously, allowing managers to make decisions based on figures tailored to measure the business in prioritized areas such facts, enabling them to make quick adjustments if needed. as within security solutions and electronic security. These key The model is also used when analyzing acquisition targets. figures include volume-, efficiencyand capital-usage-related The factors and key figures are used throughout our operations factors that hold specific bearing on the Group’s progress. from branch level to Group level. ­Examples are the number of remote video solution installations, Six key figures represent the backbone of the Six Fingers gross margin on security solution contracts (compared with model (highlighted in the text and table), but there are completraditional guarding contracts), the investment in security equipmentary key figures used by all divisions, such as organic sales ment and order backlog for alarm installations. RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN INCOME, CASH FLOW AND BALANCE SHEET Statement of income activities is an important indicator at operational in net debt corresponds to cash flow for the The statement of income is broken down level. It is defined as operating income less year plus the change in loans, translation difaccording to function, making responsibilinvestments in non-current tangible and intanferences and also the revaluation of financial ity for each profit level clear. Managers with gible assets (including equipment for solution instruments. operational responsibility can easily see what is contracts) plus reversal of depreciation, change expected of them and concentrate on the facin accounts receivable and change in other Balance sheet tors they can affect. Gross margin and operating operating capital employed. Securitas uses the terms “capital employed” margin are key indicators, and used in reviewing Free cash flow is cash flow from operating and “financing of capital employed” to describe operations at both divisional and Group level. activities less net financial items paid and curthe balance sheet and financial position. Amortization of acquisition-related intangible rent taxes paid. Cash flow for the year is arrived Capital employed consists of operating capital assets, acquisition-related costs, financial items at when cash flow relating to acquisitions and employed plus goodwill, acquisition-related and taxes are monitored separately. shareholders’ equity is deducted from free cash intangible assets and shares in associated flow. companies. Statement of cash flow The consolidation of net debt in foreign Operating capital employed, which consists In principle, operating income should generate currencies usually generates a translation difof operating non-current tangible and intanthe same amount of cash flow from operating ference that is reported separately. In addition, gible assets and working capital, is continuously activities. The cash flow is affected by investaccounting standards require that certain moni­tored at the operating level to avoid ments in non-current tangible and intangible elements of the net debt are revalued to market un­necessary tied-up capital. Capital employed assets used in operations and by changes in value after the initial recognition and this revaluis financed by net debt and shareholders’ working capital. Cash flow from operating ation is also reported separately. The change equity. Total sales Operating income before amortization Operating non-current tangible and intangible assets Organic sales growth, % Investments in non-current tangible and intangible assets Accounts receivable Production expenses Reversal of depreciation Other operating capital employed Net investments in non-current tangible and Gross income Operating capital employed ­intangible assets Gross margin, % Change in accounts receivable Branch office expenses Change in other operating capital employed Other selling and administrative expenses Cash flow from operating activities Other operating income Net financial items paid Share in income of associated companies Current taxes paid Operating income before amortization Free cash flow Operating margin, % Acquisitions Shareholders Amortization of net debt This picture shows the connection between the statement of income, the statement of cash flow and the balance sheet. Different colors are used for the sake of clarity. Operating items Net-debt-related items Goodwill, taxes and non-operating Items Items related to shareholders’ equity Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 55 The formal annual accounts and the consolidated accounts comprise pages 57–143 ANNUAL REPORT Report of the Board of Directors 57 Note 1 General corporate information 73 Note 2 Accounting principles 73 Consolidated financial statements Note 3 Definitions, calculation of key ratios and exchange rates 79 Consolidated statement of income 66 Note 4 Critical estimates and judgments 82 Consolidated statement of Note 5 Events after the balance sheet date 84 comprehensive income 66 Note 6 Revenue 84 Consolidated statement of cash flow 68 Note 7 Financial risk management 86 Note 8 Transactions with related parties 94 Consolidated balance sheet 70 Note 9 Remuneration to the Board of Directors Consolidated statement of changes and senior management 94 Note 10 Segment reporting 97 in shareholders’ equity 72 Note 11 Operating income 100 Notes and comments to the Note 12 Personnel 102 consolidated financial statements 73 Note 13 Depreciation and amortization 103 Note 14 Net financial items 103 Note 15 Taxes 103 Note 16 Acquisitions and divestitures of subsidiaries 105 Note 17 Goodwill and impairment testing 109 Parent Company financial statements Note 18 Acquisition related intangible assets 110 Parent Company statement of income 128 Note 19 Other intangible assets 111 Parent Company statement of Note 20 Tangible non-current assets 111 Note 21 Shares in associated companies 112 comprehensive income 128 Note 22 Interest-bearing financial non-current assets 112 Parent Company statement of cash flow 128 Note 23 Other long-term receivables 112 Parent Company balance sheet 129 Note 24 Inventories 112 Note 25 Accounts receivable 112 Parent Company statement of Note 26 Other current receivables 113 changes in shareholders’ equity 130 Note 27 Other interest-bearing current assets 113 Note 28 Liquid funds 113 Notes and comments to the Parent Note 29 Shareholders’ equity 113 Company financial statements 131 Note 30 Long-term liabilities excluding provisions 114 Note 31 P rovisions for pensions and similar ­commitments 115 Note 32 Other long-term provisions 121 Note 33 Short-term loan liabilities 121 Signatures of the Board of Directors 138 Note 34 Other current liabilities 121 Auditor’s report 139 Note 35 Short-term provisions 122 Note 36 Pledged assets 122 Sustainability notes 144 Note 37 Contingent liabilities 122 Note 38 Financial five year overview 124 Note 39 Remeasurement for hyperinflation 126 Note 40 Adaption of IFRS 16 Leases 127 Quarterly data 160 Note 41 Accounting principles 131 The Securitas share 162 Note 42 Events after the balance sheet date 131 Note 43 Transactions with related parties 132 Financial information and invitation Note 44 Financial risk management 132 to the Annual General Meeting 164 Note 45 Administrative expenses and other operating income 134 Note 46 Personnel 134 Note 47 Other financial income and expenses, net 135 Note 48 Taxes 135 Note 49 Intangible assets 135 Note 50 Machinery and equipment 135 Note 51 Shares in subsidiaries 136 Note 52 Shares in associated companies 136 Note 53 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 137 Note 54 Liquid funds 137 Note 55 Shareholders’ equity 137 Note 56 Untaxed reserves 137 Note 57 Long-term liabilities 137 Note 58 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 137 Note 59 Pledged assets 137 Note 60 Contingent liabilities 137 56 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 R E P O R T O F T H E B O A R D O F D I R EC T O R S Report of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors and the President of Securitas AB (publ.), corporate registration ­ number 556302-7241, with its registered office in Stockholm, hereby submit the Annual Report and ­consolidated financial statements for the 2018 financial year. Securitas offers protective services based on client-specific 2018. This growth derives from our strategic and commercial needs through different combinations of on-site, mobile and development and a positive impact from the US tax reform. The remote guarding, electronic security, fire and safety and corporate net debt to EBITDA ratio increased slightly to 2.3 (2.0) while the risk management. Securitas operates in 58 countries in North free cash flow to net debt was 0.13 (0.19). America, Europe, Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, Asia and Australia, with 370 000 employees. Sales In 2018 the Securitas Group consisted of the business segSales amounted to MSEK 101 467 (92 197) and organic sales ments Security Services North America, Security Services Europe growth was 6 percent (5). The portfolio development has been and Security Services Ibero-America. In addition to these busistrong throughout the year and we were also supported by favoness segments, the Group conducts operations in Africa, the rable market conditions. Security Services North America deliveMiddle East, Asia and Australia, which are included under the red organic sales growth of 6 percent (5) and Security Services heading Other in the segment report in note 10. Europe was strong at 4 percent (2). Security Services Ibero-AmeComparatives have been restated for the Group due to the rica showed 12 percent (13). transition to IFRS 15. The restatement has been recognized on Real sales growth, including acquisitions and adjusted for Group level and thus had no effect on the Group’s segments. changes in exchange rates, was 8 percent (5). As of July 1, 2018, Securitas has adopted IAS 29 Financial Sales of security solutions and electronic security sales reporting in hyperinflationary economies for our operations in amounted to MSEK 20 440 (16 697) or 20 percent (18) of total Argentina. When calculating the key ratios for organic sales sales in 2018. Real sales growth, including acquisitions and growth percentage and real change percentage, the impact from adjusted for changes in exchange rates, was 21 percent (19). the remeasurement is treated similarly to currency change. The calculated key ratio percentages are thus comparable as to how SALES JANUARY – DECEMBER these were calculated before the adoption of IAS 29. MSEK 2018 2017 % The year ended with solid organic sales growth of 6 percent Total sales 101 467 92 197 10 (5) and we grew faster than the security market in general. We Currency change from 2017 -1 826 – have good traction with our offering and commercial activities in Currency adjusted sales 99 641 92 197 8 the market and we continue to push our strategy of combining Acquisitions / divestitures -1 760 -1 different protective services into security solutions for our clients. Organic sales 97 881 92 196 6 Security solutions and electronic security sales grew by 21 percent compared with 2017 and represented 20 percent of total Operating income before amortization Group sales. Operating income before amortization was MSEK 5 304 (4 697) The operating margin was 5.2 percent (5.1), with a strong which, adjusted for changes in exchange rates, represented a real performance in North America throughout 2018. Ibero-America change of 9 percent (4). also improved over the full year while the operating margin in The Group’s operating margin was 5.2 percent (5.1). The opeEurope improved towards the end of the year to be on par with rating margin in Security Services North America improved as last year. In 2018, we were able to balance wage cost increases well as in Security Services Ibero-America where Spain showed a with price increases, and in 2019, our focus remains the same strong performance. In Security Services Europe the operating while offering alternative solutions to our clients. margin was flat. Total price adjustments in the Group were on par The cost-savings program in Security Services Europe that with wage cost increases. was initiated during the year is progressing according to plan, with some savings achieved towards the end of 2018 and the OPERATING INCOME JANUARY – DECEMBER majority expected in 2019. The total payback period is about two MSEK 2018 2017 % years and is expected to reverse the negative cost development Operating income before we have seen during previous quarters to allow a year-on-year amortization 5 304 4 697 13 operating margin improvement, everything else equal. Currency change from 2017 -169 – Earnings per share, adjusted for changes in exchange rates Currency adjusted operating income before amortization 5 135 4 697 9 and items affecting comparability, improved by 12 percent in Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 57 R E P O R T O F T H E B O A R D O F D I R EC T O R S Operating income after amortization CONDENSED STATEMENT OF INCOME Amortization of acquisition related intangible assets amounted to ACCORDING TO SECURITAS’ FINANCIAL MODEL MSEK –260 (–255). MSEK 2018 2017 Acquisition related costs were MSEK –120 (–48). Acquisition Total sales 101 466.7 92 196.8 related costs for Kratos Public Safety and Security in the US were Organic sales growth, % 6 5 MSEK –80. For further information regarding acquisition related Production expenses -83 569.5 -75 951.6 costs refer to note 11. Gross income 17 897.2 16 245.2 Items affecting comparability were MSEK –455 (0), of which Selling and administrative expenses -12 654.5 -11 593.8 MSEK –187 related to the IS/IT transformation programs and Other operating income 29.6 23.8 Share in income of associated companies 31.3 22.0 MSEK –268 related to the cost savings program in Security ServiOperating income before amortization 5 303.6 4 697.2 ces Europe. The majority of the cost for the IS/IT programs in Operating margin, % 5.2 5.1 2018 were from Security Services North America, and a smaller Amortization of acquisition part from the segment Other. For further information regarding related intangible assets -259.9 -255.1 items affecting comparability, refer to note 11. Acquisition related costs -119.9 -48.4 Operating income after amortization was MSEK 4 469 (4 394). Items affecting comparability -454.8 Operating income after amortization 4 469.0 4 393.7 Financial income and expenses Financial income and expenses -440.6 -375.6 Financial income and expenses amounted to MSEK –441 (–376). Income before taxes 4 028.4 4 018.1 2018 included a one-off effect of MSEK –46 relating to the reTaxes -1 007.2 -1 266.6 financing of high interest-bearing debt items in Argentina. The Net income for the year 3 021.2 2 751.5 negative development of the underlying financial income and Securitas’ financial model is described on pages 54–55. expenses, excluding this effect, is due to a combination of the Operating items. Net debt-related items. development of USD interest rates, a weaker Swedish krona and Goodwill, taxes and non-operating items. Items related to shareholders’ equity. increased net debt. Financial income and expenses were positiDevelopment in the Group’s business segments vely impacted by an amount of MSEK 23 related to hyperinflation Security Services North America accounting in Argentina. SALES AND INCOME Income before taxes Change, % Income before taxes was MSEK 4 028 (4 018). MSEK 2018 2017 Total Real Total sales 42 366 38 108 11 8 Taxes, net income and earnings per share Organic sales growth, % 6 5 The Group’s tax rate was 25.0 percent (31.5). The tax rate Share of Group sales, % 42 41 adjusted for tax on items affecting comparability was 25.2 perOperating income cent. The reduction is mainly due to lower US tax rates as from before amortization 2 589 2 254 15 11 2018 as a result of the US tax reform. The 2017 full-year tax rate Operating margin, % 6.1 5.9 was 28.4 percent, excluding a one-off tax expense of 3.1 perShare of Group operating income, % 49 48 cent, pertaining to a revaluation of US net deferred tax assets, Further information regarding the statement of income, cash flow and capital employed is provided in due to new US tax rates as of 2018. Assessing the current tax note 10. base and tax matters, the best judgment is that the full-year Organic sales growth was 6 percent (5), with a good portfolio Group tax rate in 2019 is expected to increase to around 28.5 development throughout the year in the five geographical regions percent, mainly due to reversed effects from the US tax reform. and the critical infrastructure services business unit. The client Net income was MSEK 3 021 (2 751). Earnings per share retention rate remained solid at 91 percent (91). amounted to SEK 8.26 (7.53). Earnings per share before items Security solutions and electronic security sales represented affecting comparability amounted to SEK 9.17 (7.87). MSEK 7 365 (5 665) or 17 percent (15) of total sales in the business segment in 2018. The operating margin was 6.1 percent (5.9), supported mainly by leverage from the strong organic sales growth and a good performance within the risk management business. The Swedish krona exchange rate weakened against the US dollar, which had a positive effect on operating income in Swedish kronor. The real change was 11 percent in 2018. 58 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 R E P O R T O F T H E B O A R D O F D I R EC T O R S The operating margin was 4.5 percent (4.2), an improvement Security Services Europe driven by Spain. The operating margin was burdened by Argentina and we expect continued challenging conditions in the coming SALES AND INCOME quarters. We are not satisfied with the situation in Argentina and Change, % have made management changes in the country. The client retenMSEK 2018 2017 Total Real tion rate was 92 percent (91). Total sales 45 040 40 703 11 6 The Swedish krona exchange rate strengthened against the Organic sales growth, % 4 2 Argentinian peso while it weakened against the Euro. The net Share of Group sales, % 44 44 effect was positive on operating income in Swedish kronor. The Operating income real change in the segment was 7 percent in 2018. before amortization 2 511 2 275 10 7 Operating margin, % 5.6 5.6 Cash flow Share of Group operating income, % 47 48 Cash flow from operating activities amounted to MSEK 3 172 Further information regarding the statement of income, cash flow and capital employed is provided in note 10. (3 837), equivalent to 60 percent (82) of operating income before amortization. Organic sales growth was 4 percent (2) and almost all countries There was an important impact from changes in accounts supported the development, with main contribution from Belreceivable with MSEK –1 575 (–449), with a negative impact gium, Germany and the guarding business in Turkey. The portfofrom an increase in Days of Sales Outstanding (DSO), primarily in lio development in 2018 was strong with good new sales and a Security Services North America where the cash collection was client retention rate of 93 percent (91). The lower refugee-relabelow the plan. There is a continued negative impact from an ted sales represented almost 1 percent negative impact on orgainvoicing system change transition in the Netherlands and the nic sales growth in the business segment in 2018. interest hike in Argentina causing payment delays. Also, the Security solutions and electronic security sales represented strong organic sales growth, especially in Security Services North MSEK 9 638 (8 071) or 21 percent (20) of total sales in the busiAmerica, impacted change in accounts receivable. Further it is ness segment in 2018. noticed that larger clients continue to demand longer payment The operating margin was 5.6 percent (5.6), supported by terms which is difficult to compensate as the Group’s production leverage on the strong topline but hampered by some operational cost relates mostly to payments to employees. All in all, the cash inefficiencies during the year, continued investments in the Vision performance was not satisfying, and the reasons will be analyzed 2020 strategy and the lower level of refugee-related sales. together with potential actions to improve. Changes in other opeThe Swedish krona exchange rate weakened against foreign rating capital employed were MSEK –62 (–48). currencies, primarily the Euro, which had a positive effect on opeCash flow from operating activities was also impacted by net rating income in Swedish kronor. The real change was 7 percent investments in non-current tangible and intangible assets, in 2018. amounting to MSEK –495 (–363). The net investments include capital expenditures in equipment for solution contracts. Security Services Ibero-America Free cash flow was MSEK 1 884 (2 290), equivalent to 48 percent (68) of adjusted income. SALES AND INCOME Cash flow from investing activities, acquisitions, was Change, % MSEK –1 755 (–304), of which purchase price payments accounMSEK 20181 2017 Total Real ted for MSEK –1 700 (–257), assumed net debt for MSEK 42 Total sales 12 315 11 971 3 12 (12) and acquisition related costs paid for MSEK –97 (–59). Organic sales growth, % 12 13 Cash flow from financing activities was MSEK –376 (–743) Share of Group sales, % 12 13 due to dividend paid of MSEK –1 460 (–1 369) and a net increase Operating income in borrowings of MSEK 1 084 (626). before amortization 550 506 9 7 Cash flow for the period was MSEK –364 (1 243). The closing Operating margin, % 4.5 4.2 balance for liquid funds after translation differences of MSEK –18 Share of Group operating income, % 10 11 was MSEK 3 229 (3 611). Further information regarding the statement of income, cash flow and capital employed is provided in note 10. 1 A s of July 1, 2018, Securitas has adopted IAS 29 Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies for our operations in Argentina. When calculating the key ratios for organic sales growth percentage and real change percentage, the impact from the remeasurement is treated similarly to currency change. The calculated key ratio percentages are thus comparable as to how these were calculated before the adoption of IAS 29. The impact from IAS 29 is a net reduction of sales with MSEK –63 and a net reduction of operating income before amortization of MSEK –3. Organic sales growth was 12 percent (13). The decline was primarily due to Argentina where the macro economic environment and instability in the security market had a negative impact on organic sales growth. Organic sales growth was strong in Spain. Security solutions and electronic security sales represented MSEK 3 270 (2 833) or 27 percent (24) of total sales in the business segment in 2018. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 59 R E P O R T O F T H E B O A R D O F D I R EC T O R S CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW The net debt to EBITDA ratio was 2.3 (2.0). The interest cover ACCORDING TO SECURITAS’ FINANCIAL MODEL ratio amounted to 10.7 (11.8). MSEK 2018 2017 Securitas has a revolving credit facility with its 12 key relationOperating income before amortization 5 303.6 4 697.2 ship banks. This credit facility comprises two respective tranches Investments in non-current tangible of MUSD 550 and MEUR 440 and matures in 2022. On Decemand intangible assets -2 187.8 -1 808.4 ber 31, 2018, MUSD 50 of the facility was drawn. Further inforReversal of depreciation 1 693.5 1 445.5 mation regarding financial instruments and credit facilities is proNet investments in non-current tangible and intangible assets -494.3 -362.9 vided in note 7. Change in accounts receivable -1 575.0 -448.9 Standard and Poor’s rating for Securitas is BBB with stable Change in other operating capital employed -62.3 -48.1 outlook. Cash flow from operating activities 3 172.0 3 837.3 Shareholders’ equity amounted to MSEK 17 657 (15 539). Cash flow from operating activities, % 60 82 The translation of foreign assets and liabilities into Swedish Financial income and expenses paid -431.4 -425.6 kronor increased shareholders’ equity by MSEK 306. Refer to the Current taxes paid -856.3 -1 122.2 consolidated statement of comprehensive income on page 66 for Free cash flow 1 884.3 2 289.5 further information. Free cash flow, % 48 68 The total number of outstanding shares amounted to Cash flow from investing activities, 365 058 897 (365 058 897) as of December 31, 2018. acquisitions and divestitures -1 755.2 -303.6 Cash flow from items affecting comparability -117.4 – Cash flow from financing activities -375.4 -742.7 CONDENSED CAPITAL EMPLOYED AND FINANCING ACCORDING TO SECURITAS’ FINANCIAL MODEL Cash flow for the year -363.7 1 243.2 MSEK 2018 2017 Securitas’ financial model is described on pages 54–55. Operating capital employed 9 198.6 7 559.8 Operating items. Net debt-related items. Operating capital employed as % of sales 9 8 Goodwill, taxes and non-operating items. Goodwill 21 061.3 18 719.1 Acquisition related intangible assets 1 458.2 1 172.8 Capital employed and financing Shares in associated companies 452.0 419.8 Total capital employed 32 170.1 27 871.5 Capital employed Return on capital employed, % 15 17 The Group’s operating capital employed was MSEK 9 199 Net debt 14 513.5 12 332.5 (7 560), corresponding to 9 percent of sales (8), adjusted for the Shareholders’ equity 17 656.6 15 539.0 full-year sales figures of acquired units. The translation of foreign Total financing 32 170.1 27 871.5 operating capital employed to Swedish kronor increased the Securitas’ financial model is described on pages 54–55. Group’s operating capital employed by MSEK 151. The increase in operating capital employed is mainly explaiOperating items. Net debt-related items. Goodwill and non-operating items. Items related to shareholders’ equity. ned by the delayed cash flow from operating activities as explained under the cash flow section, in combination with the NET DEBT DEVELOPMENT increased business volume in Security Services North America MSEK 2018 2017 and a higher need for operating capital employed related to the Opening balance January 1 -12 332.5 -13 431.3 changed sales mix from growing different protective services. The Group also continues to invest into the execution of the straCash flow from operating activities 3 172.0 3 837.3 tegy with investments in clients’ site equipment. Financial income and expenses paid -431.4 -425.6 The annual impairment test of all Cash Generating Units Current taxes paid -856.3 -1 122.2 (CGU), which is required under IFRS, took place during the third Free cash flow 1 884.3 2 289.5 quarter 2018 in conjunction with the business plan process for Cash flow from investing activities, 2019. None of the CGUs tested for impairment had a carrying acquisitions and divestitures -1 755.2 -303.6 amount that exceeded the recoverable amount. Consequently, no Cash flow from items affecting comparability -117.4 – impairment losses have been recognized in 2018. No impairDividend paid -1 460.2 -1 369.0 ment losses were recognized in 2017 either. Change in net debt before revaluation and translation -1 448.5 616.9 The Group’s total capital employed was MSEK 32 170 (27 872). The translation of foreign capital employed to Swedish Revaluation of financial instruments 26.0 -28.8 kronor increased the Group’s capital employed by MSEK 1 064. Translation differences -758.5 510.7 The return on capital employed was 15 percent (17). Change in net debt -2 181.0 1 098.8 Closing balance December 31 -14 513.5 -12 332.5 Financing The Group’s net debt amounted to MSEK 14 513 (12 333). The net debt was positively impacted mainly by free cash flow of MSEK 1 884, while it was negatively impacted mainly by cash flow from acquisitions of MSEK –1 755, dividend of MSEK –1 460, paid to the shareholders in May 2018, and the translation of net debt in foreign currency to Swedish kronor of MSEK –758. The free cash flow to net debt ratio amounted to 0.13 (0.19). 60 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 R E P O R T O F T H E B O A R D O F D I R EC T O R S Acquisitions and divestitures ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES JANUARY-DECEMBER 2018 (MSEK) Acq. related Included Acquired Annual Enterprise intangible Company Business segment1 from share2 sales 3 value 4 Goodwill assets Opening balance 18 719 1 173 Automatic Alarm, France 6 Security Services Europe Jan 2 100 370 299 302 138 Süddeutsche Bewachung, Germany 6 Security Services Europe Jan 2 100 95 95 51 46 Johnson & Thomson, Hong Kong 6 Other Jan 2 100 17 19 30 12 Alphatron Security Systems, the Netherlands Security Services Europe Mar 1 100 102 126 83 32 Kratos Public Safety and Security, the US Security Services North America Jun 11 100 1 175 639 479 106 Pronet Security and Sernet Services, Turkey Security Services Europe Jul 25 100 480 315 214 108 Other acquisitions5,6 – – 141 165 55 57 Total acquisitions and divestitures January–December 2018 2 380 1 658 1 214 499 Amortization of acquisition related intangible assets – –260 Translation differences and remeasurement for hyperinflation 1 128 46 Closing balance 21 061 1 458 1 Refers to business segment with main responsibility for the acquisition. Belgium, Video Monitoring, XXXLutz (contract portfolio), Kika/Leiner (contract portfolio), Austria, 2 Refers to voting rights for acquisitions in the form of share purchase agreements. For asset deals no Microtech, Czech Republic, DAK, Sensormatic, Turkey and PSGA, Australia. Related also to deferred voting rights are stated. considerations paid in Finland, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, Austria, Czech Republic, Croatia, 3 Estimated annual sales. Turkey, Argentina, Chile, China and Australia. 4 P urchase price paid plus acquired net debt but excluding any deferred considerations. 6 Deferred considerations have been recognized mainly based on an assessment of the future profit5 Related to other acquisitions for the period and updated previous year acquisition calculations for ability development in the acquired entities for an agreed period. The net of new deferred considthe following entities: Prevendo (contract portfolio), Sweden, Vartioimisliike H. Hakala (contract erations, payments made from previously recognized deferred considerations and revaluation of portfolio), Finland, Industrieund Werkschutz Brandstetter (contract portfolio), WHD Wachdienst deferred considerations in the Group was MSEK 109. Total deferred considerations, short-term and Heidelberg, Germany, Milton Keynes Security Services, R&R Frontline, UK, Services in Safety, long-term, in the Group’s balance sheet amount to MSEK 272. All acquisition calculations are finalized no later than one year related to 450 airports, is between BUSD 1.3–1.8. The acquisiafter the acquisition is made. Transactions with non-controlling tion is consistent with Securitas strategy of expanding in the aviainterests are specified in the consolidated statement of changes tion industry. Global Elite Group is considered a premier aviation in shareholders’ equity and in note 29. Transaction costs and security service provider in the US. The company will strengthen revaluation of deferred considerations can be found in note 11. and complement Securitas current aviation organization, and the For further information regarding acquisitions and divestitures combined network, footprint, licenses and know-how will in 2018, refer to note 16. increase the value we bring to existing and new clients. The acquisition was consolidated in Securitas as of January 10, 2019. Other significant events In order to hedge the share portion of Securitas share-based Two major IS/IT transformation programs initiated incentive scheme 2018, the Group entered into a swap agreeThe Board of Directors has approved two major programs with ment with a third party in the beginning of March 2019. approximately MSEK -650 as future items affecting comparability There have been no other significant events with effect on the and future capital expenditure of approximately MSEK 550 to be financial reporting after the balance sheet date. recognized 2019–2020. The first program is expected to reduce IT costs in the Group by MSEK 300 upon completion in 2022. Change in Group Management The second program is expected to support the operating margin Helena Andreas has been appointed Senior Vice President Brand, in Security Services North America up to 0.5 percentage points Communications and Public Relations of Securitas AB. Since June by 2022, everything else equal. 2014, Helena Andreas has been Head of Group Marketing and Communications at Nordea with overall responsibility for the Other significant events after the balance sheet date Nordea Group’s client insight, branding, marketing, communicaSecuritas Transport Aviation Services USA has acquired Global tion and sustainability activities. Before joining Nordea, Helena Elite Group, a leading security services provider to the aviation held several senior positions with the listed companies Vodafone industry in the US. The purchase price is approximately MUSD 22 and Tesco while based in London between 2005 and 2014. Prior (MSEK 200), contingent upon reaching certain targets. Global to this, she was a consultant at Accenture in Stockholm. Helena Elite Group is based in Garden City, New York, and specializes in has a MSc in Engineering Physics from Lund University and an providing high level security services to various airlines, airports MBA from INSEAD France/Singapore. Helena Andreas assumed and airport related clients. The client base consists of more than this position on February 1, 2019 and she is a member of Securi60 commercial airlines and numerous general aviation clients. The tas Group Management from this date. growth pattern in the company has been solid over the years with Peter Karlströmer has been appointed Divisional President total sales expected to be MUSD 32 (MSEK 290) for 2018. The Security Services Europe. Peter comes from Cisco Systems where number of employees is approximately 1 050. he led the business with telecom operators in Europe, Middle East, Securitas runs a twofold strategy in the US aviation market, Africa and Russia. Before that Peter led the geographic business in addressing both the federal government with passenger and bagthe Nordics, Benelux and Baltics. Prior to joining Cisco in 2012, gage screening for the Transportation Security Administration, as Peter worked with McKinsey & Company for 15 years as a partner well as security services for the commercial market such as airin business leadership roles across Europe, Middle East and Africa. lines, airports and airport related clients (e.g. cargo). The estiPeter holds a Master of Science in Business Administration and mated market volume for the latter, i.e. the commercial market Economics, and a Master of Science in Electrical Engineering from Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 61 R E P O R T O F T H E B O A R D O F D I R EC T O R S Lund University. Peter Karlströmer assumed his position on March The client credit risk, that is the risk of Securitas’ clients not 4, 2019 and he is a member of Securitas Group Management from being able to fulfill their obligation of paying invoices for services this date. being provided, is reduced by the fact that the numerous clients are spread over many business sectors and geographies, and by Risk and uncertainties established routines for monitoring and collecting of accounts Managing risk is necessary for Securitas to be able to fulfill its receivable within the organization. Further information regarding strategies and achieve its corporate objectives. Securitas’ financial risk management is provided above under the section approach to enterprise risk management is described in more Capital employed and financing / Financing and in note 7. detail on pages 48–51. The preparation of financial reports requires the Board of Securitas’ risks fall into three main categories: contract and Directors and Group Management to make estimates and judgacquisition risks, operational assignment risks and financial risks. ments. Estimates and judgments will impact the statement of income and the balance sheet, as well as disclosures such as Contract and acquisition risks contingent liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimaThis category encompasses the risks related to entering into a tes and judgments under different circumstances and conditions. client contract and also those risks related to the acquisition of Further information regarding critical estimates and judgments is new businesses. provided in note 4. When entering into a contract with a client a balanced allocaFor the forthcoming twelve-month period, the financial impact tion of responsibilities and risks between Securitas and the client of certain items affecting comparability, provisions and contingent is essential. Standardized contracts are the norm. Reasonable liabilities, as described in note 11, note 32, note 35 and note 37 caps on potential liability and indemnification for third-party respectively, may vary from the current financial estimates and claims are important. Significant focus is devoted to contract risks provisions made by management. This could affect the profitability and the management of contract risks. Each segment has develoand the financial position of the Group. ped policies and procedures tailored to their specific needs. These policies are all based on the contract policies approved by Statutory sustainability report the Board of Directors in the Group Policies. The statutory Sustainability Report is included in separate parts In addition to organic growth resulting from new and / or of the Securitas AB Annual Report 2018 and is not a part of the increased client contracts the Group has grown by a significant statutory Annual Report. number of acquisitions over the years and will, as part of the Securitas AB’s sustainability report describes the Group’s work Group’s strategy, continue to acquire security companies. The with regards to economic, environmental and social aspects. The integration of new companies always carries certain risks. To a report is prepared according to the Sustainability Reporting Stanhigher degree than previously, such acquisitions are also taking dards, issued by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The sustainability place in new markets such as Latin America, Africa, the Middle reporting also includes the statutory sustainability report under East and Asia or relate to acquisitions of security companies Chapter 6 Section 11 of the Annual Accounts Act. active within electronic security. The profitability of the acquired Securitas is a service company with relatively low environmecompany may be lower than expected and / or certain costs in ntal impact compared with a manufacturing company. The operaconnection with the acquisition may be higher than expected. tions of the Group do not require a permit under the Swedish The acquisitions made during 2018 are described under the Environmental Code. heading Acquisitions and divestitures above and in note 16. INFORMATION ABOUT: See page Operational assignment risks Environment 146-147, 149, 153-154 Operational assignment risks are risks associated with daily operaSocial conditions 146-148 tions and the services we provide to our clients, for example, when 11, 15, 144, 146, 148, services do not meet the required standards and result in loss of Personnel 150-151 property, damage to property or bodily injury. Proper recruitment, Respect for human rights 15, 146-147 Anti-corruption 146, 149 training and supervision of security officers are important to mitiBusiness model 10 gate these risks. Another type of operational assignment risk Significant risks for sustainability 148-149 which may impact profitability is the risk that Securitas will not be GRI index 155-157 able to increase prices to be paid by clients in order to compensate fully for increases in wages and related costs. Research and development Financial risks The service offering of the Group is continuously being develoFinancial risks are mainly managed through continuous measureped, not least as an integrated item when carrying out the service ment and follow-up of financial performance, with the help of delivery to the clients. Technical solutions are an important part Securitas’ financial model. This model identifies certain key figures of the security solutions that Securitas offers. In order to support that are vital to the profitability of the operations, and facilitates this development, a Chief Technology Officer (CTO) position with the detection and handling of risks. The financial model is descrisupporting staff is implemented in all major countries as well as bed in more detail on pages 54–55. In addition, financial risks on divisional level. The capabilities within technical solutions is (other than relating to financial reporting) arise because the Group also supported by a number of acquisitions within Electronic has external financing needs and operates in a number of foreign security such as the ones completed during 2018 with Kratos, currencies. The risks are mainly interest rate risk, foreign currency Alphatron and Johnson & Thomson. risk, financing and liquidity risk and credit / counterparty risk. The Group’s Chief Information Officer with team are leading 62 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 R E P O R T O F T H E B O A R D O F D I R EC T O R S the development of Securitas’ global digitization and IS/IT transWe have initiated two major transformation programs in the formation and are responsible for large scale global IT/business further digitization of the company. The first program will radiprojects. As mentioned above under the heading Other significant cally modernize our global IS/IT foundation throughout the events, the Group is now initiating two major transformation proGroup. This investment into our global IS/IT foundation and the grams in the further digitization of the company. Further details creation of a global IS/IT organization will make us more efficient. can be found below under the heading Group development. With the second program we are driving a business transformaSecuritas is a service company and has historically not carried tion of our North American operations with the objective to opeout any material research and development activities as defined rate in a more effective way, with expected positive impact on our in IAS 38 Intangible assets. Under the responsibility of the client offering, competitiveness and bottom line. The programs Group’s Chief Information Officer the Group has gradually have been initiated and are expected to be completed over the invested in capabilities to develop improved data-driven and next 24 to 36 months. intelligence-based services for a future where scale and data Related to these two programs, MSEK –187 was recognized availability are critical for the next big shift in the security services as items affecting comparability in the income statement in industry to the benefit our clients and society as a whole. A 2018. An additional amount of approximately MSEK –650 will be number of development projects that supports this are ongoing recognized as items affecting comparability over the course of and as of December 31, 2018 the Group had MSEK 23 (0) in the next two years. Such costs relate primarily to the impairment capitalized development expenditures. of assets, organizational restructuring charges and other nonrecurring items. Furthermore, an estimated amount of MSEK 550 Information regarding the Securitas share related to these two programs will be capitalized and amortized Information about the Securitas share regarding the number of over the life time of the assets. shares of Series A and Series B, differences between shares in When fully implemented, we expect to have a more technoSeries A and Series B as well as information on major sharehollogy-enabled platform across the Group, creating the capability to ders can be found in note 29. Further information regarding the develop and launch digital services at scale for our clients, as well Securitas share can also be found on pages 162–163. as a more cost-efficient base. Upon expected completion in In order to be able to contribute to shareholder value, the 2022, the investment into our global IS/IT foundation is expected Board considers it beneficial for the company to be able to adjust to reduce our current IT costs across the Group by MSEK 300. the company’s capital structure as appropriate at each point in With higher efficiency and productivity, we will free up resources time. The Board has therefore decided to propose to the Annual to invest in speeding up the development and delivery of intelliGeneral Meeting on May 6, 2019, that the Board be authorized gent services and to improve margins. The business transformato be able to resolve on the acquisition of the company’s shares tion program in North America will, everything else equal, support for a period until the next Annual General Meeting, up to a maxiour North American operating margin up to 0.5 percentage mum of ten (10) percent of the issued shares in the company. points, with a first positive impact starting in 2021 and gradually For this purpose, the Board intends to propose that any shares increasing during 2022. that have been repurchased as per such an authorization be canWe will analyze further opportunities similar to the North celled. There is currently an authorization by the Annual General American business transformation initiative. Our focus is on our Meeting held on May 2, 2018, to the Board of Directors to European operations to assess the feasibility of such an initiative repurchase Securitas shares with the same terms and limitations and the business case and we expect to provide further informaas proposed to the Annual General Meeting for 2019. The Board tion in the second half of 2019. of Directors has as of the date of this Annual Report, not taken We have good momentum as a company and team. In 2018, any decisions to repurchase shares. we took important steps and initiatives to put Securitas in a strong A shareholders’ agreement that among other items comprises position. We are now speeding up the pace of change and leading preemption rights for the sale of Series A shares by any part the transformation of the global security services industry. exists among Gustaf Douglas, Melker Schörling and companies closely related to them. Apart from this, the Board of Directors of Parent Company operations Securitas AB is not aware of any shareholders’ agreements or The Group’s Parent Company, Securitas AB, is not involved in any other arrangements between shareholders of Securitas AB. operating activities. Securitas AB consists of Group Management and support functions for the Group. Group development The Parent Company’s income amounted to MSEK 1 196 Securitas continue to deliver according to our Vision 2020 but is (1 089) and mainly relates to license fees and other income from also to starting to shape the strategy beyond 2020. Much of this subsidiaries. work focuses on client centricity, how we will strengthen our guarFinancial income and expenses amounted to MSEK 2 269 ding core, and how we will lead the industry through innovation. (1 549). Income before taxes amounted to MSEK 2 558 (2 365). The strong organic sales growth and improved margins are proof Income before taxes includes dividends from subsidiaries of of delivering on our Vision 2020 and we see significant opportuniMSEK 1 593 (2 182), interest income of MSEK 659 (466), inteties by speeding up. Accelerating the modernization of our IS/IT rest expense of MSEK -418 (-377) and other financial income capability and digitization of our operations will enable us to offer and expenses, net, of MSEK 435 (-722). For further information, greatly improved data-driven and intelligence-based services. In a refer to note 47. future where scale and data availability are critical, we will drive the Net income was MSEK 2 269 (2 387). next big shift in the security services industry to benefit our clients Cash flow for the year amounted to MSEK -617 (718). and society as a whole. This will also enable us to grow faster than The Parent Company’s non-current assets amounted to the market and deliver profitable growth. MSEK 43 506 (43 037) and mainly comprise shares in Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 63 R E P O R T O F T H E B O A R D O F D I R EC T O R S subsidiaries of MSEK 41 332 (41 296). Current assets amounted At dismissal, the notice period for all senior management to MSEK 7 329 (6 823) of which liquid funds amounted to employees shall amount to a maximum of twelve months with a MSEK 1 326 (1 943). right to redundancy payment after the end of the notice period, Shareholders’ equity amounted to MSEK 28 499 (27 664). A equivalent to a maximum of 100 percent of the fixed salary for a dividend of MSEK 1 460 (1 369) was paid to the shareholders in period not exceeding twelve months. At resignation by a senior May 2018. management employee, the notice period shall amount to a maxThe Parent Company’s liabilities and untaxed reserves amounimum of six months. ted to MSEK 22 336 (22 196) and mainly consist of interestThese guidelines shall apply to individuals who are included in bearing debt. the Group Management during the term of application of these For further information, refer to the Parent Company’s financial guidelines. The guidelines shall apply to agreements entered into statements and the accompanying notes and comments. after the adoption by the Annual General Meeting, and to changes made in existing agreements after this date. The Board shall Proposed guidelines for remuneration be entitled to deviate from the guidelines in individual cases if to senior management in Securitas for 2019 there are specific reasons for such deviation. The Board of Directors of Securitas AB proposes that the Annual General Meeting on May 6, 2019 adopts guidelines for remuneProposed allocation of earnings ration to senior management in accordance with the following. The statements of income and the balance sheets of the Parent The fundamental principle is that remuneration and other Company and the Group are subject to adoption by the Annual terms of employment for senior management shall be competiGeneral Meeting on May 6, 2019. tive and in accordance with market conditions, in order to ensure that the Securitas Group will be able to attract and keep compeRetained earnings in the Parent Company available for tent senior management employees. distribution: The total remuneration to senior management shall consist of SEK a fixed basic salary, variable remuneration, pensions and other Hedging reserve 14 478 214 benefits. In addition to a fixed annual salary the Group ManageRetained earnings 18 418 431 882 ment may also receive variable remuneration, which shall be Net income for the year1 2 268 997 276 based on the outcome in relation to financial goals within the Total 20 701 907 372 individual’s area of responsibility (Group or division) and which 1 Includes Group contributions to subsidiaries of SEK 135 488 000. shall be aligned with the interest of the shareholders. The variable remuneration shall amount to a maximum of 60 percent of The Board of Directors proposed that the earnings are allocated the fixed annual salary for the President and CEO and a maxias follows: mum of 42–200 percent of the fixed annual salary for other indiSEK viduals of the Group Management. If cash payment of variable a dividend to the shareholders of remuneration has been effected on grounds later proven to be SEK 4.40 per share 1 606 259 147 obviously inaccurate, the company shall have the possibility to retained earnings to be carried forward 19 095 648 225 reclaim such paid remuneration. Total 20 701 907 372 The Board of Directors shall each year consider whether to propose that the Annual General Meeting shall resolve upon Proposal on record date for dividend share or share price related incentive programs. Ahead of the As record date for dividend, the Board has proposed May 8, Annual General Meeting 2019, the Board of Directors proposes, 2019. If the Annual General Meeting so resolves, the dividend is in addition to the previously established incentive schemes, the expected to be distributed by Euroclear Sweden AB starting May implementation of LTI 2019/2021. 13, 2019. The cost of the company for 2019 in terms of its obligations to pay variable remuneration to the Group Management is estiProposed authorization to acquire the Company’s own shares mated to not exceed a total of MSEK 99 at maximum outcome The Board has further proposed that the 2019 Annual General (not including potential costs for the LTI 2019/2021). InformaMeeting should authorize the Board to, on one or several occation on previously decided remuneration which has not yet been sions during the time up to the Annual General Meeting in 2020, paid can be found in note 9. decide on the acquisition of the Company’s own shares. The proSubject to applicable legislation, the entire Group Manageposal entails that the Board may decide on the acquisition so that ment shall be subject to defined contribution pension plans for the maximum number of shares held by the Company at each which insurance premiums are transferred from the individual’s point in time does not exceed ten (10) percent of the total total remuneration and paid by the company during the term of number of shares outstanding in the Company. employment. In exceptional cases, the value of such insurance premiums can instead be paid as part of the remuneration to the The Board’s statement on the proposed dividend members of the Group Management. Variable compensation and the proposed authorization to acquire the shall not qualify for pension purposes unless local regulations Company’s own shares provide otherwise. The Board hereby issues the following statement regarding proOther benefits, such as company car, special health insurance posed allocation of earnings and proposed authorization to acquor occupational health service shall be provided to the extent this ire the Company’s own shares pursuant to Chapter 18, Section 4 is considered customary for senior management employees holand Chapter 19, Section 22 of the Swedish Companies Act. ding equivalent positions on the labor market where the senior The Company’s unappropriated earnings as per December 31, management employee is active. 2018 amount to SEK 18 432 910 096. The net income for the 64 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 R E P O R T O F T H E B O A R D O F D I R EC T O R S year amounts to SEK 2 268 997 276 of which SEK 135 488 000 is related to Group contributions to subsidiaries and SEK 5 265 893 is the result of financial instruments being valued pursuant to Chapter 4, Section 14a of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The Company’s equity would have been SEK 14 582 591 lower as per December 31, 2018, if financial instruments, having been valued at fair value pursuant to Chapter 4, Section 14a of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, had instead been valued at the lower of cost or market. At the disposal of the Annual General Meeting is thereby a total amount of SEK 20 701 907 372 in unappropriated earnings before the decision on dividend for 2018. Provided that the 2019 Annual General Meeting resolves to allocate the earnings in accordance with the Board’s proposal, SEK 19 095 648 225 will be carried forward. After distribution of the proposed dividend and Group contributions, there will be full coverage for the Company’s restricted equity. In view of the proposed dividend and authorization to acquire the Company’s own shares, the Board has considered the Company’s and the Group’s consolidation requirements and liquidity through a comprehensive assessment of the financial position of the Company and the Group, as well as the possibilities of the Company and the Group to discharge its obligations in the long term. The proposed dividend, the Group contributions to subsidiaries and the proposed authorization to acquire the Company’s own shares does not jeopardize the Company’s ability to make the investments that have been deemed necessary. The Company’s financial position does not give rise to any other assessment than that the Company can continue its operations and that the Company is expected to comply with its obligations in a short as well as long term perspective. In addition to the assessment of the Company’s consolidation requirements and liquidity, the Board has also taken into consideration all other known circumstances that may impact the Company’s financial position. With reference to the above, the Board makes the assessment that the proposed dividend, the Group contributions and the proposed authorization to acquire the Company’s own shares are justifiable considering the requirements that the nature, scope and risks of the operations pose on the size of the Company’s and the Group’s equity as well as the Company’s and the Group’s consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. As regards the Company’s and the Group’s result and position in general, refer to the statements of income, statements of comprehensive income, balance sheets and statements of cash flow as well as notes and comments. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 65 CO N SO L I DATE D F I NA NC IA L STAT EMENTS Consolidated statement of income MSEK Note 2018 20171 Sales 99 706.9 91 479.1 Sales, acquired business 1 759.8 717.7 Total sales 6, 10 101 466.7 92 196.8 Production expenses 11, 12, 13 -83 569.5 -75 951.6 Gross income 17 897.2 16 245.2 Selling and administrative expenses 11, 12, 13 -12 654.5 -11 593.8 Other operating income 6 29.6 23.8 Share in income of associated companies 21 31.3 22.0 Amortization of acquisition related intangible assets 18 -259.9 -255.1 Acquisition related costs 11 -119.9 -48.4 Items affecting comparability 11 -454.8 – Operating income 11 4 469.0 4 393.7 Financial income 14 84.8 53.7 Financial expenses 14 -525.4 -429.3 Income before taxes 4 028.4 4 018.1 Taxes 15 -1 007.2 -1 266.6 Net income for the year 3 021.2 2 751.5 Whereof attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company 3 015.9 2 749.7 Non-controlling interests 5.3 1.8 Average number of shares before and after dilution 365 058 897 365 058 897 Earnings per share before and after dilution (SEK) 3 8.26 7.53 Earnings per share before and after dilution and before items affecting comparability (SEK) 3 9.17 7.87 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income MSEK Note 2018 20171 Net income for the year 3 021.2 2 751.5 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans net of tax 31 -71.9 45.4 Total items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income -71.9 45.4 Items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income Remeasurement for hyperinflation net of tax 39 314.2 – Cash flow hedges net of tax 7 62.5 -21.9 Cost of hedging net of tax 7 -44.1 – Net investment hedges net of tax -381.3 91.3 Other comprehensive income from associated companies, translation differences 19.0 -25.3 Translation differences 668.0 -696.5 Total items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income 638.3 -652.4 Other comprehensive income 15 566.4 -607.0 Total comprehensive income for the year 3 587.6 2 144.5 Whereof attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company 3 582.8 2 142.5 Non-controlling interests 4.8 2.0 1 Comparatives have been restated as an effect of a change in accounting principle IFRS 15. Refer to note 2 for further information. 66 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Securitas’ financial model – consolidated statement of income Supplementary information MSEK 2018 20171 Sales 99 706.9 91 479.1 Sales, acquired business 1 759.8 717.7 Total sales 101 466.7 92 196.8 Organic sales growth, % 6 5 Production expenses -83 569.5 -75 951.6 Gross income 17 897.2 16 245.2 Gross margin, % 17.6 17.6 Expenses for branch offices -5 428.6 -5 101.3 Other selling and administrative expenses -7 225.9 -6 492.5 Total expenses -12 654.5 -11 593.8 Other operating income 29.6 23.8 Share in income of associated companies 31.3 22.0 Operating income before amortization 5 303.6 4 697.2 Operating margin, % 5.2 5.1 Amortization of acquisition related intangible assets -259.9 -255.1 Acquisition related costs -119.9 -48.4 Items affecting comparability -454.8 – Operating income after amortization 4 469.0 4 393.7 Financial income and expenses -440.6 -375.6 Income before taxes 4 028.4 4 018.1 Net margin, % 4.0 4.4 Taxes -1 007.2 -1 266.6 Net income for the year 3 021.2 2 751.5 Operating items. Net debt-related items. Goodwill, taxes and non-operating items. Items related to shareholders’ equity. 1 Comparatives have been restated as an effect of a change in accounting principle IFRS 15. Refer to note 2 for further information. Securitas’ financial model is described on pages 54–55. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 67 CO N SO L I DATE D F I NA NC IA L STAT EMENTS Consolidated statement of cash flow MSEK Note 2018 20171 Operations Operating income 4 469.0 4 393.7 Adjustment for effect on cash flow from items affecting comparability 11 337.4 – Adjustment for effect on cash flow from acquisition related costs 11 22.6 -10.2 Reversal of depreciation 18, 19, 20 1 953.4 1 700.6 Financial items received 59.2 53.8 Financial items paid -490.6 -479.4 Current taxes paid -856.3 -1 122.2 Change in accounts receivable -1 575.0 -448.9 Change in other operating capital employed -62.3 -48.1 Cash flow from operations 3 857.4 4 039.3 Investing activities Investments in non-current tangible and intangible assets -2 187.8 -1 808.4 Acquisitions and divestitures of subsidiaries 16 -1 657.9 -245.0 Cash flow from investing activities -3 845.7 -2 053.4 Financing activities Dividend paid to shareholders of the Parent Company -1 460.2 -1 369.0 Proceeds from bond loans 30, 33 3 004.1 3 299.5 Redemption of bond loans 30, 33 -3 479.7 -3 307.7 Proceeds from commercial paper 2 500.0 – Redemption of commercial paper -1 550.0 – Change in other interest-bearing net debt excluding liquid funds 610.4 634.5 Cash flow from financing activities 7 -375.4 -742.7 Cash flow for the year -363.7 1 243.2 Liquid funds at beginning of year 3 610.6 2 414.5 Translation differences on liquid funds -18.1 -47.1 Liquid funds at year-end 7, 28 3 228.8 3 610.6 1 Comparatives have been restated as an effect of a change in accounting principle IFRS 15. Refer to note 2 for further information. 68 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Securitas’ financial model – consolidated statement of cash flow Supplementary information MSEK 2018 20171 Operating income before amortization 5 303.6 4 697.2 Investments in non-current tangible and intangible assets -2 187.8 -1 808.4 Reversal of depreciation 1 693.5 1 445.5 Net investments in non-current tangible and intangible assets -494.3 -362.9 Change in accounts receivable -1 575.0 -448.9 Change in other operating capital employed -62.3 -48.1 Cash flow from operating activities 3 172.0 3 837.3 Cash flow from operating activities as % of operating income before amortization 60 82 Financial income and expenses paid -431.4 -425.6 Current taxes paid -856.3 -1 122.2 Free cash flow 1 884.3 2 289.5 Free cash flow as % of adjusted income 48 68 Acquisitions and divestitures of subsidiaries -1 657.9 -245.0 Acquisition related costs paid -97.3 -58.6 Cash flow from items affecting comparability -117.4 – Cash flow from financing activities -375.4 -742.7 Cash flow for the year -363.7 1 243.2 Operating items. Net debt-related items. Goodwill. taxes and non-operating items. 1 Comparatives have been restated as an effect of a change in accounting principle IFRS 15. Refer to note 2 for further information. Securitas’ financial model is described on pages 54–55. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 69 CO N SO L I DATE D F I NA NC IA L STAT EMENTS Consolidated balance sheet MSEK Note 2018 20171 Jan 1, 20171,2 ASSETS Non-current assets Goodwill 17 21 061.3 18 719.1 19 379.6 Acquisition related intangible assets 18 1 458.2 1 172.8 1 356.1 Other intangible assets 6, 19 1 449.9 1 079.0 917.5 Buildings and land 20 305.7 304.2 283.5 Machinery and equipment 20 3 448.2 3 184.9 3 054.3 Shares in associated companies 21 452.0 419.8 419.5 Deferred tax assets 15 961.3 1 004.0 1 347.9 Interest-bearing financial non-current assets 22 499.0 499.7 411.7 Other long-term receivables 23 782.8 815.6 769.1 Total non-current assets 30 418.4 27 199.1 27 939.2 Current assets Inventories 24 459.6 388.3 353.1 Accounts receivable 25 15 603.5 13 349.3 13 352.6 Current tax assets 15 581.2 606.9 490.4 Other current receivables 26 5 056.3 4 224.5 4 052.9 Other interest-bearing current assets 27 121.1 164.7 189.2 Liquid funds 28 3 228.8 3 610.6 2 414.5 Total current assets 25 050.5 22 344.3 20 852.7 TOTAL ASSETS 55 468.9 49 543.4 48 791.9 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders’ equity Share capital 365.1 365.1 365.1 Other capital contributed 7 362.6 7 362.6 7 362.6 Other reserves -326.1 -650.7 1.9 Retained earnings 10 229.8 8 440.8 7 032.3 Shareholders’ equity attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company 17 631.4 15 517.8 14 761.9 Non-controlling interests 25.2 21.2 20.7 Total shareholders’ equity 29 17 656.6 15 539.0 14 782.6 Long-term liabilities Long-term loan liabilities 30 15 973.8 13 024.6 12 806.9 Other long-term liabilities 30 336.3 237.7 258.1 Provisions for pensions and similar commitments 31 1 116.1 1 072.8 1 177.0 Deferred tax liabilities 15 570.7 1 027.9 1 035.1 Other long-term provisions 32 840.5 1 106.1 1 069.8 Total long-term liabilities 18 837.4 16 469.1 16 346.9 Current liabilities Short-term loan liabilities 33 2 388.6 3 582.9 3 639.8 Accounts payable 1 832.7 1 698.8 1 332.4 Current tax liabilities 15 1 362.3 335.5 401.4 Other current liabilities 34 12 027.3 10 865.6 10 960.3 Short-term provisions 35 1 364.0 1 052.5 1 328.5 Total current liabilities 18 974.9 17 535.3 17 662.4 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 55 468.9 49 543.4 48 791.9 1 Comparatives have been restated as an effect of a change in accounting principle IFRS 15. Refer to note 2 for further information. 2 Disclosed due to change in accounting principle IFRS 15. 70 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Securitas’ financial model – consolidated capital employed and financing Supplementary information MSEK 2018 20171 Jan 1, 20171,2 Operating capital employed Other intangible assets 1 449.9 1 079.0 917.5 Buildings and land 305.7 304.2 283.5 Machinery and equipment 3 448.2 3 184.9 3 054.3 Deferred tax assets 961.3 1 004.0 1 347.9 Other long-term receivables 782.8 815.6 769.1 Inventories 459.6 388.3 353.1 Accounts receivable 15 603.5 13 349.3 13 352.6 Current tax assets 581.2 606.9 490.4 Other current receivables 5 056.3 4 224.5 4 052.9 Total assets 28 648.5 24 956.7 24 621.3 Other long-term liabilities 336.3 237.7 258.1 Provisions for pensions and similar commitments 1 116.1 1 072.8 1 177.0 Deferred tax liabilities 570.7 1 027.9 1 035.1 Other long-term provisions 840.5 1 106.1 1 069.8 Accounts payable 1 832.7 1 698.8 1 332.4 Current tax liabilities 1 362.3 335.5 401.4 Other current liabilities 12 027.3 10 865.6 10 960.3 Short-term provisions 1 364.0 1 052.5 1 328.5 Total liabilities 19 449.9 17 396.9 17 562.6 Total operating capital employed 9 198.6 7 559.8 7 058.7 Goodwill 21 061.3 18 719.1 19 379.6 Acquisition related intangible assets 1 458.2 1 172.8 1 356.1 Shares in associated companies 452.0 419.8 419.5 Total capital employed 32 170.1 27 871.5 28 213.9 Operating capital employed as % of sales 9 8 8 Return on capital employed, % 15 17 16 Net debt Interest-bearing financial non-current assets 499.0 499.7 411.7 Other interest-bearing current assets 121.1 164.7 189.2 Liquid funds 3 228.8 3 610.6 2 414.5 Total interest-bearing assets 3 848.9 4 275.0 3 015.4 Long-term loan liabilities 15 973.8 13 024.6 12 806.9 Short-term loan liabilities 2 388.6 3 582.9 3 639.8 Total interest-bearing liabilities 18 362.4 16 607.5 16 446.7 Total net debt 14 513.5 12 332.5 13 431.3 Net debt equity ratio, multiple 0.82 0.79 0.91 Shareholders’ equity Share capital 365.1 365.1 365.1 Other capital contributed 7 362.6 7 362.6 7 362.6 Other reserves -326.1 -650.7 1.9 Retained earnings 10 229.8 8 440.8 7 032.3 Non-controlling interests 25.2 21.2 20.7 Total shareholders’ equity 17 656.6 15 539.0 14 782.6 Total financing 32 170.1 27 871.5 28 213.9 Operating items. Net debt-related items. Goodwill and non-operating items. Items related to shareholders’ equity. 1 Comparatives have been restated as an effect of a change in accounting principle IFRS 15. Refer to note 2 for further information. 2 Disclosed due to change in accounting principle IFRS 15. Securitas’ financial model is described on pages 54–55. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 71 CO N SO L I DATE D F I NA NC IA L STAT EMENTS Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity Shareholders’ equity attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company1 Total Other NonshareShare capital Hedging Translation Retained controlling holders’ MSEK capital contributed reserve reserve earnings2 Total interests1 2 equity2 Opening balance 2017 365.1 7 362.6 18.0 -16.1 6 757.6 14 487.2 20.7 14 507.9 Effect of change in accounting principle IFRS 153 – – – – 274.7 274.7 – 274.7 Opening balance adjusted in accordance with new accounting principle 365.1 7 362.6 18.0 -16.1 7 032.3 14 761.9 20.7 14 782.6 Net income for the year – – – – 2 749.7 2 749.7 1.8 2 751.5 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans net of tax – – – – 45.4 45.4 – 45.4 Total items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income – – – – 45.4 45.4 – 45.4 Items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income Cash flow hedges net of tax4 – – -21,9 – – -21,9 – -21,9 Net investment hedges net of tax 5 – – – 91.3 – 91.3 – 91.3 Other comprehensive income from associated companies, translation differences – – – -25.3 – -25.3 – -25.3 Translation differences – – – -696.7 – -696.7 0.2 -696.5 Total items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income – – -21.9 -630.7 – -652.6 0.2 -652.4 Other comprehensive income – – -21.9 -630.7 45.4 -607.2 0.2 -607.0 Total comprehensive income for the year – – -21.9 -630.7 2 795.1 2 142.5 2.0 2 144.5 Transactions with non-controlling interests1 – – – – -1.2 -1.2 -1.5 -2.7 Share-based incentive scheme1 – – – – -16.4 -16.4 – -16.4 Dividend paid to shareholders of the Parent Company – – – – -1 369.0 -1 369.0 – -1 369.0 Closing balance 2017 365.1 7 362.6 -3.9 -646.8 8 440.8 15 517.8 21.2 15 539.0 Opening balance 2018 365.1 7 362.6 -3.9 -646.8 8 440.8 15 517.8 21.2 15 539.0 Net income for the year – – – – 3 015.9 3 015.9 5.3 3 021.2 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans net of tax – – – – -71.9 -71.9 – -71.9 Total items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income – – – – -71.9 -71.9 – -71.9 Items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income Remeasurement for hyperinflation net of tax 6 – – – – 314.2 314.2 – 314.2 Cash flow hedges net of tax4 – – 62.5 – – 62.5 – 62.5 Cost of hedging net of tax – – -44.1 – – -44.1 – -44.1 Net investment hedges net of tax5 – – – -381.3 – -381.3 – -381.3 Other comprehensive income from associated companies, translation differences – – – 19.0 – 19.0 – 19.0 Translation differences – – – 668.5 – 668.5 -0.5 668.0 Total items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income – – 18.4 306.2 314.2 638.8 -0.5 638.3 Other comprehensive income – – 18.4 306.2 242.3 566.9 -0.5 566.4 Total comprehensive income for the year – – 18.4 306.2 3 258.2 3 582.8 4.8 3 587.6 Transactions with non-controlling interests1 – – – – -1.6 -1.6 -0.8 -2.4 Share-based incentive scheme1 – – – – -7.4 -7.4 – -7.4 Dividend paid to shareholders of the Parent Company – – – – -1 460.2 -1 460.2 – -1 460.2 Closing balance 2018 365.1 7 362.6 14.5 -340.6 10 229.8 17 631.4 25.2 17 656.6 1 Further information is provided in note 29. 2 Comparatives have been restated as an effect of a change in accounting principle IFRS 15. Refer to note 2 for further information. 3 Refers to net impact after taxes of adoption of IFRS 15. 4 Specification can be found in note 7, in the table revaluation of financial instruments, as well as in note 15. 5 For tax amount see note 15. 6 Further information is provided in note 39. 72 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note Not Notes 1 2 3 4 5 6 NOTE 1 General corporate information First time adoption 2018 7 As per July 1, 2018 Argentina is considered to be a hyperinflationary 8 Operations economy and consequently, Securitas has adopted IAS 29 Financial 9 Securitas serves a wide range of clients of all sizes in a variety of industries reporting in hyperinflationary economies for our operations in Argentina 10 and client segments. Security solutions based on client-specific needs are as of this date. This includes the subsidiaries with functional currency 11 built through different combinations of on-site, mobile and remote guardin ARS as well as consolidated goodwill that is consolidated into SEK from ARS. IAS 29 has been adopted without restatement of any of the 12 ing, electronic security, fire and safety and corporate risk management. Securitas operates in North America, Europe, Latin America, Africa, the consolidated financial statements in the Group’s presentation currency 13 Middle East, Asia and Australia and employs 370 000 employees in 58 SEK. This is based on IAS 21 § 42 (b). For further information regarding 14 countries. Securitas’ principles for revaluation according to IAS 29, refer to the sec15 tion Re­measurement for hyperinflation below in this note. 16 Information regarding Securitas AB 17 Securitas AB, corporate registration number 556302-7241, is a Swedish Adoption and impact of new and revised IFRS for 2018 18 public company and has its registered office in Stockholm, Sweden. Two new accounting standards, IFRS 9 Financial instruments and IFRS 15 19 The address of the head office is: Revenue from Contracts with Customers, have been applied by Securitas as of January 1, 2018. The effects of the transition to these standards are 20 Securitas AB described below. 21 Lindhagensplan 70 Regarding IFRS 9 Financial instruments, Securitas’ transition to 22 SE-102 28 Stockholm IFRS 9 has not entailed any restatement of the comparative figures. The 23 Sweden impact on the financial statements from hedge accounting under IFRS 9 24 Securitas AB is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm on the Large Cap List. The compared with the previous hedge accounting under IAS 39 has been 25 Securitas share is included in for example the OMX Stockholm Price Index minimal. The application of the expected credit loss model for impairment 26 and the OMX Stockholm 30 Index. Securitas has been listed on the stock testing of financial assets has had only a limited impact on the financial statements. For further information regarding Securitas’ transition to 27 exchange since 1991. IFRS 9, refer to the section Financial instruments below in this note. 28 Information regarding the Annual Report Regarding IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, 29 and the consolidated financial statements ­Securitas’ transition to IFRS 15 has been based on a full retrospective 30 This Annual Report including the consolidated financial statements was application without use of any practical expedients. The revenue rec31 signed by the Board of Directors and the President and CEO of Securitas ognition under IFRS 15 has not been materially impacted compared to 32 AB and also approved for publication on March 18, 2019. revenue recognition under previous standards. For further information 33 The statements of income and balance sheets for the Parent Company regarding Securitas’ principles for revenue recognition, refer to the sec34 and the consolidated financial statements for the Group included in the tion Revenue recognition below in this note. The main impact on Securitas due to the transition to IFRS 15 is that 35 Annual Report are subject to adoption by the Annual General Meeting on May 6, 2019. certain costs to obtain contracts have been capitalized in accordance with 36 IFRS 15. Consolidated balance sheets as of January 1, 2017 and Decem37 ber 31, 2017 that have been restated due to this change in accounting 38 NOTE 2 Accounting principles principle are disclosed on page 70. The effects of restating the com39 parative year 2017 is disclosed in note 6 along with a disaggregation of 40 Basis of preparation Securitas’ revenue on type of revenue as well as a description of these. 41 The restatement has had no effect on the Group´s segments, as they Securitas’ consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance have continued with the principle of expensing costs to obtain contracts 42 with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed as they are incurred. The effects of the restatement are thus accounted for 43 by the European Union (EU), the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the under Other in the Group’s segment overviews. Revenue split by segment 44 Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s standard RFR 1 Supplementary is accounted for in note 6 as well as in the segment overviews in note 10. 45 Accounting Rules for Groups. The consolidated financial statements None of the other published standards and interpretations that are have been prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention 46 mandatory for the Group’s financial year 2018 have had any impact on the method except where a fair value measurement is required according to 47 Group’s financial statements. IFRS. Examples of assets and liabilities measured at fair value are financial 48 assets or financial liabilities (including derivatives) at fair value through Introduction and effect of new and revised 49 profit or loss and plan assets related to defined benefit pension plans. IFRS that are effective as from 2019 50 IFRS 16 Leases came into force on January 1, 2019 and has been 51 Estimates and judgments Note 4 adopted by Securitas as of that date. Securitas has adopted IFRS 16 by 52 The preparation of financial reports requires the Board of Directors and recognizing the cumulative effect of the application on January 1, 2019 53 Group Management to make estimates and judgments. Estimates and without restatement of the comparative periods. 54 judgments will impact both the statement of income and the balance sheet One effect on Securitas from IFRS 16 is that total assets and total liabilias well as disclosures such as contingent liabilities. Actual outcome may 55 ties have increased by BSEK 3.4 as of January 1, 2019. This is due to the differ from these judgments under different assumptions or conditions. 56 fact that the majority of the Group’s leasing agreements are now accounted for gross in the balance sheet as right-of-use assets and loan liabilities. The 57 Group’s operating income in 2019 is expected to improve by BSEK 0.1 due 58 to lower leasing costs in operating income compared with the accounting 59 for lease contracts under IAS 17. Financial expenses in 2019 are expected 60 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 73 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS to increase by BSEK 0.1 compared with the accounting for lease contracts in the consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity. Gains or under IAS 17, due to the financial element in the lease calculations. Refer to losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity note 11 for further information on the Group’s leasing agreements 2018 as on the same line. well as to note 40 for further information regarding the effects on the Group The principle to treat transactions with non-controlling interests as from the adoption of IFRS 16. transactions with equity owners of the Group is also applied to the valuAmendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits came into force on ation of options relating to non-controlling interests. This means that at January 1, 2019 and has been adopted by Securitas as of that date. The both initial recognition and for any subsequent revaluation, according to amendments clarify the accounting for defined benefit plan amendments, the economic entity model, the transactions are recognized in equity as curtailments and settlements. They are not expected to have any material transactions with non-controlling interests. impact on the Group’s financial statements. None of the other published standards and interpretations that are manInvestments in associates (IAS 28) Note 21 and 52 datory for the Group’s financial year 2019 are assessed to have any impact Associates are entities in which Securitas can exert a significant influence, on the Group’s financial statements. generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20 percent and 50 percent of the voting rights. The equity method is used to account for Introduction and effect of new and revised IFRS these shareholdings. All payments to acquire a business are recorded that are effective as from 2020 and onwards at fair value on the acquisition date, with contingent considerations and The effect on the Group’s financial statements from standards and interacquisition related option liabilities classified as debt subsequently pretations that are mandatory for the Group’s financial year 2020 or later remeasured through the statement of income. All acquisition related remain to be assessed. transaction costs are expensed. Share in income of associates is recognized in the consolidated stateThe acquisition method (IFRS 3) Note 11, 16, 17 and 18 ment of income. Depending on the purpose of the investment share in The acquisition method is used to account for the acquisitions of subincome of associates is included either in operating income, if it is related sidiaries and operations by the Group. All payments to acquire a busito associates that have been acquired to contribute to the operations, or ness are recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent in income before taxes as a separate line within net financial items, if it is considerations and acquisition related option liabilities classified as debt related to associates that have been acquired as part of the financing of subsequently remeasured through the statement of income. The Group the Group. In both cases the share in income of associates are net of chooses on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis to measure the nontax. All associates in the Group are currently classified as operational controlling interest in the acquiree at fair value or at the non-controlling associates. interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. All acquisition In the consolidated balance sheet, investments in associates are stated related transaction costs are expensed. These costs are in the Group at cost including the cost of the acquisition that is attributed to goodwill accounted for on a line in the statement of income named acquisition and other acquisition related intangible assets, adjusted for dividends and related costs. Costs accounted for on this line are transaction costs, the share of income after the acquisition date. Investments in associates revaluation (including discounting) of contingent considerations and are also adjusted for translation differences of foreign investments, to acquisition related option liabilities, revaluation to fair value of previously the exchange rate prevailing on the last day of the month. The translation acquired shares in step acquisitions and acquisition related restructuring ­differences are posted directly to other comprehensive income and thus and integration costs. do not affect net income for the year. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s The consolidated financial statements include associates with effect share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the from the date of the acquisition. Associates divested are excluded with cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subeffect from the divestment date. sidiary acquired, the difference is recognized directly in the consolidated Transactions, balances and unrealized gains and losses between statement of income. the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the associate. Scope of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS 10 and IFRS 12) Note 16 and 51 Translation of foreign subsidiaries (IAS 21) Note 29 The consolidated financial statements relate to the Parent Company The functional currency of each Group company, that is the currency in Securitas AB and all subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are all companies where which the company primarily generates and expends cash, is determined the Group has control, which is the case where the Group is exposed, or by the primary economic environment in which the company operates. has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the company and The functional currency of the Parent Company and the presentation has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the company. currency of the Group, that is the currency in which the financial statements The consolidated financial statements include companies acquired are presented, is Swedish kronor (SEK). with effect from the date that the Group obtains control. Companies When translating the financial statements of each foreign subsidiary, divested are excluded with effect from the date that the Group ceases each month’s statement of income is translated using the exchange rate to have control. prevailing on the last day of the month. This means that income for each Pricing of deliveries among Group companies is based on normal month is not affected by foreign exchange fluctuations during subsequent business principles. Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealized periods. Balance sheets are translated using exchange rates prevailing at gains and losses between Group companies are eliminated. each balance sheet date. Translation differences arising in the conversion of balance sheets are posted directly to other comprehensive income and Non-controlling interests (IFRS 3 and IFRS 10) Note 29 thus do not affect net income for the year. The translation difference arising The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transacbecause statements of income are translated using average rates, while tions with equity owners of the Group. For acquisitions from non-controlling balance sheets are translated using exchange rates prevailing at each interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant balance sheet date, is posted directly to other comprehensive income. share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is Where loans have been raised to reduce the Group’s foreign exchange / recorded in equity on the line transactions with non-controlling interests translation exposure in foreign net assets, and qualify for the hedge accounting criteria, exchange rate differences on such loans are recognized 74 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note Not 1 together with the exchange rate differences arising from the translation of Guarding services comprises on-site and mobile guarding, which is ser2 foreign net assets in other comprehensive income. vices with the same revenue recognition pattern. Revenue is recognized 3 The accumulated translation differences are accounted for in translaover time, as the services are rendered by Securitas and simultaneously 4 tion reserve in equity. When a foreign operation or part thereof is sold, such consumed by the clients. Such services cannot be reperformed. exchange differences are recognized in the statement of income as part of Security solutions and electronic security comprise two broad catego5 the gain or loss on sale. ries. Security solutions are a combination of services such as on-site and/or 6 Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a mobile guarding and/or remote guarding. These services are combined with 7 foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and a technology component in terms of equipment owned and managed by 8 translated using exchange rates prevailing at each balance sheet date. Securitas and used in the provision of services. The equipment is installed at 9 the clients’ site. The revenue recognition pattern is over time, as the services 10 Remeasurement for hyperinflation (IAS 29) Note 39 are rendered by Securitas and simultaneously consumed by the clients. A 11 The Group´s subsidiaries in countries that according to IAS 29 are classisecurity solution normally constitutes one performance obligation. Electronic security consists of the sale of alarm installations comprising 12 fied as hyperinflationary economies are accounted for in the Group´s financial statements after remeasurement for hyperinflation. IAS 29 has design and installation (time, material and related expenses). Revenue 13 been adopted for our operations in Argentina as from July 1, 2018. This is recognized as per the contract, either upon completion of the condi14 includes the subsidiaries with functional currency in ARS as well as contions in the contract, or over time based on the percentage of completion. 15 solidated goodwill that is consolidated into SEK from ARS. Remote guarding (in the form of alarm monitoring services), that is sold 16 The balance sheet items not already expressed in terms of the separately and not as part of a security solution, is also included in this 17 measuring unit current as of July 1, 2018 have been remeasured by category. Revenue recognition is over time as this is also a service that is 18 applying a general price index. Due to the lack of one index covering the rendered by Securitas and simultaneously consumed by the clients. The category further includes maintenance services, that are either performed 19 whole period for which remeasurement is needed, Securitas has used the consumer price index, National congress price index or the Internal upon request (time and material) with revenue recognition at a point in 20 Price Index related with Commercial/Production of Products. Securitas time (when the work has been performed), or over time if part of a service 21 believes that this gives a reasonable level of accuracy. The financial level contract with a subscription fee. Finally, there is also a to a limited 22 statements subject to remeasurement are based on the historical cost extent product sales (alarms and components) without any design or 23 approach. installation. The revenue recognition is at a point in time (upon delivery). 24 The initial remeasurement of all relevant balance sheet items has been Other comprises mainly corporate risk management services that are 25 recognized as part of other comprehensive income on the line Remeaeither recognized over time or at a point in time as well as other ancillary 26 surement for hyperinflation net of tax. Where relevant, deferred tax has business. been considered. Subsequent measurement of the consolidated goodwill Other operating income consists in its entirety of trade mark fees for 27 balance as of December 31, 2018 is also recognized as part of other comthe use of the Securitas brand name. 28 prehensive income. This is based on the fact that goodwill would be offset The segments have the principle of expensing costs to obtain contracts 29 in equity if pushed down to subsidiary level. Also, it does not contribute to as they are incurred. Such costs are capitalized at Group level and amor30 any changes in the net monetary position of the subsidiary. Subsequent tized over the expected duration of the contract. This effect is accounted 31 remeasurement of the balances on subsidiary level is part of the net for under Other in the segment overviews and constitutes a difference 32 monetary gain or loss recognized in the statement of income as part of between the segment’s accounting principles and the Group´s accounting 33 financial income and expenses. principles, reflecting the operating result measure reported to the chief operating decision maker. 34 After remeasurement of the financial statements, including both the statement of income and the balance sheet for the operations in ArgenThe costs to fulfil a contract that are capitalized consist of bespoke 35 tina, they have been translated at the closing rate as of the most recent training costs. These costs are only capitalized as contract assets under 36 balance sheet date each quarter. For the income statement this applies to specific circumstances and conditions, the most important being that 37 the period July 1 to December 31, 2018, and all subsequent periods. the training costs must relate directly to a specific contract, the training 38 is specified or required to fulfill the contract, the costs are expected to be 39 Transactions, receivables and recovered and the training costs can be measured reliably. These costs 40 liabilities in foreign currency (IAS 21) Note 11 and 14 are amortized over the contract duration. Other costs to fulfil a contract such as salaries and payroll overhead are normally expensed immediately 41 Transactions in foreign currency are translated into the functional curas the services are rendered and consumed by the client. 42 rency in accordance with the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction. Exchange differences on monetary items are recognized in 43 the statement of income when they arise, with the exception of net investOperating segments (IFRS 8) Note 10 44 ment hedges recognized via other comprehensive income (see above A combination of factors has been used in order to identify the Group’s 45 under the section Translation of foreign subsidiaries). Exchange differsegments. Most important is the characteristic of the services pro46 ences from operating items are recognized as either production expenses vided and the geographical split. The operating segments are regularly 47 or selling and administrative expenses, while exchange differences from reviewed by the chief operating decision maker, which is the President 48 financial items are recognized as financial income or financial expenses. and CEO. The Group’s operations are divided into three reportable segments 49 When preparing the financial statements of individual companies, foreign currency denominated receivables and liabilities are translated and Other. The reportable segments are also referred to as business 50 to the functional currency of the individual company using the exchange ­segments in the Group’s financial reports. Refer to note 10 for further 51 rates prevailing at each balance sheet date. ­information regarding the segments. 52 As described above under Revenue recognition, the segments have 53 Revenue recognition (IFRS 15) Note 6 and 45 the principle of expensing costs to obtain contracts as they are incurred. 54 The Group’s revenue is generated mainly from various types of security Such costs are capitalized at Group level and amortized over the expected 55 services, as described below. duration of the contract. This effect is accounted for under Other in the 56 segment overviews and constitutes a difference between the segment’s accounting principles and the Group´s accounting principles, reflecting 57 58 59 60 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 75 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS the operating result measure reported to the chief operating decision of the programs. Tax on items affecting comparability and tax items that in maker. This is the only difference in principles between the segments and themselves constitute items affecting comparability are reported on the the Group. line taxes in the consolidated statement of income. The assets and liabilities of each segment include only those items Items that are classified as items affecting comparability in a period are that have been utilized or arisen in ongoing operations. Non-operational accounted for consistently in future periods by treating any reversal of balance sheet items, primarily current tax, deferred tax, and provisions those items as items affecting comparability. for taxes, are accounted for under the Other heading in the table Capital employed and financing in note 10. In the table Assets and liabilities in Taxes (IAS 12) Note 15 and 48 the same note, these items are accounted for as unallocated non-interest Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on tembearing assets and unallocated non-interest bearing liabilities. Recon­ porary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities ciliation between total segments and the Group is disclosed in note 10. and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Geographical information related to sales and non-current assets is However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial recognition of an ­disclosed in note 10 for Sweden (which is Securitas’ country of domicile) asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at and for all individual countries where the sales or non-current assets the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or exceed 10 percent of the total amount for the Group. loss, it is not accounted for. Deferred income tax is determined using tax The geographical split of sales is based on the location of the sales. rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the The location of the sales corresponds in all material aspects to the location balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred of the clients. There are no sales to any individual client that are deemed income tax asset is realized or the deferred income tax liability is settled. to represent a significant portion of the Group’s total sales. A deferred tax asset is recognized when it is probable that sufficient taxable income will arise that the deferred tax asset can be offset against. Accounting for government grants and Deferred tax assets are valued as of the balance sheet date, and any disclosure of government assistance (IAS 20) potential previously unvalued deferred tax asset is recognized when it is Securitas, like other employers, is eligible for a variety of grants relating expected to be usable, or correspondingly, reduced when it is expected to employees. These grants relate to training, incentives for hiring new to be wholly or partly unusable against future taxable income. staff, reduction of working hours, etc. All grants are accounted for in the Current tax liabilities include provisions for taxes. Current and deferred statement of income as a cost reduction in the same period as the related taxes are posted directly to other comprehensive income if the relevant underlying cost. underlying transaction or event is posted directly to other comprehensive income in the period, or previous period if it pertains to an adjustment Acquisition related restructuring of an opening balance of retained earnings as the result of a change in and integration costs (IAS 37) Note 11 accounting principle. Changes in current and deferred taxes that relate Acquisition related restructuring costs are costs relating to the restructurto exchange rate differences in the translation of the balance sheets of ing and / or integration of acquired operations into the Group. Restrucforeign subsidiaries are posted to translation differences in other compreturing costs can cover several activities that are necessary to prepare hensive income. acquired operations for integration into the Group, such as redundancy Provisions are allocated for estimated taxes in the case dividends payments, provisions for rented premises that will not be utilized or sublet are anticipated and paid from subsidiaries to a Parent Company in the below cost or other non-cancellable leasing contracts that will not be following year. ­utilized. Integration costs normally cover activities that do not qualify Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on to be recognized as provisions. Such activities could be re-branding investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the (changing logotypes on buildings, vehicles, uniforms, etc.), but could also reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and cover personnel costs, for example training, recruitment, relocation and it is probable that the temporary difference will not be reversed in the travel, certain client related costs and other incremental costs to transforeseeable future. form the acquired operation into Securitas’ format. Classifying expenses as costs relating to integration of acquired operations must also fulfill the Impairment (IAS 36) Note 17 criteria below: The Group’s assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to • The cost would not have been incurred if the acquisition not had taken place amortization and are tested annually for impairment. In addition to goodwill, these assets are limited to the brand name Securitas in one of the • The cost relates to a project identified and controlled by management as part of an integration program set up at the time of acquisition or as Group’s countries of operations, where it has been acquired from a third party. For the purposes of impairment testing, assets are grouped at the a direct consequence of an immediate post-acquisition review lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (CGU). Assets that are subject to depreciation or amortization are reviewed Items affecting comparability Note 11 for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate This item includes events and transactions with significant effects, which that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If this is the case, an are relevant for understanding the Group’s financial performance when impairment loss is recognized in the amount by which the asset’s carrying comparing income for the current period with previous periods. They amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the include capital gains and losses arising from the disposal of material cash higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. generating units, material impairment losses and bad debt losses, litigaValue in use is measured as expected future discounted cash flows. tions and insurance claims and other material income and expense items The calculation of value in use is based on assumptions and estimates. of a non-recurring nature. The latter thus also includes costs for material The main assumptions concern the organic sales growth, the development restructuring and transformation programs such as the European cost of the operating margin and the necessary operating capital employed savings program and the transformation programs for further digitization of the company initiated during 2018, that will continue over the duration 76 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Not Note 1 requirement as well as the relevant WACC (Weighted Average Cost of Leasing contracts (IAS 17) Note 11 and 20 2 Capital) rate used to discount future cash flows. Assets in finance leases, where the Group is the lessee, are recognized 3 as non-current assets in the consolidated balance sheet. The net present 4 Goodwill and other acquisition related intangible value of the corresponding obligations to pay leasing fees in the future is assets (IFRS 3, IAS 36 and IAS 38) Note 17 and 18 recognized as liabilities. In the consolidated statement of income, leasing 5 Goodwill and other acquisition related intangible assets are allocated to payments are divided into depreciation and interest. The Group has no 6 cash-generating units (CGU) per country in a segment. This allocation is significant finance leases where it is the lessor. 7 also the basis for the yearly impairment testing. Goodwill is carried at cost Operational leases, where the Group is the lessee, are recognized as 8 less accumulated impairment losses. an operating expense on a linear basis over the period of the lease in the 9 Other acquisition related intangible assets arising from the Group’s consolidated statement of income. In cases where the Group is the les10 acquisitions can include various types of intangible assets such as sor, revenue is recognized on a linear basis and included in total sales in 11 marketing-related, client-related, contract-related, brand-related and the consolidated statement of income. Depreciation is recognized under 12 technology-based intangible assets. Other acquisition related intangible operating income. assets normally have a definite useful life. These assets are recognized at Information regarding the effects on the Group from the adoption of 13 fair value on the date of acquisition and subsequently carried at cost less IFRS 16 is disclosed in note 40. 14 accumulated amortization and any accumulated impairment losses. 15 Securitas’ acquisition related intangible assets mainly relate to client Accounts receivable (IFRS 9) Note 25 16 contract portfolios and the related client relationships. The valuation of the Accounts receivable are accounted for at nominal value net after provisions 17 client contract portfolios and the related client relationships is based on for expected bad debt losses. Expected and recognized bad debt losses are 18 the Multiple Excess Earnings Method (MEEM), which is a valuation model included in the line production expenses in the statement of income. 19 based on discounted cash flows. The valuation is based on the churn rates Recognized revenue that has not been invoiced as of the balance sheet and profitability of the acquired portfolio at the time of the acquisition. In the 20 date is classified as accrued sales income (note 26). Contract balances for model a specific charge – a contributory asset charge – is applied as a cost performance obligations not yet satisfied are classified as deferred revenue 21 or return requirement for the assets supporting the intangible asset. Cash (note 34). 22 flows are discounted using the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) 23 adjusted for local interest rate levels in the countries of acquisition. The Financial instruments (IFRS 7 / 24 useful life of client contract portfolios and the related client relationships is IFRS 9 / IFRS 13 / IAS 32 / IAS 39) Note 7, 14, 22, 27, 30, 33 and 44 25 based on the churn rate of the acquired portfolio and is normally between Securitas has applied IFRS 9 as of January 1, 2018 without restatement 26 3 and 10 years, corresponding to a yearly amortization of between 10.0 of comparative information for 2017. The comparative information has percent and 33.3 percent. Brand-related intangible assets are calculated 27 been accounted for in accordance with the Group’s previous accounting using the relief of royalty method. The useful life of these brands is nor28 policy for financial instruments, as described in the Annual Report 2017 mally between 5 and 10 years, corresponding to a yearly amortization of on pages 69 and 70. 29 between 10 and 20 percent. 30 Amortization is calculated using the linear method and disclosed on Classification and measurement of financial instruments 31 the line amortization and impairment of acquisition related intangible As from January 1, 2018, the Group classifies its financial assets and 32 assets in the Group’s statement of income. liabilities as those to be measured at fair value (either through other 33 A deferred tax liability is calculated, recognized and reversed over the comprehensive income (OCI) or through the statement of income), and 34 same period as the intangible asset is amortized, in order to neutralize the those to be measured at amortized cost. The classification depends on impact on the Group’s full tax rate from the acquisition. 35 Securitas’ business model for managing the financial assets and liabilities 36 and the contractual terms of the cash flows. The business model mainly Other intangible assets (IAS 36 and IAS 38) Note 19 and 49 applied by Securitas is hold to collect, meaning that financial assets are 37 The Group’s other intangible assets include the trade mark Securitas, held to collect contractual cash flows. These cash flows solely represent 38 which is estimated to have an indefinite useful life. The trademark has been payments of principal and interest (SPPI). The majority of Securitas finan39 capitalized only in those cases where it has been acquired from a third cial assets are thus measured at amortized cost. For principles for classi40 party. This trademark is not amortized but tested annually for impairment. fication of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities in comparative years, 41 All other items in other intangible assets have a definite useful life. refer to Securitas’ Annual Report 2017. 42 Amortization is linear and the amortization rates are normally: Financial instruments with maturities within 12 months after the bal43 ance sheet date are either included in current assets on the line other Software licenses and similar assets  10.0–33.3 percent interest-bearing current assets, or in current liabilities on the line other 44 Other intangible assets  10.0–33.3 percent short-term loan liabilities. Financial instruments with maturities later than 45 12 months after the balance sheet date are either included in non-current 46 Rental rights and similar rights are amortized over the same period as the assets on the line interest-bearing financial non-current assets, or in long47 underlying contractual period. term liabilities on the line other long-term loan liabilities. 48 As from January 1, 2018, Securitas applies the forward looking 49 Tangible non-current assets expected credit loss model. The most important financial assets subject (IAS 16 and IAS 36) Note 20 and 50 50 to this model are accounts receivable, for which the Group applies the Securitas applies linear depreciation for tangible non-current assets. simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9. This method requires expected 51 The depreciation rates are normally: lifetime losses to be recognized from initial recognition of the receivables. 52 For further information refer to note 25. 53 Machinery and equipment  10–50 percent 54 Buildings and land improvements  2–10 percent Financial assets at amortized cost 55 Land  0 percent Assets in this category are measured at amortized cost using the effective 56 interest rate method. Most of the Group’s current assets are measured 57 at amortized cost, for example assets such as accounts receivable and 58 longand short-term receivables, which are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments. They arise when the Group provides 59 money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading 60 the receivable. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 77 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss (FVPL) At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial asset at its fair value Assets in this category are measured at fair value unless hedge accountplus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss ing is applied. Changes in fair value are recognized in the statement of (FVPL), transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of income as they arise. the financial asset. Transaction costs of financial assets carried at FVPL are expensed in profit or loss. Financial assets at fair value through At inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the other comprehensive income (FVOCI) economic relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items Securitas currently has no financial assets in this category. including whether changes in the cash flows of the hedging instruments are expected to offset changes in the cash flows of hedged items. The Group Financial liabilities at amortized cost documents its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking its Liabilities in this category are measured at amortized cost using the hedge transactions. Hedge effectiveness is determined at the inception effective interest rate method. This category comprises such items as of the hedge relationship, and through periodic prospective effectiveness accounts payable and other current liabilities, and any long-term and assessments to ensure that an economic relationship exists between the short-term loans not included in the category financial liabilities at fair hedged item and hedging instrument. value through profit and loss. Hedge ineffectiveness Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss (FVPL) The Group enters into interest rate swaps that have similar critical terms Liabilities in this category are measured at fair value unless hedge as the hedged item, such as reference rate, reset dates, payment dates, accounting is applied. Changes in fair value are recognized in the statematurities and notional amount. ment of income as they arise. The Group does not hedge 100 percent of its loans; therefore, the hedged item is identified as a proportion of the outstanding loans up to the notional Financial risk management and hedge accounting amount of the swaps. As all critical terms matched during the year, the ecoSecuritas’ business activities create exposure to financial risks, such as nomic relationship was 100 percent effective. interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, financing and liquidity risk and Hedge ineffectiveness for interest rate swaps may occur if changes in credit / counterparty risk. circumstances affect the terms of the hedged item such that the critical terms Derivatives are used for the following main purposes: hedging the interest no longer match exactly with the critical terms of the hedging instrument. It rate element of external debt and changing its currency profile, gearing ratio may occur due to: hedging and hedging of internal borrowings and investments. Where all relevant criteria are met, Securitas applies hedge accounting • the credit value/debit value adjustment on the interest rate swaps which is not matched by the loan, this is mitigated by the use of credit to remove the accounting mismatch between the hedging instrument and support annexes, and the hedged item. Hedge effectiveness is determined at the inception of the hedge relationship, and through periodic prospective effectiveness assess• differences in critical terms between the interest rate swaps and loans. ments to ensure that an economic relationship exists between the hedged Share-based payments (IFRS 2) Note 9 and 12 item and hedging instrument. Securitas has a share-based incentive scheme where the participants in For derivatives designated in fair value hedges, the gains or losses from the scheme receive a bonus of which two thirds are payable in cash in the re-measuring the hedging instruments at fair value are recognized in the beginning of the year after the bonus has been accrued. The remaining statement of income. Also included in this category are derivatives where one third of the bonus is used to acquire shares at market value. These there is a natural offset in the accounting and where the purpose is to achieve shares are delivered to the participants in March, two years following the an offsetting impact without qualifying for hedge accounting. performance year, conditioned by a continuous employment during the For derivatives designated in cash flow hedges, the gains or losses from vesting period, except where a participant has left his/her employment re-measuring the hedging instruments at fair value are recognized in the due to retirement, death or long-term disability, in which case the particihedging reserve in other comprehensive income, with a reversal from the pant shall have a continued right to receive shares. The cost for Securitas, hedging reserve to the statement of income in the period in which the cash including social security expenses, is accounted for in the statement of flow of the hedged item impacts the statement of income. income during the vesting period. The share-based portion of the bonus For derivatives which are part of net investment hedges, the exchange rate is classified as equity. At the end of the program, a revaluation is made of gains and losses are recognized in other comprehensive income. Any inefthe original estimates and the final outcome of social security expenses fectiveness is recognized in the statement of income. is determined. Any deviation due to the revaluation, for example due to All cash flows (accrued interest income / expenses) that arise from any participant leaving the Group and not receiving allocated shares, is interest-rate derivative contracts are recognized as interest income and / or accounted for in the statement of income. interest expense in the statement of income in the period to which they In order to hedge the share portion of Securitas share-based incentive relate. Changes in fair value (after accruals) for both the hedged item and the scheme 2017, the Group has entered into a swap agreement with a third hedging instrument (derivative) are recognized separately as revaluation party. The swap agreement represents an obligation for the Parent Comof financial instruments. Revaluation of financial instruments is included in pany to purchase its own shares at a predetermined price. The swap agreefinancial income and / or financial expenses in the statement of income and ment is consequently classified as an equity instrument and accounted for specified in the table Revaluation of financial instruments in note 7 as well as in equity as a reduction of retained earnings. A swap agreement was also on a separate line in note 14. entered into to hedge the share portion of Securitas share-based incentive Refer to note 7 for further information regarding the Group´s risk exposure. scheme 2016. That swap agreement settled during 2018 in conjunction with the delivery of the shares to the participants upon vesting. Recognition and derecognition Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognized on tradeEmployee benefits (IAS 19) Note 23, 31 and 34 date, the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. Employee benefits are all forms of consideration given by the Group in Financial assets are derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows exchange for services rendered by its employees. With the exception of the from the financial assets have expired or have been transferred and the share-based incentive scheme, described above, which falls under IFRS 2, Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. they are all covered under IAS 19. The considerations mainly relate to Borrowings are removed from the balance sheet when the obligation salaries and payroll overhead such as social charges and payroll taxes, but specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired. also include other short-term employee benefits that are expected to be 78 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Not Note 1 settled within 12 months of the balance sheet date. These include, but are Definitions, calculation of key 2 not limited to, vacation payments, cash-settled bonuses and also shortNOTE 3 ratios and exchange rates 3 term healthcare benefits. When applicable these benefits also include the 4 applicable social charges and payroll taxes. In addition to these benefits DEFINITIONS the Group is also responsible to withhold social charges, payroll taxes and 5 income tax on behalf of its employees. These balances are included in other Statement of income according to Securitas’ financial model 6 current liabilities and in other short-term provisions. 7 The Group also operates or participates in a number of defined benefit 8 Production expenses 1 and defined contribution pension and other post-employment benefit Wages and related costs, the cost of equipment used when performing 9 plans as well as some other long-term employment plans. Other postprofessional duties, and all other costs directly related to the performance 10 employment plans primarily relate to healthcare benefits. A defined conof services invoiced. 11 tribution plan is a plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to 12 Selling and administrative expenses1 pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay 13 All costs of selling, administration and management including branch office all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and 14 expenses. The primary function of the branch offices is to provide the proprior periods. Contributions are recognized as expenses when they fall 15 duction with administrative support as well as to serve as a sales channel. due for payment. Other plans are defined benefit plans. 16 Calculations for the defined benefit plans that exist within Securitas are Gross margin 17 carried out by independent actuaries. Gross income as a percentage of total sales. 18 Costs related to defined benefit plans are recognized in operating income. The calculation of service cost is based on the projected unit 19 Operating income before amortization credit method in a way that distributes the cost over the employee’s work20 Operating income before amortization and impairment of acquisition ing life. The net interest cost is estimated by applying the discount rate to 21 related intangible assets and acquisition related costs, but including the net defined benefit obligation. Administration costs are recognized in 22 amortization and depreciation of other intangible assets, buildings and operating income in the period which they occur. 23 land and machinery and equipment. The net defined benefit obligation recognized in the balance sheet 24 is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the Operating margin 25 reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The obligations are Operating income before amortization as a percentage of total sales. 26 valued at the present value of the expected future cash flows using a discount rate corresponding to the interest rate on high quality corporate 27 Operating income after amortization bonds or government bonds with a remaining term that is approximately 28 Operating income after amortization and impairment of acquisition the same as the obligations. 29 related intangible assets and acquisition related costs, and including Remeasurements of post-employment benefit plans and reimburse30 amortization and depreciation of other intangible assets, buildings and ment rights are recognized in other comprehensive income in the period 31 land and machinery and equipment. which they occur. Remeasurements of other long-term employee benefit 32 plans as well as past service costs are recognized immediately in operating Adjusted income 33 income. Operating income before amortization, adjusted for financial income and 34 If accounting for a defined benefit plan results in a balance sheet asset, expenses (excluding revaluation of financial instruments according to this is reported as a net asset in the consolidated balance sheet under 35 IAS 39) and current taxes. other long-term receivables. Otherwise it is reported as a provision under 36 provisions for pensions and similar commitments. Provisions for pensions 37 Net margin and similar commitments are not included in net debt. 38 Income before taxes as a percentage of total sales. When it is virtually certain that another party will reimburse some or all 39 of the expenditure required to settle a defined benefit obligation, the right Real change 40 to reimbursement is recognized. This reimbursement right is measured Change adjusted for changes in exchange rates. 41 at fair value and classified as a long-term receivable. 42 Statement of cash flow Provisions (IAS 37) Note 15, 31, 32 and 35 43 according to Securitas’ financial model The Group’s provisions are mainly related to deferred tax liabilities 44 (note 15), provisions for pensions and similar commitments (note 31) 45 Cash flow from operating activities and claims reserves (notes 32 and 35). 46 Operating income before amortization adjusted for depreciation / amorClaims reserves are calculated on the basis of a combination of case tization less capital expenditures in non-current tangible and intangible 47 reserves, which represent claims reported, and IBNR (incurred but not assets (excluding acquisition of subsidiaries), change in accounts receiv48 reported) reserves. Actuarial calculations are performed quarterly to able and changes in other operating capital employed. 49 assess the adequacy of the reserves based on open claims and historical IBNR. 50 Free cash flow The Group has 370 000 employees and as such from time to time 51 Cash flow from operating activities adjusted for financial income and faces labor-related disputes with current or former employees in relation 52 expenses paid and current taxes paid. to various matters. Such matters can involve, but are not limited to, the 53 diverse interpretation of labor legislation, individual employee contracts Cash flow for the year1 54 or collective bargaining agreements and can for example relate to working Free cash flow adjusted for acquisition of subsidiaries, acquisition related 55 hours, benefits payable, various reimbursements or the termination of costs paid, dividends, new issues and change in interest-bearing net debt 56 employment. The Group follows IAS 37 and IAS 19 in determining when excluding liquid funds. a contingent liability, a provision or a liability should be disclosed and / or 57 recognized for these disputes. 58 59 1 T he definition is also valid for the formal primary statements – the statement of income and the statement of cash flow. 60 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 79 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS Balance sheet according to Securitas’ financial model Change of currency adjusted income before taxes: -4% Income before taxes adjusted for changes in exchange rates as a percentOperating capital employed age of the previous year’s income before taxes. Capital employed less goodwill, acquisition related intangible assets and Calculation: ((4 028.4-186.0) / 4 018.1)-1 = -4% shares in associated companies. Change of currency adjusted net income: 5% Capital employed Net income adjusted for changes in exchange rates as a percentage of the Non interest-bearing non-current and current assets less non interestprevious year’s net income. bearing long-term and current liabilities. Calculation: ((3 021.2-127.3) / 2 751.5)-1 = 5% Net debt Earnings per share before dilution1,2: SEK 8.26 (7.53) Interest-bearing non-current and current assets less long-term and Net income for the year attributable to equity holders of the Parent short-term interest-bearing loan liabilities. Company in relation to the average number of shares before dilution. Calculation 2018: ((3 021.2-5.3) / 365 058 897) × 1 000 000 = SEK 8.26 Calculation 2017: ((2 751.1-1.8) / 365 058 897) × 1 000 000 = SEK 7.53 CALCULATION OF KEY RATIOS 2018 Earnings per share before dilution1,2 and before Usage of key ratios not defined in IFRS items affecting comparability3: SEK 9.17 Net income for the year attributable to equity holders of the Parent Securitas applies ESMA’s (European Securities and Markets Authority) Company before items affecting comparability in relation to the average guidelines for Alternative Performance Measures (APM). An APM is a number of shares before dilution. financial measure of historical or future financial performance, financial Calculation: ((3021.2-5.3 + 454.8-121.7) / 365 058 897) ×1 000 000 = position or cash flow that has not been defined in IFRS. In order to faciliSEK 9.17 tate the analysis of the Group’s development made by Group Management and other interested parties, Securitas accounts for certain APMs. Change of currency adjusted earnings per The APMs are additional information and do not replace key ratios accordshare before dilution1,2: 5% ing to IFRS. Securitas definitions of APMs may be different from the Net income for the year attributable to equity holders of the Parent Comdefinitions in other companies. Refer to the Annual Report 2017 for the pany adjusted for changes in exchange rates in relation to the average previous year’s calculations. number of shares before dilution as a percentage of the previous year’s earnings per share before dilution. Acquired sales growth: 2% Calculation: ((((3 021.2-5.3-127.3) / 365 058 897) ×1 000 000) / 7.53)-1 = 5% This year’s sales from acquired business as a percentage of the previous year’s total sales. Change of currency adjusted earnings per share before Calculation: 1 759.8 / 92 196.8 = 2% dilution1,2 and before items affecting comparability3: 12% Net income for the year attributable to equity holders of the Parent ComOrganic sales growth: 6% pany before items affecting comparability and adjusted for changes in Total sales for the year adjusted for acquisitions and changes in exchange rates, in relation to the average number of shares before dilution exchange rates as a percentage of the previous year’s total sales as a percentage of the previous year’s earnings per share before dilution adjusted for divestitures. and before items affecting comparability. Calculation: ((101 466.7-1 759.8-1 820.8) / (92 196.8-0.7))-1 = 6% Calculation: ((((3 021.2-5.3 + 454.8-121.7-133.0) / 365 058 897) ×1 000 000) / 7.87)-1 = 12% Real sales growth: 8% Total sales for the year including acquisitions and adjusted for changes in Cash flow from operating activities as % of exchange rates as a percentage of the previous year’s total sales. operating income before amortization: 60% Calculation: ((101 466.7–1 820.8) / 92 192.8)-1 = 8% Cash flow from operating activities as a percentage of operating income before amortization. Change of currency adjusted operating income Calculation: 3 172.0 / 5 303.6 = 60% before amortization: 9% Operating income before amortization adjusted for changes in exchange Free cash flow as % of adjusted income: 48% rates as a percentage of the previous year’s operating income before Free cash flow as a percentage of adjusted income. amortization. Calculation: 1 884.3 / (5 303.6-440.6 2.4-962.2) = 48% Calculation: ((5 303.6 -168.9) / 4 697.2)-1 = 9% Free cash flow in relation to net debt: 0.13 Operating margin: 5.2% Free cash flow in relation to closing balance net debt. Operating income before amortization as a percentage of total sales. Calculation: 1 884.3 / 14 513.5 = 0.13 Calculation: 5 303.6 / 101 466.7= 5.2% Net debt to EBITDA ratio: 2.3 Change of currency adjusted operating Net debt in relation to operating income after amortization plus amortizaincome after amortization: -1% tion of acquisition related intangible assets and depreciation. Operating income after amortization adjusted for changes in exchange rates Calculation: 14 513.5 / (4 469.0 + 259.9 + 1 693.5) = 2.3 as a percentage of the previous year’s operating income after amortization. Calculation: ((4 469.0 -137.5) / 4 393.7)-1 = -1% Operating capital employed as % of total sales: 9% Operating capital employed as a percentage of total sales adjusted for full year sales of acquired entities. Calculation: 9 198.6 / (101 466.7 + 1 007.8) = 9% 1 There are no convertible debenture loans. Consequently there is no difference between earnings per share before and after dilution. 2 Number of shares includes shares related to the Group’s share-based incentive scheme that have been hedged through a swap agreement. 3 Items affecting comparability in the full year is consisting of one-off effects of MSEK -187 from the IS/IT programs in the Group and one-off effects of MSEK -268 from the cost savings program in Security Services Europe. 80 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Not Note 1 Return on operating capital employed: 58% Interest coverage ratio: 10.7 2 Operating income before amortization plus items affecting comparability Operating income before amortization plus interest income in relation to 3 as a percentage of the average -balance of operating capital employed. interest expense. 4 Calculation: 4 848.8 / ((9 198.6 + 7 559.8) / 2) = 58% Calculation: (5 303.6 + 56.8) / 503.2 = 10.7 5 Return on capital employed: 15% Return on equity: 18% 6 Operating income before amortization plus items affecting comparability Net income for the year as a percentage of average shareholders’ equity. 7 as a percentage of the closing balance of capital employed. Calculation: 3 021.2 / ((17 656.6 + 15 539.0) / 2) = 18% 8 Calculation: 4 848.8 / 32 170.1 = 15% 9 Equity ratio: 32% 10 Net debt equity ratio: 0.82 Shareholders’ equity as a percentage of total assets. 11 Net debt in relation to shareholders’ equity. Calculation: 17 656.6 / 55 468.9 = 32% Calculation: 14 513.5 / 17 656.6 = 0.82 12 13 EXCHANGE RATES USED IN THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 AND 2017 14 2018 2017 15 Weighted End-rate Weighted End-rate 16 average December average December 17 Argentina ARS 1 0.31 0.23 0.51 0.45 18 Australia AUD 1 6.50 6.32 6.38 6.42 19 Bosnia and Herzegovina BAM 1 5.27 5.24 4.94 5.04 20 Bulgaria BGN 1 5.27 5.24 5.04 5.04 21 Canada CAD 1 6.71 6.57 6.56 6.54 22 Chile CLP 100 1.36 1.29 1.31 1.34 23 China CNY 1 1.32 1.30 1.26 1.26 24 Colombia COP 100 0.29 0.27 0.29 0.28 25 Costa Rica CRC 100 1.51 1.49 1.50 1.45 26 Croatia HRK 1 1.39 1.38 1.29 1.31 27 Czech Republic CZK 1 0.40 0.40 0.37 0.38 28 Denmark DKK 1 1.38 1.37 1.30 1.32 29 Egypt EGP 1 0.49 0.50 0.48 0.46 EMU countries EUR 1 10.30 10.25 9.66 9.85 30 Hong Kong HKD 1 1.11 1.14 1.09 1.06 31 Hungary HUF 100 3.22 3.19 3.12 3.18 32 India INR 1 0.13 0.13 0.13 0.13 33 Indonesia IDR 100 0.06 0.06 0.06 0.06 34 Jordan JOD 1 12.36 12.60 11.97 11.62 35 Mexico MXN 1 0.45 0.46 0.45 0.42 36 Morocco MAD 1 0.93 0.94 0.88 0.88 37 Norway NOK 1 1.07 1.03 1.03 1.00 38 Paraguay PYG 100 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.15 39 Peru PEN 1 2.66 2.65 2.61 2.55 40 Poland PLN 1 2.42 2.38 2.28 2.36 41 Romania RON 1 2.21 2.20 2.11 2.12 42 Saudi Arabia SAR 1 2.32 2.38 2.27 2.20 43 Serbia RSD 1 0.09 0.09 0.08 0.08 44 Singapore SGD 1 6.48 6.54 6.17 6.17 45 South Africa ZAR 1 0.66 0.62 0.64 0.67 46 South Korea KRW 100 0.79 0.80 0.76 0.77 47 Sri Lanka LKR 100 5.34 4.89 5.57 5.38 48 Switzerland CHF 1 8.94 9.11 8.66 8.42 49 Thailand THB 1 0.27 0.27 0.25 0.25 50 Turkey TRY 1 1.80 1.70 2.33 2.17 51 United Arab Emirates AED 1 2.38 2.43 2.32 2.25 52 UK GBP 1 11.61 11.35 11.01 11.09 53 Uruguay UYU 1 0.28 0.28 0.30 0.29 USD countries USD 1 8.75 8.94 8.49 8.25 54 Vietnam VND 100 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 55 56 57 58 59 60 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 81 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS NOTE 4 Critical estimates and judgments provisional for each individual business combination unless it is a material adjustment. The preparation of financial reports requires the Board of Directors and All payments to acquire a subsidiary / operation are recorded at fair Group Management to make estimates and judgments using certain value at the acquisition date, including debt related to deferred or conassumptions. Estimates and judgments will impact the statement of tingent considerations and acquisition related option liabilities (referred income and the balance sheet as well as disclosures such as contingent to collectively as deferred considerations). This debt is measured at fair liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates and judgments value in subsequent periods with remeasurement through the statement under different assumptions and conditions. of income. The final outcome of deferred considerations often depends on one or more events which only will be confirmed by a future developAcquisition of subsidiaries / operations ment, such as the future profitability development for an agreed period. and deferred considerations The final outcome can therefore either be lower or higher than the initially The valuation of identifiable assets and liabilities in connection with recognized amount. Short-term deferred considerations, which amount the acquisition of subsidiaries or operations involves that items in the to MSEK 77.7 (66.6) and is included in other current liabilities (note 34) acquired company’s balance sheet as well as items that have not been and long-term deferred considerations, which amount to MSEK 194.7 recognized in the acquired company’s balance sheet, such as client rela(101.0) and is included in other long-term liabilities (note 30), are thus tions, should be valued at fair value. In normal circumstances, as quoted subject to critical estimates and judgments. market prices are not available for the assets and liabilities that are to be Further information regarding acquisitions is provided in note 16 and valued, different valuation methods have to be used. These valuation regarding revaluation of deferred considerations in note 11. methods are based on a number of assumptions. For a personnel intensive company like Securitas, employee related items such as accrued salaImpairment testing of goodwill, other acquisition related ries, accrued social benefits, holiday pay, long-term employee benefits intangible assets and shares in associated companies and post-employment benefits are significant items in the balance sheet In connection with the impairment testing of goodwill, other acquisition that can be difficult to value. Accounts receivable is another example of a related intangible assets and shares in associated companies, the book significant balance sheet item where it can be difficult to value the amount value is compared to the recoverable value. The recoverable value is of bad debt and thus to what extent they will be collected. Other items determined by the higher of an asset’s net realizable value and its value in that can be difficult both to identify as well as to value are contingent use. Since under normal circumstances no quoted market prices are availliabilities that could have arisen in the acquired company in connection able to assess an asset’s net realizable value, the book value is normally with for example litigations. As part of the Group’s strategy to acquire compared to the value in use. The calculation of the value in use is based companies active within the electronic security business this also entails on assumptions and judgments. The most important assumptions are some additional balance sheet items that can be of significant impact the organic sales growth, the development of the operating margin, the such as net amounts due from or to clients for installation projects (work operating working capital requirements and the relevant WACC, which is in progress on behalf of clients) and the related inventory of components used to discount future cash flows. All in all, this means that the valuation that will be used for installation projects or for service and maintenance of the balance sheet items goodwill, which amounts to MSEK 21 061.3 work. The profitability in the installation projects need to be assessed and (18 719.1), acquisition related intangible assets, which amounts to MSEK the existence and valuation of the inventory needs to be established. 1 458.2 (1 172.8) and shares in associated companies, which amounts The valuation of identifiable assets and liabilities is also dependent to MSEK 452.0 (419.8) are subject to critical estimates and judgments. on the accounting environment that the acquired company / operations A sensitivity analysis regarding the organic sales growth, the operating have been active in. This is true for example for the basis of preparation margin and the WACC is provided in note 17. for the financial reporting and consequently the extent of adjustments that are necessary in order to follow the Group’s accounting principles, the Valuation of accounts receivable and the frequency for which closings have been prepared and the availability of provision for bad debt losses different types of data that can be necessary in order to value identifiable Accounts receivable, which amounts to MSEK 15 603.5 (13 349.3), is assets and liabilities. All balance sheet items are thus subject to estimates one of the most significant balance sheet items. Accounts receivable are and judgments. This also means that the initial accounting may have to be accounted for at the nominal value net after provisions for expected bad provisionally determined and subsequently adjusted. All acquisition caldebt losses. The provision for bad debt losses, which amounts to MSEK culations are finalized no later than one year after the acquisition is made. -507.8 (-489.6), is thus subject to critical estimates and judgments. As Considering the above description including the practicability to compile stated above, accounts receivable is often an important item in relation to and disclose all individual adjustments in a manner that will benefit the the acquisition of subsidiaries / operations. Further information regarding reader of the financial statements, Securitas has chosen not to state the the credit risk in accounts receivable is provided in note 7. Information reasons to why the initial accounting of the business combination is proregarding the ageing of accounts receivable and the development of the visional nor which assets and liabilities for which the initial accounting is provision for bad debt losses during the year is provided in note 25. 82 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Not Note 1 Employee benefits including labor-related disputes a longer period of time. It is thus not possible to disclose any detailed 2 With 370 000 employees and salaries and social benefits representing ­information regarding the timing of outflows from claims reserves. 3 close to 80 percent of the total operating expenses, the accounting for All in all, this means that the balance sheet items short-term liability 4 employee benefits is crucial to determine a correct result. The Group insurance-related claims reserves, which amounts to MSEK 578.3 (624.6) and is included in short-term provisions (note 35), and liability 5 operates in many countries with different legislation and different regulatory frameworks surrounding the benefits payable to employees and the insurance-related claims reserves, which amounts to MSEK 624.2 6 related payroll overhead such as social charges and payroll taxes. (567.8) and is included in other long-term provisions (note 32), are sub7 Given the large number of employees, the Group from time to time also ject to critical estimates and judgments. 8 faces labor-related disputes with current or former employees in relation 9 to various matters. Such matters can involve, but are not limited to, the Calculation of taxes and timing of outflows 10 diverse interpretation of labor legislation, individual employee contracts Deferred tax is calculated on temporary differences between the carry­ 11 or collective bargaining agreements and can for example relate to working ing amounts and the tax values of assets and liabilities. Assumptions 12 hours, benefits payable, various reimbursements or the termination of and assessments affect recognized deferred tax, partly to determine employment. All in all, this means that the employee-related items in the the carrying amounts of the different assets and liabilities, and partly 13 balance sheet are subject to critical estimates and judgments. These balrelated to forecasts regarding future taxable profits, where future utiliza14 ances are mainly included under employee-related items (note 34), which tion of deferred tax assets depends on this. Significant assessments and 15 amounts to MSEK 7 511.0 (6 957.6), but also form part of short-term assumptions are also made regarding recognition of provisions and con16 ­provisions (note 35) as a part of other provisions MSEK 785.7 (427.9). tingent liabilities relating to tax risks and the potential impact of ongoing 17 For defined benefit plans relating to benefits particularly for pensions tax audits. Tax audits are often lengthy processes that go on for several 18 and medical benefits and where the payment to the employee is several years. It is thus not possible to disclose any detailed information regarding 19 years into the future, actuarial calculations are required. These calculathe timing of outflows from taxes. The balance sheet includes deferred tax assets which amounts to 20 tions are based on assumptions regarding economic variables such as the discount rate, salary increases, inflation rate, pension increases and the MSEK 961.3 (1 004.0) and deferred tax liabilities which amounts to 21 inflation rate for medical benefits, but also on demographic variables such MSEK 570.7 (1 027.9), which are subject to critical estimates and judg22 as the expected life span. All in all, the balance sheet item pension balments. Further information regarding taxes is provided in note 15 and 23 ances for defined benefit plans which amounts to MSEK 36.0 (98.8) and note 37. 24 which is stated under other long-term receivables (note 23), and the bal25 ance sheet item provisions for pensions and similar commitments, which The impact on the Group’s financial position of ongoing 26 amounts to MSEK 1 116.1 (1 072.8), is subject to critical estimates and litigations and the valuation of contingent liabilities 27 judgments. The Group’s opinion is that the most important assumptions Over the years, the Group has made a number of acquisitions in different are the discount rate, the inflation rate and the expected life span. A sensicountries. As a result of such acquisitions, certain contingent liabilities 28 tivity analysis regarding these three variables is provided in note 31. of the businesses acquired have been assumed. Companies within the 29 Group are also involved in a number of other legal proceedings and tax 30 Actuarial calculations regarding claims audits arising out of the operations. The accounting for litigations, legal 31 reserves and timing of outflows proceedings and tax audits are subject to critical estimates and judg32 The Group is exposed to various types of risks in the day-to-day running ments. Further information is provided in note 37. 33 of the business. The operational risks can result in the need to recognize 34 reserves for damages resulting from property claims, personal injuries as Potential effect of Brexit 35 well as workers’ compensation claims relating to the Group’s employees. Securitas operations in the UK are foremost with local clients and in local Claims reserves are calculated based on a combination of case reserves currency. The preliminary assessment is that the impact from imple36 and incurred but not reported reserves. Actuarial calculations are permentation of UK’s referendum to leave the EU will have limited effect on 37 formed on a quarterly basis to assess the adequacy of the reserves based Securitas local business in the UK. Any changes in the Swedish krona 38 on open claims and historical data for incurred but not reported claims. exchange rate versus the British pound will affect the Group’s consoli39 Actuarial calculations are based on several assumptions. Claims reserves dated financial statements when translating the British financial state40 comprise a large number of individual insurance cases, where some cases ments to Swedish kronor. 41 are compensated with a lump-sum payment and others are paid over 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 83 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS NOTE 5 Events after the balance sheet date NOTE 6 Revenue Approval of the Annual Report and Adoption of IFRS 15 Consolidated Financial Statements for 2018 The tables below show restated comparative figures for the Group. The This Annual Report including the Consolidated Financial Statements was restatement is done to reflect that the Group has adopted IFRS 15 as of approved by the Board of Directors of Securitas AB on March 18, 2019. January 1, 2018. This change has had effect only on total Group level and thus had no effect on segment level. The effects of the restatement are thus Other significant events after the balance sheet date accounted for under Other in the Group’s segment overviews. The tables below show the lines in the consolidated financial stateSecuritas Transport Aviation Services USA has acquired Global Elite ments that have been affected by the transition to IFRS 15. Lines that Group, a leading security services provider to the aviation industry in have not been affected by IFRS 15 are not included. The lines in the tables the US. The purchase price is approximately MUSD 22 (MSEK 200), below consequently do not add up to the total amounts. contingent upon reaching certain targets. Total sales are expected to be MUSD 32 (MSEK 290) for 2018. The number of employees is approximately 1 050. The acquisition was consolidated in Securitas as of January Consolidated statement of income 10, 2019. The restatement impact on the consolidated statement of income is recIn order to hedge the share portion of Securitas share-based incenognized on the line selling and administrative expenses and constitutes tive scheme 2018, the Group entered into a swap agreement with a third the net of the period’s capitalized and amortized costs to obtain a conparty in the beginning of March 2019. tract. The effect on deferred taxes is accounted for on the line taxes. There have been no other significant events with effect on the financial reporting after the balance sheet date. Before After restatement Restatement restatement MSEK 2017 2017 2017 Selling and administrative expenses -11 614.2 20.4 -11 593.8 Operating income before amortization 4 676.8 20.4 4 697.2 Operating income after amortization 4 373.3 20.4 4 393.7 Income before taxes 3 997.7 20.4 4 018.1 Net margin, % 4.3 0.1 4.4 Deferred taxes -315.9 -6.3 -322.2 Net income for the year 2 737.4 14.1 2 751.5 Whereof attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company 2 735.6 14.1 2 749.7 Earnings per share before and after dilution (SEK) 7.49 0.04 7.53 Earnings per share before and after dilution and before items affecting comparability (SEK) 7.83 0.04 7.87 Consolidated capital employed and financing The restatement impact on consolidated capital employed and financing constitutes the net amount of capitalized and amortized costs to obtain a contract, classified as intangible assets, and recognized as an increase of operating capital employed. This increase is partly offset by the related deferred tax liabilities, which reduce operating capital employed. The net impact after taxes of adoption of IFRS 15 is recognized in retained earnings as an increase of shareholders’ equity. Before After restatement Restatement restatement MSEK Jan 1, 2017 Jan 1, 2017 Jan 1, 2017 Operating capital employed 6 784.0 274.7 7 058.7 Return on operating capital employed, % 80 -2 78 Capital employed 27 939.2 274.7 28 213.9 Shareholders' equity 14 507.9 274.7 14 782.6 Net debt equity ratio, multiple 0.93 -0.02 0.91 84 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note Not 1 Before After Before After 2 restatement Restatement restatement restatement Restatement restatement 3 MSEK Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2017 MSEK Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2017 4 Operating capital employed 7 271.0 288.8 7 559.8 ASSETS 5 Return on operating capital Non-current assets employed, % 67 -3 64 6 Other intangible assets 667.9 411.1 1 079.0 Capital employed 27 582.7 288.8 27 871.5 7 Total non-current assets 26 788.0 411.1 27 199.1 Shareholders' equity 15 250.2 288.8 15 539.0 TOTAL ASSETS 49 132.3 411.1 49 543.4 8 Net debt equity ratio, multiple 0.81 -0.02 0.79 9 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 10 Consolidated balance sheet AND LIABILITIES 11 The restatement impact on the consolidated balance sheet constitutes Shareholders' equity 12 the net amount of capitalized and amortized costs to obtain a contract, Attributable to equity holders 13 classified as other intangible assets, and the related deferred tax liabilities. of the Parent Company 15 229.0 288.8 15 517.8 The net impact after taxes of adoption of IFRS 15 is recognized in retained 14 Total shareholders' equity 15 250.2 288.8 15 539.0 earnings as an increase of shareholders’ equity. 15 Long-term liabilities 16 Deferred tax liabilities 905.6 122.3 1 027.9 Before After 17 Total long-term liabilities 16 346.8 122.3 16 469.1 restatement Restatement restatement 18 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' MSEK Jan 1, 2017 Jan 1, 2017 Jan 1, 2017 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 49 132.3 411.1 49 543.4 19 ASSETS 20 Non-current assets Disaggregation of revenue 21 Other intangible assets 526.9 390.6 917.5 The Group has chosen to disaggregate revenue from sales to clients 22 Total non-current assets 27 548.6 390.6 27 939.2 into three broad categories; Guarding services, Security solutions and 23 TOTAL ASSETS 48 401.3 390.6 48 791.9 electronic security and Other. These categories are described in Note 2 24 Accounting principles under the heading Revenue recognition. In addition, revenue also includes Other operating income which consists of 25 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES trade mark fees. 26 Shareholders' equity 27 Attributable to equity holders MSEK 2018 % 2017 % 28 of the Parent Company 14 487.2 274.7 14 761.9 29 Guarding services 79 567.1 79 74 238.6 81 Total shareholders' equity 14 507.9 274.7 14 782.6 Security solutions and 30 Long-term liabilities electronic security 20 439.8 20 16 697.3 18 31 Deferred tax liabilities 919.2 115.9 1 035.1 Other 1 459.8 1 1 260.9 1 32 Total long-term liabilities 16 231.0 115.9 16 346.9 Total sales 101 466.7 100 92 196.8 100 33 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' Other operating income 29.6 0 23.8 0 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 48 401.3 390.6 48 791.9 34 Total revenue 101 496.3 100 92 220.6 100 35 36 37 Revenue per segment 38 The Group’s business segments follow the same accounting principles for revenue recognition as the Group. The disaggregation of revenue by segment 39 is shown in the table below. Total sales agree to total sales in the segment overviews. 40 41 Security Services Security Services Security Services 42 North America Europe Ibero-America Other Eliminations Group 43 MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 44 Guarding services 33 541 31 182 35 402 32 632 9 045 9 138 1 588 1 292 -9 -5 79 567 74 239 45 Security solutions and electronic security 7 365 5 665 9 638 8 071 3 270 2 833 167 128 – – 20 440 16 697 46 Other 1 460 1 261 – – – – – – – – 1 460 1 261 47 Total sales 42 366 38 108 45 040 40 703 12 315 11 971 1 755 1 420 -9 -5 101 467 92 197 48 Other operating income – – – – – – 29 24 – – 29 24 49 Total revenue 42 366 38 108 45 040 40 703 12 315 11 971 1 784 1 444 -9 -5 101 496 92 221 50 51 52 CONTRACT BALANCES Revenue recognized in 2018 that was included in contract liabilities 2017 amount to MSEK 647.9 (629.4). Most of the contract liabilities 2018 is 53 MSEK 2018 2017 expected to be recognized as revenue in 2019. 54 Contract receivables Revenue recognized in 2018 from performance obligations satisfied 55 Accounts receivable (note 25) 15 603.5 13 349.3 in 2017 (and in 2017 from 2016) is not material due to the nature of the 56 Accrued sales income (note 26) 3 224.4 2 734.9 services. 57 Total contract receivables 18 827.9 16 084.2 Most revenue is recognized in advance of the payment by clients. 58 Payment terms vary mainly between 0 and 60 days. Prepayments from 59 Contract liabilities clients are normally done quarterly in advance, but there is also to some extent prepayments covering up to one year in advance. 60 Deferred revenue (note 34) 950.6 647.9 Total contract liabilities 950.6 647.9 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 85 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS COSTS TO OBTAIN A CONTRACT Corporate risk management services include both recurring and nonMSEK 2018 2017 recurring revenue services. Deferred revenue for performance obligations that is expected to be Included in other intangible assets (note 19) 445.0 411.1 satisfied mainly during 2019 amount to MSEK 950.6 (647.9). Total costs to obtain a contract 445.0 411.1 This item mainly consists of sales commissions paid for individual contracts NOTE 7 Financial risk management signed. All commissions are expensed on subsidiary level and thus on segment level. The Group capitalizes these costs and includes the capitalizaFinancial risk factors tion and amortization under Other in the Group’s segment overview. The Group’s business activities create exposure to financial risks, such The amortization for 2018 amounted to MSEK -89.9 (-84.0). There as interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, financing and liquidity risk and has been no impairment of assets relating to costs to obtain a contract for credit / counterparty risk, as detailed in the sections below. The Group’s 2018 nor for 2017. overall financial risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of the financial markets and aims to minimize potential adverse effects COSTS TO FULFIL A CONTRACT on the financial performance of the Group. MSEK 2018 2017 Included in other intangible assets (note 19) 73.9 15.9 Treasury organization and activities Total costs to fulfil a contract 73.9 15.9 The aim of the treasury organization in Securitas is to support business operations by identifying, quantifying and minimizing financial risks and This item consists of bespoke training costs. These costs are only capito the extent possible, to take advantage of economies of scale in the talized as contract assets under specific circumstances and conditions, treasury operations. the most important being that the training costs must relate directly to a specific contract, the training is specified or required to fulfill the contract, Business segments the costs are expected to be recovered and the training costs can be meaTreasury operations in the business segments concentrate on improving sured reliably. cash flow by focusing on profitability in the business operations, reducing The amortization for 2018 amounted to MSEK -15.9 (-1.4). There has capital tied-up in accounts receivable and managing local cash in the most been no impairment of assets relating to costs to fulfil a contract for 2018 efficient way. nor for 2017. Countries Remaining performance obligations In countries with extensive operations, liquidity surpluses and liquidity The Group’s revenue can be of either a recurring or non-recurring nature. deficits in local subsidiaries are matched at country level with the help of Recurring revenue is normally included in what the Group designates local cash-pooling solutions. In addition, Securitas operates an overall as its client contract portfolio. To qualify for inclusion in the client concash-pooling structure incorporating countries in the Eurozone, UK and tract portfolio, a contract should normally have a duration of at least 12 US. All local long-term financial requirements are financed directly from months. However, contracts can be of various lengths ranging from a very the Group’s internal bank, Group Treasury Centre (GTC), in Dublin. short duration up to several years, particularly security solution contracts where on-site and/or mobile guarding and/or remote guarding are comGroup Treasury Centre bined with a technology component in terms of equipment owned and By concentrating financial risk management in a single location, the managed by Securitas and used in the rendering of services. Contracts Group can readily monitor and control these risks and benefit from the can have a yearly renewal date, but contracts can also be signed without expertise of dedicated treasury personnel. Also, by concentrating internal and external financing through GTC, economies of scale can be used to a fixed end-date. All contracts normally contain cancellation clauses for obtain the best possible pricing of investments and loans. GTC also has both Securitas and the client. responsibility for matching local liquidity surpluses and deficits between Securitas uses the client retention rate* as a key measurement for how countries and cash-pools. GTC identifies, evaluates and hedges financial long a contract that is included in the client contract portfolio normally is risks in co-operation with the operating units. The Board of Directors of operated. The client retention rate in the client contract portfolio per busiSecuritas AB establishes policies for overall risk management, as well as ness segment and for the Group is shown in the table below. policies covering specific areas such as foreign exchange risks, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and investing Client retention rate*, % 2018 2017 excess liquidity. Security Services North America 91 91 Derivatives are used for the following main purposes: hedging the interest rate element of external debt and changing its currency profile, Security Services Europe 93 91 gearing ratio hedging and hedging of internal borrowings and investments. Security Services Ibero-America 92 91 Other 90 83 Interest rate risk Group 91 90 Interest rate risk is the risk that the Group’s net income will be affected by changes in interest payable and / or receivable arising from changes in *Client retention rate is defined as the opening balance client contract portfolio adjusted for annualized terminations in percent of opening balance client contract portfolio. market interest rates. The Group has raised fixed and floating rate debt predominately in USD, EUR and SEK. Detailed information on long-term Contracts included in the client contract portfolio can be based on hours borrowings is provided in note 30. The Group uses interest rate derivaof work performed or with fixed monthly, quarterly or yearly invoicing and tives in designated fair value and cash flow hedges to hedge changes in also including service level agreements. the risk free rate, converting the interest rate profile of this debt. As at December 31, 2018 MEUR 671 (786) of issued debt is swapped from In addition to its client contract portfolio, the Group also has revenue of fixed to floating, while MUSD 80 (180) is swapped from floating to fixed. a non-recurring nature. For Guarding services this can be from either conInformation on the Group’s debt profile is provided in the table below as tract clients or event-based sales. Within Electronic security, alarm instalwell as information on interest rate fixings. lations are considered non-recurring revenue even if the same clients can The target for the free cash flow to net debt ratio is always to exceed order new installations from Securitas. Maintenance services performed 0.20. Free cash flow to net debt as of December 31, 2018 was 0.13 upon request (time and material) is also considered a non-recurring reve(0.19). The Group’s interest coverage ratio, a measure of its ability to pay nue even if the same clients can revert and order further maintenance serinterest costs, was 10.7 (11.8) as of December 31, 2018. vices for the same or for a different site/installation. Product sales (alarms and components) is also considered non-recurring revenue. 86 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note Not 1 THE GROUP ’S INTEREST BEARING LIABILITIES AND ASSETS PER CURRENCY AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 2 Net impact on Net impact on 3 Current Interest income stateInterest income statebook cost (incl. rates, ment due to rates, ment due to 4 Currency Amount, MSEK Duration (days) credit margin) +1% 1% increase1 -1% 1% decrease1 5 December 31, 2018 6 USD liabilities -7 661 985 3.61% 4.14% -37 3.08% 26 7 EUR liabilities -6 133 633 1.50% 2.09% -28 0.91% 28 8 GBP liabilities -345 30 2.23% 3.23% -3 1.23% 3 9 SEK liabilities -3 245 0 -0.03% 0.97% -25 -1.03% 25 10 Other currencies liabilities -978 28 4.25% 5.25% -8 3.25% 8 11 Total liabilities -18 362 624 2.27% 2.94% -101 1.60% 90 12 13 USD assets 635 2 1.77% 2.77% 5 0.78% -5 14 EUR assets 1 570 6 -0.27% 0.73% 12 -0.33% -1 GBP assets 37 2 0.00% 1.00% 0 -1.00% 0 15 SEK assets 862 7 0.00% 1.00% 7 -1.00% -7 16 Other currencies assets 745 7 4.25% 5.25% 6 3.25% -6 17 Total assets 3 849 6 1.01% 2.00% 30 0.39% -19 18 Total -14 513 – 2.61% – -71 – 71 19 20 December 31, 2017 21 USD liabilities -6 670 569 2.46% 2.83% -20 2.08% 20 22 EUR liabilities -6 465 708 1.51% 2.07% -28 0.95% 28 23 GBP liabilities -404 30 1.81% 2.81% -3 0.81% 3 24 SEK liabilities -2 255 13 0.52% 1.52% -18 -0.48% 18 25 Other currencies liabilities -814 28 4.05% 5.05% -6 3.05% 6 26 Total liabilities -16 608 508 1.90% 2.49% -75 1.31% 75 27 28 USD assets 260 2 0.67% 1.39% 1 -0.05% -1 29 EUR assets 2 774 10 0.00% 1.00% 22 -1.00% -22 30 GBP assets 73 1 0.00% 1.00% 1 -1.00% -1 31 SEK assets 328 7 0.00% 1.00% 3 -1.00% -3 Other currencies assets 840 7 4.05% 5.05% 6 3.05% -6 32 Total assets 4 275 8 0.84% 1.82% 33 -0.15% -33 33 Total -12 333 – 2.28% – -42 – 42 34 35 1 T he 1 percent increase / decrease in interest rates is calculated by adjusting the floating rate accordingly and applying this rate to the asset / liability to establish the impact on net financial items in the income statement. This is further adjusted by the effective corporation tax rate. 36 37 Interest rate fixing 38 It is the policy of Securitas to use interest rate derivatives if required to duration of the underlying debt. Group policy allows for the use of both 39 manage its interest rate risk and as a consequence the Group’s financing options-based and fixed-rate products. There are no options-based 40 costs. The duration of these derivatives does not normally exceed the products in the financial reporting in 2018 or 2017. 41 42 INTEREST FIXING PER CURRENCY1,2 43 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2020 44 Amount Amount Amount Amount Amount Amount Final 45 Currency MSEK MLOC Rate3 % MSEK MLOC Rate3 % MSEK MLOC Rate3 % maturity 46 USD 5 114 572 3.59% 5 114 572 3.59% 4 756 532 3.62% March 2025 47 EUR 2 562 250 1.23% 2 562 250 1.23% 2 562 250 1.23% March 2025 48 Total 7 676 – – 7 676 – – 7 318 – – 49 1 Refers to interest rate fixing with a maturity in excess of three months. 50 2 Cash flow hedges are applied to a nominal value of MUSD 80, converting floating rates to the rates 1.645% and 2.008%, maturing in the years 2020 and 2021, respectively. 3 Average rate including credit margin. 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 87 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS Foreign currency risks rates could have a negative effect on the Group’s foreign net assets when translated into SEK. With the object of minimizing the impact of changes Transaction risk in exchange rates on the Group’s net debt to equity ratio, Securitas aims Transaction risk is the risk that the Group’s net income will be affected to maintain a long-term debt to equity ratio in USD and EUR that is close by changes in the value of commercial flows in foreign currencies due to to the Group’s total debt to equity ratio. Foreign exchange swaps and fluctuating exchange rates. The nature of the business is domestic rather cross currency interest rate swaps are used to change the currency of the than cross-border and consequently foreign currency transaction risk is underlying debt where required in order to achieve this. Net investment not significant. hedge and cash flow hedge accounting is applied to these swaps. The tables below show how the Group’s capital employed is distributed Financing of foreign assets – translation risk by currency, and its financing, including derivatives. They also show the Translation risk is the risk that the SEK value of foreign currency equity will sensitivity of the net debt and capital employed to changes in the SEK fluctuate due to changes in foreign exchange rates. exchange rate. Securitas’ foreign currency capital employed as of December 31, The consolidated statement of income is affected by the translation to 2018 was MSEK 31 664 (27 809). Capital employed is financed by loans SEK of the statements of income of foreign subsidiaries. As these subsidin local currency and shareholders’ equity. This means that Securitas, iaries essentially operate only in local currency, their competitive situation from a Group perspective, has shareholders’ equity in foreign currency is not affected by changes in exchange rates and since the Group as a that is exposed to changes in exchange rates. This exposure gives rise whole is geographically diversified, this exposure is not hedged. to a translation risk and consequently unfavorable changes in exchange CAPITAL EMPLOYED AND FINANCING PER CURRENCY AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 Other Total foreign Total Group Total Group MSEK EUR USD GBP currencies currencies SEK Total Group +10%1 -10%1 December 31, 2018 Capital employed 10 320 15 620 1 219 4 505 31 664 506 32 170 35 336 29 004 Net debt -4 543 -7 054 -304 -310 -12 211 -2 302 -14 513 -15 734 -13 292 Whereof foreign exchange swaps included in net investment hedge 2 3 176 -4 309 – – -1 133 -2 731 -3 864 -3 977 -3 751 Whereof foreign exchange swaps included in cash flow hedge3 4 401 – – – 4 401 -4 401 – 440 -440 Whereof other foreign exchange swaps 73 -449 -304 -310 -990 2 836 1 846 1 747 1 945 Whereof net debt excluding foreign exchange swaps -12 193 -2 296 – – -14 489 1 994 -12 495 -13 944 -11 046 Non-controlling interests 2 – – 23 25 – 25 28 23 Net exposure 5 775 8 566 915 4 172 19 428 -1 796 17 632 19 575 15 689 Net debt to equity ratio 0.79 0.82 0.33 0.07 0.63 -1.28 0.82 0.80 0.85 December 31, 2017 Capital employed 8 935 13 459 1 248 4 167 27 809 63 27 872 30 653 25 091 Net debt -3 674 -6 386 -331 -60 -10 451 -1 882 -12 333 -13 378 -11 288 Whereof foreign exchange swaps 4 454 -3 853 -404 -813 -616 -1 936 -2 552 -2 614 -2 490 Whereof net debt excluding foreign exchange swaps -8 128 -2 533 73 753 -9 835 54 -9 781 -10 764 -8 798 Non-controlling interests 2 – – 19 21 – 21 23 21 Net exposure 5 259 7 073 917 4 088 17 337 -1 819 15 518 17 252 13 782 Net debt to equity ratio 0.70 0.90 0.36 0.01 0.60 -1.03 0.79 0.77 0.82 1 Changes in capital employed due to changes in foreign exchange rates are either accounted for in 3 Currency cash flow hedges are applied to a nominal value of MEUR 430, fixing the EUR/SEK rates at other comprehensive income or offset against changes in underlying debt. Consequently, they do 9.37 and 10.09. not impact net income. 2 Relates to a portion of the net investment hedge which is fixed to the amount of MUSD 492 and the USD/SEK rates are 8.48 and 8.21. The balance is a dynamic hedge and rates vary periodically. 88 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Not Note 1 Net debt 2 The table below details the changes to net debt during the year. 3 4 CHANGE IN INTEREST-BEARING NET DEBT AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 5 2018 2017 6 Loans and Loans and 7 MSEK Liquid funds other net debt Total Liquid funds other net debt Total 8 Opening balance 3 611 -15 944 -12 333 2 415 -15 846 -13 431 9 Cash flow from operating activities 3 172 – 3 172 3 837 – 3 837 10 Financial income and expenses paid -432 – -432 -425 – -425 11 Current taxes paid -856 – -856 -1 122 – -1 122 12 Payments for acquisition related items -1 755 – -1 755 -304 – -304 13 Payments for items affecting comparability -117 – -117 – – – 14 Dividend paid -1 460 – -1 460 -1 369 – -1 369 15 Bond proceeds 3 004 -3 004 – 3 300 -3 300 – Bond redemption -3 480 3 480 – -3 308 3 308 – 16 Commercial paper proceeds 2 500 -2 500 – – – – 17 Commercial paper redemption -1 550 1 550 – – – – 18 Other changes 610 -610 – 634 -634 – 19 Real change -364 -1 084 -1 448 1 243 -626 617 20 Revaluation of financial instruments1 – 26 26 – -29 -29 21 Translation2 -18 -740 -758 -47 557 510 22 Closing balance 3 229 -17 742 -14 513 3 611 -15 944 -12 333 23 1 Relates to unrealized gains and losses on fair value hedges and cash flow hedges including hedge ineffectiveness. 24 2 Whereof MSEK -529.8 (800.9) is related to USD and MSEK -143.3 (-103.3) is related to EUR. 25 26 LIABILITIES FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 2018 27 Non-cash changes 28 January 1, December 31, 29 2018 Cash flows1 Reclassifi­cation Other changes Translation 2018 30 Long-term borrowings 12 925.8 3 004.1 -759.9 114.9 572.8 15 857.7 31 Short-term borrowings 3 490.8 -2 025.1 759.9 -42.5 99.8 2 282.9 32 Lease liabilities 190.9 – – 30.9 – 221.8 Assets held to hedge borrowings -299.4 -51.6 – -164.7 – -515.7 33 Total 16 308.1 927.4 – -61.4 672.6 17 846.7 34 35 1 Excluding other derivative positions and dividend paid to shareholders of the Parent Company, that are included in cash flow from financing activities in the consolidated statement of cash flow. 36 37 LIABILITIES FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 2017 38 Non-cash changes 39 January 1, December 31, 2017 Cash flows1 Reclassifi­cation Other changes Translation 2017 40 Long-term borrowings 12 695.8 3 299.5 -3 373.7 – 304.2 12 925.8 41 Short-term borrowings 3 532.5 -3 347.2 3 373.7 -26.9 -41.3 3 490.8 42 Lease liabilities 218.4 -41.9 – 23.5 -9.1 190.9 43 Assets held to hedge borrowings -328.7 – – 29.3 – -299.4 44 Total 16 118.0 -89.6 – 25.9 253.8 16 308.1 45 1 Excluding other derivative positions and dividend paid to shareholders of the Parent Company, that are included in cash flow from financing activities in the consolidated statement of cash flow. 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 89 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS Financing and liquidity risk Securitas has a Revolving Credit Facility with its 12 key relationship banks. The Group’s short-term liquidity is ensured by maintaining a liquidity This credit facility comprises two respective tranches of MUSD 550 and reserve (cash and bank deposits, short-term investments and the unutiMEUR 440 and matures in 2022. On December 31, 2018, MUSD 50 of lized portion of committed credit facilities), which should correspond to a the facility was drawn. minimum of 5 percent of consolidated annual sales. As of December 31, Securitas also has a Euro Medium Term Note Program (EMTN) with a 2018 the short-term liquidity reserve corresponded to 10 percent (12) of limit of MEUR 3 000 under which public and private funding can be raised the Group’s annual sales. on international capital markets. As of December 31, 2018 there were The Group’s long-term financing risk is minimized by ensuring that the nine outstanding bond loans with maturities ranging from 2019 to 2025. level of long-term financing (shareholders’ equity, long-term committed In addition, Securitas also has a short-term Swedish commercial paper loan facilities and long-term bond loans) at least matches the Group’s capprogram in the amount of MSEK 5 000. On December 31, 2018, MSEK ital employed. Per December 31, 2018 long-term financing corresponded 950 of the facility was drawn. The objective is to have access to shortto 135 percent (145) of the Group’s capital employed. term financing at competitive prices. Pricing is based on the prevailing Financing of the Group should be well balanced among different market rates at time of issuance. sources and long-term. The aim is that committed loan facilities and bond loans should have an average maturity of more than 3.5 years. As per The table below shows a summary of the credit facilities as of December December 31, 2018 the average maturity was 3.5 years. The following 31, 2018. tables summarize the Group’s liquidity risk at end 2018 and 2017 respecCREDIT FACILITIES AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2018 tively. Facility Available LIQUIDITY REPORT AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 amount amount Type Currency (million) (million) Maturity Between Between EMTN FRN private 1 year 3 years placement USD 85 0 2019 and and MSEK Total < 1 year < 3 years 5 years > 5 years EMTN FRN private placement USD 40 0 2020 December 31, 2018 EMTN FRN private Borrowings, placement USD 40 0 2021 principal amount -17 765 -2 323 -5 196 -3 586 -6 660 EMTN FRN private Borrowings, placement USD 60 0 2021 interest amount -1 123 -292 -512 -202 -117 EMTN FRN private Derivatives outflows placement USD 40 0 2021 interest -267 -123 -80 -42 -22 EMTN Eurobond, Other derivatives outflows -10 201 -5 802 – -2 833 -1 566 2.625% fixed EUR 350 0 2021 Finance leases -222 -106 -116 – – EMTN Eurobond, Accounts payable -1 833 -1 833 – – – 1.25% fixed EUR 350 0 2022 Total outflows1 -31 411 -10 479 -5 904 -6 663 -8 365 Multi Currency USD (or Revolving Credit Facility equivalent) 550 500 2022 Investments, principal amount 1 640 1 640 – – – Multi Currency EUR (or Revolving Credit Facility equivalent) 440 440 2022 Derivatives receipts interest 394 104 194 53 43 EMTN Eurobond, 1.125% fixed EUR 350 0 2024 Other derivatives receipts 10 250 5 807 23 2 954 1 466 EMTN Eurobond, Accounts receivable 15 603 15 603 – – – 1.25% fixed EUR 300 0 2025 Total inflows1 27 887 23 154 217 3 007 1 509 Commercial Paper Net cash flows, total2, 3 -3 524 12 675 -5 687 -3 656 -6 856 (uncommitted) SEK 5 000 4 050 n/a In combination with Securitas’ strong cash flow, these sources of financing December 31, 2017 provide liquidity on a short and long-term basis as well as flexibility to Borrowings, principal amount -16 157 -3 625 -1 032 -8 052 -3 448 finance the Group’s expansion. Borrowings, interest amount -1 050 -291 -410 -271 -78 The graph below shows the maturity profile a  s of December 31, 2018 Derivatives outflows for the Group’s interest-bearing debt. interest -326 -69 -138 -119 – Other derivatives MSEK outflows -11 645 -9 029 – -2 616 – 12 000 Finance leases -191 -92 -99 – – 10 000 Accounts payable -1 699 -1 699 – – – 8 000 Total outflows1 -31 068 -14 805 -1 679 -11 058 -3 526 6 000 Investments, 4 000 principal amount 2 267 2 267 – – – 2 000 Derivatives receipts 0 interest 343 102 149 78 14 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 Other derivatives receipts 11 902 9 028 25 2 842 7 Accounts receivable 13 349 13 349 – – – ■■ EUR bond/PP ■■ USD/PP ■■ 2022 RCF (drawn) ■■ 2022 RCF (undrawn) Total inflows1 27 861 24 746 174 2 920 21 Net cash flows, total2, 3 -3 207 9 941 -1 505 -8 138 -3 505 1 Refers to gross cash flows. 2 All contractual cash flows per the balance sheet date are included, including future interest payments. 3 Variable rate cash flows have been estimated using the relevant yield curve. 90 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note Not 1 Credit / counterparty risks Fair value of financial instruments 2 3 Counterparty risk – accounts receivable The methods and assumptions used by the Group in estimating the fair 4 The Group has generally low risk in the accounts receivables for a number value of the financial instruments are: of reasons. A large proportion of sales are based on contracts with wellknown large and medium sized clients with an established and long-term • Cash and bank deposits and short-term investments: carrying amounts approximate fair values. 5 6 relationship. This provides for transparent and safe collection of invoices. New clients are duly reviewed in terms of credit worthiness. • Derivative and other financial instruments: fair values are estimated based on quoted market prices, on prices provided by independent 7 8 The contract portfolio sales are also diversified in several ways, of brokers, or are calculated on best market prices. The prices used are fair 9 which the most important is that there are few / no clients that represent values stated excluding accrued interest. • 10 a significant portion of total sales. Default by a single client then has little Debt: fair values of fixed rate debt are based on either quoted prices 11 overall effect. In addition, Securitas provides its services to geographically or are estimated using discounted cash flow calculations based upon 12 dispersed clients in a large number of sectors including governments, utilthe Group’s current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of ities, financial sector, travel, logistics and industrial. Hence, the exposure borrowings with maturities consistent with those remaining for the 13 to financial distress in any particular sector or region is relatively limited. debt being valued. The fair value of floating rate debt is assumed to 14 Securitas’ services are also, although vital in many aspects, mostly equal the carrying value of the debt. 15 ancillary to the business of the clients. This means that the cost of security 16 services represents a small fraction of total costs of running ­clients’ busiREVALUATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 17 ness, making Securitas less exposed to payment defaults than suppliers MSEK 2018 2017 18 of services or goods more directly involved in the value chain. Recognized in the statement of income 19 All of this provides for secure collection of the sales generated, which Financial income and expenses1 2.4 -0.8 20 is evidenced by low bad debt losses in the range of 0.1 percent of sales Deferred tax – – in the past two years. 21 Impact on net income for the year 2.4 -0.8 22 Counterparty risk – liquid funds 23 Recognized in other comprehensive income The credit quality of interest-bearing receivables is described below, 24 where 76 percent (80) of interest-bearing receivables have a rating of Transfer to cash flow hedging reserve before tax 194.6 63.2 25 A1 / P1. Transfer to cost of hedging reserve before tax -56.6 – 26 Deferred tax on transfer to hedging reserve -30.4 -13.9 CREDIT QUALITY INTEREST-BEARING RECEIVABLES 27 Transfer to hedging reserve net of tax 107.6 49.3 MSEK 2018 2017 28 A1 / P1 2 926 3 422 Transfer to statement of income before tax -114.4 -91.2 29 Other 923 853 Deferred tax on transfer to statement of income 25.2 20.0 30 Total interest-bearing receivables 3 849 4 275 Transfer to statement of income net of tax -89.2 -71.2 31 32 The Group has policies in place that limit the amount of credit exposure to Change of cash flow hedging reserve before tax 80.2 -28.0 33 any one financial institution. The use of Credit Support Annexes reduces Change of cost of hedging reserve before tax -56.6 – 34 the Group’s counterparty exposures on its outstanding derivatives. Total change of hedging reserve before tax2 23.6 -28.0 35 Investments of liquid funds may only be made in government paper or Deferred tax on total change 36 with financial institutions with a high credit rating. As of December 31, of hedging reserve2 -5.2 6.1 37 2018 the weighted average credit rating of these institutions was shortTotal change of hedging reserve net of tax 18.4 -21.9 term A1 / P1. The largest total exposure for all instrument types to any one 38 institution was MSEK 1 343 (1 697). 39 Total impact on shareholders’ equity 40 as specified above Rating 41 Total revaluation before tax 3 26.0 -28.8 In order to access international debt capital markets in an effective manner, 42 Deferred tax on total revaluation 3 -5.2 6.1 Securitas has obtained long-term and short-term credit ratings from Total revaluation after tax 20.8 -22.7 43 Standard & Poor’s. The long-term rating is BBB with Stable Outlook 44 and the short-term rating is A-2. The Nordic short-term rating is K-2. 1 Related to financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. There was no significant ineffectiveness in the fair value hedges or in the cash flow hedges. 45 2 Total of transfer to hedging reserve and transfer from hedging reserve to statement of income. 3 Total revaluation and deferred tax recognized via statement of income and via other comprehensive 46 income. 47 48 49 50 HEDGING RESERVE AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2018 51 Cost of Interest rate Currency 52 hedging cash flow cash flow Total Deferred Total net MSEK reserve hedges hedges before tax tax of tax 53 Opening balance January 1, 2018 – 5.2 -10.2 -5.0 1.1 -3.9 54 Change in fair value of hedging instrument recognized in 55 other comprehensive income -56.6 -0.6 195.2 138.0 -30.4 107.6 56 Reclassified from other comprehensive income to profit or loss – 6.0 -120.4 -114.4 25.2 -89.2 57 Closing balance December 31, 2018 -56.6 10.6 64.6 18.6 -4.1 14.5 58 59 60 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 91 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS The table below discloses carrying values and fair values of financial instruments according to the categories in note 2. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS BY CATEGORY – CARRYING AND FAIR VALUES 2018 2017 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair MSEK value value MSEK value value Assets Assets Financial assets at amortized cost Financial assets at fair value through profit Interest-bearing financial non-current assets or loss (note 22) 144.5 144.5 Other interest-bearing current assets (note 27) 52.1 52.1 Other interest-bearing current assets (note 27) 104.0 104.0 Total 52.1 52.1 Other long-term receivables (note 23)1 479.8 479.8 Accounts receivable (note 25) 15 603.5 15 603.5 Loans and receivables Other current receivables (note 26)2 3 907.1 3 907.1 Interest-bearing financial non-current assets Liquid funds (note 28) 3 228.8 3 228.8 (note 22) 68.4 68.4 Total financial assets at amortized cost 23 467.7 23 467.7 Other long-term receivables (note 23)1 439.7 439.7 Accounts receivable (note 25) 13 349.3 13 349.3 Liabilities Other current receivables (note 26)2 3 349.8 3 349.8 Financial liabilities at amortized cost Other interest-bearing current assets (note 27) 106.7 106.7 Long-term loan liabilities (note 30) 1 918.9 1 918.9 Liquid funds (note 28) 3 610.6 3 610.6 Short-term loan liabilities (note 33) 2 367.7 2 367.7 Total 20 924.5 20 924.5 Accounts payable 1 832.7 1 832.7 Other current liabilities (not 34) 4 4 516.3 4 516.3 Liabilities Financial liabilities designated as hedged item in Financial liabilities at fair value through profit a fair value hedge (note 30)5 13 939.2 14 064.6 or loss Total financial liabilities at amortized cost 24 574.8 24 700.2 Short-term loan liabilities (note 33) 16.2 16.2 Total 16.2 16.2 Derivatives designated for hedging Interest-bearing financial current assets (note 27) 17.1 17.1 Financial liabilities designated as hedged item in a fair value hedge Interest-bearing financial non-current assets (note 22) 354.5 354.5 Short-term loan liabilities (note 33)5 2 961.0 2 969.4 Total derivatives assets designated for Long-term loan liabilities (note 30)5 10 463.3 10 721.1 hedging 371.6 371.6 Total 13 424.3 13 690.5 Interest-bearing financial current liabilities (note 33) 20.9 20.9 Interest-bearing financial long-term liabilities Other financial liabilities (note 30) 115.7 115.7 Long-term loan liabilities (note 30) 2 560.5 2 560.5 Total derivatives liabilities designated for Long-term liabilities (note 30)3 113.6 113.6 hedging 136.6 136.6 Short-term loan liabilities (note 33) 558.5 558.5 Net total 235.0 235.0 Accounts payable 1 698.8 1 698.8 Other current liabilities (note 34) 4 3 877.8 3 877.8 1 Excluding all pension balances and reimbursement rights (note 23) 303.0 303.0 Total 8 809.2 8 809.2 2 Excluding prepaid expenses (note 26) 1 149.2 1 149.2 3 Excluding pension balances (note 30) 128.7 128.7 Derivatives designated for hedging 4 Excluding employee-related accrued expenses and prepaid Interest-bearing financial current assets (note 27) 5.9 5.9 income (note 34) 7 511.0 7 511.0 5 The difference between the carrying value and fair value of Interest-bearing financial non-current assets short-term and long-term loan liabilities is due to the credit (note 22) 431.3 431.3 margin in the discount rate. Total assets 437.2 437.2 Interest-bearing financial current liabilities (note 33) 47.2 47.2 Interest-bearing financial long-term liabilities (note 30) 0.8 0.8 Total liabilities 48.0 48.0 Net total 389.2 389.2 1 Excluding all pension balances and reimbursement rights (note 23) 375.9 375.9 2 Excluding prepaid expenses 874.7 874.7 3 Excluding pension balances (note 30) 124.1 124.1 4 Excluding employee-related accrued expenses and prepaid income 6 987.8 6 987.8 5 The difference between the carrying value and fair value of short-term and long-term loan liabilities is due to the credit margin in the discount rate. 92 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note Not 1 FAIR VALUE – HIERARCHY AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 20171 2 Valuation techniques Valuation techniques 3 using observable using non-observable Quoted market prices market data market data Total 4 5 MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 6 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss – – 15.9 50.6 – – 15.9 50.6 7 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss – – -10.0 -16.2 -272,32 -167.6 2 -282.3 -183.8 8 Derivatives designated for hedging with positive fair value – – 355.7 438.7 – – 355.7 438.7 9 Derivatives designated for hedging with negative fair value – – -126.6 -48.0 – – -126.6 -48.0 10 1 There have been no transfers between any of the valuation levels during the year. 2 Related to deferred considerations. These have been recognized mainly based on an assessment 11 of the future profitability development in the acquired entities for an agreed period. 12 13 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities 14 For the financial assets and liabilities subject to enforceable master netsimilar agreement will have the option to settle all such amounts on a net 15 ting arrangements or similar arrangements, each agreement between basis in the event of default of the other party. Per the terms of each agreethe Group and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant ment, an event of default includes failure by a party to make payment when 16 financial assets and liabilities when both elect to settle on a net basis. In the due, failure by a party to perform any obligation required by the agreement 17 absence of such an election, financial assets and liabilities will be settled (other than payment) if such failure is not remedied within periods of 30 to 18 on a gross basis. However, each party to the master netting agreement or 60 days after notice of such failure is given to the party, or bankruptcy. 19 20 Financial assets 21 The following financial assets are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements or similar agreements. 22 23 Gross amounts of Net amounts of Financial Gross amounts recognized financial financial assets instruments 24 of recognized liabilities set off in presented in not set off in the 25 MSEK financial assets the balance sheet the balance sheet balance sheet Net amount 26 December 31, 2018 27 Derivative financial assets 371.6 – 371.6 43.2 328.4 28 Total 371.6 – 371.6 43.2 328.4 29 30 December 31, 2017 31 Derivative financial assets 489.3 – 489.3 52.1 437.2 32 Total 489.3 – 489.3 52.1 437.2 33 34 Financial liabilities 35 The following financial liabilities are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements or similar agreements. 36 37 Gross amounts of Net amounts of Financial 38 Gross amounts recognized financial financial liabilities instruments of recognized assets set off in presented in not set off in 39 MSEK financial liabilities the balance sheet the balance sheet the balance sheet Net amount 40 December 31, 2018 41 Derivative financial liabilities 136.6 – 136.6 55.8 80.8 42 Total 136.6 – 136.6 55.8 80.8 43 44 December 31, 2017 45 Derivative financial liabilities 64.1 – 64.1 9.3 54.8 46 Total 64.1 – 64.1 9.3 54.8 47 48 References to other notes 49 For further information regarding financial instruments, refer to: 50 • Note 2 Accounting principles 51 • Note 14 Net financial items • 52 Note 22 Interest-bearing financial non-current assets • 53 Note 27 Other interest-bearing current assets • 54 Note 30 Long-term liabilities excluding provisions • Note 33 Short-term loan liabilities 55 • Note 44 Financial risk management (Parent Company) 56 57 58 59 60 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 93 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS NOTE 8 Transactions with related parties The guidelines shall apply to agreements entered into after the adoption by the Annual General Meeting, and to changes made in existing agreements Guarantees on behalf of related parties amount to MSEK 0.4 (3.9). after this date. The Board shall be entitled to deviate from the guidelines in Information on the remuneration to the Board of Directors and Senior individual cases if there are specific reasons for such deviation. Management is provided in note 9. Information on total payroll expenses The Board of Directors proposal to the Annual General Meeting in May for the Board of Directors and the Presidents of the Group is provided in 2019 on guidelines for remuneration to senior management regarding note 12. 2019 is presented in the Report of the Board of Directors, in this Annual For information on the Parent Company’s transactions with related Report. parties, refer to note 43 and note 46. Planning and decision-making process The Board’s remuneration committee deals with the above matters Remuneration to the Board of regarding the President and CEO and other members of the Group NOTE 9 Directors and senior management Management, as well as other management levels if the committee so decides. The committee presents its proposals to the Board of Directors, General which takes all decisions. The members of the remuneration committee are Marie Ehrling (chairman) and Carl Douglas. The committee has held Principles two meetings in 2018. The Chairman of the Board and the Directors receive fees in accordance with the decision of the Annual General Meeting, which includes sepaBoard of Directors rate fees for committee work. Neither the President and CEO nor the Fees to the Board of directors, relating to the period up to the Annual employee representatives receive Directors’ fees. General Meeting 2019 are provided according to the Annual General The Annual General Meeting on May 2, 2018 decided upon guidelines Meeting’s decision on May 2, 2018. For the 2018 financial year, the Chairfor remuneration to senior management regarding 2018 in accordance man Marie Ehrling receives a director’s fee, including committee work fee, with the following: of MSEK 2.1. The other Directors receives an aggregate director’s fee, The fundamental principle is that remuneration and other terms of including committee work fee, of MSEK 5.2. The remuneration for each employment for senior management shall be competitive and in accormember of the Board of Directors is disclosed in the tables below. The dance with market conditions, in order to ensure that the Securitas Group Board of Directors is otherwise not entitled to any other compensation will be able to attract and keep competent senior management employees. except for travel and lodging expenses. The total remuneration to senior management shall consist of a fixed basic salary, variable remuneration, pensions and other benefits. President and Chief Executive Officer In addition to a fixed annual salary the Group Management may also Magnus Ahlqvist took up the office as President and CEO as of March 1, receive variable remuneration, which shall be based on the outcome in 2018. relation to financial goals within the individual’s area of responsibility The President and CEO Magnus Ahlqvist’s salary for the period March (Group or division) and which shall be aligned with the interest of the 1 to December 31, 2018, amounted to MSEK 14.7. The compensation shareholders. The variable remuneration shall amount to a maximum includes salary in lieu of pension amounting to MSEK 3.4, corresponding of 60 percent of the fixed annual salary for the President and CEO and a to 30 percent of base salary. Other salary benefits amounted to MSEK maximum of 42–200 percent of the fixed annual salary for other individu0.2. Compensation to Magnus Ahlqvist as Divisional President Secuals of the Group Management. If cash payment of variable remuneration rity Services Europe, for the period January 1 to February 28, 2018, is has been effected on grounds later proven to be obviously inaccurate, the included under other members of Group Management below. Magnus company shall have the possibility to reclaim such paid remuneration. Ahlqvist has also continued as Divisional President for Security Services The Board of Directors shall each year consider whether to propose Europe for the period after March 1, 2018, without separate compenthat the Annual General Meeting shall resolve upon a share or share price sation. Upon dismissal, the notice period for the President and CEO related incentive program. amounts to twelve months with a right to a severance pay after the end of The cost of the company for 2018 in terms of its obligations to pay varithe notice period, equivalent to twelve months fixed salary. able remuneration to the Group Management is estimated to not exceed The prior President and CEO Alf Göransson resigned from this position a total of MSEK 84 at maximum outcome. Information on previously on March 1, 2018 and left his employment on March 7, 2018. The salary decided remuneration which has not yet been paid can be found in note 8 for the period January 1 to February 28, 2018 amounted to MSEK 2.5. of the Annual Report for 2017. The salary for the period March 1 to March 7, 2018 amounted to MSEK Subject to applicable legislation, the entire Group Management shall 0.3. Other salary benefits amounted to MSEK 0.0. Alf Göransson had a be subject to defined contribution pension plans for which insurance predefined contribution pension plan amounting to 30 percent of his fixed miums are transferred from the individual’s total remuneration and paid salary, and the pension costs amounted to MSEK 0.8. No pension benby the company during the term of employment. Variable compensation efits were conditioned by future employment. shall not qualify for pension purposes unless local regulations provide Alf Göransson is, according to an agreement up to March 2020, an otherwise. advisor to Securitas’ President and CEO Magnus Ahlqvist. In this role Alf Other benefits, such as company car, special health insurance or occuGöransson will, among other things support in some client relations activipational health service shall be provided to the extent this is considered ties, acquisition related matters and industry specific topics. The compencustomary for senior management employees holding equivalent posisation for the advisory engagement for the period March 8 to December tions on the labor market where the senior management employee is 31, 2018 amounted to MSEK 8.0. There are no other benefits, variable active. compensation or pension in this engagement. At dismissal, the notice period for all senior management employees shall amount to a maximum of twelve months with a right to redundancy payment after the end of the notice period, equivalent to a maximum of 100 percent of the fixed salary for a period not exceeding twelve months. At resignation by a senior management employee, the notice period shall amount to a maximum of six months. These guidelines shall apply to individuals who are included in the Group Management during the term of application of these guidelines. 94 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 Other members of Group Management 2 and 12. Information regarding the final allocation of shares to the Group 2 The other Group Management consisted by the end of 2018 of the folManagement in March 2019 under the 2017 share-based incentive 3 lowing ten members: Bart Adam (Chief Financial Officer), Martin Althén scheme, as well as the potential allocation of shares in 2020 under the 4 (Chief Information Officer), William Barthelemy (Chief Operating Officer, 2018 share-based incentive scheme and the fair value of these shares, Security Services North America), Santiago Galaz (Divisional President, are disclosed in the tables below. 5 Security Services North America), Jan Lindström (Senior Vice President For the President and CEO Magnus Ahlqvist the variable short-term 6 Finance), Aimé Lyagre (Chief Operating Officer and Chief Technology compensation relating to the 2018 performance amounted to MSEK 6.4, 7 Officer, Security Services Europe), Marc Pissens (President Aviation), whereof MSEK 2.1 will be allocated in shares in 2020 and MSEK 4.3 will 8 Luis Posadas (Divisional President, Security Services Ibero-America), be paid in cash in 2019. There is no variable compensation relating to the 9 Frida Rosenholm (Senior Vice President, General Counsel) and Henrik 2018 performance for the previous President and CEO Alf Göransson. 10 Zetterberg (Chief Operating Officer, Security Services Europe). Gisela The aggregate short-term variable compensation relating to the 2018 11 Lindstrand (Senior Vice President Corporate Communications and Public performance to the other members of Group management amounted to Affairs) left the Group Management as of May 15, 2018. MSEK 43.4, whereof MSEK 14.4 will be allocated in shares in 2020 and 12 In the 2018 financial year the other members of Group Management MSEK 29.0 will be paid in cash in 2019. 13 aggregate fixed salaries amounted to MSEK 71.5, and other salary benDuring 2018 three members of Group Management have had long14 efits to MSEK 3.3. The amounts include remuneration to members who term incentive plans, which are provided for during the performance 15 were part of the Group Management during the year. year. Two plans are reconciled to the annual performance, paid in the 16 The other members of Group Management have individual pension following year. The third plan is reconciled to performance up to 2020, 17 plans. The retirement age varies from country to country and pension with payment during 2021 conditioned by that the performance target 18 plan. has been met. The provision for long-term variable compensation relatAs described under Principles above, members can allocate part of ing to the 2018 performance amounted to MSEK 19.9. The accumulated 19 their remuneration to a defined contribution pension plan. All members provision for long-term bonus programs amounted to MSEK 29.5 as of 20 of Group Management have defined contribution pension plans for which December 31, 2018, whereof MSEK 27.7 is paid in 2019. At resignation 21 pension premiums are allocated from the member’s total remuneration by a management employee, any unpaid long-term bonus will stay with 22 and paid by the company during the term of employment. These prethe company. 23 miums may vary but are limited to amounts deductible for tax purposes 24 by the company. In 2018 the pension costs for these members of Group ALLOCATION OF SHARES TO GROUP MANAGEMENT 25 Management amounted to MSEK 10.6. No pension benefits are condiRELATING TO SECURITAS SHARE-BASED INCENTIVE SCHEME 2018 26 tioned by future employment. Number of shares 1 Fair value , MSEK 2 During 2018 five members had a Swedish defined benefit pension plan 27 2018 2018 (ITP), but can also allocate part of their remuneration to a defined contri28 bution plan. The Swedish defined benefit plan guarantees a lifetime penMagnus Ahlqvist, President and CEO3 17 791 2.6 29 sion from the age of 65. The pension compensation corresponds to a cerOther members of Group Management 99 561 14.6 30 tain percentage of the final salary, and the maximum pensionable income Total holdings 117 352 17.2 31 is MSEK 1.9 per employee. This pension benefit is funded through annual 1 Potential allocation of shares 2020, according to Securitas share-based incentive scheme 2018, 32 premiums paid by the company during the term of employment, and the according to purchase prices for Securitas Series B shares in March 2019. 2 Fair value of potential allocation of shares based on currency rates as of February 28, 2019 and 33 pension cost for these five members in 2018 was MSEK 2.3 (included Securitas Series B share purchase prices in March 2019. in the total pension cost for other Group Management, see also the table 34 3 Includes share related bonus earned as Divisional President Security Services Europe. below). 35 Upon dismissal, the notice period and a right to a severance pay after 36 the end of the notice period, is equivalent to a maximum of 24 months 37 fixed salary, for members of Group Management. 38 39 Shortand long-term incentives 40 Short-term as well as long-term incentives for eligible employees in Securitas include clearly measurable performance based targets that are 41 set as close to the local business as possible and aim for long-term profit42 ability of the Group. The performance targets that are required to achieve 43 maximum bonus vary depending on the position of the employee but are 44 as a principle based on year-on-year improvement of the operating result 45 (EBITA) in the area of responsibility and targets based on improvement of 46 cash flow. 47 For the President and CEO as well as the four members of Group Man48 agement responsible for staff functions, the performance based target is based on year-on-year real improvement of the earnings per share. 49 The President and CEO Magnus Ahlqvist and the other members of 50 Group Management are included in the Securitas share-based incen51 tive schemes 2017 and 2018 respectively, which were approved by 52 the Annual General Meetings in these years. These incentive schemes 53 are paid by two thirds in cash in the beginning of the year following the 54 performance year, and the remaining one third is used to acquire Series B 55 shares in Securitas AB over the stock market. These shares are allocated to Group Management in March, two years following the performance 56 year, conditioned by a continuous employment during the vesting period, 57 except where the member has left his/her employment due to retire58 ment, long-term disability or death, in which case the member shall have 59 a continued right to receive Bonus Shares. See further information in note 60 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 95 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS Remuneration to the Board of Directors and Group Management REMUNERATION RELATED TO 2018 Base Other Variable Total KSEK salary / fee benefits compensation5 Pension remuneration Marie Ehrling, Chairman of the Board1 2 100 – – – 2 100 Carl Douglas, vice Chairman1 895 – – – 895 Ingrid Bonde1 760 – – – 760 John Brandon 580 – – – 580 Anders Böös1 760 – – – 760 Fredrik Cappelen1 865 – – – 865 Sofia Schörling Högberg1 760 – – – 760 Dick Seger 580 – – – 580 Subtotal Board of Directors 7 300 – – – 7 300 Magnus Ahlqvist, President and CEO (1 March – 31 December)2 14 666 181 6 386 – 21 233 Alf Göransson, President and CEO (1 January – 28 February) 3 2 500 28 – 757 3 285 Other members of Group Management4 71 456 3 269 63 318 10 639 148 682 Subtotal President and CEO and Group Management 88 622 3 478 69 704 11 396 173 200 Total 95 922 3 478 69 704 11 396 180 500 Above information refers to full year remuneration for the current Group Management, unless stated 4 Other members of Group Management consisted as of December 31, 2018 of ten persons. The comotherwise. The Board of Directors has no pension benefits. pensation for Magnus Ahlqvist in the role as Divisional President Security Services Europe during the 1 Including remuneration for committee work. period January 1 to February 28, 2018 is included in this amount, as well as for one member who left 2 B ase salary and 30% salary in lieu of pension contributions KSEK 3 404 and translation difference the Group Management during 2018. from GBP for part of salary paid in the United Kingdom according to agreement. 5 Refer to the cost for 2018 for Securitas incentive scheme for cash and share-based bonus and long3 In addition, salary for the period March 1 to March 7, 2018 amounted to KSEK 288. Compensation term incentive plans, see also separate table for the share-based part. for advisory engagement for the period March 8 to December 31, 2018 amounted KSEK 7 994. There are no other benefits, variable compensation or pension in this engagement. REMUNERATION RELATED TO 2017 Base Other Variable Total KSEK salary / fee benefits compensation2 Pension remuneration Marie Ehrling, Chairman of the Board1 1 800 – – – 1 800 Carl Douglas, vice Chairman1 850 – – – 850 Ingrid Bonde 550 – – – 550 John Brandon 550 – – – 550 Anders Böös1 725 – – – 725 Fredrik Cappelen1 825 – – – 825 Sofia Schörling Högberg1 725 – – – 725 Dick Seger 550 – – – 550 Subtotal Board of Directors 6 575 – – – 6 575 Alf Göransson, President and CEO 15 346 65 9 000 4 500 28 911 Other members of Group Management 3 67 091 5 233 57 326 11 266 140 916 Subtotal President and CEO and Group Management 82 437 5 298 66 326 15 766 169 827 Total 89 012 5 298 66 326 15 766 176 402 Above information refers to full year remuneration for the current Group Management, unless stated 1 Including remuneration for committee work. otherwise. The Board of Directors has no pension benefits. 2 Refer to the cost for 2017 for Securitas incentive scheme for cash and share-based bonus, see also separate table for the share-based part. 3 Other members of Group Management consisted as of December 31, 2017 of 11 persons (12). The compensation for one member who left the Group Management during 2017 refers up to this date. 96 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 Shareholdings 2 The Board of Directors’ and Group Management’s shareholdings through acquisitions on the stock market as of December 31, 2018, as well as the 3 allocation of shares to the Group Management according to Securitas share-based incentive scheme in March 2019 are detailed in the table below. 4 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ AND GROUP MANAGEMENT’S HOLDINGS OF SECURITAS SERIES A AND B SHARES1 5 A shares A shares B shares B shares B shares 6 7 Allocation 2018 2017 2018 8 20178 March 2019 9 8 Marie Ehrling, Chairman of the Board – – 7 000 7 000 – 9 Carl Douglas, vice Chairman2 12 642 600 12 642 600 27 190 000 27 190 000 – 10 Ingrid Bonde – – 2 600 2 600 – 11 John Brandon – – 10 000 0 – 12 Anders Böös – – 25 000 25 000 – 13 Fredrik Cappelen – – 4 000 4 000 – 14 Sofia Schörling Högberg 3 4 500 000 4 500 000 12 071 998 15 237 000 – 15 Dick Seger – – 26 26 – Magnus Ahlqvist, President and CEO (as from March 1, 2018) 4 – – 108 989 101 920 4 052 16 Alf Göransson, President and CEO (up to February 28, 2018)5 – – – 100 702 – 17 Bart Adam – – 37 027 31 337 16 153 18 Martin Althén – – 1 544 0 4 388 19 William Barthelemy – – 62 109 52 072 8 750 20 Santiago Galaz – – 238 406 201 679 33 264 21 Gisela Lindstrand5 – – – 4 082 – 22 Jan Lindström – – 11 395 9 576 4 371 23 Aimé Lyagre – – 26 510 21 470 4 710 24 Marc Pissens – – 62 022 49 234 12 740 25 Luis Posadas – – 45 149 35 973 6 201 Frida Rosenholm 6 – – 0 – – 26 Henrik Zetterberg 7 – – 2 544 1 301 3 687 27 Total holdings 17 142 600 17 142 600 39 906 319 43 074 972 98 316 28 1 Information refers to shareholdings as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. 7 H olds in addition to B-shares according to the table, 45 000 share options regarding acquisition of 29 2 Private holdings and through Investment AB Latour Group. Securitas series B-shares, issued by Melker Schörling AB and Investment AB Latour. 30 3 P rivate holdings and through Melker Schörling AB. In addition related parties holds 4 800 series 8 H oldings as of December 31 excluding potential allocation of shares according to Securitas shareB-shares. based incentive scheme (see footnote 9 below). 31 4 H olds in addition to B-shares according to the table, 200 000 share options regarding acquisition of 9 Actual allocation of shares in March 2019 according to Securitas share-based incentive scheme 32 Securitas series B-shares, issued by Melker Schörling AB and Investment AB Latour. 2017, including shares corresponding to dividend decided related to potential allocation of shares 5 Has left the Group Management during 2018, why actual holdings is not applicable. during 2018. The gross number of allocated shares is stated, of which part of the shares may have 33 6 Has joined the Group Management during 2018, why earlier holdings is not applicable. been sold to cover tax on the benefit. Other holdings of Securitas Series B shares in March 2019 are not included. 34 35 NOTE 10 Segment reporting 36 37 Segment structure Security Services Ibero-America 38 The Group’s operations are divided into three reportable segments: Security Services Ibero-America provides security services for large and 39 Security Services North America, Security Services Europe and Security medium-sized clients in nine Latin American countries as well as Portugal 40 Services Ibero-America. and Spain in Europe. Security Services Ibero-America has a combined 41 All segments apply the accounting principles explained in note 2. The total of approximately 170 branch managers and 63 000 employees. 42 segment reporting follows the format of Securitas’ financial model, which 43 provides a foundation for financial planning and reporting from branch Other 44 office level up to the Board of Directors. Acquisitions of subsidiaries are Other includes all other operating segments as well as general administratherefore excluded from the operating cash flow. All material acquisitions tive expenses, expenses for head offices and other central expenses. All 45 are stated at business segment level in the report of the Board of Directors other operating segments comprise the operations in Africa, the Middle 46 under the heading Acquisitions and divestitures. East and Asia. 47 48 Security Services North America 49 Security Services North America provides security services in the US, SALES PER SEGMENT NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 50 Canada and Mexico and comprises 15 business units: the national PER SEGMENT 51 and global accounts organization, five geographical regions and seven 52 specialized business units in the US – critical infrastructure, healthcare, Pinkerton Corporate Risk Management, mobile, manufacturing, oil and 53 gas and Securitas Electronic Security – plus Canada and Mexico. In total, 54 there are approximately 720 branch managers and 122 000 employees. 55 56 Security Services Europe 57 █  Security Services █ Security Services Security Services Europe provides security services for large and mediumNorth America 42% North America 33% 58 sized clients in 28 countries, and airport security in 15 countries. Security █ Security Services Europe 44% █ Security Services Europe 35% 59 Services Europe offers mobile security services for small and medium█ Security Services █ Security Services 60 sized businesses and residential sites and electronic alarm Ibero-America 12% Ibero-America 17% surveillance services. In total, the organization has approximately 770 █ Other 2% █ Other 15% branch managers and 128 000 employees. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 97 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS JANUARY – DECEMBER 2018 Security Security Security Services Services Services Total MSEK North America Europe Ibero-America Other segments Eliminations Group Income Sales, external 42 360 45 040 12 313 1 754 101 467 – 101 467 Sales, intra-group 6 – 2 1 9 -9 – Total sales 42 366 45 040 12 315 1 755 101 476 -9 101 467 Organic sales growth, % 6 4 12 – – – 6 Operating income before amortization1 2 589 2 511 550 -346 5 304 – 5 304 of which share in income of associated companies -9 0 – 40 31 – 31 Operating margin, % 6.1 5.6 4.5 – 5.2 – 5.2 Amortization of acquisition related intangible assets -54 -158 -30 -18 -260 – -260 Acquisition related costs -84 -35 – -1 -120 – -120 Items affecting comparability -155 -268 – -32 -455 – -455 Operating income after amortization 2 296 2 050 520 -397 4 469 – 4 469 Financial income and expenses – – – – – – -441 Income before taxes – – – – – – 4 028 Taxes – – – – – – -1 007 Net income for the year – – – – – – 3 021 Operating cash flow Operating income before amortization 2 589 2 511 550 -346 5 304 – 5 304 Investments in non-current tangible and intangible assets -478 -1 169 -274 -267 -2 188 – -2 188 Reversal of depreciation1 368 917 286 122 1 693 – 1 693 Change in operating capital employed -660 -603 -235 -139 -1 637 – -1 637 Cash flow from operating activities 1 819 1 656 327 -630 3 172 – 3 172 Cash flow from operating activities, % 70 66 59 – – – 60 Capital employed and financing Operating non-current assets 1 429 3 094 660 804 5 987 – 5 987 Accounts receivable 6 081 6 722 2 630 264 15 697 -94 15 603 Other assets 3 286 1 538 552 1 684 7 060 -1 7 059 Other liabilities -5 865 -9 177 -1 937 -2 566 -19 545 95 -19 450 Total operating capital employed 4 931 2 177 1 905 186 9 199 – 9 199 Operating capital employed as % of sales 11 5 15 – – – 9 Goodwill 10 784 8 469 1 468 340 21 061 – 21 061 Acquisition related intangible assets 588 734 55 81 1 458 – 1 458 Shares in associated companies 192 37 – 223 452 – 452 Total capital employed 16 495 11 417 3 428 830 32 170 – 32 170 Return on capital employed, % 16 23 17 – – – 15 Net debt – – – – – – 14 513 Shareholders’ equity – – – – – – 17 657 Total financing – – – – – – 32 170 Net debt equity ratio, multiple – – – – – – 0.82 Assets and liabilities Non-interest-bearing assets 22 360 20 594 5 365 1 853 50 172 -95 50 077 Unallocated non-interest-bearing assets2 – – – – – – 1 543 Unallocated interest-bearing assets – – – – – – 3 849 Total assets – – – – – – 55 469 Shareholders’ equity – – – – – – 17 657 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 5 865 9 177 1 937 423 17 402 -95 17 307 Unallocated non-interest-bearing liabilities2 – – – – – – 2 143 Unallocated interest-bearing liabilities – – – – – – 18 362 Total liabilities – – – – – – 37 812 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities – – – – – – 55 469 1 Depreciation and amortization of tangible and non-acquisition related intangible assets per segment are specified on the line Reversal of depreciation in the statement of cash flow above. Further information regarding depreciation and amortization is provided in note 13. 2 Included in Other in the table Capital employed and financing. 98 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 JANUARY – DECEMBER 2017 2 Security Security Security 3 Services Services Services Total MSEK North America Europe Ibero-America Other 3 segments 3 Eliminations Group 3 4 Income 5 Sales, external 38 107 40 703 11 969 1 418 92 197 – 92 197 6 Sales, intra-group 1 0 2 2 5 -5 – 7 Total sales 38 108 40 703 11 971 1 420 92 202 -5 92 197 8 Organic sales growth, % 5 2 13 – – – 5 9 Operating income before amortization1 2 254 2 275 506 -338 4 697 – 4 697 10 of which share in income of associated companies -8 3 – 27 22 – 22 11 Operating margin, % 5.9 5.6 4.2 – 5.1 – 5.1 12 Amortization of acquisition 13 related intangible assets -50 -145 -41 -19 -255 – -255 14 Acquisition related costs -17 -27 0 -4 -48 – -48 15 Items affecting comparability – – – – – – – 16 Operating income after amortization 2 187 2 103 465 -361 4 394 – 4 394 17 Financial income and expenses – – – – – – -376 18 Income before taxes – – – – – – 4 018 19 Taxes – – – – – – -1 267 20 Net income for the year – – – – – – 2 751 21 Operating cash flow 22 Operating income before amortization 2 254 2 275 506 -338 4 697 – 4 697 23 Investments in non-current 24 tangible and intangible assets -316 -1 096 -268 -128 -1 808 – -1 808 25 Reversal of depreciation1 290 842 205 108 1 445 – 1 445 26 Change in operating capital employed -161 -424 87 1 -497 – -497 27 Cash flow from operating activities 2 067 1 597 530 -357 3 837 – 3 837 28 Cash flow from operating activities, % 92 70 105 – – – 82 29 30 Capital employed and financing 31 Operating non-current assets 1 338 2 741 654 651 5 384 – 5 384 32 Accounts receivable 4 804 5 940 2 459 203 13 406 -57 13 349 33 Other assets 2 635 1 344 520 1 725 6 224 -1 6 223 34 Other liabilities -4 846 -8 418 -1 940 -2 250 -17 454 58 -17 396 35 Total operating capital employed 3 931 1 607 1 693 329 7 560 – 7 560 36 Operating capital employed as % of sales 10 4 14 – – – 8 37 Goodwill 9 541 7 530 1 338 310 18 719 – 18 719 38 Acquisition related intangible assets 495 498 94 86 1 173 – 1 173 39 Shares in associated companies 200 36 – 184 420 – 420 Total capital employed 14 167 9 671 3 125 909 27 872 – 27 872 40 Return on capital employed, % 16 26 18 – – – 17 41 Net debt – – – – – – 12 333 42 Shareholders’ equity – – – – – – 15 539 43 Total financing – – – – – – 27 872 44 Net debt equity ratio, multiple – – – – – – 0.79 45 46 Assets and liabilities 47 Non-interest-bearing assets 19 013 18 089 5 065 1 548 43 715 -58 43 657 48 Unallocated non-interest-bearing assets2 – – – – – – 1 611 49 Unallocated interest-bearing assets – – – – – – 4 275 50 Total assets – – – – – – 49 543 51 Shareholders’ equity – – – – – – 15 539 52 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 4 846 8 418 1 940 458 15 662 -58 15 604 53 Unallocated non-interest-bearing liabilities2 – – – – – – 1 792 54 Unallocated interest-bearing liabilities – – – – – – 16 608 55 Total liabilities – – – – – – 34 004 56 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities – – – – – – 49 543 57 1 Depreciation and amortization of tangible and non-acquisition related intangible assets per segment are specified on the line Reversal of depreciation in the statement of cash flow above. 58 Further information regarding depreciation and amortization is provided in note 13. 2 Included in Other in the table Capital employed and financing. 59 3 Comparatives have been restated as an effect of a change in accounting principle IFRS 15. Refer to note 2 and note 6 for further information. 60 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 99 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION Items affecting comparability Total sales from Non-current Items affecting comparability consists of two major parts. The first is the external clients1 assets2 cost savings program in Security Services Europe that has been executed MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 in the second half of 2018. The total cost amounted to MSEK -267.9 and mainly relate to organizational restructuring charges with the bulk relating US 38 728 34 770 12 341 10 854 to staff-related items. Sweden 3 4 973 4 860 1 525 1 211 The second part is in relation to two major transformation programs All other countries 4 57 766 52 567 15 056 13 121 for the further digitization of the company. The first program relates to Total countries 101 467 92 197 28 922 25 186 the global IS/IT foundation throughout the Group. The second program Non-current assets is driving business transformation of Security Services North America. not listed by country2 – – 1 496 2 013 5 Related to these two programs, MSEK -186.9 has been recognized as Total non-current assets – – 30 418 27 199 items affecting comparability in the income statement at the end of 2018, 1 B ased on the location of sales offices and corresponds in all material aspects to the geographical of which MSEK -155.4 relate to Security Services North America and location of the clients. MSEK -31.5 to shared Group cost recognized in the segment Other. Costs 2 Financial instruments, deferred tax assets and post-employment benefit assets are not specified by country. These are instead reported on the line Non-current assets not listed by country. relate primarily to the impairment of assets, organizational restructuring 3 Disclosed as Sweden is the company’s country of domicile. charges and other non-recurring items. 4 Including elimination of intra-group sales. 5 Comparatives have been restated as an effect of a change in accounting principle IFRS 15. Refer to note 2 and note 6 for further information. MSEK 2018 2017 IS/IT transformation programs -186.9 – NOTE 11 Operating income Cost savings program, Security Services Europe -267.9 – Total items affecting comparability -454.8 – Statement of income The table below illustrates the statement of income in summary classified according to type of cost. ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY ALLOCATED PER FUNCTION MSEK 2018 2017 MSEK 2018 2017 Production expenses -38.5 – Total sales 101 466.7 92 196.8 Selling and administrative expenses -416.3 – Total items affecting comparability Other operating income 29.6 23.8 allocated per function -454.8 – Salaries (note 12) -64 550.4 -58 848.5 Social benefits (note 12) -13 981.6 -13 101.7 ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY ALLOCATED PER SEGMENT Depreciation and amortization (notes 13, 18, 19, 20) -1 953.4 -1 616.5 MSEK 2018 2017 Bad debt losses (note 25) -137.2 -68.3 Security Services North America -155.4 – Other operating expenses -16 404.7 -14 191.9 Security Services Europe -267.9 – Total operating expenses -97 027.3 -87 826.9 Security Services Ibero-America – – Other -31.5 – Operating income 4 469.0 4 393.7 Total items affecting comparability allocated per segment -454.8 – Exchange rate differences Exchange rate differences included in operating income amounted to CASH FLOW IMPACT FROM ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY MSEK 8.7 (-9.6). MSEK 2018 2017 Exchange rate differences included in net financial items are specified in note 14. Items affecting comparability according to the statement of income -454,8 – Cash flow -117,4 – Adjustment for effect on cash flow from items affecting comparability 337,4 – 100 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 Acquisition related costs Audit fees and reimbursements 2 The tables below specify what acquisition related costs are related to The table below specifies what audit fees and reimbursements are 3 and how they would have been classified per function in the statement of related to. 4 income if the items had not been disclosed separately on the face of the 5 statement of income. The tables also specify how the acquisition related MSEK 2018 2017 costs are split by segment. There is also a specification of the cash flow 6 PwC impact from acquisition related costs. 7 Audit assignments1 41.2 40.6 8 Additional audit assignments1 6.1 3.1 MSEK 2018 2017 9 Tax assignments 1 12.1 14.2 Restructuring and integration costs -89.5 -13.5 10 Other assignments 1,2 25.1 10.3 Transaction costs -25.4 -29.9 11 Total PwC 84.5 68.2 Revaluation of deferred considerations -5.0 -5.0 12 Total acquisition related costs -119.9 -48.4 13 Other auditors Audit assignments 4.1 2.9 14 Total 88.6 71.1 15 ACQUISITION RELATED COSTS ALLOCATED PER FUNCTION 1 Audit assignments amounts to MSEK 41.2 whereof MSEK 6.6 to PwC Sweden. Additional audit 16 MSEK 2018 2017 assignments amounts to MSEK 6.1 whereof MSEK 2.3 to PwC Sweden. Tax assignments amounts to 17 MSEK 12.1 whereof MSEK 2.1 to PwC Sweden. Other assignments amounts to MSEK 25.1 whereof Production expenses -2.7 -5.3 MSEK 0.2 to PwC Sweden. 18 Selling and administrative expenses1 -117.2 -43.1 2 In 2018 MSEK 18.6 pertained to advisory services regarding the acquisition of Kratos Public Safety 19 and Security in North America. Total acquisition related 20 costs allocated per function -119.9 -48.4 Additional audit assignments mainly comprise review of the interim 21 1 A ll transaction costs and revaluation of deferred considerations would have been classified as selling and administrative expenses in the statement of income if they had not been disclosed report for the second quarter as well as review of financial reporting and 22 separately on the face of the statement of income. internal control in additional countries than those included in the agreed 23 audit plan. Tax assignments mainly comprise tax return compliance, 24 ACQUISITION RELATED COSTS ALLOCATED PER SEGMENT transfer pricing and questions related to tax legislation compliance. Other 25 services mainly comprise services related to acquisitions, special IT audits MSEK 2018 2017 26 and review of pension plans. Security Services North America -84.0 -17.4 27 Security Services Europe -35.0 -27.0 Operating leasing contracts and rental contracts 28 Security Services Ibero-America – -0.4 Fees expensed during the year for operating leases for buildings, vehicles 29 Other -0.9 -3.6 and machinery and equipment amounted to MSEK 1 282.8 (1 193.6). 30 Total acquisition related The table below specifies how the nominal value of contractual future 31 costs allocated per segment -119.9 -48.4 minimum lease payments is distributed. 32 33 CASH FLOW IMPACT FROM ACQUISITION RELATED COSTS MSEK 2018 2017 34 Maturity < 1 year 1 056.8 951.3 MSEK 2018 2017 35 Maturity 1–5 years 2 257.5 2 047.0 Acquisition related costs according 36 to the statement of income -119.9 -48.4 Maturity > 5 years 945.1 922.9 37 Cash flow -97.3 -58.6 Total 4 259.4 3 921.2 38 Adjustment for effect on cash flow from acquisition related costs 22.6 -10.2 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 101 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS NOTE 12 Personnel AVERAGE NUMBER OF YEARLY EMPLOYEES: DISTRIBUTION BETWEEN WOMEN AND MEN1 Women Men Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Security Services North America 33 777 30 169 76 850 74 205 110 627 104 374 Security Services Europe 20 285 19 129 89 399 87 373 109 684 106 502 Security Services Ibero-America 9 052 8 636 53 429 51 804 62 481 60 440 Other 2 778 2 338 14 743 14 078 17 521 16 416 Total 65 892 60 272 234 421 227 460 300 313 287 732 In 2018, the number of Board members and Presidents was 96 (98), of whom 7 (7) were women. STAFF COSTS FOR BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND PRESIDENTS 2018 2017 Of which bonuses Social (of which Social (of which MSEK Salaries benefits pensions) Salaries benefits pensions) 2018 2017 Security Services North America 147.5 31.5 (17.4) 112.5 31.7 (15.5) 68.8 48.5 Security Services Europe 100.9 26.7 (9.1) 106.1 28.8 (10.0) 33.4 28.8 Security Services Ibero-America 45.1 3.9 (0.2) 42.9 4.9 (0.1) 9.9 13.3 Other 102.1 25.3 (6.8) 99.8 36.4 (10.4) 32.5 32.7 Total 395.6 87.4 (33.5) 361.3 101.8 (36.0) 144.6 123.3 STAFF COSTS FOR OTHER EMPLOYEES 2018 2017 Social (of which Social (of which MSEK Salaries benefits pensions) Salaries benefits pensions) Security Services North America 28 651.4 4 859.0 (429.2) 26 073.0 4 379.3 (350.8) Security Services Europe 26 267.1 7 074.6 (793.3) 23 730.0 6 567.7 (744.7) Security Services Ibero-America 7 848.1 1 814.5 (33.0) 7 581.4 1 934.2 (26.5) Other 1 388.2 146.1 (54.9) 1 102.8 118.7 (40.7) Total 64 154.8 13 894.2 (1 310.4) 58 487.2 12 999.9 (1 162.7) TOTAL STAFF COSTS: BOARD OF DIRECTORS, PRESIDENTS AND OTHER EMPLOYEES 2018 2017 Social (of which Social (of which MSEK Salaries benefits pensions) Salaries benefits pensions) Security Services North America 28 798.9 4 890.5 (446.6) 26 185.5 4 411.0 (366.3) Security Services Europe 26 368.0 7 101.3 (802.4) 23 836.1 6 596.5 (754.7) Security Services Ibero-America 7 893.2 1 818.4 (33.2) 7 624.3 1 939.1 (26.6) Other 1 490.3 171.4 (61.7) 1 202.6 155.1 (51.1) Total 64 550.4 13 981.6 (1 343.9) 58 848.5 13 101.7 (1 198.7) 1 Average number of yearly employees exclude employees in associated companies. A complete specification of the average number of yearly employees by country can be obtained from the Parent Company. Further information regarding the Group’s pensions and other long-term employee benefits is provided in note 31. Securitas share-based incentive scheme The incentive scheme includes 1 325 participants (1 366) that are Securitas’ Annual General Meeting May 2, 2018 resolved on a share and entitled to receive the share part according to the scheme. The total cash bonus scheme, a similar incentive scheme that the Annual General sharebased remuneration for these participants amount to MSEK 133.1 Meeting 2017 resolved on. The participants in the scheme have a variable (133.2) and is accounted for as a share-based remuneration in equity. In remuneration based on performance. Two thirds of the variable remuMarch 2019, shares in Securitas AB have been purchased corresponding neration/ bonus will, according to the incentive scheme, be settled in cash to the value of the total share-based remuneration. The shares have been the year after the performance year, while shares will be purchased purchased through a swap agreement, based on the current market price for the remaining one third. The bonus criteria is based on individual perat the time. The number of shares that have been purchased amount to formance and / or the performance for the part of the Group that the india total of 1 003 835 (999 831) at a value of MSEK 147.3 (140.6). The vidual is responsible for. For Securitas there are no other material costs shares will be allotted to the participants during the first quarter 2020, than the allotted bonus and related social benefits. provided that they are still employed by the Group. The share purchase in Securitas will be handled by trading on the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange through a swap agreement. Shares are COSTS FOR SHARE-BASED INCENTIVE SCHEME: PRESIDENTS AND OTHER EMPLOYEES purchased corresponding to one third of the total achieved bonus amount. The purchased shares will be allotted to the participants in March, two MSEK 2018 2017 years following the performance year, given that they are still employed Bonus costs for incentive scheme 133.1 133.2 by the Group, except where an employee has left his/her employment due Social benefits for incentive scheme 23.9 28.0 to retirement, death or long-term disability, in which case the employee Total 157.0 161.2 shall have a continued right to receive Bonus Shares. Securitas will not issue any new shares or similar due to this incentive scheme. The purpose is to replace cash bonus with shares in Securitas AB and thus increase the employees’ ownership in Securitas. 102 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 NOTE 13 Depreciation and amortization NOTE 15 Taxes 2 MSEK 2018 2017 1 3 Statement of income Software licenses 196.4 139.1 4 Other intangible assets 126.9 113.0 TAX EXPENSE 5 Buildings 16.1 13.8 6 MSEK 2018 % 2017 % Machinery and equipment 1 354.1 1 179.6 7 Tax on income before taxes Total depreciation and amortization 1 693.5 1 445.5 8 Current taxes -962.2 -23.9 -944.4 -23.5 9 Deferred taxes -45.0 -1.1 -322.2 -8.0 DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION FOR THE YEAR 10 Total tax expense -1 007.2 -25.0 -1 266.6 -31.5 IS DISTRIBUTED IN THE STATEMENT OF INCOME AS BELOW 11 MSEK 2018 20171 12 The Swedish corporate tax rate was 22.0 percent (22.0). The Group’s tax Depreciation of tangible non-current assets rate was 25.0 percent (31.5). The tax rate adjusted for tax on items affect13 Production expenses 796,5 769.6 ing comparability was 25.2 percent. The reduction is mainly due to lower 14 Selling and administrative expenses 573.7 423.8 US tax rates as from 2018 as a result of the US tax reform. The 2017 15 Total depreciation of tangible non-current full-year tax rate was 28.4 percent, excluding a one-off tax expense of 3.1 16 assets 1 370.2 1 193.4 percent, pertaining to a revaluation of US net deferred tax assets, due to 17 new US tax rates as of 2018. 18 Amortization of intangible assets DIFFERENCE BETWEEN STATUTORY SWEDISH 19 Production expenses 85.8 78.4 TAX RATE AND ACTUAL TAX EXPENSE FOR THE GROUP 20 Selling and administrative expenses 237.5 173.7 MSEK 2018 % 2017 % 21 Total amortization of intangible assets 323.3 252.1 Income before taxes according to 22 the statement of income 4 028 4 018 23 Total depreciation and amortization 1 693.5 1 445.5 Tax based on Swedish tax rate -886 -22.0 -879 -22.0 24 1 Comparatives have been restated as an effect of change in accounting principles IFRS 15. Difference between tax rate in 25 Sweden and weighted tax rates for foreign subsidiaries -154 -3.8 -256 -6.3 26 NOTE 14 Net financial items Tax related to previous years -6 -0.2 -50 -1.2 27 Recognition of previously unvalued 28 MSEK 2018 2017 tax losses 49 1.2 24 0.6 29 Interest income from financial assets Revaluation of deferred tax at fair value through profit or loss 27.9 30.6 30 following a change in tax rate1 -12 -0.3 -126 -3.1 Interest income from loans and receivables 28.9 20.5 31 Other non-deductible items -86 -2.1 -85 -2.1 Total interest income 56.8 51.1 32 Other tax exempt items 88 2.2 105 2.6 Net monetary gain on remeasurement 33 Actual tax expense -1 007 -25.0 -1 267 -31.5 for hyperinflation 22.9 – 34 1 Whereof tax attributable to a revaluation of US net deferred tax assets MSEK 123. Revaluation of financial instruments 2.4 – 35 Other financial income 2.7 2.6 Tax expense that may arise from dividends out of the distributable earn36 Total financial income 84.8 53.7 ings have not been provided for. If distributed the tax expense arising 37 Interest expenses from financial would amount to MSEK 16 (21). 38 liabilities at fair value through profit or loss -71.2 -81.8 Changes in deferred taxes between 2017 and 2018 are mainly 39 Interest expenses from financial liabilities explained by reclassifications between deferred tax and current tax, designated as hedged item in a fair value hedge -182.0 -198.3 40 provisions for restructuring cost and acquisition related intangible assets. Interest expenses from derivatives 41 There are no unrecognized temporary differences related to subsidiaries designated for hedging 6.6 43.6 42 or associated companies. Interest expenses from financial liabilities 43 at amortized cost -256.5 – Other comprehensive income 44 Interest expenses from other financial liabilities – -165.5 45 Total interest expenses -503.1 -402.0 TAX ON OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Revaluation of financial instruments – -0.8 46 MSEK 2018 2017 Other financial expenses -21.9 -25.7 47 Deferred tax on remeasurements of defined 48 Exchange rate differences, net1 -0.4 -0.8 benefit pension plans 25.3 -63.21 Total financial expenses -525.4 -429.3 49 Deferred tax on remeasurement for hyperinflation -15.4 – Net financial items -440.6 -375.6 50 Deferred tax on cash flow hedges -17.7 6.1 Of which revaluations estimated 51 Deferred tax on cost of hedging 12.5 – with the use of valuation methods 2.4 -0.8 52 Deferred tax on net investment hedges 107.5 -25.8 1 Exchange rate differences included in operating income are reported in note 11. Deferred tax on other 53 comprehensive income 112.2 -82.9 54 1 Including revaluation of US net deferred tax assets MSEK -24.6 due to the tax reform in the US. 55 56 57 58 59 60 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 103 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS Balance sheet CURRENT TAX ASSETS / LIABILITIES DEFERRED TAX ASSETS CHANGE ANALYSIS MSEK 2018 2017 MSEK 2018 2017 Current tax assets 581.2 606.9 Opening balance deferred tax assets 1 161.0 1 520.0 Current tax liabilities 1 362.3 335.5 Change due to: Current tax assets / liabilities, net -781.1 271.4 Deferred tax recognized in the statement of income 99.7 -145.8 Changed tax rate -18.3 -160.9 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS WERE ATTRIBUTABLE TO Acquisitions -9.8 2.8 MSEK 2018 2017 Recognized in other comprehensive income -4.9 -43.0 Pension provisions and employee-related liabilities 595.4 615.9 Translation differences 39.7 -12.1 Liability insurance-related claims reserves 3.3 2.2 Closing balance deferred tax assets 1 267.4 1 161.0 Tax loss carryforwards 158.1 166.3 Change during the year 106.4 -359.0 Acquisition related intangible assets 67.7 67.2 Machinery and equipment 104.1 101.9 DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES CHANGE ANALYSIS Other temporary differences 338.8 207.5 Total deferred tax assets 1 267.4 1 161.0 MSEK 2018 2017 Whereof deferred tax assets Opening balance deferred tax liabilities 1 184.9 1 091.3 expected to be used within 12 months 775.8 662.9 Change due to: Net accounting1 -306.1 -157.0 Deferred tax recognized in the statement of Total deferred tax assets income 162.5 -84.3 according to the balance sheet 961.3 1 004.0 Changed tax rate -4.4 28.4 Acquisitions 75.3 31.2 DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES WERE ATTRIBUTABLE TO Recognized in other comprehensive income -11.3 – MSEK 2018 2017 Reclassification -545.8 116.0 Translation differences 15.6 2.3 Pension provisions and employee-related liabilities 48.8 60.1 Closing balance deferred tax liabilities 876.8 1 184.9 Acquisition related intangible assets 449.7 287.4 Change during the year -308. 1 93.6 Machinery and equipment 46.6 45.8 Other temporary differences 331.7 791.6 Total deferred tax liabilities 876.8 1 184.9 Whereof deferred tax liabilities expected to be used within 12 months 236.8 218.9 Net accounting1 -306.1 -157.0 Total deferred tax liabilities according to the balance sheet 570.7 1 027.9 Deferred tax assets / liabilities, net 390.6 -23.9 1 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are reported in the balance sheet partly on a net basis after considering the set-off possibilities. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS CHANGE ANALYSIS PER CATEGORY IN 2018 Deferred tax recognized in the Recognized in Opening statement of Changed other compre­ Translation Closing MSEK balance income tax rate Acquisitions hensive income differences balance Pension provisions and employee-related liabilities 615.9 -2.6 -7.2 -14.6 – 3.9 595.4 Liability insurance-related claims reserves 2.2 1.0 – – – 0.1 3.3 Tax loss carryforwards 166.3 -13.0 -9.1 – – 13.9 158.1 Acquisition related intangible assets 67.2 -2.3 -0.5 – – 3.3 67.7 Machinery and equipment 101.9 0.1 -0.5 – -1.3 3.9 104.1 Other temporary differences 207.5 116.5 -1.0 4.8 -3.6 14.6 338.8 Total deferred tax assets 1 161.0 1 267.4 Change during the year 99.7 -18.3 -9.8 -4.9 39.7 106.4 104 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES CHANGE ANALYSIS PER CATEGORY IN 2018 2 Deferred tax Recognized in 3 Opening recognized in the Changed other compre­ Reclassi­ Translation Closing MSEK balance statement of income tax rate Acquisitions hensive income fication differences balance 4 Pension provisions and employee5 related liabilities 60.1 -1.3 -2.5 – -9.4 – 1.9 48.8 6 Acquisition related intangible assets 287.4 95.3 -2.9 75.3 – – -5.4 449.7 7 Machinery and equipment 45.8 -0.8 – – 2.2 – -0.6 46.6 8 Other temporary differences 791.6 69.3 1.0 – -4.1 -545.8 19.7 331.7 9 Total deferred tax liabilities 1 184.9 876.8 10 Change during the year 162.5 -4.4 75.3 -11.3 -545.8 15.6 -308.1 11 12 Tax loss carryforwards 13 14 On December 31, 2018 subsidiaries in primarily Germany, Spain and Deferred tax assets related to tax losses are accounted for when it is 15 Belgium had tax loss carryforwards of MSEK 1 352 (1 498). These tax probable that they can be utilized by future profits. As of December 31, 16 loss carryforwards expire as follows: 2018, tax loss carryforwards for which deferred tax assets had been 17 recognized amounted to MSEK 572 (617) and deferred tax assets related TAX LOSS CARRYFORWARDS to the tax losses amounted to MSEK 158 (166). Tax losses can be used to 18 2019 21 reduce future taxable income and tax payments. 19 2020 4 20 2021 11 21 2022– 315 22 Unlimited duration 1 001 23 Total tax loss carryforwards 1 352 24 25 26 27 28 NOTE 16 Acquisitions and divestitures of subsidiaries 29 30 Acquisition calculations are subject to final adjustment up to one year after the date of acquisition. 31 Acquisition Purchase Acquired / related Operating Total Share­ 32 price paid / divested Enterprise intangible capital capital holders’ 33 MSEK received6 net debt value Goodwill assets employed employed equity Total 34 Automatic Alarm, France 3 -311.3 12.5 -298.8 301.6 138.2 -141.0 298.8 – 298.8 35 Süddeutsche Bewachung, Germany -83.9 -10.8 -94.7 51.1 45.7 -2.1 94.7 – 94.7 36 Johnson & Thomson, Hong Kong 3 -24.3 5.7 -18.6 30.4 12.2 -24.0 18.6 – 18.6 37 Alphatron Security Systems, the Netherlands -163.5 37.2 -126.3 83.5 31.7 11.1 126.3 – 126.3 38 Kratos Public Safety and Security, the US -635.9 -3.2 -639.1 478.7 105.9 54.5 639.1 – 639.1 39 Pronet Security and Sernet Services, Turkey -313.4 -1.7 -315.1 214.0 108.2 -7.1 315.1 – 315.1 40 Other acquisitions and divestitures1,3 -81.5 2.5 -79.0 47.2 57.1 -26.5 77.8 1.2 4 79.0 41 Adjustments 2,3 -86.3 0.0 -86.3 7.9 -0.2 73.6 81.3 5.0 5 86.3 42 Total acquisitions and divestitures -1 700.1 42.2 -1 657.9 1 214.4 498.8 -61.5 1 651.7 6.2 1 657.9 Liquid funds according to acquisition 43 analyses 107.7 44 Total effect on Group’s liquid funds -1 592.4 45 1 Related to other acquisitions and divestitures for the period: Prevendo (contract portfolio), Sweden, 3 Deferred considerations have been recognized mainly based on an assessment of the future profit46 WHD Wachdienst Heidelberg and Industrie-und Werkschutz Brandstetter (contract portfolio), ability development in the acquired entities for an agreed period. The net of new deferred consid47 Germany, Milton Keynes Security Services and R&R Frontline, UK, Services in Safety, Belgium, Video erations, payments made from previously recognized deferred considerations and revaluation of Monitoring, XXXLutz (contract portfolio) och Kika/Leiner (contract portfolio), Austria. deferred considerations was MSEK 109.4. Total deferred considerations, short-term and long-term, 48 2 Related to updated previous year acquisition calculations for the following entities: Vartioimisliike H. in the Group’s balance sheet amount to MSEK 272.3. Hakala (contract portfolio), Finland, Microtech, Czech Republic, DAK and Sensormatic, Turkey, PSGA, 4 Income statement amounts to MSEK 0.0, retained earnings to MSEK 1.2 and non-controlling interest 49 Australia. Related also to deferred considerations paid in Finland, Germany, Belgium, the Netherto MSEK 0.0. 50 lands, Austria, Czech Republic, Croatia, Turkey, Argentina, Chile, China and Australia. 5 Income statement amounts to MSEK 5.0 and retained earnings to MSEK 0.0. 6 No equity instruments have been issued in connection with the acquisitions. 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 105 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS The following definitions are used in the tables below SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET AS OF ACQUISITION DATE JANUARY 2, 2018 Fair value Full year sales: What the contribution to total sales would have been if the MSEK acquisition balance acquisition had been consolidated from January 1, 2018. Operating non-current assets 2.3 Contribution to total sales: What the acquisition has contributed to total sales for the year. Accounts receivable 21.4 Other assets 0.3 Full year net income: What the contribution to net income would have been if the acquisition had been consolidated from January 1, 2018. Other liabilities -26.1 Contribution to net income: What the acquisition has contributed to net Total operating capital employed -2.1 income for the year. Goodwill from the acquisition 51.1 Acquisition related intangible assets 45.7 Acquisition of the business in Automatic Alarm, France Total capital employed 94.7 Securitas has acquired the electronic security company Automatic Net debt -10.8 Alarm in France. Automatic Alarm is a nation-wide system integrator and Total acquired net assets 83.9 installer of electronic security solutions, including intruder systems, video surveillance and access control, with multiyear maintenance contracts. Purchase price paid -83.9 The company has 250 employees. The acquisition was consolidated in Liquid funds in accordance with acquisition analysis 3.6 Securitas as of January 2, 2018. Goodwill, which amounts to MSEK 301.6 Total impact on the Group’s liquid funds -80.3 is mainly related to operational expansion. The acquisition is included in the segment Security Services Europe. SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET AS OF ACQUISITION DATE JANUARY 2, 2018 OTHER DISCLOSURES SÜDDEUTSCHE BEWACHUNG, GERMANY Fair value Acquired share, % 100.0 MSEK acquisition balance Full year sales, MSEK 104.0 Operating non-current assets 15.7 Contribution to total sales, MSEK 104.0 Accounts receivable 91.3 Full year net income, MSEK 10.3 Other assets 88.4 Contribution to net income, MSEK 10.3 Other liabilities -197.4 Provision for bad debt included in accounts receivable, MSEK -0.2 Contingent consideration1 -139.0 Transaction costs, MSEK 1.4 Total operating capital employed -141.0 Goodwill from the acquisition 301.6 Acquisition of the business in Johnson & Thomson, Hong Kong Acquisition related intangible assets 138.2 Securitas has acquired the technology and installations company JohnTotal capital employed 298.8 son & Thomson in Hong Kong. Johnson & Thomson is a monitoring, Net debt 12.5 maintenance and installation company focused on the retail and midTotal acquired net assets 311.3 sized corporate market in Hong Kong. By this acquisition, Securitas continues to strengthen the ability to optimize security solutions, covering a Purchase price paid -311.3 combination of on-site guarding and remote guarding, mobile, monitoring Liquid funds in accordance with acquisition analysis 29.0 and electronic security services to its clients in the AMEA region. The Total impact on the Group’s liquid funds -282.3 acquisition was consolidated in Securitas as of January 2, 2018. Goodwill, which amounts to MSEK 30.4 is mainly related to operational expansion. 1 Contingent consideration has been recognized mainly based on assessment of the profitability development of an agreed period. The recognized amount is the maximum amount of the final outThe acquisition is included in the segment Other. come of the payment. SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET AS OF ACQUISITION DATE JANUARY 2, 2018 OTHER DISCLOSURES AUTOMATIC ALARM, FRANCE Fair value MSEK acquisition balance Acquired share, % 100.0 Operating non-current assets 0.1 Full year sales, MSEK 475.6 Accounts receivable 3.4 Contribution to total sales, MSEK 475.6 Other assets 0.0 Full year net income, MSEK 13.1 Other liabilities -3.1 Contribution to net income, MSEK 13.1 Contingent consideration1 -24.4 Provision for bad debt included in accounts receivable, MSEK -4.5 Total operating capital employed -24.0 Transaction costs, MSEK 12.3 Goodwill from the acquisition 30.4 Acquisition related intangible assets 12.2 Acquisition of the business in Süddeutsche Bewachung, Germany Total capital employed 18.6 Securitas has acquired the security solutions company Süddeutsche Net debt 5.7 Bewachung in Germany. Süddeutsche Bewachung has 300 employees. Total acquired net assets 24.3 The company offers on-site, mobile and remote guarding in the RheinNeckar area in the south-west of Germany, with headquarter located in Purchase price paid -24.3 Mannheim. With this acquisition, Securitas strengthens its position in this area of Germany. The acquisition was consolidated in Securitas as of Liquid funds in accordance with acquisition analysis 5.7 January 2, 2018. Goodwill, which amounts to MSEK 51.1 is mainly related Total impact on the Group’s liquid funds -18.6 to operational and geographical expansion. The acquisition is included in 1 Contingent consideration has been recognized mainly based on assessment of the profitability the segment Security Services Europe. development of an agreed period. The recognized amount is the maximum amount of the final outcome of the payment. 106 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 OTHER DISCLOSURES JOHNSON & THOMSON, HONG KONG Acquisition of the business in Kratos 2 Acquired share, % 100.0 Public Safety and Security, the US 3 Full year sales, MSEK 16.9 Securitas has acquired the division Kratos Public Safety and Security 4 Contribution to total sales, MSEK 16.9 (KPSS) from Kratos Defense & Security Solutions, Inc. (NASDAQ:KTOS). The operation has 400 employees. The primary focus is electronic secu5 Full year net income, MSEK 4.0 rity projects for commercial clients with special expertise in transporta6 Contribution to net income, MSEK 4.0 tion, petrochemical, healthcare, and education vertical markets. The busi7 Provision for bad debt included in accounts receivable, MSEK -0.5 ness provides design, engineering, installation and service of advanced 8 Transaction costs, MSEK 1.0 integrated security technology and systems. KPSS has a wide breadth 9 of capabilities including access, video, intrusion, and fire solutions sup10 Acquisition of the business in Alphatron ported by on-going maintenance, inspections, and monitoring services. 11 Security Systems, the Netherlands KPSS, which is to be combined with Securitas Electronic Security, Inc., aligns well with Securitas Electronic Security’s current operations and 12 Securitas has acquired the electronic security company Alphatron strategic focus. The acquisition will expand Securitas’ electronic security 13 Security Systems in the Netherlands, to further strengthen its technology capabilities in the country. Alphatron Security Systems offers video platform in the United States by strengthening field operation capabilities 14 solutions, access control systems and security management systems to and adding local branch infrastructure with highly skilled employees. It 15 industrial, public, aviation, construction and real estate clients on a counsupports Securitas’ strategy of providing protective services across the 16 trywide basis. The company has 48 employees. The acquisition of Alphaentire Securitas North American client base and brings increased value 17 tron Security Systems makes Securitas the market leader within security to our clients. The acquisition was consolidated in Securitas as of June 18 solutions and electronic security in the Netherlands. The acquisition was 11, 2018. Goodwill, which amounts to MSEK 478.7 is mainly related to operational expansion. The acquisition is included in the segment Secu19 consolidated in Securitas as of March 1, 2018. Goodwill, which amounts rity Services North America. 20 to MSEK 83.5 is mainly related to operational expansion. The acquisition 21 is included in the segment Security Services Europe. SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET AS OF ACQUISITION DATE JUNE 11, 2018 22 SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET AS OF ACQUISITION DATE MARCH 1, 2018 Fair value 23 MSEK acquisition balance 24 Fair value MSEK acquisition balance Operating non-current assets 3.4 25 Operating non-current assets 4.0 Accounts receivable 168.1 26 Accounts receivable 16.4 Other assets 214.7 27 Other assets 8.8 Other liabilities -331.7 28 Other liabilities -18.1 Total operating capital employed 54.5 29 Total operating capital employed 11.1 Goodwill from the acquisition 478.7 30 Goodwill from the acquisition 83.5 Acquisition related intangible assets 105.9 31 Acquisition related intangible assets 31.7 Total capital employed 639.1 32 Total capital employed 126.3 Net debt -3.2 33 Net debt 37.2 Total acquired net assets 635.9 34 Total acquired net assets 163.5 35 Purchase price paid -635.9 36 Purchase price paid -163.5 Liquid funds in accordance with acquisition analysis 0.0 37 Liquid funds in accordance with acquisition analysis 37.2 Total impact on the Group’s liquid funds -635.9 38 Total impact on the Group’s liquid funds -126.3 39 40 OTHER DISCLOSURES KRATOS PUBLIC SAFETY AND SECURITY, THE US 41 OTHER DISCLOSURES ALPHATRON SECURITY SYSTEMS, Acquired share, % 100.0 THE NETHERLANDS 42 Full year sales, MSEK 1 210.8 Acquired share, % 100.0 43 Contribution to total sales, MSEK 622.3 Full year sales, MSEK 115.3 44 Full year net income, MSEK -41.6 Contribution to total sales, MSEK 84.8 45 Contribution to net income, MSEK -20.4 Full year net income, MSEK 0.3 Provision for bad debt included in accounts receivable, MSEK -8.6 46 Contribution to net income, MSEK 0.2 Transaction costs, MSEK 16.7 47 Provision for bad debt included in accounts receivable, MSEK -0.1 48 Transaction costs, MSEK 2.2 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 107 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS Acquisition of the business in Pronet Security Other acquisitions and divestitures and Sernet Services, Turkey Securitas has acquired the security company Pronet Security (Pronet SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET Güvenlik ve Dan.Hiz. A.Ş) and Sernet Services in Turkey, to expand its Fair value operations in the country. Pronet Security has more than 5 000 employMSEK acquisition balance ees. The company is specialized in guarding services mainly in the IstanOperating non-current assets 8.9 bul area. Pronet has a strong focus in the retail, high-rise and office client Accounts receivable 19.9 segments, with many multinational companies in the client portfolio. The Other assets 4.2 company Pronet Alarm (Pronet Güvenlik Hizmetleri A.Ş.), which operates Other liabilities -40.2 mainly in the field of residential alarm security, is not a part of this transacDeferred considerations1 -19.3 tion. The acquisition was consolidated in Securitas as of July 25, 2018. Total operating capital employed -26.5 Goodwill, which amounts to MSEK 214.0 is mainly related to operational Goodwill from the acquisitions2 47.2 expansion. The acquisition is included in the segment Security Services Acquisition related intangible assets3 57.1 Europe. Total capital employed 77.8 SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET AS OF ACQUISITION DATE JULY 25, 2018 Net debt 2.5 Non-controlling interest 0.0 Fair value MSEK acquisition balance Total acquired/divested net assets 4 80.3 Operating non-current assets 7.3 Accounts receivable 69.2 Purchase price paid / received4 -81.5 Other assets 14.3 Liquid funds in accordance with acquisition analyses 17.0 Other liabilities -97.9 Total impact on the Group’s liquid funds -64.5 Total operating capital employed -7.1 1 Deferred considerations for acquisitions made during 2018 have been recognized mainly based on assessment of the future profitability development for an agreed period. The recognized amount is Goodwill from the acquisition 214.0 Securitas´ best estimate of the final outcome. Thus, no estimate of the range of outcomes has been Acquisition related intangible assets 108.2 calculated. Deferred consideration is linked to the future development of profitability in the acquired companies and the final outcome of the payment may consequently exceed the estimated amount. Total capital employed 315.1 2 Mainly related to acquisition of WHD Wachdienst Heidelberg, Germany, Milton Keynes Security Net debt -1.7 Services and R&R Frontline, UK, Services in Safety, Belgium.. 3 Mainly related to acquisition of WHD Wachdienst Heidelberg, Germany, Milton Keynes Security SerTotal acquired net assets 313.4 vices and R&R Frontline, UK, Services in Safety, Belgium. 4 P urchase price paid differs to total acquired net assets due to transaction with non-contolling interests of MSEK 1.2. Purchase price paid -313.4 Transaction costs amount to MSEK 5.2. Liquid funds in accordance with acquisition analysis 15.2 Total impact on the Group’s liquid funds -298.2 Adjustments and payments of deferred considerations SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET OTHER DISCLOSURES PRONET SECURITY AND SERNET SERVICES, Fair value TURKEY MSEK acquisition balance Acquired share, % 100.0 Operating non-current assets -0.5 Full year sales, MSEK 449.1 Accounts receivable 0.0 Contribution to total sales, MSEK 194.1 Other assets 0.8 Full year net income, MSEK 14.2 Other liabilities 0.0 Contribution to net income, MSEK 2.3 Deferred considerations1 73.3 Provision for bad debt included in accounts receivable, MSEK -1.0 Total operating capital employed 73.6 Transaction costs, MSEK 1.9 Goodwill from the acquisitions2 7.9 Acquisition related intangible assets -0.2 Total capital employed 81.3 Net debt 0.0 Total acquired/divested net assets3 81.3 Purchase price paid/received3 -86.3 Liquid funds in accordance with acquisition analyses 0.0 Total impact on the Group’s liquid funds -86.3 1 Mainly related to payments of deferred considerations for Microtech, Czech Republic, Sensormatic and DAK, Turkey, JC Ingeniera, Chile. 2 Mainly related to update of the acquisition calculation for DAK, Turkey, acquired 2006. 3 P urchase price paid differs to total acquired net assets due to revaluation of deferred consideration of MSEK 5.0. Transaction costs amount to MSEK -15.3. 108 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 NOTE 17 Goodwill and impairment testing this simplified model. In addition to this, units whose carrying amount 2 is less than the recoverable amount by a small margin and / or whose MSEK 2018 2017 3 financial plans are regarded to be more uncertain will also be a subject of Opening balance 19 112.1 19 761.1 4 an in-depth analysis. In this subsequent step the cash flows have been Acquisitions and divestitures 1 214.4 129.3 calculated based on financial plans developed in each country. The finan5 Translation differences and cial plans are built upon the regular business plan for the next financial 6 remeasurement for hyperinflation 1 143.5 -778.3 year which has been ascertained by Group Management and has been 7 Closing accumulated balance 21 470.0 19 112.1 presented to the Board of Directors. These financial plans normally cover 8 a forecasted period of five years and include the organic sales growth, the 9 Opening impairment losses -393.0 -381.5 development of operating margin, and changes in the level of operating 10 Translation differences -15.7 -11.5 capital employed. Cash flows beyond the five year forecast have been 11 extrapolated using an estimated growth rate of 2–5 percent for all counClosing accumulated impairment losses -408.7 -393.0 tries. 12 A long-term growth rate of 2 percent for guarding services in mature 13 Closing residual value 21 061.3 18 719.1 markets is at present regarded as being a reasonable estimate in view 14 of the business areas’ historical organic growth rate and also taking into 15 GOODWILL ALLOCATED PER SEGMENT consideration external estimates of the future. Freedonia for example, 16 MSEK 2018 2017 estimates that the market for guarding services in Europe and North 17 America will grow at an average rate of some 3 percent per annum during Security Services North America 10 784.4 9 540.9 18 the period 2015 to 2025. The market for integrated security solutions is Security Services Europe 8 469.1 7 530.5 19 estimated to grow faster than traditional guarding. In developing markets Security Services Ibero-America 1 251.9 1 338.1 20 such as Eastern Europe, Latin America, Africa, the Middle East and Asia Other 555.9 309.6 the growth rate for guarding services is estimated at 5 percent. 21 Total goodwill 21 061.3 18 719.1 22 Material assumptions 23 The calculation of the value in use is based on assumptions and assess24 Impairment testing ments in addition to the estimated growth beyond the forecast period. 25 The most significant of these relate to the organic sales growth, the For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped at the lowest development of the operating margin, the change in operating capital 26 levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (Cash Generemployed as well as the relevant WACC (Weighted Average Cost of Capi27 ating Unit), that is, per country in a segment. tal) for the valuation, that is, WACC after tax used to discount the future 28 As a consequence of adopting IFRS 16 on the level of reportable segcash flows. These assumptions and judgments are also based on financial 29 ments, the Group will change the level of impairment testing for goodwill plans developed in each country and business segment and are built upon 30 from the country level to the reportable segment level in 2019. This will the regular business plan for the next financial year which has been ascernot lead to any impairment losses. 31 tained by Group Management and presented to the Board of Directors. In 32 addition to this, the assumptions and judgments are based on each counGoodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life try’s and each line of business’ growth and profitability level. Assumptions 33 Goodwill is tested on an annual basis for possible impairment. Securitas relating to WACC are calculated individually on a CGU-basis. 34 also carries out impairment testing for other intangible assets for which 35 there is an indefinite useful life. Currently these assets are limited to MSEK The table below shows the assumptions and estimates that have formed 36 15.9 (15.9) and relates to the consideration paid for the brand Securitas in the base for the impairment testing in summary and by segment. 37 one of the Group’s countries of operations. The annual impairment test of 38 all Cash Generating Units (CGUs), which is required under IFRS, took place during the third quarter 2018 in conjunction with the business plan proEstimated growth 39 rate beyond WACC cess for 2019. During this year’s assessment a total number of 59 CGUs 40 forecasted period, % WACC, % before tax, % were tested for impairment of goodwill. 41 2018 42 Security Services North America 1 2.0 7.0–12.1 9.1–15.4 Valuation methodology 43 Security Services Europe 1 2.0 4.9–20.9 5.8–25.8 Value in use is measured as expected future discounted cash flows and is Security Services Ibero-America 2.0–5.0 6.2–31.0 7.7–38.0 44 based upon a maximum of three steps: Gordon growth model1 and a five Other2 2.0–5.0 7.1–22.1 8.2–27.2 45 or ten year discounted cash flow model. The purpose of using the Gordon growth model is to exclude any CGU 46 that even with this simplified methodology will pass the impairment test, 2017 47 in order to proceed with an in-depth analysis of the remaining CGUs with Security Services North America1 2.0 6.7–11.4 8.6–14.7 48 a carrying amount that exceeds the recoverable amount when employing Security Services Europe1 2.0 5.0–15.1 6.0–18.2 49 Security Services Ibero-America 2.0–5.0 6.5–21.0 8.3–30.4 50 Other2 2.0–5.0 6.5–20.5 7.4–25.4 51 1 Mexico and Eastern Europe is considered to have a higher growth rate beyond forecasted period 52 (2.0–5.0%). These regions represent a minority of the respective segments, hence the growth rate 53 of the segments are reported as 2.0 %. 2 The operations in Africa, the Middle East, Asia and Australia are included in Other. 54 55 56 57 58 1 Gordon’s growth model is the geometrical sum of the eternal future cash flows, which are used to 59 determine the terminal value in a discounted cash flow model. The model is less sophisticated than a five or ten year discounted cash flow model as it excludes the forecasting period. 60 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 109 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible NOTE 18 Acquisition related intangible assets 1 assets with indefinite useful life The 2018 impairment test showed that none of the CGUs tested for MSEK 2018 2017 impairment had a carrying amount that exceeded the recoverable Opening balance 2 971.2 3 073.9 amount. During this year’s assessment seven CGUs in Security Services Acquisitions and divestitures 498.8 123.6 Europe, five CGUs in Security Services Ibero-America and six CGUs Derecognition of fully amortized assets2 -111.8 -166.7 included in Other were tested in accordance with an in-depth analysis. Translation differences and The result of the analysis gave that no impairment losses have been recremeasurement for hyperinflation 81.3 -59.6 ognized in 2018. No impairment losses of goodwill or other acquisition Closing accumulated balance 3 439.5 2 971.2 related intangible assets were recognized in 2017 either. Opening amortization -1 798.4 -1 707.1 Sensitivity analysis Reversal of amortization on derecognized assets2 111.8 156.0 The following sensitivity analyses have been made of the estimates Amortization for the year -259.9 -255.1 of value in use in connection with impairment testing, assumption by Translation differences and remeasurement assumption: general reduction of 1 percentage point in the organic sales for hyperinflation -34.8 7.8 growth rate during the forecasting period; general reduction of 0.5 perClosing accumulated amortization -1 981.3 -1 798.4 centage points in the operating margin; general increase of 0.5 percentage points in the WACC and general decrease of the estimated growth Opening impairment losses – -10.7 after the forecasted period by 0.5 percentage points. A sensitivity analysis for changes in the assumptions used in the impairment testing has Reversal of impairment on derecognized assets2 – 10.7 been established for the units that have been tested in accordance with Closing accumulated impairment losses – – the in-depth analysis of a five or ten year discounted cash flow model. The rationale is that the first step in the test, which is based on the GorClosing residual value 1 458.2 1 172.8 don growth model, is only employed to retrieve the number of units that 1 The balance consists mainly of contract portfolios and related client relations. require an in-depth analysis and the model itself does not incorporate the 2 T he Group derecognizes fully amortized acquisition related intangible assets if a reliable estimate of future cash flows cannot be established. The net impact of such derecognition on the closing residual financial plans that have been adopted for the forecasting period and so value is nil. the establishment of a sensitivity analysis is not deemed relevant. For conducted sensitivity analyses, the conclusion is that none of the adjustments of assumptions stand alone would result in an impairment loss in any CGU. For Securitas’ CGU in Argentina the sensitivity analysis for WACC with an increase of 0.5 percentage points is not deemed relevant since the country is considered hyperinflationary. A general increase of the WACC with 3 percentage points is deemed to be a more appropriate sensitivity analysis and would result in an impairment loss of goodwill of MSEK -22. 110 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note NOTE 19 Other intangible assets 1 2 Software licenses and similar assets Other intangible assets 1,2 3 MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 4 Opening balance 1 515.4 1 259.9 736.1 211.4 5 Effect of change in accounting principle IFRS 15 – – – 390.6 6 Opening balance adjusted in accordance with new accounting principle 1 515.4 1 259.9 736.1 602.0 7 Acquisitions and divestitures 4.5 0.3 – – 8 Capital expenditures 414.9 250.1 225.6 145.0 9 Disposals / write-offs -135.9 -22.9 -131.5 -12.0 10 Reclassification 546.8 25.1 0.7 -1.9 Translation differences and remeasurement for hyperinflation 48.6 2.9 6.3 3.0 11 Closing accumulated balance 2 394.3 1 515.4 837.2 736.1 12 13 Opening amortization -927.1 -803.2 -245.4 -141.2 14 Acquisitions and divestitures -3.9 -0.2 – – 15 Disposals / write-offs 63.1 21.8 125.8 9.4 16 Reclassification -427.1 3.0 -0.7 1.9 17 Amortization for the year -196.4 -139.1 -126.9 -113.0 18 Translation differences and remeasurement for hyperinflation -38.6 -9.4 -4.4 -2.5 19 Closing accumulated amortization -1 530.0 -927.1 -251.6 -245.4 20 21 Closing residual value 864.3 588.3 585.6 490.7 22 1 Mainly related to individual client contracts within Security Services Europe. 23 Furthermore the brand name Securitas in one of the Group’s countries of operations is included with MSEK 15.9 (15.9). 2 Comparatives have been restated as an effect of change in accounting principles IFRS 15. 24 25 26 NOTE 20 Tangible non-current assets 27 Buildings and land1, 3 Machinery and equipment 2, 3 28 MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 29 Opening balance 661.6 647.5 11 732.2 11 160.5 30 Acquisitions and divestitures – – 105.2 20.0 31 Capital expenditures 11.8 33.7 1 723.9 1 556.4 32 Disposals / write-offs -8.9 -16.8 -683.6 -809.0 33 Reclassification -7.4 -18.8 -521.8 -30.0 34 Translation differences and remeasurement for hyperinflation 31.2 16.0 479.9 -165.7 35 Closing accumulated balance 688.3 661.6 12 835.8 11 732.2 36 37 Opening depreciation -337.7 -344.8 -8 547.3 -8 106.2 38 Acquisitions and divestitures – – -68.2 -15.4 39 Disposals / write-offs 3.7 11.3 561.0 655.0 40 Reclassification 2.7 18.8 224.9 4.5 41 Depreciation for the year -16.1 -13.8 -1 354.1 -1 179.6 42 Translation differences and remeasurement for hyperinflation -14.7 -9.2 -203.9 94.4 43 Closing accumulated depreciation -362.1 -337.7 -9 387.6 -8 547.3 44 45 Opening impairment losses -19.7 -19.2 – – 46 Translation differences -0.8 -0.5 – – 47 Closing accumulated impairment losses -20.5 -19.7 – – 48 49 Closing residual value 305.7 304.2 3 448.2 3 184.9 50 1 The closing residual value of land included in buildings and land above was MSEK 60.0 (58.6). 2 Machinery and equipment comprise vehicles, equipment, security equipment (including alarm systems) and IT and telecom equipment. 51 3 Of which closing residual value under finance leases for buildings and land MSEK 8.7 (0.0) and for machinery and equipment MSEK 213.0 (191.2). 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 111 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS NOTE 21 Shares in associated companies 1 NOTE 23 Other long-term receivables MSEK 2018 2017 MSEK 2018 2017 Opening balance 419.8 419.5 Pension balances, defined contribution plans1 128.7 124.1 Share in income of associated companies 31.3 22.0 Pension balances, defined benefit plans2 36.0 98.8 Dividend -18.1 -10.5 Reimbursement rights3 138.3 153.0 New issue / contributions – 14.1 Other long-term receivables 479.8 439.7 Translation differences 19.0 -25.3 Total other long-term receivables 782.8 815.6 Closing balance2 452.0 419.8 1 Refers to assets relating to insured pension plans excluding social benefits. 2 Refers to assets related to pensions and other long-term employee benefit plans. Further information 1 A complete specification of associated companies can be obtained from the Parent Company. is provided in note 31. 2 Of which goodwill MSEK 366.7 (346.3) and acquisition related intangible assets MSEK 16.1 (17.7). 3 Refers to assets relating to defined benefit pension plans where compensation is received from another party. Financial information associated companies Summarized financial information regarding the Group’s associated companies is specified in the table below. The information is on 100 percent NOTE 24 Inventories basis. MSEK 2018 2017 The Group’s share of capital in associated companies amounts to Material and consumables 433.5 368.7 17–49 percent. Advance payments to suppliers 26.1 19.6 Total inventories 459.6 388.3 MSEK 2018 2017 Sales 2 185.2 2 103.9 Net income 42.6 10.4 NOTE 25 Accounts receivable Assets 1 170.8 1 084.5 MSEK 2018 % 2017 % Liabilities 782.6 708.9 Accounts receivable before deduction of provisions for bad debt losses 16 111.3 100 13 838.9 100 Interest-bearing financial Provisions for bad debt losses -507.8 -3 -489.6 -4 NOTE 22 non-current assets1 Total accounts receivable 15 603.5 97 13 349.3 96 MSEK 2018 2017 Opening balance provision Derivatives with positive fair value, long-term for bad debt losses -489.6 -523.0 Derivatives in fair value hedges2 166.0 299.0 Provision for expected losses -273.6 -170.9 Derivatives in cash flow hedges2 283.2 132.3 Reversed provisions 127.3 102.0 Derivatives in net investment hedges2 -55.8 – Actual losses 163.7 100.7 Other derivatives 3 -38.9 – Acquisitions and divestitures -15.0 -2.3 Total derivatives with Translation differences -20.6 3.9 positive fair value, long-term 354.5 431.3 Closing balance provision for Other items 4 144.5 68.4 bad debt losses1 -507.8 -489.6 Total interest-bearing financial 1 Expenses for bad debt losses amounted to MSEK 137.2 (68.3). non-current assets 499.0 499.7 1 Further information regarding financial instruments is provided in note 7. AGEING OF ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE BEFORE 2 Related to derivatives designated for hedging. The EUR / USD cross currency interest rate swaps are DEDUCTION OF PROVISION FOR BAD DEBT LOSSES bifurcated for hedging purposes. The EUR / SEK element, amounting to MSEK 283.2, is accounted for under cash flow hedge accounting. The SEK / USD element, amounting to MSEK -55.8, is MSEK 2018 % 2017 % accounted for under net investment hedge accounting. 3 Cross currency interest rate swaps are split into different components, of which some elements are Overdue 1–30 days 3 254.7 20 3 271.8 24 negative when the overall fair value is positive. Overdue 31–60 days 764.1 5 973.6 7 4 Related to loans and receivables. Overdue 61–90 days 414.7 3 470.9 3 Overdue 91–180 days 459.0 3 270.0 2 Overdue 181–365 days 145.8 1 192.0 1 Overdue >365 days 367.3 2 335.0 3 Total overdue 5 405.6 34 5 513.3 40 SPECIFICATION OF PROVISION FOR BAD DEBT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 Accounts receivable before deduction Provision Expected of provisions for for bad debt loss rate, % bad debt losses losses Current 0.14% 10 705.7 15.0 Up to 30 days past due 0.14% 3 254.7 4.5 More than 30 days past due 2.5% 764.1 18.9 More than 60 days past due 4.0% 414.7 16.6 More than 90 days past due 6.5% 459.0 30.0 More than 180 days past due 38.0% 145.8 55.5 More than 365 days past due 100.0% 367.3 367.3 Total 16 111.3 507.8 112 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 NOTE 26 Other current receivables NOTE 29 Shareholders’ equity 2 MSEK 2018 2017 3 Number of shares outstanding December 31, 2018 4 Accrued sales income 3 224.4 2 734.9 Prepaid expenses 1 149.2 874.7 MSEK 5 Other accrued income 38.4 15.1 each share with a 6 Series A 17 142 600 quota value of SEK 1.00 17.1 7 Insurance-related receivables 15.6 14.9 each share with a Value added tax 237.9 174.8 8 Series B 347 916 297 quota value of SEK 1.00 348.0 Other items 390.8 410.1 9 Total 365 058 897 365.1 Total other current receivables 5 056.3 4 224.5 10 The number of Series A and Series B shares is unchanged in relation to 11 December 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2018 there were no outstanding 12 Other interest-bearing convertible debenture loans that could result in any dilution of the share NOTE 27 current assets 1 13 capital. 14 MSEK 2018 2017 Each Series A share carries ten votes and each Series B share one vote. 15 This is the only difference between the two series of shares. Derivatives with positive fair value, short-term 16 Derivatives in fair value hedges2 – 5.9 17 Shareholders with more than 10 percent of the votes Derivatives in cash flow hedges2 – 1.5 18 The principal shareholders are Gustaf Douglas, who through family and Derivatives in net investment hedges2 1.2 – the companies within the Investment AB Latour Group holds 10.9 per19 Other derivatives 3 15.9 50.6 cent of the capital and 29.6 percent of the votes, and Melker Schörling, 20 Total derivatives with who through family and Melker Schörling AB holds 4.5 percent of the 21 positive fair value, short-term 17.1 58.0 capital and 11.0 percent of the votes. 22 Other interest-bearing current assets 104.0 106.7 Total other interest-bearing current assets 121.1 164.7 23 Dividend 24 1 Further information regarding financial instruments is provided in note 7. The Board of Directors propose a dividend to the shareholders of the 2 Related to derivatives designated for hedging. 25 Parent Company of SEK 4.40 per share, or a total of MSEK 1 606.3. The 3 Related to financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. dividend to the shareholders for the financial year 2017, which was paid in 26 2018, was SEK 4.00 per share, or a total of MSEK 1 460.2. 27 NOTE 28 Liquid funds 1 28 Presentation of shareholders’ equity 29 MSEK 2018 2017 According to IAS 1 a company should as a minimum present issued 30 Short-term investments2 1 598.2 2 290.8 capital and other reserves in the balance sheet. Securitas has chosen to 31 Cash and bank deposits3 1 630.6 1 319.8 specify shareholders’ equity into further components as per below: • 32 Total liquid funds 3 228.8 3 610.6 Share capital • Other capital contributed 33 • 1 L iquid funds include short-term investments with a maximum duration of 90 days that are readily Other reserves 34 • convertible to a known amount of cash and subject to an insignificant risk of change in value. Liquid funds also include cash and bank deposits. Retained earnings 35 2 Short-term investments refer to fixed interest rate bank deposits. 3 T he net position in Group country cash-pool accounts is reported as cash and bank deposits where Share capital shows the registered share capital of the Parent Company. 36 netting reflects the legal structure of the arrangement. There were no changes in the share capital in 2018. 37 In other capital contributed, the total amount of all transactions 38 Securitas AB has had with its shareholders is included. Transactions that 39 have taken place with shareholders are issued capital to premium. The 40 amount presented in this sub-component corresponds to capital received (reduced by commission costs) in excess of par value of issued capital. 41 There were no changes in other capital contributed in 2018. 42 Other reserves show income and expense items that according to 43 certain standards should be recognized in other comprehensive income. 44 In the case of Securitas, other reserves consist of translation differences 45 attributable to the translation of foreign subsidiaries and associated com46 panies according to IAS 21, the cost of hedging reserve and the cash flow 47 hedge reserve. The amount in the hedging reserve will be transferred to 48 the statement of income over the following seven years. Retained earnings corresponds to the accumulated profits earned 49 and losses incurred in total for the Group. Retained earnings also include 50 effects of the Group’s share-based incentive scheme, remeasurements for 51 hyperinflation and remeasurements of post-employment benefits posted 52 in other comprehensive income. Retained earnings are further reduced by 53 dividend paid to shareholders of the Parent Company. Transactions with 54 non-controlling interests are also recorded in retained earnings. 55 56 57 58 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 113 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS Share-based incentive scheme Long-term liabilities Securitas’ share-based incentive scheme has had the following impact on NOTE 30 excluding provisions1 retained earnings: MSEK 2018 2017 EMTN Nom MEUR 300, 2018 / 2025, Annual 1,25%2 3 066.2 – MSEK 2018 2017 EMTN Nom MEUR 350, 2017 / 2024, Annual 1.125%2 3 589.3 3 432.1 Swap agreement 1 -140.6 -149.8 EMTN Nom MEUR 350, 2016 / 2022, Annual 1.25%2 3 576.5 3 430.8 Share-based remuneration to employees 133.1 133.2 EMTN Nom MEUR 350, 2013 / 2021, Annual 2.625%2 3 707.2 3 600.4 Non-vested shares 0.1 0.2 EMTN Nom MUSD 40, 2015 / 2021, FRN Quarterly2 357.4 329.9 Total -7.4 -16.4 EMTN Nom MUSD 40, 2015 / 2021, FRN Quarterly2 357.4 329.9 1 T he number of shares that have been hedged in this swap agreement amount to a total of 999 831 (1 079 190) and have been allotted to the participants during the first quarter 2019, provided that EMTN Nom MUSD 60, 2014 / 2021, FRN Quarterly2 536.1 494.8 they were still employed by the Group at that time. EMTN Nom MUSD 40, 2014 / 2020, FRN Quarterly2 357.4 329.9 EMTN Nom MUSD 85, 2013 / 2019, FRN Quarterly2 – 701.3 Non-controlling interests Finance leases 116.1 98.8 The table below specifies the Group’s non-controlling interests: Other long-term loans 194.5 275.9 Total long-term loan liabilities MSEK 2018 2017 excluding derivatives 15 858.1 13 023.8 Opening balance 21.2 20.7 Derivatives with negative fair value, long-term 3 115.7 0.8 Disposals / liquidations 1.0 0.1 Total derivatives with negative fair value, long-term 115.7 0.8 Dividend -1.8 -1.6 Total long-term loan liabilities 15 973.8 13 024.6 Total transactions with non-controlling interests -0.8 -1.5 Pensions balances, defined contribution plans 4 128.7 124.1 Share in net income 5.3 1.8 Deferred considerations5 194.7 101.0 Share in other comprehensive income, Other long-term liabilities 12.9 12.6 translation differences -0.5 0.2 Total other long-term liabilities 336.3 237.7 Total comprehensive income for the year 4.8 2.0 Total long-term liabilities 16 310.1 13 262.3 Closing balance 25.2 21.2 1 For further information regarding financial instruments, refer to note 7. 2 Issued by the Parent Company. 3 Related to derivatives designated for hedging. The EUR / USD cross currency interest rate swaps are bifurcated for hedging purposes. In 2018, the EUR / SEK element, amounting to MSEK -66.5, is accounted for under cash flow hedge accounting. The SEK / USD element, amounting to MSEK 164.5, is accounted for under net investment hedge accounting. 4 Refers to liability for insured pension plan excluding social costs. 5 Recognized at fair value. LONG-TERM LIABILITIES FALL DUE FOR PAYMENT AS FOLLOWS MSEK 2018 2017 Maturity < 5 years 13 106.1 9 787.2 Maturity > 5 years 3 204.0 3 475.1 Total long-term liabilities 16 310.1 13 262.3 114 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 NOTE 31 Provisions for pensions and similar commitments 2 3 Overview 4 The Group operates or participates in a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension and other long-term employee benefit plans Diagram_BV_sid 109 / 1 Diagram_BV_sid 109 / 2 Diagram_BV_sid 109 / 3 Diagram_BV_sid 109 / 4 5 throughout the world. These plans are structured in accordance with local rules and practices. 6 The graphs below provide an overview of the Group’s defined benefit plans. 7 8 Defined benefit obligations Plan assets Pension costs Employer contributions 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 ■ US MSEK 1 389, 33% ■ US MSEK 1 145, 37% ■ US MSEK 19, 15% ■ US MSEK 27, 18% 17 ■ Switzerland MSEK 1 270, 30% ■ Switzerland MSEK 1 146, 37% ■ Switzerland MSEK 58, 47% ■ Switzerland MSEK 57, 38% 18 ■ Norway MSEK 440, 11% ■ Norway MSEK 332, 11% ■ Other countries1 MSEK 46, 38% ■ Norway MSEK 19, 13% 19 ■ Other countries1 MSEK 1 067, 26% ■ Other countries MSEK 463, 15% 1 ■ Other countries MSEK 48, 31% 1 ■ Total MSEK 4 166 ■ Total MSEK 3 086 ■ Total MSEK 123 ■ Total MSEK 151 20 21 1 In total 18 countries. Most of these countries have unfunded plans. Further information is provided in the section Other countries below. 22 23 The table below shows a specification of the members in the Group’s The Group’s significant defined benefit plans are described below. 24 significant defined benefit plans, the plans’ duration and life expectancy for the members. The US 25 The Group’s US operations participate in two defined benefit pension 26 DECEMBER 31, 2018 plans as the named plan sponsor. One of these plans is funded and the 27 US Switzerland Norway other is unfunded. Both plans are closed to new entrants and any future 28 Active members 148 2 100 255 benefit accrual. 29 The benefits provided constitute pension payments to previous Deferred members 1 205 – – 30 employees and their spouses in the form of annuities or lump sums. Pensioner members 4 090 194 604 31 The particulars of the benefits and the benefit calculations depend on the Total number of members 5 443 2 294 859 32 original plan to which the plan participant belonged as the current funded plan is an amalgamation of several previous pension plans. The unfunded 33 Duration of plans (years) 9 13 15 plan is constituted by a formally adopted and documented plan plus 34 some individual arrangements that, for the purpose of this disclosure, are 35 Number of years current pensioners treated as one plan. In general the benefits are monthly pensions based 36 are expected to live beyond age 65: on earnings and years of service. These benefits are defined with the only 37 Men 20 23 21 uncertainties being how long they will be paid, whether benefits will be 38 Women 22 25 24 paid as a lump sum or as an annuity and, in the case of the funded plan, 39 also regarding investment return on plan assets. Plan contributions are determined annually. 40 Number of years future pensioners currently aged 45 are expected to live The pension plans are covered under the US Employee Retirement 41 beyond age 65: Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). Various parts of the ERISA legisla42 Men 21 24 24 tion are governed by the Department of Labor, the Internal Revenue Ser43 Women 24 27 27 vice and the Department of Treasury. The funded plan also pays required 44 premiums to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, which insures 45 private pension plans in the case the sponsor defaults. 46 Both pension plans are governed by the Executive Compensation and Benefits Review Committee (ECBRC), which is made up of local Securitas 47 US management representatives. Administration is outsourced to an 48 external service provider. Independent investment managers are utilized 49 and evaluated by independent investment advisors. Assets are pooled 50 with those of other plans in order to reduce the cost. 51 Since the US pension plans are closed to new entrants and any future 52 benefit accrual and are in a run-off mode, a liability matching approach is 53 applied by the ECBRC in order to de-risk the funded plan. The strategy is that as the funding percentage increases, this will result in a shift from 54 growth assets, such as equities, into fixed income investments. As a 55 result, the plan was substantially de-risked during 2016 and 2017 as the 56 funded status improved due primarily to favorable asset returns. This 57 de-risking allowed the plan to minimize losses due to equity market per58 formance during 2018. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 115 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS During 2018, an assumption study was conducted to ensure the conThe pension plan is covered under federal Swiss law that regulates tinuing accuracy of the actuarial assumptions. As a result, the mortality the so called second pillar of the pension system, the pension benefits table was modified to better reflect the characteristics of the plan populaarising from employment. The pension plan is governed by the board tion. The updated mortality assumption slightly increased liabilities and of the pension fund, which is made up of an equal number of employer partially offset the reduction in liabilities due to increasing discount rates and employee representatives. The administration is run in-house by a during 2018. pension fund expert. The pension fund chooses how and where to invest Under IAS 19 the funded ratio was 100 percent based on a defined the assets. Swiss law limits both the total share of assets that should be benefit obligation of MUSD 128 and plan assets of MUSD 128. A funding held in certain categories, and for individual asset holdings. The fund has valuation would result in a higher funding percentage since funding valugiven mandates to manage the investments to three banks and retains ations are required by US law to be based on higher discount rates. On a an investment committee, a sub-committee of the main fund board. The plan termination basis, the plan’s funded ratio would be expected to be investment committee compares and reviews the performance of these lower than both the minimum funding and accounting funded ratios as it mandates on a regular basis. In addition, the pension fund engages an would incorporate the use of lower interest rates as well as other factors external independent advisor as support for the investment committee which would be assumed to come into play in the event of a complete plan regarding investments. termination and settlement. The book value under IAS 19 for the defined The latest funding valuation was carried out on December 31, 2017 benefit obligation for the unfunded plan was MUSD 26 as of December and resulted in a funding ratio of 115 percent based on a defined benefit 31, 2018. obligation for funding purposes of MCHF 108 and plan assets for funding The US operations also participate in a defined contribution plan, purposes of MCHF 124. generally known as a 401(k) plan. There are also a few multi-employer plans, which are governed by collective bargaining agreements. These Norway plans, in most cases, require the employees to contribute to the plan, The Group’s Norwegian operations participate in several defined benefit typically with the employee contributions being partially matched by the plans that are both funded and unfunded. All plans are closed to new employer. In relation to the overall workforce the take up rates are generally entrants and currently cover about 8 percent of the employees. New low, with voluntary participation rates of approximately five percent. employees are covered by defined contribution plans. The AFP-plan In the federal government sector, Securitas’ subsidiary participates on ­(collective pension agreement) is a multi-employer defined benefit plan. a modified basis, subject to special rules, in the same 401(k). Securitas’ Since the administrator is unable to separately identify the company’s subsidiary in the federal government sector also participates in a few share of the total plan assets and total defined benefit obligations, it is union-sponsored defined contribution plans of a similar type. Due to the accounted for on a defined contribution basis. Premiums paid to the plan federal Service Contract Act, under which Securitas’ subsidiary in the in 2018 amounted to MNOK 25 (25). The contribution for the next annual federal government sector operates, hourly allowances must be paid to reporting period is expected to be broadly in line with the current year’s employees that can be used for various elected benefits, such as health premium. Securitas’ share of total premiums to the plan is approximately and disability, with unused portions of the allowances contributed to the 0.4 percent. The latest available funding ratio in this plan, calculated 401(k) plan, without additional employer contributions. under the plan rules, was 70 percent (66) as of December 31, 2017. The particulars of the benefits and the benefit calculations vary from Switzerland plan to plan. In general the benefits are monthly pensions based on earnThe Group’s Swiss operations participate in a plan that is a defined ings and years of service. Since employees are still accruing benefits benefit plan according to IAS 19 as a result of the residual risk described under these plans, the plans are impacted by expected salary increases, below. The Swiss operations have chosen to set up an own-foundation, pension increases, uncertainty of how long the benefits will be paid and in which means that the foundation only covers employees of Securitas’ the case of the funded plans also return on plan assets. Swiss operations. The plan is open to new employees of Securitas’ All funded plans are insured with an insurance company and the plan Swiss operations and benefits are being accrued under the plan. There are contributions are determined by the insurance provider, based on salary no terminated vested members in the plan since pension obligations are and membership data reported from the company. If a company decides transferred to the new employer upon termination. to change insurance company, the liabilities and the assets are moved to The benefits provided constitute pension benefits, disability benefits the new insurance company. and death-in-service pension to previous employees and their spouses. The funded plans are minimum regulation plans, which means that The pension benefits are normally paid as an annuity based on capital future pensions depend on the actual return on assets in the insurance conversion rates that differ between men and women. The disability company. There is a guaranteed minimum return on plan assets. If the benefits are calculated as a maximum of the pensionable salary and the actual return is lower than the guaranteed minimum return, the insurance death-in-service benefit is in its turn calculated as a percentage of the company will provide the difference. disability pension. Plan contributions are subject to legal minimum The pension plans are covered by Norwegian pension laws, corporate requirements. Rates increase with age and at least half must be paid by laws and insurance laws. The board of directors and management of the the employer while the employee pays the remainder. In the case of Norwegian operations are responsible for the running of the pension plans Securitas’ Swiss subsidiary, the contributions in the plan are split equally even if they are outsourced, as part of their overall corporate governance with half paid by the company and the other half by the employee. Contriresponsibilities under Norwegian company law. Since the funded plans butions payable to the plan are calculated each month as a fixed percentare insured it means that the investment decisions are taken by the investage based on the annual salary and age. ment managers of the insurance provider. Although the contribution levels are defined, there is still a risk of a shortfall in the pension fund as the minimum requirements for interest on Other countries capital and conversion to pension need to be met. If there is a shortfall There are also less significant defined benefit arrangements in countries the fund will take steps before asking the company for additional contribuother than those accounted for above. These plans are located in Canada tions. These steps could include changing plan benefits, lowering returns (both funded and unfunded plans providing pension and medical bencredited to employees or changing the conversion rate, where possible. efits), France (unfunded plans providing retirement indemnities under The fund has several years to balance a shortfall and payments will never French law), Germany (unfunded arrangements for pensions and jubilee be required from the company for past periods. This means that the plans), the Netherlands (funded and unfunded plans providing pension actions can be planned and budgeted for. If additional contributions are and jubilee benefits for our consultancy operations only) and the UK required from the company, this is also required from the employees. (funded plan providing pension and death-in-service benefits). The Group also currently has plans that are not significant in 13 other countries. 116 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 The defined benefit arrangement for clerical staff in the guarding operConsolidated statement of income 2 ations in the Netherlands is accounted for as a defined contribution plan, The table below shows expense (+) and income (-) from the Group’s 3 which is closed to new entrants. New employees are enrolled in another defined benefit and defined contribution plans. 4 defined contribution plan. The security officers in the guarding operations in the Netherlands also participate in a multi-employer defined benefit 5 MSEK 2018 2017 plan that is mandatory for all guards from the age of 21 and up. The super6 Current service cost 115.2 105.5 vision and administration of the plan is carried out by a collective pension 7 Administration cost 17.7 17.2 foundation for the security industry. This foundation determines the annual 8 Interest income or expense1 17.5 21.7 premium. Premiums paid to the plan in 2018 amounted to MEUR 8 (8). Remeasurements of other long-term 9 The contribution for the next annual reporting period is expected to be in employee benefits -1.4 0.2 10 line with the pension premiums in 2018. Securitas’ share of total premiPast service cost and gains 11 ums to the plan is approximately 18 percent. This plan covers around and losses arising from settlements2 -26.0 -21.1 3 800 active employees and around 6 200 previous employees and 12 Total pension costs for defined benefit plans 123.0 123.5 retirees. Since the administrator is unable to separately identify the com13 Pension costs for defined contribution plans 1 220.9 1 075.2 pany’s share of the total plan assets and total defined benefit obligations 14 Total pension costs 1 343.9 1 198.7 for this arrangement, the plan is accounted for on a defined contribution 15 basis. The funding ratio in this plan, calculated under the plan rules, was 1 Whereof MSEK 0.6 is related to interest on the effect of the asset ceiling. 16 2 Mainly related to settlement gains in Norway 2018 and 2017 and Switzerland in 2017. 107 percent (106) as of December 31, 2018. 17 The table below shows costs for defined benefit plans allocated per 18 Sweden Security officers in Sweden are covered by the SAF-LO collective pension function. 19 plan, an industry-wide multi-employer defined contribution arrangement. 20 MSEK 2018 2017 Clerical workers are covered by the ITP plan, which is also based on a 21 Production expenses 105.9 99.3 collective agreement and operated industry-wide on a multi-employer 22 basis. According to a statement (UFR 10) issued by the Swedish Financial Selling and administrative expenses 17.1 24.2 23 Reporting Board this is a multi-employer defined benefit plan. Alecta, the Total pension costs for defined benefit plans 123.0 123.5 24 insurance company that operates this plan, has been unable to provide 25 Securitas, or other Swedish companies, with sufficient information to Consolidated balance sheet 26 determine its share of the total assets and liabilities for this arrange­ment. Consequently this arrangement is accounted for on a defined contribution The table below shows how the net defined benefit obligations have been 27 basis. The cost for 2018 amounts to MSEK 28 (24). The contribution for determined. It also shows the Group’s reimbursement rights. 28 the next annual reporting period is expected to be broadly in line with the 29 current year’s premium. Securitas’ share of Alecta’s total premiums MSEK 2018 2017 30 amounts to less than 0.1 percent. The surplus in Alecta can be allocated Present value of the defined benefit obligations 4 165.7 4 050.2 31 to the insured employer and / or the insured employees. Alecta’s funding Fair value of plan assets1 -3 085.6 -3 076.2 32 ratio, calculated under the plan rules, was 142 percent (154) as of DecemDefined benefit obligations, net 2 1 080.1 974.0 33 ber 31, 2018. Reimbursement rights (note 23) 138.3 153.0 34 1 Includes effect of the asset ceiling amounting to MSEK 40.8 (18.0). The effect is related to Canada 35 and the UK. 36 2 Related to the net of plans reported under provisions for pensions and similar commitments, MSEK 1 116.1 (1 072.8), and plans reported under other long-term receivables (note 23), MSEK -36.0 37 (-98.8). 38 39 The reimbursement rights are related to a contractual agreement where 40 Securitas provide security services at a clientclient site in Canada. The 41 agreement requires Securitas to make provisions for post-retirement 42 medical benefits. The costs of this benefit are carried by Securitas who, in turn, are reimbursed by the client. This reimbursement right is accounted 43 for as an other long-term receivable in note 23. 44 45 The table below shows how remeasurements net of taxes recognized in 46 other comprehensive income have been determined. 47 48 MSEK 2018 2017 49 Remeasurements of provisions for pensions 50 and similar commitments before taxes 78.8 -104.7 51 Remeasurements of reimbursement rights before taxes 18.4 -3.9 52 Taxes -25.3 63.2 53 Total remeasurements recognized in other 54 comprehensive income 71.9 -45.4 55 56 57 58 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 117 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS Movement in provisions for pensions and similar commitments 2018 2017 MSEK Obligations Plan assets Net Obligations Plan assets Net Opening balance 4 050.2 -3 076.2 974.0 4 252.4 -3 115.5 1 136.9 Current service cost 115.2 – 115.2 105.5 – 105.5 Administration cost 17.7 – 17.7 17.2 – 17.2 Interest income (-) or expense (+)1 86.0 -68.5 17,5 89.0 -67.3 21.7 Remeasurements of other long-term employee benefits -1.4 – -1.4 0.2 – 0.2 Past service cost and gains and losses arising from settlements2 -68.4 42.4 -26.0 -36.5 15.4 -21.1 Total pension costs included in the consolidated statement of income 149.1 -26.1 123.0 175.4 -51.9 123.5 Remeasurements of post-employment benefits: Return on plan assets, excluding amount included in interest income or expense – 162.5 162.5 – -199.0 -199.0 Changes in the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding amount included in interest income or expense 3 – 22.2 22.2 – 17.4 17.4 Actuarial gains (-) and losses (+) from changes in demographic assumptions 22.9 – 22.9 -29.2 – -29.2 Actuarial gains (-) and losses (+) from changes in financial assumptions -133.9 – -133.9 104.0 – 104.0 Actuarial gains (-) and losses (+) due to experience 5.1 – 5.1 2.1 – 2.1 Total remeasurements of post-employment benefits 4 -105.9 184.7 78.8 76.9 -181.6 -104.7 Contributions by employers5 – -151.3 -151.3 – -144.9 -144.9 Contributions by plan participants 54.3 -54.3 – 46.7 -46.7 – Benefits paid to plan participants -221.2 221.2 – -259.1 259.1 – Administration costs paid -17.7 17.7 – -17.2 17.2 – Acquisitions / divestitures / reclassifications 13.5 -0.3 13.2 0.7 – 0.7 Translation difference 243.4 -201.0 42.4 -225.6 188.1 -37.5 Closing balance 4 165.7 -3 085.6 1 080.16 4 050.2 -3 076.2 974.0 6 1 Whereof MSEK 0.6 is related to interest on the effect of the asset ceiling. 2 Mainly related to settlement gains in Norway 2018 and 2017 and Switzerland in 2017. 3 Related to Canada and the UK. 4 Included net of taxes in other comprehensive income. 5 Contributions by employers are estimated to be on approximately the same level in 2019 as in 2018. 6 Related to the net of plans reported under provisions for pensions and similar commitments, MSEK 1 116.1 (1 072.8), and plans reported under other long-term receivables (note 23), MSEK -36.0 (-98.8). . 118 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 Plan assets 2 The table below presents a breakdown of the various types of investments in which the assets of the Group’s funded benefit arrangements are invested. 3 4 MSEK 2018 % 2017 % 5 Equity instruments 6 US 212.4 148.3 7 Switzerland 194.5 208.2 8 Canada 45.5 49.2 9 UK 18.4 26.8 10 Other countries 312.4 312.1 11 Total equity instruments 783.2 25 744.6 24 12 Debt instruments 13 Government bonds 515.3 392.7 14 Corporate bonds, investment grade (AAA to BBB-) 988.4 1 111.0 15 Corporate bonds, non-investment grade (below BBB-) 8.0 60.0 16 Total debt instruments 1 511.7 49 1 563.7 51 17 Property 269.3 9 269.5 9 18 19 Qualifying insurance policies 446.6 14 458.3 15 20 Cash and cash equivalents 115.6 4 58.1 2 21 22 Effect of the asset ceiling -40.8 -1 -18.0 -1 23 Total plan assets 3 085.6 100 3 076.2 100 24 25 The plan assets are well diversified on countries and industries, so the The plan assets do not include any property owned by Securitas or finan26 failure of any single investment is not estimated to have a material impact cial instruments issued by Securitas. The share of unquoted plan assets 27 on the overall level of assets. is non-material. 28 29 30 Actuarial assumptions and sensitivity analysis The table below shows the significant financial actuarial assumptions used for determining the defined benefit obligations at the end of the year as well 31 as in determining the pension costs for the coming year. 32 33 %, per annum Discount rate Salary increases Inflation Pension increases Mortality 34 2018 35 36 RP 2006 white collar/blue collar 37 with MP-2018 38 US 3.80-3.90 n/a n/a n/a improvements 39 Switzerland 0.70 1.00 1.00 0.00 LPP 2015 40 Norway 2.00 2.75 n/a 0.80-2.50 K 2013 Eurozone 1.10-1.90 2.00–2.75 1.75–2.00 1.25-1.75 – 41 Other countries 2.90–4.00 1.00–3.00 2.00–3.50 2.50–3.50 – 42 43 2017 44 RP 2006 white 45 collar/blue collar 46 with MP-2017 US 3.10–3.30 n/a n/a n/a improvements 47 Switzerland 0.50 1.00 1.00 0.00 LPP 2015 48 Norway 1.90 2.50 n/a 0.50-2.25 K 2013 49 Eurozone 1.10–1.30 2.00–2.75 1.75–2.00 1.75 – 50 Other countries 2.60–3.50 0.50–3.00 2.00–3.40 2.40–3.40 – 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 119 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS The table below shows the methods used to set significant actuarial assumptions for the Group’s main defined benefit plans. Discount rate Salary increases Inflation Pension increases Mortality Cash flow matching approach Latest tables US applied to the Citigroup yield curve n/a n/a n/a available Chamber of Company’s Long-term expectations When financially bearable Latest tables Switzerland Pensions Actuaries best estimate in Switzerland by pension plan available Latest tables Norway NRS guidance NRS guidance n/a NRS guidance available Assumptions are set by the company based on actuarial advice and the company’s experience in each territory. The table below indicates the sensitivity to changes in significant assumptions for provisions for pensions and similar commitments. MSEK Increase (+) / decrease (-) in provision Discount rate – pension plans increase of 0.1 percentage points -43.8 decrease of 0.1 percentage points 45.8 Inflation – pension plans increase of 0.1 percentage points 7.9 decrease of 0.1 percentage points -7.9 Life expectancy – pension plans one year increase 111.3 Health-care cost rate – medical plans increase of 1 percentage point 22.91 decrease of 1 percentage point -18.02 1 The corresponding effect on the statement of income is an increase of costs of MSEK 1.8. 2 The corresponding effect on the statement of income is a decrease of costs of MSEK -0.9. The sensitivity analysis has been determined based on reasonably posThe same method used to calculate the provisions for pensions and sible changes of the respective assumptions occurring at the end of the similar commitments, that is the projected unit credit method, is used for reporting period and may not be representative of the actual change. The calculating the sensitivities. sensitivity analysis is further based on a change in one assumption while There have been no changes in the methods and assumption changes holding all other assumptions constant, although in reality changes in used in preparing the sensitivity analysis compared to the previous year. some assumptions may be correlated. Risks The table below shows significant risks that the Group is exposed to through its defined benefit plans. Asset volatility The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields. If plan assets underperform this yield, a deficit will be created. In a long-term perspective, equities are expected to outperform corporate bonds, but in the short-term perspective the yield on the Group’s investments in equity instruments may cause volatility. Changes in bond yields A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans’ bond holdings. In the US, an asset-liability matching approach is practiced to mitigate the risks associated with changes in bond yields as far as possible. Inflation risk Some of the Group’s pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities. However, the Group’s plans in the US and Norway are not linked to inflation, which makes the inflation risk less significant for the Group. Life expectancy The majority of the plans’ obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plans’ liabilities. In some countries, the benefit provided at retirement is a lump sum payment and therefore increases in life expectancy do not impact liabilities in these countries. 120 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 NOTE 32 Other long-term provisions 2 3 The movement in the balance sheet for provisions for pensions and similar commitments is provided in note 31. The movement in the balance sheet for 4 deferred tax liabilities is provided in note 15. 5 DECEMBER 31, 2018 6 7 MSEK Claims reserves Other provisions Total 8 Opening balance 567.8 538.3 1 106.1 9 Reclassification -0.3 -405.7 -406.0 10 New / increased provisions 71.1 122.5 193.6 Utilized provisions – -76.6 -76.6 11 Reversal of unutilized provisions -61.5 -2.4 -63.9 12 Translation differences 47.1 40.2 87.3 13 Closing balance 624.2 216.3 840.5 14 15 16 Claims reserves Other provisions 17 Liability insurance-related claims reserves primarily consist of provisions Other provisions include various long-term items, among them provisions 18 for the portion of claims payable by the Group, that is its self-retention. related to litigations. Other provisions are difficult to assess from a timing 19 Claims reserves comprise a large number of individual insurance cases perspective. It is thus not possible to disclose any detailed information 20 where some cases are compensated with a lump sum payment and others regarding the timing of outflows from other provisions. 21 are paid over a longer period of time. It is thus not possible to disclose any 22 detailed information regarding the timing of outflows from claims reserves. 23 24 25 NOTE 33 Short-term loan liabilities1 NOTE 34 Other current liabilities 26 MSEK 2018 2017 MSEK 2018 2017 27 28 EMTN Nom MEUR 300, 2012 / 2018, Employee-related items 1 7 511.0 6 957.6 Annual 2.25%2 – 2 961.0 Accrued interest and financial expenses 210.1 175.2 29 EMTN Nom MUSD 50, 2011 / 2018, FRN Quarterly2 – 412.7 Deferred revenue 950.6 647.9 30 EMTN Nom MUSD 85, 2013 / 2019, FRN Quarterly2 759.8 – Other accrued expenses and prepaid income 1 122.4 915.3 31 Commercial paper issued3 950.0 – Value added tax 1 483.6 1 447.2 32 Finance leases 105.7 92.1 Deferred considerations 77.7 66.6 33 Other short-term loans 552.2 53.7 Other items 671.9 655.8 34 Total short-term loan Total other current liabilities 12 027.3 10 865.6 35 liabilities excluding derivatives 2 367.7 3 519.5 36 Derivatives with negative fair value, short-term 1 Related to accrued salaries, vacation pay, payroll overhead, bonus and similar items. Accounted for net of government grants when applicable. 37 Derivatives in net investment hedges 4 10.9 47.2 38 Other derivatives 5 10.0 16.2 39 Total derivatives with negative fair value, short-term 20.9 63.4 40 Total short-term loan liabilities 2 388.6 3 582.9 41 1 For further information regarding financial instruments refer to note 7. 42 2 Issued by the Parent Company. 43 3 Commercial paper is issued by the Parent Company within the framework of a MSEK 5 000 Swedish commercial paper program. Commercial paper is accounted for at the issued amount. 44 4 Related to derivatives designated for hedging. 45 5 Related to financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 121 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS NOTE 35 Short-term provisions The EA Group in bankruptcy has asserted claims against Securitas in the bankruptcy court trying to extend liability to Securitas for the bankDECEMBER 31, 2018 ruptcy and the claims in the bankruptcy. The estate has not quantified its Other claims. The cases are slowly moving through the Brazilian legal system. MSEK Claims reserves provisions Total The EA Group in bankruptcy also asserted a claim of MBRL 314, which Opening balance 624.6 427.9 1 052.5 as of December 31, 2018 was equivalent to MSEK 728 in the civil court Reclassification 0.3 0.9 1.2 against Securitas, alleging that Securitas is responsible for the company’s financial failure. Securitas denies all allegations. The defense of this case New / increased provisions 246.2 848.2 1 1 094.4 has been entrusted to one of the leading law firms in Brazil. In a decision Utilized provisions -332.0 -472.0 -804.0 by the first instance court in Brazil the case was fully rejected. The judgReversal of unutilized ment was appealed by the bankruptcy estate to the Brazilian Court of provisions -9.9 -34.4 -44.3 Appeals and the Court of Appeals decided on formal grounds to nullify the Translation differences 49.1 15.1 64.2 judgment and to remand the case to the first instance court for retrial (and Closing balance 578.3 785.7 1 364.0 production of evidence). The case is slowly moving through the Brazilian 1 T he change in new and increased provisions classified under the heading Other provisions are legal system and Securitas maintains its previous position to the claims. impacted mainly by the recognition of provisions related to the cost savings program in Security Services Europe and the two transformation programs for the digitization of the company. These In addition, several former employees of the EA Group have sued Secuprovisions were recognized towards the end of 2018. ritas and other parties in labor courts and claimed inter alia wages and other compensations. The number of labor law cases involving Securitas continued to decrease and the claimed amounts are in average relatively Claims reserves low. Securitas denies all responsibility for such labor claims. Liability insurance-related claims reserves primarily consist of provisions for the portion of claims payable by the Group, that is its self-retention. Spain – tax audit The Spanish tax authority has, in connection with audits of Securitas NOTE 36 Pledged assets Spain, challenged certain interest payments in 2009, 2012 and 2014, MSEK 2018 2017 and decided to reject interest deductions made for the financial years Pension balances, defined contribution plans 128.7 124.1 2003–2005, 2006–2007 and 2008–2009 respectively. The years 2003–2005 are finally resolved by the Supreme Court and paid in 2016. Finance leases 221.7 191.2 For years 2006–2007 Securitas has requested a leave for appeal to the Total pledged assets 350.4 315.3 Supreme Court, but has not yet received any decision. The years 2008– 2009 have been resolved by the court, which Securitas has accepted, see further below. NOTE 37 Contingent liabilities The Spanish Supreme Court issued their judgment during 2016 regarding the years 2003–2005, implying that the years 2003–2004 were MSEK 2018 2017 resolved as time barred and the majority of the interest deductions for Guarantees1 0.4 3.9 2005 were disallowed. Securitas closed the years 2003–2005 in 2016 by Guarantees related to discontinued operations 15.4 15.3 payment of tax and interest of MEUR 4.3 (equivalent to MSEK 41). Total contingent liabilities 15.8 19.2 In June 2017 the superior court Audiencia Nacional issued a negative 1 Guarantees on behalf of related parties are disclosed in note 8. judgment concerning the years 2006–2007, implying that all interest was disallowed, in contradiction to the earlier judgment by the Supreme In addition to the contingent liabilities accounted for in the table, the Court on the same matter for the years 2003–2005. This is also contrafollowing contingent liabilities, for which no amount can be determined, dictory to the lower court Tribunal Económico Administrativo Central’s also exist: earlier judgment for the years 2008–2009, a judgment that Securitas has accepted as final. Brazil – Estrela Azul If finally upheld by Spanish courts, the resolution by the Spanish tax In connection with the efforts of Securitas to expand its activities in Latin authorities regarding rejected interest deductions for the years 2006– America, Securitas entered into an agreement in 2005 with respect to the 2007, and the accepted judgment regarding years 2008–2009, would possible acquisition of a guarding company in Brazil, Estrela Azul (the EA result in a tax of MEUR 28, equivalent to MSEK 287, including interest Group). The governmental approvals took much longer than anticipated up to December 31, 2018 (as of December 31, 2017 this exposure was to obtain and during such period the financial condition of the target group estimated to MEUR 27, equivalent at the time to MSEK 269). No further substantially deteriorated. Given the decline in the financial condition of exposure exists for similar rejected interest deductions after the financial the group, Securitas exercised its right to withdraw from the acquisition year 2009, as the Group adjusted the capitalization of Securitas Spain in process in December 2006. 2009 to avoid future challenges of interest deductions. The companies within the EA Group filed for protection from its crediFurther, the Spanish tax authority decided, in connection with an audit tors under Brazilian legislation in 2007 providing for a judicial restructurof Securitas Spain in 2013, to reject a tax exemption for a demerger of the ing process. The companies within the group were declared bankrupt in Spanish Systems company, in connection with Securitas AB’s distribution 2009 and the restructuring process was replaced by bankruptcy proceedof the shares in Securitas Systems AB to its shareholders and the listing on ings. The bankruptcy process continues led by the trustee in the bankthe Stockholm Stock Exchange in 2006. In June 2017, Securitas received ruptcy court. Various attempts by the trustee to increase the liability of a negative judgment from the superior court Audiencia Nacional and has Securitas in the bankruptcy has been vigorously rejected. been granted a leave for appeal with the Supreme Court in May 2018. 122 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 If finally upheld by Spanish courts, the resolution by the Spanish Spain – Mutua 2 tax authorities, concerning the demerger case, would result in a tax of Securitas in Spain has received a claim of MEUR 6.3 from the social 3 MEUR 21, equivalent to MSEK 217, including interest up to December 31, security authorities relating to services allegedly received from Mutua 4 2018 (as of December 31, 2017 this exposure was estimated to MEUR 21, Universal in the period 1998 to 2007. The authorities are questioning equivalent at the time to MSEK 203). 5 whether such services, in such case, were allowed to be provided under Further, in 2014 the tax authority decided to reject a deduction for a applicable regulations. This is a consequence of a lawsuit against some of 6 currency related liquidation loss in the financial year 2010, relating to a Mutua Universal’s former employees. Securitas is affected, as 2 300 other 7 company that was acquired in 2004. In 2017 the lower court TEAC issued companies, as an indirect beneficiary of the services rendered. Securitas 8 a negative judgment, which was in contradiction to the 2016 Supreme is convinced that it has acted in accordance with applicable law. 9 Court judgment regarding the basis for disallowing the deduction. 10 Securitas has appealed the case to the superior National court Audiencia 11 Nacional. Other proceedings If finally upheld by Spanish courts, the resolution by the Spanish tax 12 Over the years, Securitas has made a number of acquisitions in different authorities regarding the liquidation loss would result in a tax of MEUR 18, 13 countries. As a result of such acquisitions, certain contingent liabilities equivalent to MSEK 183, including interest up to December 31, 2018 (as of the businesses acquired have been assumed. The risks relating to such 14 of December 31, 2017 this exposure was estimated to MEUR 17, equivacontingent liabilities are covered by contractual indemnification, insurance 15 lent at the time to MSEK 171). or adequate reserves. 16 Provided that the courts decide in Securitas cases in accordance with Companies within the Securitas Group are also involved in a number 17 the 2016 Supreme Court judgment, the exposure for the currency related of other legal proceedings and tax audits arising out of the business. Any 18 liquidation loss for the financial year 2010 is expected to cease. liabilities arising out of such proceedings are not expected to be material Securitas believes it has acted in accordance with applicable law and 19 to the business operations or the financial position of the Group. will defend its position in the courts. However, the tax resolutions causes 20 some uncertainty and it may take several years until all final judgments 21 have been received. 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 123 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS NOTE 38 Financial five year overview 1 MSEK 2014 2015 2016 2017 2 2018 INCOME Total sales 70 217.1 80 860.1 88 162.4 92 196.8 101 466.7 of which acquired business 353.3 269.9 3 136.4 717.7 1 759.8 Acquired sales growth, % 1 0 4 1 2 Organic sales growth, % 3 5 7 5 6 Real sales growth, % 4 6 11 5 8 Operating income before amortization 3 504.7 4 088.7 4 553.5 4 697.2 5 303.6 Operating margin, % 5.0 5.1 5.2 5.1 5.2 Amortization and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets -250.8 -274.5 -287.7 -255.1 -259.9 Acquisition related costs -17.1 -29.5 -112.6 -48.4 -119.9 Items affecting comparability – – – – -454.8 Financial income and expenses -327.6 -308.3 -389.6 -375.6 -440.6 Income before taxes 2 909.2 3 476.4 3 763.6 4 018.1 4 028.4 Taxes -837.7 -1 032.5 -1 117.7 -1 266.6 -1 007.2 Net income for the year 2 071.5 2 443.9 2 645.9 2 751.5 3 021.2 – whereof attributable to non-controlling interests 3.1 7.4 3.9 1.8 5.3 Average number of shares after dilution (‘000) 365 059 365 059 365 059 365 059 365 059 Earnings per share after dilution (SEK) 5.67 6.67 7.24 7.53 8.26 CASH FLOW Operating income before amortization 3 504.7 4 088.7 4 553.5 4 697.2 5 303.6 Investments in non-current tangible and intangible assets -1 113.2 -1 328.6 -1 658.3 -1 808.4 -2 187.8 Reversal of depreciation 966.9 1 072.3 1 229.0 1 445.5 1 693.5 Change in accounts receivable -114.5 -707.0 -1 039.3 -448.9 -1 575.0 Changes in other operating capital employed -381.2 273.8 -45.8 -48.1 -62.3 Cash flow from operating activities 2 862.7 3 399.2 3 039.1 3 837.3 3 172.0 as % of operating income before amortization 82 83 67 82 60 Financial income and expenses paid -311.4 -322.0 -301.4 -425.6 -431.4 Current taxes paid -696.6 -914.0 -1 016.7 -1 122.2 -856.3 Free cash flow 1 854.7 2 163.2 1 721.0 2 289.5 1 884.3 as % of adjusted income 75 78 52 68 48 Free cash flow per share 5.08 5.93 4.71 6.27 5.16 Cash flow from investing activities, acquisitions and divestitures -385.0 -147.4 -3 566.5 -303.6 -1 755.2 Cash flow from items affecting comparability -72.8 -26.9 -16.7 – -117.4 Cash flow from financing activities -2 107.8 -3 302.5 2 145.8 -742.7 -375.4 Cash flow for the year -710.9 -1 313.6 283.6 1 243.2 -363.7 Interest-bearing net debt at beginning of year -9 609.8 -10 421.6 -9 862.7 -13 431.3 -12 332.5 Change in loans 1 012.6 2 207.3 -3 423.5 -626.3 -1 084.8 Revaluation of financial instruments -0.4 0.9 22.6 -28.8 26.0 Translation differences on interest-bearing net debt -1 113.1 -335.7 -451.3 510.7 -758.5 Interest-bearing net debt at year-end -10 421.6 -9 862.7 -13 431.3 -12 332.5 -14 513.5 124 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 2 MSEK 2014 2015 2016 2017 2 2018 3 CAPITAL EMPLOYED AND FINANCING 4 Non-current assets excluding acquisition related items 3 641.4 3 872.3 4 633.8 5 383.7 5 986.6 5 Accounts receivable 10 815.5 11 353.4 13 352.6 13 349.3 15 603.5 6 Other operating capital employed -10 532.9 -10 617.3 -11 202.4 -11 173.2 -12 391.5 7 Operating capital employed 3 924.0 4 608.4 6 784.0 7 559.8 9 198.6 8 as % of total sales 6 6 8 8 9 9 Goodwill 16 228.1 16 428.4 19 379.6 18 719.1 21 061.3 10 Acquisition related intangible assets 1 244.2 987.3 1 356.1 1 172.8 1 458.2 11 Shares in associated companies 324.5 369.0 419.5 419.8 452.0 12 Capital employed 21 720.8 22 393.1 27 939.2 27 871.5 32 170.1 13 Return on capital employed, % 16 18 16 17 15 14 15 Net debt 10 421.6 9 862.7 13 431.3 12 332.5 14 513.5 16 Net debt equity ratio, multiple 0.92 0.79 0.93 0.79 0.82 17 Net debt to EBITDA ratio 2,3 1,9 2,4 2,0 2,3 18 Interest coverage ratio, multiple 10.4 13.1 11.1 11.8 10.7 19 Free cash flow in relation to net debt 0.18 0.22 0.13 0.19 0.13 20 21 Shareholders’ equity attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company 11 280.3 12 510.1 14 487.2 15 517.8 17 631.4 22 Non-controlling interests 18.9 20.3 20.7 21.2 25.2 23 Equity per share 30.9 34.3 39.7 42.5 48.4 24 Return on equity, % 20 21 20 18 18 25 Equity ratio, % 28 31 30 31 32 26 Financing of capital employed 21 720.8 22 393.1 27 939.2 27 871.5 32 170.1 27 1 For definitions and calculation of key ratios refer to note 3. 2 Comparatives have been restated as an effect of a change in accounting principle IFRS 15. Refer to note 2 and note 6 for further information. 28 Diagram_BV_sid 117 / 1 Diagram_BV_sid 117 / 2 Group key ratios according to Securitas’ financial model. Refer to pages 54-55. 29 Diagram_BV_sid 117 / 3 Diagram_BV_sid 117 / 4 30 31 Operating income 32 Total sales and before amortization Free cash flow 33 organic sales growth and operating margin Earnings per share in relation to net debt 34 MSEK % MSEK % SEK 35 100 000 10 6 000 10.0 10.00 0.25 36 80 000 5 000 8.0 8.00 0.20 8 37 4 000 6.0 60 000 6.00 0.15 6 3 000 38 40 000 4.0 4.00 0.10 2 000 39 20 000 4 2.0 2.00 0.05 1 000 40 0 2 0 0 0 0.00 14 15 16 17 18 14 15 16 17 18 41 14 15 16 17 18 14 15 16 17 18 Organic sales growth, % Operating margin, % 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 125 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS NOTE 39 Remeasurement for hyperinflation The impact on the Group’s financial position from the adoption and appliREMEASUREMENT IMPACT IN THE GROUP’S CAPITAL EMPLOYED AND FINANCING AS OF JULY 1, 2018 cation of IAS 29 Financial reporting in Hyperinflationary economies, as described in note 2 Accounting principles, is illustrated below. The tables MSEK July 1, 2018 show the lines in the consolidated financial statements that have been Operating capital employed 34.4 affected by the adoption and application of IAS 29. The SEK/ARS rate as Goodwill 235.7 of July 1, 2018 was 0.33 and per December 31, 2018 it was 0.23. Acquisition related intangible assets 4.8 The financial statements have been remeasured by the use of an index, as described in note 2 Accounting principles. As of July 1, 2018, the index Capital employed 274.9 was 9.17 with the base period being January 2003. As of December 31, Shareholders' equity 274.9 2018, the index was 11.15 with the same base period. REMEASUREMENT IMPACT IN THE GROUP’S BALANCE SHEET AS OF REMEASUREMENT IMPACT RECOGNIZED IN OTHER COMPREHENSIVE JULY 1, 2018 INCOME FOR THE PERIOD JULY – DECEMBER 2018 MSEK July 1, 2018 MSEK Jul–Dec 2018 ASSETS Remeasurement July 1, 2018 274.9 Non-current assets Remeasurement July 1 to December 31, 2018 39.3 Goodwill 235.7 Total remeasurement for hyperinflation, net of taxes 314.2 Acquisition related intangible assets 4.8 Other intangible assets 4.4 NET MONETARY GAIN RECOGNIZED IN THE GROUP’S STATEMENT OF Tangible non-current assets 39.9 INCOME FOR THE PERIOD JULY – DECEMBER 2018 Total non-current assets 284.8 MSEK Jul–Dec 2018 Current assets Financial income and expenses 22.9 Non-interest-bearing current assets 5.5 Total net monetary gain 22.9 Total current assets 5.5 TOTAL ASSETS 290.3 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders' equity Attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company 274.9 Total shareholders' equity 274.9 Current liabilities Non-interest-bearing current liabilities and provisions 15.4 Total current liabilities 15.4 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 290.3 126 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 NOTE 40 Adoption of IFRS 16 Leases 2 3 As described in note 2 Accounting principles, Securitas has adopted for lease contracts under IAS 17, due to the financial element in the lease 4 IFRS 16 Leases as of January 1, 2019. The effects of the adoption are calculations. In the Group’s segment overviews, the effects of the adop5 described below. Securitas has adopted IFRS 16 by recognizing the tion of IFRS 16 are accounted for under each segment. cumulative effect of the application on January 1, 2019 without restateThe estimated effects on the consolidated balance sheet and the con6 ment of the comparative periods. solidated statement of income from the adoption of IFRS 16 are specified 7 Securitas’ lease agreements are mainly attributable to buildings and in the tables below. The effects on the balance sheet, combined with the 8 vehicles. As from the transition to IFRS 16, they are accounted for as Group’s financial lease agreements recognized as of December 31, 2018, 9 right-of-use assets (included in non-current assets) and long-term and leads to a total lease liability for the Group of BSEK 3.6 as of January 1, 10 short-term lease liabilities (included in loan liabilities) in the consolidated 2019. 11 balance sheet. 12 The lease liabilities on January 1, 2019 have been measured at the Consolidated balance sheet, BSEK Jan 1, 2019 13 present value of remaining lease payments, discounted by using the Assets 14 incremental borrowing rate for each country. These rates are based on Previously recognized financial lease assets 0.2 15 the interbank offered rate (IBOR) of the relevant currency to achieve an all-in cost of IBOR plus the intra-group margin applied for internal funding Additional right-of-use assets under IFRS 16 3.4 16 purposes. The rates are further adjusted to consider the contract duration Total assets 3.6 17 of each lease agreement. The Group’s average incremental borrowing 18 rate on lease liabilities recognized in the balance sheet on January 1, 2019 Liabilities 19 is approximately 3.9%. A specification of the range for the discount rates Previously recognized financial lease liabilities 0.2 20 within each segment is disclosed below. Additional lease liabilities, long-term and short-term, under IFRS 16 3.4 21 Total liabilities 3.6 22 Segment % per annum 23 Security Services North America 4.4–5.11 Jan-Dec 24 Security Services Europe 1.3–6.1 2 Consolidated statement of income, BSEK 2019 25 Security Services Ibero-America 1.7–14.0 3 Operating income 0.1 26 Other 1.7–9.8 4 Financial expenses -0.1 27 1 Excluding Mexico 10.1% Income before taxes 0.0 28 2 Excluding Turkey 34.0% 3 Excluding Argentina 57.0% 29 4 The operations in Africa, the Middle East and Asia are included in Other. 30 The right-of-use assets on January 1, 2019 have been measured at an Bridge between operating leases under 31 IAS 17 and lease liability according to IFRS 16, BSEK Jan 1, 2019 amount equal to the lease liabilities. Extension clauses are evaluated 32 for each lease agreement and are applied based on our best estimate Operating leases under IAS 17 at December 31, 2018 (note 11) 4.2 33 at each closing. Leases for which the lease term ends within 12 months Effect of discounting -0.4 34 of the date of initial application have been accounted for as short-term Finance leases recognized at December 31, 2018 (note 30 and 33) 0.2 35 leases and are thus excluded from the lease liabilities accounted for under IFRS 16. Short-term leases recognized on a straight-line basis as expense -0.3 36 In the consolidated statement of income, depreciation of the rightLow-value leases recognized on a straight-line basis as expense -0.1 37 of-use assets is accounted for on the lines production expenses and Lease liability under IFRS 16 at January 1, 2019 3.6 38 selling and administrative expenses. Interest expenses are accounted 39 for on the line financial expenses. The Group’s operating income in 2019 As a consequence of adopting IFRS 16 on the level of reportable seg40 is expected to improve due to lower leasing costs in operating income ments, the Group will change the level of impairment testing for goodwill 41 compared with the accounting for lease contracts under IAS 17. Financial from the country level to the reportable segment level in 2019. 42 expenses in 2019 are expected to increase compared with the accounting 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 127 PA R E N T COM PA N Y FINA NC IA L STAT EMENTS Parent Company statement of income MSEK Note 2018 2017 License fees and other income 43 1 195.8 1 088.6 Gross income 1 195.8 1 088.6 Administrative expenses 45, 46 -807.1 -775.1 Other operating income 45 29.6 23.8 Operating income 418.3 337.3 Result of financial investments Dividend 43 1 593.0 2 181.9 Interest income 43 658.7 466.1 Interest expenses 43 -418.2 -376.9 Other financial income and expenses, net 47 435.1 -721.8 Total financial income and expenses 2 268.6 1 549.3 Income after financial items 2 686.9 1 886.6 Appropriations Group contributions from subsidiaries 43 337.8 367.7 Group contributions to subsidiaries 43 -135.5 -17.1 Depreciation and amortization in excess of plan 56 1.6 – Transfer to tax allocation reserve 56 -333.1 127.6 Total appropriations -129.2 478.2 Income before taxes 2 557.7 2 364.8 Current taxes 48 -220.4 -0.9 Deferred taxes 48 -68.3 23.4 Net income for the year 2 269.0 2 387.3 Parent Company statement of comprehensive income MSEK Note 2018 2017 Net income for the year 2 269.0 2 387.3 Other comprehensive income Items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income Cash flow hedges net of tax 44 62.5 -21.9 Cost of hedging net of tax 44 -44.1 – Total items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income 18.4 -21.9 Other comprehensive income 48 18.4 -21.9 Total comprehensive income for the year 2 287.4 2 365.4 Parent Company statement of cash flow MSEK Note 2018 2017 Operations Operating income 418.3 337.3 Reversal of depreciation 49, 50 26.2 28.9 Financial items received 2 251.1 3 475.6 Financial items paid -403.2 -445.8 Current taxes paid -125.1 -158.1 Change in other operating capital employed 427.8 -341.8 Cash flow from operations 2 595.1 2 896.1 Investing activities Investments in and disposals of non-current tangible and intangible assets 49, 50 -10.7 -50.6 Shares in subsidiaries 51 -36.6 -1 007.5 Cash flow from investing activities -47.3 -1 058.1 Financing activities Dividend paid -1 460.2 -1 369.0 Proceeds from bond loans 3 004.1 3 299.5 Redemption of bond loans -3 479.7 -3 307.7 Proceeds from commercial paper 2 500.0 – Redemption of commercial paper -1 550.0 – Change in other interest-bearing net debt excluding liquid funds -2 178.9 257.0 Cash flow from financing activities -3 164.7 -1 120.2 Cash flow for the year -616.9 717.8 Liquid funds at beginning of year 1 942.6 1 224.8 Liquid funds at year-end 54 1 325.7 1 942.6 128 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 PA R E N T CO M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note Parent Company balance sheet 1 MSEK Note 2018 2017 2 ASSETS 3 Non-current assets 4 Intangible assets 49 128.3 129.5 5 Machinery and equipment 50 5.8 20.1 6 Shares in subsidiaries 51 41 332.1 41 296.2 Shares in associated companies 52 112.1 112.1 7 Interest-bearing financial non-current assets 44 1 541.3 1 312.6 8 Deferred tax assets 48 28.1 28.9 9 Other long-term receivables 357.9 137.4 10 Total non-current assets 43 505.6 43 036.8 11 12 Current assets 13 Current receivables from subsidiaries 395.6 416.1 14 Interest-bearing current receivables from subsidiaries 44 5 573.6 4 360.1 15 Other current receivables 17.9 17.0 16 Current tax assets – 29.8 17 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 53 8.7 13.0 Other interest-bearing current assets 44 7.5 44.9 18 Cash and bank deposits 54 1 325.7 1 942.6 19 Total current assets 7 329.0 6 823.5 20 21 TOTAL ASSETS 50 834.6 49 860.3 22 23 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 24 Shareholders’ equity 25 Restricted equity Share capital 365.1 365.1 26 Legal reserve 7 362.6 7 362.6 27 Development expenditure reserve 69.5 56.8 28 Total restricted equity 7 797.2 7 784.5 29 30 Non-restricted equity 31 Hedging reserve 14.5 -3.9 32 Retained earnings 18 418.4 17 496.2 33 Net income for the year 2 269.0 2 387.3 Total non-restricted equity 20 701.9 19 879.6 34 35 Total shareholders’ equity 55 28 499.1 27 664.1 36 37 Untaxed reserves 56 454.8 123.3 38 Long-term liabilities 39 Long-term loan liabilities 44 15 817.7 12 887.3 40 Other long-term liabilities 151.6 287.0 41 Deferred tax liabilities 99.9 27.1 42 Total long-term liabilities 57 16 069.2 13 201.4 43 44 Current liabilities 45 Current liabilities to subsidiaries 378.1 270.4 46 Interest-bearing current liabilities to subsidiaries 44 2 124.2 3 898.2 47 Group account bank overdraft 772.3 972.8 Other short-term loan liabilities 44 2 171.5 3 427.0 48 Accounts payable 11.8 32.2 49 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 58 283.7 255.4 50 Other current liabilities 69.9 15.5 51 Total current liabilities 5 811.5 8 871.5 52 53 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 50 834.6 49 860.3 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 129 PA R E N T COM PA N Y FINA NC IA L STAT EMENTS Parent Company statement of changes in shareholders’ equity Retained Development earnings and Total shareShare Legal expenditure Hedging net income holders’ MSEK capital1 reserve reserve reserve for the year equity Opening balance 2017 365.1 7 362.6 19.2 18.0 18 933.0 26 697.9 Net income for the year – – – – 2 387.3 2 387.3 Other comprehensive income Items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income Cash flow hedges net of tax 2 – – – -21.9 – -21.9 Total items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income – – – -21.9 – -21.9 Other comprehensive income – – – -21.9 – -21.9 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – -21.9 2 387.3 2 365.4 Share-based incentive scheme1 – – – – -30.2 -30.2 Dividend paid to shareholders of the Parent Company – – – – -1 369.0 -1 369.0 Transfer to development expenditure reserve – – 42.2 – -42.2 – Transfer from development expenditure reserve – – -4.6 – 4.6 – Closing balance 2017 365.1 7 362.6 56.8 -3.9 19 883.5 27 664.1 Opening balance 2018 365.1 7 362.6 56.8 -3.9 19 883.5 27 664.1 Net income for the year – – – – 2 269.0 2 269.0 Other comprehensive income Items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income Cash flow hedges net of tax2 – – – 62.5 – 62.5 Cost of hedging net of tax 2 – – – -44.1 – -44.1 Total items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income – – – 18.4 – 18.4 Other comprehensive income – – – 18.4 – 18.4 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 18.4 2 269.0 2 287.4 Share-based incentive scheme1 – – – – 7.8 7.8 Dividend paid to shareholders of the Parent Company – – – – -1 460.2 -1 460.2 Transfer to development expenditure reserve – – 28.2 – -28.2 – Transfer from development expenditure reserve – – -15.5 – 15.5 – Closing balance 2018 365.1 7 362.6 69.5 14.5 20 687.4 28 499.1 1 Further information is provided in note 55. 2 A specification can be found in note 44, in the table revaluation of financial instruments, as well as in note 48. 130 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E PA R E N T CO M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note Notes 1 2 3 4 5 6 NOTE 41 Accounting principles 7 8 The Parent Company’s financial statements are prepared in accordance Shares in subsidiaries 9 with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Financial ReportShares in subsidiaries are initially accounted for at cost with subsequent 10 ing Board’s standard RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities. The Parent adjustments for capital contributions, impairment and revaluation of 11 Company thus follows the same accounting principles as the Group, deferred considerations. Shares in subsidiaries are reviewed for impair12 which are described in note 2, when relevant and except in the cases ment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 13 stated below. The differences that exist between the Parent Company’s ­carrying amount may not be recoverable. and the Group’s accounting principles are a result of the restrictions 14 that the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the Swedish Act on Safeguarding Securitas’ share-based incentive scheme 15 of Pension Commitments and the options that RFR 2 allow for IFRS in In addition to the Group’s accounting principles for share-based payments 16 the Parent Company. (IFRS 2) as described in note 2 Accounting principles, the following has 17 been applied in the Parent Company’s financial statements. The Parent 18 RFR 2: IFRS 3 Business combinations Company has secured the delivery of shares according to Securitas share19 The Parent Company measures the acquisition cost as the sum of the based incentive scheme by entering into a swap agreement with a third 20 acquisition-date fair values of assets transferred, liabilities incurred or party regarding purchase of shares. 21 transferred and all costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition. To the extent that shares according to the swap agreement is subject Contingent considerations are recognized as part of the acquisition cost 22 to delivery to employees in other Group companies than the Parent Comif it is probable that they will be realized. The acquisition cost is adjusted pany, a liability to Group companies has been recorded in the Parent Com23 in subsequent periods if the initial assessment needs to be revised. pany’s accounts. This liability is recorded at the value of the commitment 24 that Securitas AB has to the subsidiaries to deliver shares, that is the num25 RFR 2: IFRS 15 Revenue ber of shares to be delivered according to the swap agreement at the lat26 Anticipated dividend from a subsidiary is recognized as income in the est share price for Securitas AB’s series B share. Social security expenses 27 Parent Company in accordance with RFR 2 if the Parent Company has the are calculated based on the market value of the shares that potentially will 28 exclusive right to decide the amount of the dividend from the subsidiary. be allocated. Fluctuations in the share price for these shares thus lead to 29 The Parent Company must furthermore ensure that the dividend is in line changes in social security expenses that impact the Parent Company’s with the subsidiary’s dividend capacity. Dividend from a subsidiary that and Group’s income. 30 has not been anticipated is accounted for on a cash basis. This is the only impact on the Parent Company’s and Group’s income 31 due to fluctuations in the share price for the shares that potentially will be 32 RFR 2: IAS 19 Employee benefits allocated. This means that any possible increase or decrease of the liability 33 Accounting for defined benefit plans according to the Swedish Act on to Group companies has not been accounted for in the Parent Company’s 34 Safeguarding of Pension Commitments leads to differences between the income statement. 35 accounting in the Parent Company and the Group. These differences have 36 no material impact on the employee benefits relating to the employees of the Parent Company. Pension solutions either fall within the framework of NOTE 42 Events after the balance sheet date 37 the ITP–plan that is insured via Alecta, which is described in note 31, or in 38 all material aspects consist of other defined contribution plans. Approval of the Annual Report and 39 Consolidated Financial Statements for 2018 40 RFR 2: IAS 21 This Annual Report including the Consolidated Financial Statements 41 Exchange rate differences arising on a monetary item that forms part was approved by the Board of Directors and the President and CEO of 42 of the Parent Company’s net investment in a foreign subsidiary are Securitas AB on March 18, 2019. 43 accounted for in the Parent Company’s statement of income, in accor44 dance with RFR 2. Other significant events after the balance sheet date 45 In order to hedge the share portion of Securitas share-based incentive RFR 2: IAS 27 Consolidated scheme 2018, Securitas AB entered into a swap agreement with a third 46 and separate financial statements party in the beginning of March 2019. 47 The Parent Company applies the alternative rule in RFR 2: IAS 27 related There have been no other significant events with effect on the financial 48 to Group contributions, which means that Group contributions from reporting after the balance sheet date. 49 subsidiaries as well as Group contributions to subsidiaries are accounted 50 for as appropriations in the statement of income. 51 52 RFR 2: IFRS 9 Financial instruments 53 The Parent Company follows IFRS 9 except for financial guarantees in 54 relation to subsidiaries. For further information refer to the accounting principles adopted by the Group for financial instruments in note 2. 55 56 57 58 59 60 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 131 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE PA RENT COMPA NY FI NANCI AL STATEMENTS NOTE 43 Transactions with related parties Transactions between the Parent Company and subsidiaries are priced in accordance with business principles. THE PARENT COMPANY’S TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES COMPRISE MSEK 2018 2017 License fees from subsidiaries 1 177.1 1 071.6 Other income from subsidiaries 18.7 17.0 Dividends from subsidiaries 1 593.0 2 181.9 Interest income from subsidiaries 630.4 437.8 Interest expenses to subsidiaries -47.0 -35.7 Realized profit on shares in subsidiaries – 831.3 Group contributions from subsidiaries 337.8 367.7 Group contributions to subsidiaries -135.5 -17.1 Guarantees issued on behalf of subsidiaries 2 281.0 2 175.8 Guarantees issued on behalf of associated companies 0.4 3.9 NOTE 44 Financial risk management The Parent Company follows, as stated in note 41, IFRS 9 Financial instruments. Refer to note 2 and note 7 for further information about financial risks that are applicable also for the Parent Company. LIQUIDITY REPORT AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 Between 1 year Between 3 years MSEK Total < 1 year and < 3 years and 5 years > 5 years December 31, 2018 Borrowings -19 329 -3 056 -5 707 -3 789 -6 777 Derivatives outflows -24 232 -19 689 -80 -2 875 -1 588 Accounts payable -12 -12 – – – Total outflows -43 573 -22 757 -5 787 -6 664 -8 365 Investments 6 820 6 708 16 96 – Derivatives receipts 24 385 19 652 217 3 007 1 509 Total inflows 31 205 26 360 233 3 103 1 509 Net cash flows, total1 -12 368 3 603 -5 554 -3 561 -6 856 December 31, 2017 Borrowings -19 525 -6 234 -1 442 -8 323 -3 526 Derivatives outflows -22 978 -20 106 -137 -2 735 – Accounts payable -32 -32 – – – Total outflows -42 535 -26 372 -1 579 -11 058 -3 526 Investments 6 112 5 891 8 213 – Derivatives receipts 23 272 20 155 175 2 920 22 Total inflows 29 384 26 046 183 3 133 22 Net cash flows, total1 -13 151 -326 -1 396 -7 925 -3 504 1 Variable rate cash flows have been estimated using the relevant yield curve. HEDGING RESERVE AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2018 Cost of Interest rate Currency hedging cash flow cash flow Total Deferred Total net MSEK reserve hedges hedges before tax tax of tax Opening balance January 1, 2018 5.2 -10.2 -5.0 1.1 -3.9 Change in fair value of hedging instrument recognized in other comprehensive income -56.6 -0.6 195.2 138.0 -30.4 107.6 Reclassified from other comprehensive income to profit or loss 6.0 -120.4 -114.4 25.2 -89.2 Closing balance December 31, 2018 -56.6 10.6 64.6 18.6 -4.1 14.5 132 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E PA R E N T CO M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 REVALUATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 2 MSEK 2018 2017 3 Recognized in the statement of income 4 Financial income and expenses 6.8 0.4 5 Deferred tax – – 6 Impact on net income for the year 6.8 0.4 7 Recognized via hedging reserve in other comprehensive income 8 Transfer to cash flow hedging reserve before tax 194.6 63.2 9 Transfer to cost of hedging reserve before tax -56.6 – 10 Deferred tax on transfer to hedging reserve -30.4 -13.9 11 Transfer to hedging reserve net of tax 107.6 49.3 12 13 Transfer to statement of income before tax -114.4 -91.2 14 Deferred tax on transfer to statement of income 25.2 20.0 15 Transfer to statement of income net of tax -89.2 -71.2 16 Change of cash flow hedging reserve before tax 80.2 -28.0 17 Change of cost of hedging reserve before tax -56.6 – 18 Total change of hedging reserve before tax1 23.6 -28.0 19 Deferred tax on total change of hedging reserve1 -5.2 6.1 20 Total change of hedging reserve net of tax 18.4 -21.9 21 22 Total impact on shareholders' equity as specified above 23 Total revaluation before tax 2 30.4 -27.6 24 Deferred tax on total revaluation 2 -5.2 6.1 25 Total revaluation after tax 25.2 -21.5 26 1 Total of transfer to hedging reserve and transfer from hedging reserve to statement of income. 2 Total revaluation and deferred tax recognized via statement of income and via other comprehensive income. 27 28 29 DERIVATIVES IN THE BALANCE SHEET 30 MSEK 2018 2017 31 Interest-bearing financial non-current assets 32 Fair value hedges 110.2 299.0 33 Cash flow hedges 283.2 132.3 34 Other derivative positions1 -38.9 – 35 Total derivatives included in interest-bearing financial non-current assets 354.5 431.3 36 Interest-bearing current receivables from subsidiaries 37 Other derivative positions 0.1 61.3 38 Total derivatives included in interest-bearing current receivables from subsidiaries 0.1 61.3 39 40 Other interest-bearing current assets 41 Fair value hedges – 5.9 42 Cash flow hedges – 1.5 43 Other derivative positions 7.5 37.5 Total derivatives included in other interest-bearing current assets 7.5 44.9 44 45 Long-term loan liabilities 46 Fair value hedges 164.5 0.8 47 Cash flow hedges -66.5 – 48 Other derivative positions 2 17.7 – 49 Total derivatives included in long-term loan liabilities 115.7 0.8 50 Interest-bearing current liabilities to subsidiaries 51 Other derivative positions 21.6 44.3 52 Total derivatives included in interest-bearing current liabilities to subsidiaries 21.6 44.3 53 54 Other short-term loan liabilities 55 Other derivative positions 14.7 53.3 Total derivatives included in other short-term loan liabilities 14.7 53.3 56 57 1 Cross currency interest rate swaps are split into different components, of which some elements are negative when the overall fair value is positive. 2 Cross currency interest rate swaps are split into different components, of which some elements are positive when the overall fair value is negative. 58 59 60 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 133 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE PA RENT COMPA NY FI NANCI AL STATEMENTS FAIR VALUE – HIERARCHY AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 Valuation techniques Valuation techniques Quoted using observable using non-observable market prices market data market data Total MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss – – 7.6 98.8 – – 7.6 98.8 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss – – -36.3 -97.5 – -1.5 1 -36.3 -99.0 Derivatives designated for hedging with positive fair value – – 354.5 438.6 – – 354.5 438.6 Derivatives designated for hedging with negative fair value – – -115.7 -0.8 – – -115.7 -0.8 1 Related to deferred considerations. These have been recognized mainly based on an assessment of the future profitability development in the acquired entities for an agreed period. LIABILITIES FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 2018 Non-cash changes Translation December 31, January 1, 2018 Cash flows1 Reclassification Other changes differences 2018 Long-term borrowings 12 887.3 3 003.7 -759.9 114.9 571.7 15 817.7 Short-term borrowings 8 298.0 -4 173.2 759.9 -61.3 244.6 5 068.0 Derivative assets held to hedge external borrowings -299.3 – – -216.3 – -515.6 Total 20 886.0 -1 169.5 – -162.7 816.3 20 370.1 1 Excluding other derivative positions and dividend paid to shareholders of the Parent Company, that are included in cash flow from financing activities in the consolidated statement of cash flow. NOTE 45 Administrative expenses and other operating income Administrative expenses Additional audit assignments mainly comprise review of the interim report for the second quarter as well as review of financial reporting and internal AUDIT FEES AND REIMBURSEMENTS control in additional countries than those included in the agreed audit MSEK 2018 2017 plan. Tax assignments mainly comprise tax return compliance, transfer PwC pricing and questions related to tax legislation compliance. Other services mainly comprise review of pension plans. Audit assignments 6.6 6.6 Additional audit assignments 2.3 1.2 Other operating income Tax assignments 2.1 2.2 Other operating income consists in its entirety of trade mark fees for the Other assignments1 1.5 1.5 use of the Securitas brand name. Total 1 12.5 11.5 1 Total audit fees and reimbursements to PwC amounts to MSEK 12.5 MSEK whereof MSEK 1.3 does not relate to PwC Sweden, included in Other assignments. NOTE 46 Personnel AVERAGE NUMBER OF YEARLY EMPLOYEES: DISTRIBUTION BETWEEN WOMEN AND MEN Women Men Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Board of Directors 3 3 5 5 8 8 President 1 1 1 1 Other employees, Sweden 28 28 22 28 50 56 STAFF COSTS 2018 2017 Of which bonuses Social (of which Social (of which MSEK Salaries benefits pensions) Salaries benefits pensions) 2018 2017 Board of Directors and President1 31.0 7.3 (0.8) 31.0 15.3 (4.5) 6.4 9.0 Other employees 72.6 41.5 (12.8) 77.4 42.0 (8.8) 17.0 18.5 Total 103.6 48.8 (13.6) 108.4 57.3 (13.3) 23.4 27.5 1 Refer to note 9 for further information regarding remuneration to the Board of Directors and President. 134 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E PA R E N T CO M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 Other financial income NOTE 49 Intangible assets 1 2 NOTE 47 and expenses, net 3 MSEK 2018 2017 MSEK 2018 2017 Opening balance 288.3 245.9 4 Realized profit on shares in subsidiaries1 – 831.3 Disposals -9.6 – 5 Liquidation losses, shares in subsidiaries2 – -659.2 Capital expenditures 28.2 42.4 6 Exchange rate differences, net 447.4 -876.5 Closing accumulated balance 306.9 288.3 7 Bank costs and similar income / expense items -19.1 -17.8 8 Revaluation of financial instruments (IAS 39) 6.8 0.4 Opening amortization -158.8 -135.3 9 Total other financial income and expenses, net 435.1 -721.8 Disposals 5.3 – 10 1 Capital gain 2017 due to internal restructuring. Amortization for the year -25.1 -23.5 11 2 Impairment loss 2017 on shares in connection with dividend received at liquidation of a subsidiary. Closing accumulated amortization -178.6 -158.8 12 13 Closing residual value 128.3 129.5 NOTE 48 Taxes 14 1 Mainly related to Securitas Guard Management System, which is a system used for communicating, 15 coordinating, performing and reporting services. The estimated useful life is 15 years, based on how Statement of income similar communication systems are used. The amortization rate is set to the corresponding period. 16 Furthermore the brand name Securitas in one of the Group’s countries of operations is included 17 TAX EXPENSE with MSEK 15.9 (15.9). The trademark is tested annually for impairment. Refer to note 17 section impairment testing for further information. 18 MSEK 2018 2017 19 Tax on income before taxes 20 Current taxes -220.4 -0.9 NOTE 50 Machinery and equipment 21 Deferred taxes -68.3 23.4 MSEK 2018 2017 22 Total tax expense -288.7 22.5 23 Opening balance 60.7 52.5 Disposals -34.9 – 24 The Swedish corporate tax rate was 22.0 percent (22.0). Capital expenditures 0.0 8.2 25 DIFFERENCE BETWEEN STATUTORY SWEDISH TAX RATE Write-offs -1.5 – 26 AND ACTUAL TAX EXPENSE FOR THE PARENT COMPANY Closing accumulated balance 24.3 60.7 27 MSEK 2018 2017 28 Income before taxes according Opening depreciation -40.6 -35.2 29 to the statement of income 2 558 2 365 Disposals 21.7 – 30 Tax based on Swedish tax rate -563 -520 Write-offs 1.5 – 31 Tax related to untaxed reserves -73 28 Depreciation for the year -1.1 -5.4 32 Tax related to previous years / foreign Closing accumulated depreciation -18.5 -40.6 withholding tax -1 -1 33 Tax related to non-taxable income 351 663 34 Closing residual value 5.8 20.1 Tax related to non-deductible expenses -3 -147 35 Actual tax expense -289 23 36 37 Tax related to non-taxable income in 2018 mainly relates to dividends 38 from subsidiaries. Previous year tax related to non-taxable income mainly 39 relates to dividends from subsidiaries and divestiture of a subsidiary. Tax 40 related to non-deductible expenses in 2018 relates mainly to miscellaneous non-deductible expenses. Previous year tax related to non41 deductible expenses was mainly related to liquidation of a subsidiary. 42 43 Other comprehensive income 44 45 TAX ON OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 46 MSEK 2018 2017 47 Deferred tax on cash flow hedges -17.7 6.1 48 Deferred tax on cost of hedging 12.5 – 49 Deferred tax on other comprehensive income -5.2 6.1 50 51 Balance sheet 52 Deferred tax assets are attributable to employee related debt. 53 54 Tax loss carryforwards 55 The tax loss carryforwards for the Parent Company amounted to 56 MSEK 0 (0) as of December 31, 2018. 57 58 59 60 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 135 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE PA RENT COMPA NY FI NANCI AL STATEMENTS NOTE 51 Shares in subsidiaries 1 Number of % of share capital / Book value Book value Subsidiary name Corporate identity no. Domicile shares 2018 voting rights 2018 2018, MSEK 2017, MSEK Grupo Securitas Mexico S.A de C.V 2 GSM930817U48 Monterrey 4 999 99.98 14.5 14.5 Protectas S.A. CH-550-0084385-3 Lausanne 50 000 100 32.8 32.8 Securitas Argentina S.A.3 1587929 Buenos Aires 282 399 20 13.5 13.5 Securitas Asia Holding AB 556691-8800 Stockholm 100 000 100 286.0 286.0 Securitas Aviation d.o.o. MBS 080689871 Zagreb 1 100 0.8 0.8 Securitas BH d.o.o. 65-01-0503-11 Sarajevo – 100 86.8 86.8 Securitas Biztonsági Szolgáltatások Magyarország Kft Cg.01-09-721946 Budapest – 100 22.1 22.1 Securitas Bulgaria Ltd 204820136 Sofia 200 100 0.0 0.0 Securitas Canada Ltd 454437-4 Toronto 4 004 100 85.6 85.6 Securitas ČR sro 43872026 Prague – 100 185.5 185.5 Securitas Eesti AS 10188743 Tallinn 1 371 100 32.1 32.1 Securitas Fire & Safety Services SRL4 J40 / 13561 / 2007 Bucharest 1 5 0.0 0.0 Securitas Group Reinsurance DAC 317030 Dublin 2 000 000 100 576.5 576.5 Securitas Holding GmbH HRB 33348 Düsseldorf 1 100 2 572.3 2 572.3 Securitas Holdings Inc. 95-4754543 Parsippany 100 100 2 208.0 2 208.0 Securitas Hrvatska d.o.o MBS 080132523 Zagreb 1 100 176.8 177.5 Securitas Intelligent Services AB 556655-4670 Stockholm 1 000 100 50.1 50.1 Securitas Invest AB 556630-3995 Stockholm 1 000 100 7.1 7.1 Securitas Middle East and Africa Holding AB 556771-4406 Stockholm 100 000 100 179.6 179.6 Securitas Montenegro d.o.o. 02387620 Niksic – 100 0.8 0.8 Securitas Nordic Holding AB 556248-3627 Stockholm 1 000 000 100 9 269.5 9 269.5 Securitas NV5 0427.388.334 Brussels 8 238 99.90 941.8 941.8 Securitas Podjetje za varovanje d.o.o. 8075280000 Ljubljana – 100 0.1 0.1 Securitas Polska Sp. z o. o. 0000036743 Warsaw 18 000 100 27.4 27.4 Securitas Rental AB 556376-3829 Stockholm 1 000 100 3.6 3.6 Securitas Security Consulting Holding AB 556087-1468 Stockholm 1 000 100 127.8 91.0 Securitas Security Services Ireland Ltd 275069 Dublin 2 410 002 100 28.9 28.9 Securitas Seguridad Holding SL B83446831 Madrid 7 023 100 8 042.8 8 042.8 Securitas Services d.o.o. 17487809 Belgrade – 100 147.6 147.6 Securitas Services Holding U.K. Ltd 5759961 London 34 000 400 100 976.2 976.2 Securitas Services International BV 33287487 Amsterdam 25 000 100 2 345.3 2 345.3 Securitas Services Romania SRL J40 / 2222 / 2001 Bucharest 21 980 100 49.5 49.5 Securitas Sicherheitsdienstleistungen GmbH FN148202w Vienna – 100 92.3 92.3 Securitas SK sro 6 36768073 Prievidza – 4.65 0.8 0.8 Securitas Toolbox Ltd 316907 Dublin 100 100 0.0 0.0 Securitas Transport Aviation Security AB 556691-8917 Stockholm 5 100 000 100 272.6 272.6 Securitas Treasury Ireland Ltd 152440 Dublin 21 075 470 100 12 475.0 12 475.0 Securitas UAE LLC 615702 Dubai – – – 0.2 Total shares in subsidiaries 41 332.1 41 296.2 1 T he main business in the subsidiaries is specialized guarding and mobile services, monitoring, 3 The remaining 80 percent of Securitas Argentina S.A. are held by Securitas Seguridad Holding SL. technical solutions and consulting and investigations. The subsidiaries also comprise of the Group’s 4 T he remaining 95 percent of Securitas Fire & Safety Services SRL are held by Securitas Services internal bank, Securitas Treasury Ireland Ltd, as well as the Group’s internal insurance company, Romania SRL. Securitas Group Reinsurance DAC. A complete specification of the subsidiaries can be obtained from 5 The remaining 0.1 percent of Securitas NV are held by Securitas Rental AB. the Parent Company. 6 The remaining 95.35 percent of Securitas SK sro are held by Securitas CR sro. 2 T he remaining 0.02 percent of Grupo Securitas Mexico S.A de C.V are held by Securitas Rental AB. CHANGE ANALYSIS OF SHARES IN SUBSIDIARIES NOTE 52 Shares in associated companies MSEK 2018 2017 HOLDINGS 2018 AND 2017 Opening balance 41 296.2 40 947.8 Acquisitions – 0.2 Share in Voting Book value, Company Domicile equity, % rights, % MSEK Divestitures -0.2 -634.5 Walsons Services Pvt Ltd Delhi 49 49 112.1 Liquidation – -660.6 Holdings 2018 112.1 Capital contributions 36.8 1 642.4 Revaluation of deferred considerations -0.7 0.9 Walsons Services Pvt Ltd Delhi 49 49 112.1 Closing balance 41 332.1 41 296.2 Holdings 2017 112.1 136 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E PA R E N T CO M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 NOTE 53 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Share-based incentive scheme 2 Securitas’ share-based incentive scheme has had the following impact MSEK 2018 2017 3 on retained earnings: Prepaid software licenses and support costs 3.9 4.9 4 MSEK 2018 2017 5 Prepaid insurance premiums 1.1 1.0 Swap agreement1, 2 -140.6 -149.8 6 Other prepaid expenses 3.7 7.1 Redemption of previous year's swap agreement1 149.8 117.7 7 Total prepaid expenses and accrued income 8.7 13.0 Share-based remuneration to employees3 7.6 9.0 8 Settlement of previous year's 9 NOTE 54 Liquid funds share-based remuneration to employees 3 -9.0 -7.1 10 Total 7.8 -30.2 11 Liquid funds include short-term investments with a maximum duration 1 Related to the whole Group’s share-based incentive scheme. 12 of 90 days that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and 2 T he number of shares that have been hedged in this swap agreement amount to a total of 999 831 (1 079 190 ) and have been allotted to the participants during the first quarter 2019, subject to an insignificant risk of change in value. Liquid funds also include 13 provided that they were still employed by the Group at that time. cash and bank deposits. Short-term investments refer to fixed interest 3 Related to share-based remuneration for Securitas AB’s employees only. 14 rate bank deposits. 15 In the Parent Company’s balance sheet, utilized internal credits in the 16 Swedish cash-pool account are reported under the Group account bank NOTE 56 Untaxed reserves 17 overdraft. MSEK 2018 2017 18 Accumulated depreciation and amortization 19 in excess of plan 21.2 22.8 NOTE 55 Shareholders’ equity 20 Tax allocation reserve 433.6 100.5 21 Total untaxed reserves 454.8 123.3 Number of shares outstanding December 31, 2018 22 MSEK 23 Series A 17 142 600 each share with a quota value of SEK 1.00 17.1 NOTE 57 Long-term liabilities 24 Series B 347 916 297 each share with a quota value of SEK 1.00 348.0 25 LONG-TERM LIABILITIES FALL DUE FOR PAYMENT AS FOLLOWS Total 365 058 897 365.1 26 MSEK 2018 2017 27 The number of Series A and Series B shares is unchanged in relation to Maturity < 5 years 12 879.5 9 755.8 28 December 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2018 there were no outstandMaturity > 5 years 3 189.7 3 445.6 29 ing convertible debenture loans that could result in any dilution of the Total long-term liabilities 16 069.2 13 201.4 30 share capital. 31 Each Series A share carries ten votes and each Series B share one vote. This is the only difference between the two series of shares. NOTE 58 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 32 33 MSEK 2018 2017 Shareholders with more than 10 percent of the votes 34 Employee-related items 42.7 51.5 35 The principal shareholders are Gustaf Douglas, who through family and the companies within the Investment AB Latour Group holds 10.9 perAccrued interest expenses 209.9 175.2 36 cent of the capital and 29.6 percent of the votes, and Melker Schörling, Other accrued expenses 31.1 28.7 37 who through family and Melker Schörling AB holds 4.5 percent of the Total accrued expenses and prepaid income 283.7 255.4 38 capital and 11.0 percent of the votes. 39 Proposed allocation of earnings NOTE 59 Pledged assets 40 41 The statements of income and the balance sheets of the Parent Company MSEK 2018 2017 and the Group are subject to adoption by the Annual General Meeting on 42 Pension balances, defined contribution plans 128.7 124.1 May 6, 2019. 43 Total pledged assets 128.7 124.1 44 RETAINED EARNINGS IN THE PARENT COMPANY AVAILABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION 45 MSEK1 NOTE 60 Contingent liabilities 46 47 Hedging reserve 14.5 MSEK 2018 2017 48 Retained earnings 18 418.4 Guarantees 0.4 6.8 49 Net income for the year 2 2 269.0 Guarantees related to discontinued operations 15.4 15.3 50 Total 20 701.9 Total contingent liabilities 1 15.8 22.1 51 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS PROPOSED THAT THE EARNINGS 1 Guarantees on behalf of subsidiaries are disclosed in note 43. 52 ARE ALLOCATED AS ­FOLLOWS 53 MSEK1 54 a dividend to the shareholders of SEK 4.40 per share 1 606.3 55 retained earnings to be carried forward 19 095.6 56 Total 20 701.9 57 1 Refer to the Report of the Board of Directors for the proposed allocation of earnings in SEK and for the Board’s statement on the proposed dividend. 58 2 Includes Group contributions to subsidiaries of MSEK 135.5. 59 60 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 137 S I G N ATU R E S O F THE BOA RD OF D IREC TORS The Board of Directors and the President declare that the consolidated describes material risks and uncertainties facing the Parent Company and financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as the companies included in the Group. adopted by the EU and give a true and fair view of the Group’s financial The Board of Directors and the President also submit Securitas AB’s position and results of operations. The financial statements of the Parent Sustainability Report for 2018. The sustainability report describes Company have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted the Group’s work with regards to economic, environmental and social accounting principles in Sweden and give a true and fair view of the Parent aspects. The report is prepared according to the Sustainability Reporting Company’s financial position and results of operations. Standards, issued by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The statutory administration report of the Group and the Parent ComThe statements of income and balance sheets of the Parent Company pany provides a fair review of the development of the Group’s and the Parand the Group are subject to adoption by the Annual General Meeting on ent Company’s operations, financial position and results of operations and May 6, 2019. Stockholm, March 18, 2019 Marie Ehrling Chairman Carl Douglas Ingrid Bonde Vice Chairman Director John Brandon Anders Böös Fredrik Cappelen Director Director Director Sofia Schörling Högberg Dick Seger Director Director Susanne Bergman Israelsson Åse Hjelm Jan Prang Director Director Director Employee Representative Employee Representative Employee Representative Magnus Ahlqvist President and Chief Executive Officer Our report has been submitted on March 18, 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Patrik Adolfson Madeleine Endre Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant Auditor in charge 138 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 AUDI TOR ’S REP ORT Auditor’s report (This is a translation of the Swedish original. For any interpretation the Swedish version prevail) To the general meeting of the shareholders of Securitas AB (publ), c­ orporate identity 556302-7241 REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS Opinions The Group has arisen through acquisitions and contracts with clients. We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Operations are conducted in some 58 countries. The business is labor Securitas AB (publ) for the year 2018. The annual accounts and conintensive, and the number of employees amounts to 370 000 people. solidated accounts of the company are included on pages 57-138 in this • In the Group audit, we focused on the operations of the Parent Company and the 12 most significant reporting units. These units account for document. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance approximately 77 percent of net income, 90 percent of operating profit with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, and 66 percent of the Group’s operating assets. For the seven largest the financial position of parent company as of 31 December 2018 and entities and the Parent Company, our audit activities encompassed a its financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accorlimited review of the half-yearly report as of June 30, an assessment of dance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have key controls related to financial reporting according to Securitas’ framebeen prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present work, early warning of the closing on September 30 prior to the year-end fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 closing, and an audit of the year-end closing for the Group’s consolidated December 2018 and their financial performance and cash flow for the financial closing. For the other entities, our audit focused on internal conyear then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting trol over financial reporting and the year-end closing. Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. • During the year, the auditor in charge, the co-signer and members of the audit team visited some in 14 countries encompassing 16 operations in The statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. order to gain a further understanding of the operations in these counWe therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders tries, perform an overall review of the financial reporting based on the adopt the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company Group’s accounting principles and evaluate compliance with Securitas’ and the group. framework for internal control. Some of these countries are included in Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated the audit procedures described above, and are also subject to a statuaccounts are consistent with the content of the additional report that has tory audit. The countries visited account for approximately 14 percent been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in accordance of the Group’s net income. with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. For other reporting units, analytical audit procedures are performed as Basis for Opinions a part of the audit of the consolidation. In addition to this, statutory audit We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on procedures are performed in some 31 countries or entities, correspondAuditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our ing to 21 percent of net income, 22 percent of operating profit and 21 responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s percent of the Group’s operating assets. The outcome of the statutory Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and the audits are reported separately to Securitas in connection with the review group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and of half-yearly report. As this is not deemed to be material, is not used as have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these support in the audit of the financial closing for the group. The outcome requirements. This includes that, based on the best of our knowledge and is used in the planning of the audit in order to follow up on any significant belief, no prohibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) matters noted for any reporting unit regarding financial reporting or interArticle 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, where applicable, nal control. its parent company or its controlled companies within the EU. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and Materiality appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial Our audit approach statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if individually or in aggreAudit scope gate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic deciWe designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks sions of users taken on the basis of the consolidated financial statements. of material misstatement in the consolidated financial statements. In parBased on our professional judgment, we determined certain quantitaticular, we considered where management made subjective judgements; tive thresholds for materiality, including the overall group materiality for for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved the consolidated financial statements as a whole as set out in the table making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of managedetermine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our ment override of internal controls, including among other matters considaudit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both indieration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of vidually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole. material misstatement due to fraud. We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to Key audit matters enable us to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the accounting judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates. and consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were Securitas’ business consists of performing various protective services. addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion Its clients differ in size and operate in diverse segments and businesses. thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 139 AUD I TO R’ S R E P O RT Key audit matter How our audit addressed the Key audit matter Audit of impairment testing of goodwill and other When testing for impairment of goodwill and other acquisition-related acquisition related intangible assets intangible assets, in order to ensure primarily the valuation and accuracy, we have performed audit procedures including: We refer to Note 4 Critical accounting estimates and assessments, Note 16 Acquisition and divestment of subsidiaries and Note 17 Goodwill • Evaluation of the assumptions as disclosed in note 17 as well as that the model used are in accordance with IFRS, we used PwC valuation and impairment testing. In Note 17, information regarding the sensitivity experts to test and evaluate the models and methodology used, as well analysis performed with regards to which adjustment of assumptions as the significant assumptions. made would trigger an impairment of goodwill. • On a sample basis we have tried, verified, evaluated and challenged the data used in the calculation versus the Company’s long term plans and Goodwill and other acquisition related intangible assets, including client where possible external information. We have focused on assessed relations, amount to MSEK 22 520, and are as such a significant portion growth rates, margin developments and discount rate applied per cash of Securitas’ consolidated balance sheet per December 31, 2018 corregenerating unit. We also followed-up the accuracy and inherent quality sponding to 41 percent of the total assets. The balance sheet item is subof the Company’s process to prepare business plans and financial plans ject to management’s assessments and assumptions, and with regards based on the historic outcome. to the significance and complexity in the assessment of the value of the balance sheet item, also considered as a key audit matter in the audit. • Control of the sensitivity in the valuation for negative changes to key assumptions, that either individually or collectively could imply an Securitas annually performs a test to assess the value of goodwill and impairment of goodwill. if there is any need for impairment if the book value of the assets exceeds the calculated fair value according to the test. • Assessment of that the disclosures provided in the financial statements are correct based on the impairment test performed, particularly for Securitas has an established process to test the valuation, based on the information on the sensitivity in the valuations. identified cash generating units (CGU), as described in note 17. For 2018, there was 59 identified cash generating units. • Comparison of the disclosures in the annual report to the requirement of IAS 36 and found them to be consistent in all material aspects. Securitas process implies that they prepare the impairment test based on business plans, financial plans and prognosis for the five immediate The relative high number of CGUs implies an increased sensitivity for years. The cash flows from the years beyond the five immediate years are impairment. This, in particular, regard smaller or recently acquired entiextrapolated based on the business plan. The process therefore contains ties, compared with if the entities would be assessed on a collective basis assumptions that have a significant impact on the impairment test. This with other entities. includes assumptions on sales growth, margin development and discount Furthermore (see further note x), the hyperinflation accounting in rate (WACC). These parameters are as such affected by unexpected Argentina implies a revaluation of the goodwill in this cash generating future market or economic conditions, particularly those relating to the unit, which leads to increased sensitivity for impairment relating to this cash flow forecast and the applied discount rate. entity. The value according to the test corresponds to the value of discounted For some of the assumptions used, we have a different view from those cash flow for identified cash generating units. Even if a unit passes applied by Securitas in their impairment test. Based on our audit, it is the impairment test, a future negative development compared to the however our conclusion that Securitas’ assumptions are such that they assumptions and assessments that constituted the basis for the test, can are within an acceptable interval. Furthermore, the information included in imply that there is a need for an impairment write-down. The risk for an note 17 comply with the requirement for disclosures regarding assumpimpairment is larger for the recently acquired entities, and for entities that tions and risks, for which a fair change in assumptions imply, or can imply, currently perform worse in comparison with the approved business plan. a need for impairment. Other acquisition related intangible assets are subject to depreciations according to plan. For these assets, an impairment test is performed if it can be assumed that the value of the assets have reduced so that an impairment may be necessary. Securitas conclusion, based on the best assessment and the information available at the time of preparing the annual impairment test, is that there is no need for impairment related to the assets mentioned above per 31 December, 2018. 140 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 AUDI TOR ’S REP ORT Key audit matter How our audit addressed the Key audit matter Routines and processes including accounting of employeeIn order to be able to pay salaries to 370 000 employees on a monthly related expenses and pension and medical plans basis, or in some cases more frequently, there must be well-functioning routines and processes in place in order to calculate and control the salaWe refer to note 4 Critical accounting estimates and assessments, note 9 ries and remuneration to be paid. Remuneration to the Board of Directors and senior management, note 12 Our audit is therefore based both on an evaluation of the internal conPersonnel, note 31 Provisions for pensions and similar commitments as trol environment and on other analytical procedures, including systemwell as note 32 Other long-term provisions, note 34 Other current liabilibased analysis of certain balance sheet and income statement items for ties and note 35 Short-term provisions selected subsidiaries, and detailed testing. These subsidiaries correspond to some 67 percent of the employee-related costs and have approxiSecuritas has 370 000 employees in its subsidiaries. The Group’s mately 191 000 employees. employee-related expenses mainly regard salaries and payroll overhead, The basis for the evaluation of internal control has been Securitas’ including social charges and employers’ contributions as well as other internal control framework for financial reporting. The testing of controls short-term remuneration, including holiday pay and variable compensaand amounts has been performed on a sample basis. Our audit procetion. Employee-related expenses amount to approximately BSEK 79, cordures have, inter alia, included: responding to 77 percent of operating costs. This is thus the most significant cost item in Securitas’ consolidated income statement. The related • Reconciling significant accruals and/or provisions regarding, for example, holiday pay, accrued salaries, taxes and social charges with costs consist of both salaries and other remuneration, including variable system-generated support and calculations and estimates made by compensation and directly related taxes and social contributions. management. In addition to this, Securitas is responsible for, or its employees participate in, a number of pension plans and plans implying medical benefits to • Auditing of employee-related costs, including plans, using analytical procedures with regard to changes in costs in the income statement, employees. For these plans, Securitas has an obligation, which is recogaccruals and provisions compared with our knowledge and understandnised as liability. ing and use of systems based data analysis. The risk refers partly to the completeness of these items, meaning that they are correctly calculated, properly cut off and valued. There is also an • With regards to pension and medical plans, we have audited significant supporting assumptions, assessed historical outcome and assessed inherent complexity in the management of payroll when various groups the reasonability of management’s estimates. Wherever possible, we of employees are under different employment contracts and collective also verified this information with external support, including reports agreements, which in itself gives rise to differences in how salaries, other from independent and external actuaries. remuneration and benefits should be calculated, and which actuarial assumptions are to be used regarding the plans. Securitas’ internal control Based on our audit, no significant observations have been noted which framework includes specific controls on the management of payroll and have resulted in reporting to the audit committee. Our overall conclusion personnel costs to ensure that proper salaries and remuneration and is that there are, in all material respects, proper processes in place to manattributable taxes and charges are paid. age and account for payroll and employee-related expenses. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the Key audit matter Valuation of provisions related to disputes, and In our audit, we examined the accuracy and valuation of the aforemendisclosures on contingent liabilities tioned matters. Securitas has a documented assessment of the outcome of the ongoing cases and exposures, and monitors these on a continuous We refer to note 4 Critical estimates and judgments, and note 37 Continbasis, assisted by both in-house legal counsel and external lawyers. A folgent liabilities. low-up is conducted at both the local and Group level. We have discussed these assumptions with the company’s in-house legal counsel, and with Subsidiaries within the Group are involved in a number of legal proceedGroup legal for some of the more significant cases. ings and related matters. These legal disputes include litigations in variWe have evaluated the assessments and estimates made by manageous countries, for example, Estrela Azul (Brazil) and Mutua (Spain). The ment with regard to the existing disputes and exposures. This was perkey assumption is management’s assessment of the future outcome of formed based on documentation of the individual matters, the historical the ongoing proceedings and exposures, which directly affects the valuaoutcome of similar cases and statements from external legal advisors tion of these matters and the disclosures provided in the financial reports. regarding disputes, contingent liabilities and other exposures of which The company consults external legal advisors regarding significant they are aware, or for which they are supporting or representing Securitas. queries relating to these matters. The future outcome of the matters, and As outlined in the financial statements, the outcome of such matters the accounting effects thereof, are based on assessments and complex are dependent on the future outcome of continuing legal and regulatory legal matters which may take time to finally solve. The risk primarily procedures. As such, calculations of provisions are subject to inherent regards the valuation of the outcome of these cases. As a part of our audit, uncertainty. We have not noted any inconsistencies in the documentation we have considered the ongoing matters and disputes given the inherent that we have received and examined, or that the disclosures provided subjectivity and uncertainty regarding the final outcome. Securitas has did not correspond to the requirements in IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent an established routine whereby the Group’s Senior Vice President, GenLiabilities and Contingent Assets. eral Counsel reports each quarter on the development of and significant events related to these matters to the CEO and audit committee. This report is also sent to the Board of Directors. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 141 AUD I TO R’ S R E P O RT Key audit matter How our audit addressed the Key audit matter Valuation of provisions for tax-related matters In our audit, we checked the accuracy and valuation of these matters. Securitas has a documented assessment of the outcome of the ongoing We refer to note 4 Critical estimates and judgments, and note 15 Taxes. matters and exposures, and monitors these on an ongoing basis. The audit procedures performed include, for example: Companies within the Group are involved in tax-related matters and tax audits. This includes, inter alia, the ongoing tax audits in the US and Spain. • Discussion of these matters with the company’s in-house tax counsel for some of the more significant matters. The key assumption is management’s assessment of the future outcome of the ongoing proceedings and exposures, which directly affects the • Examination of Securitas’ tax calculations and application of tax regulations. valuation of these matters, and the disclosures provided in the financial reports. The risk primarily regards the valuation of the outcome of these • Evaluation of the assessments and estimates made by management with regard to the existing tax disputes and ongoing tax audits. This cases. As a part of our audit, we considered the tax cases, given the inherwas based on the historical outcome of similar cases and statements ent subjectivity and uncertainty related to the final outcome. from external legal advisors regarding disputes, contingent liabilities The company consults external legal advisors and tax advisors for and other exposures of which they are aware or for which they are supsignificant queries. The future outcome of the matters, and the accountporting or representing Securitas. ing effects thereof, are based on assessments and complex legal matters which may take time to finally solve. The risk primarily regards the valua• Review of the written communication between the company and the tax authorities with regard to ongoing tax audits. For these cases, we tion of the outcome of these cases. As a part of our audit, we have considalso consulted PwC tax experts, who participated in our audit. ered the ongoing matters and disputes given the inherent subjectivity and uncertainty regarding the final outcome. As disclosed in the financial statements, the outcome of these matters are dependent on the future outcome of legal procedures, and associated with an inherent uncertainty. Thus, the calculations of the provisions are subject to inherent uncertainty. We have not noted any inconsistencies in the documentation that we have received and examined, or that the disclosures provided did not correspond to the requirements in IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. Other Information than the annual accounts In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The and consolidated accounts Board of Directors and the President and CEO are responsible for the This document also contains other information than the annual accounts assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1-31 and 160-164. going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going conThe Board of Directors and the President and CEO are responsible for this cern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern other information. basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors and Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does the President and CEO intend to liquidate the company, to cease operanot cover this other information and we do not express any form of assurtions, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. ance conclusion regarding this other information. The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of DirecIn connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated tor’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified above company’s financial reporting process. and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also Auditor’s responsibility take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the assess whether the information otherwise appears to be materially misannual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from stated. material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an audiIf we, based on the work performed concerning this information, contor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high clude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accorare required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. dance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements Responsibilities of the Board of Director’s can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually and the President and CEO or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the The Board of Directors and the President and CEO are responsible for the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that and consolidated accounts. they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the annual and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as accounts and consolidated accounts is available on Revisorsinspeadopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the President and CEO are ktionen’s website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary description is part of the auditor´s report. to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 142 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 AUDI TOR ’S REP ORT Report on other legal and regulatory requirements the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The President and CEO shall manage the ongoing administraOpinions tion according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, among other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the comwe have also audited the administration of the Board of Director’s and the pany’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the management of President and CEO of Securitas AB (publ) for the year 2018 and the proassets in a reassuring manner. posed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit Auditor’s responsibility be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory adminOur objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our istration report and that the members of the Board of Director’s and the opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess President and CEO be discharged from liability for the financial year. with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the President and CEO in any material respect: Basis for Opinions • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise to liability to the company, or • We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are indeAnnual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. pendent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accorappropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. dance with the Companies Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guaranResponsibilities of the Board of Director’s tee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditand the President and CEO ing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes Act. an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the adminisrequirements which the company’s and the group’s type of operations, tration is available on Revisorsinspektionen’s website: www.revisorsinsize and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the group’ spektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description is part of the auditor’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. report. The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organizaPricewaterhouseCoopers AB was appointed the auditor of Securitas tion and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes ABs (publ) by the annual general meeting on May 2, 2018, and has been among other things continuous assessment of the company’s and the the auditor of the company since 1987. group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company´s organization is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and Stockholm, March 18, 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Patrik Adolfson Madeleine Endre Authorised public accountant Authorised public accountant Auditor in charge Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 143 S USTA I N AB I L I T Y NOT E S Sustainability notes About this report Stakeholder dialogs The report is prepared according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Securitas aims to be a responsible, honest and transparent company. sustainability reporting standards, with the Core application level. This We encourage an ongoing dialog with our stakeholders in order to better report also highlights how our priorities reflect the UN Global Compact’s understand their expectations and to identify areas in which there is room Ten Principles for labor and human rights, the environment and antifor improvement. We meet many of our stakeholders regularly during the corruption and therefore acts as our UNGC Communication on Progress. course of our daily work. Listed below are Securitas’ key stakeholders and The 2017 Sustainability report was published on April 11, 2018. We aim a description of how we engage with them. to publish a report on annual basis. Unless otherwise noted, the report Our main stakeholders are identified based on the impact they might pertains to the 2018 calendar year and it encompasses all companies have on our business, as well as on their interests and potential influence within the Securitas Group. Wherever possible, the baseline of the report on Securitas. data is 2017. Information meeting the Swedish legal requirements on sustainability reporting is found on pages 10, 11 ,15 and 144-157. For more information, contact: Cecilia Alenius Group Sustainability Officer cecilia.alenius@securitas.com Stakeholder group Method of dialog Important topics How we respond Clients We must have an in-depth understanding of our clients’ Securitas’ employees at different levels frequently meet with clients • The benefits of security solutions consisting of different combinaSecuritas communicates in a clear, transparent and sustainable way, needs and industry-specific and continuously engage in dialog tions of protective services the benefits of protective services, requirements, both to provide optimal and cost-effective with them. Client satisfaction surveys and evaluation reports are • Tsolutions he cost efficiency of security including electronic including electronic security, providing data showing how security solutions and to meet important tools. security a predictive approach increases the their requirements on us as a supplier regarding sustainability. • nuity Securitas’ ability to ensure contiand performance delivery level of security and, at the same time, makes security more cost efficient. Shareholders An ongoing dialog with our shareholders and investors We publish interim reports and other continuous financial • How Securitas leads the trans­ formation of the security industry Securitas provides data and figures supporting our strategy, and ensures the long-term development of our business. information, organize Investor Days, and conduct other investor • How to manage the challenges related to the transformation informs on how the transformation of offered services affects the and analyst meetings, roadshows to electronic-driven security financial results. We illustrate and conferences. At the Annual solutions the benefits of the position as General Meeting, all shareholders are able to exercise their influence. • Maintaining stable, profitable and long-term operations industry leader and having a strong competitive advantage. Employees and employee representatives Securitas’ most valuable assets The most important forum is the • Values and ethics In order to attract, retain and are our 370 000 employees, disongoing daily dialog between • Recruitment and onboarding develop our employees, Securitas tributed over 58 countries around our employees and Securitas • Training and skill development strives to be a reliable employer. the world. Past, present and managers at different levels, • Talent management Solid human resources processes future employees are important to Securitas and considered part facilitated by collaboration tools, such as Office 365 and Workplace • Fair wages and terms of employment is a vital part of this. Securitas values proactive relationships and of our company’s foundation. by Facebook. Securitas also • Health and safety a constructive dialog with local conducts employee surveys. Securitas has a continuous dialog • Data privacy unions as well as global union associations. with local unions, UNI and the EWC. 144 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S Stakeholder group Method of dialog Important topics How we respond Society Securitas plays an active role in thousands of local communities As a large employer and a trusted partner to our clients, we engage • Contribution to increased security and safety in local communiSecuritas protects workplaces, public areas and properties, carried across the globe. Ensuring in a constant dialog with different ties, through cooperations out in a responsible way. We also security and safety in all areas parts of the societies where we • Create work opportunities aim to be engaged in the local of society is a prerequisite for a functioning community. operate. • Equal conditions for men and women, ethnic and religious communities, for example, by actively participating in various minorities, individuals with dislocal projects. abilities, etc. Suppliers Securitas has many suppliers in its operations. Ensuring The main forum is the ongoing dialog between our suppliers and • Quality services of procured goods and We provide our suppliers with information regarding Securitas’ that our suppliers follow our requirements concerning values Securitas representatives on all levels. • Requirement to comply with Securitas’ Values and Ethics Values and Ethics Code and include compliance with the Code in our and ethics, among other things, Code supplier contracts. We also have is essential to Securitas. • Compliance policy with anti-corruption specific guidelines and standards for suppliers and conduct supplier • Contract commitment and fulfillment of deliveries risk assessments when required. Industry organizations As one of the largest companies Securitas holds memberships • Regulatory issues Within industry organizations, in the security industry, Securitas is a driving force in raising in local and global industry organizations, such as the • Status of security officers and the profession we strive to increase industry regulation to improve the status of the standards and levels of International Security Ligue, the • Remuneration issues the security officer profession, raise professionalism in the industry. American Society of Industrial • Employee skills development industry wage levels and intensify Security (ASIS) and the National Association of Security • Terms for values and ethics in the international security industry skills development efforts. Companies in the US. Meetings are conducted regularly. Policy makers and authorities Securitas cooperates closely with authorities in all countries Securitas maintains a continuous dialog with authorities and policy• Laws and regulations concerning the security industry Securitas works to improve the business conditions in the where we operate – both to improve our business conditions makers at the local, national and international level. • Possibilities to expand assignments to ensure a safer society security industry. We also explore opportunities to take over non-core and to explore new business police tasks. opportunities. Materiality analysis The first step generated a long list of topics of potential importance Material issues are topics that reflect Securitas’ most significant ecofor Securitas and our stakeholders. In the following step, some 25 topnomic, environmental and social impacts. These are issues that substanics were selected that contribute either to creating long-term economic, tively influence stakeholders’ perception of our performance and impact social or environmental value or to reduce negative impacts. our ability to create and sustain value. Materiality is the point at which an As a last step, each topic was weighted, considering its relevance from issue becomes important enough to be included in the business strategy a strategic and a stakeholder perspective. The result was a list of the topand the way we manage and report on non-financial issues. ics that have the highest relevance both to different stakeholders and to Our process for identifying materiality provides a future focus to our business priorities. sustainability work and helps us analyze our impacts across the value chain. OUR FOCUS AREAS Importantly, it yields deeper insights into expectations on Securitas, how the sustainability agenda will evolve, and how clients, employees and invesSecuritas material aspect GRI Topic tors perceive the outcome of our progress and strategy. Anti-corruption 205 Anti-corruption The process is divided into three steps. In the first step, and with the Occupational health and safety 403 Occupational health and safety future focus, we identified how our business landscape may change, how 401 Employment Talent training and retention society is evolving, what kind of company our employees want to work for, 404 Training and education our clients’ perceptions; and competitors’ and partners’ priorities. Labor practices, non-discrimination 405 Diversity and equal opportunity and human rights Client relations 418 Client privacy Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 145 S USTA I N AB I L I T Y NOT E S Sustainability governance Memberships and engagements in The Board of Directors decides on Securitas’ sustainability strategy organizations and policies together with the President and CEO of Securitas AB, who Securitas is a member in the following industry organizations: has ultimate responsibility for the realization of the Group’s sustain• International Security Ligue ability work. The Group has a Sustainability Steering Committee, which • Aviation Security Services Association International (ASSA-I) establishes the principles for our work and follows up cases of alleged • ASIS International non-compliance with Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code. The committee meets regularly and comprises the SVP General Counsel and the SVP • National organizations for security companies in most of countries where we operate, for example National Association of Security Group Brand and Communications. Our system for managing its work in ­Companies (US), Bundesverband der Sicherheitswirtschaft ­(Germany), environmental, social and governance areas comprises six key compoCámara Argentina de Empresas de Seguridad e Investigación nents: ­(Argentina), The Hong Kong Security Association (Hong Kong) 1. S ecuritas’ Values and Ethics Code: One of the company’s most International commitments important policies, it stipulates the basic principles that Securitas • UN Global Compact expects all of its employees and business partners to follow at all times. 2. Employee training: All Securitas employees undergo training in • International Security Ligue’s Code of Conduct and Ethics Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code. An in-depth e-learning program for Sustainability indexes managers and office personnel is available in more than 40 languages. • FTSE4Good Index Series Local-language e-learning and classroom training sessions are held for the company’s security officers. Relevant employees also receive train• STOXX Global ESG Leaders ing in other core policies, such as the anti-corruption policy. Supplier rating systems and reporting 3. System for reporting non-compliance: Securitas Integrity Line • EcoVadis (silver level and industry leader) (known as Securitas Hotline in the US and Canada, and Linea de Alerta • Sedex in Mexico) is a Group system used for reporting cases of non-compliance with Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code. All employees and busi• CDP ness partners are encouraged and expected to report any cases of nonManagement approach compliance, with the assurance that the reporter will not be subjected Anti-corruption to any negative consequences. Acting with integrity and ensuring we take an active stand against cor4. Risk management: Non-compliance with Securitas’ Values and Ethics ruption are prioritized issues. Securitas has operations in 58 countries all Code is considered a risk, and as such, it has been classified as one of over the world and certain markets are more challenging than others in seven priority risks in the Group’s enterprise risk management process. this regard. However, this does not mean that low-risk countries are not These risks are followed up on a regular basis. subject to situations of bribery or corruption. 5. Monitoring: To meet the demands of clients and other stakeholders Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code and the Securitas anti-corruption with respect to increased transparency and communication, Securitas policy set out minimum requirements that ensure compliance with appliAB publishes a sustainability report that follows the Global Reporting cable local and extraterritorial laws. The anti-corruption policy also sets Initiative (GRI) standards. out the principle of zero tolerance for any corrupt practices, with clear 6. G roup Sustainability Officer: The Group Sustainability Officer leads definitions, requirements for risk assessment, guidance regarding thirdthe ongoing work, and in addition to following the regular reporting line, party relationships, training and follow-up. Local entities are subsequently also reports to the Board of Directors’ Audit Committee. Responsibiliasked to create their own detailed policies for gifts and entertainment. ties include coordination of sustainability activities across the Group, Non-compliance with Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code and other which involves working closely together with other core functions. key policies is considered an operational risk, and as such, is part of the Other responsibilities include stakeholder engagement on sustainGroup’s enterprise risk management process (ERM). ERM is an integral ability issues, and supporting countries of operation with respect to component of Securitas’ operations, and risk awareness is part of the sustainability matters. company culture. Risk assessments are conducted within the framework of the Securitas ERM process. Controls are performed on several levels Supply chain within the organization and are established based on the process conWe must ensure that our suppliers live up to our requirements, set in the cerned. Securitas supplier and sub-contractor policy, and they must all adhere to Relevant managers and administrative staff must complete a detailed Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code. Suppliers of uniforms and electronic e-learning course on the anti-corruption policy. Approximately 90 percent security equipment are defined as critical suppliers, meaning suppliers of these have completed the course. whose failure to perform in accordance with our specific requirements Securitas encourages all employees to report incidents of non-complicould severely impact Securitas’ performance or brand, locally or globally. ance with Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code or any irregularities that they Suppliers’ adherence to our anti-corruption policy is also a key area encounter in their work. This can be done through various channels, for for monitoring performance. While selecting, assessing and monitoring example, the Group’s reporting system Securitas Integrity Line, which is critical suppliers, we also evaluate whether the supplier has established publicly available at www.securitasintegrity.com. a selection procedure, and conducted risk assessments of its own critical suppliers. Occupational health and safety Health and safety work is vital to our operations and often form part of the services we offer our clients. Our security officers are trained not only to protect themselves, but also to help others while on assignment, for example, by performing first-aid and CPR, and fire safety. A thorough risk assessment helps us identify and scope safety hazards. Our learnings from our approach have even become part of services we offer our clients. 146 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S Securitas makes extensive efforts to secure the health and safety of by the United Nations Global Compact and ILO’s core conventions and both our security officers and the individuals they must, from time to sets our level of ambition and open dialog. In countries where Securitas time, act against. If threatening situations occur, the security officers are does not have collective bargaining agreements or union representation, instructed to avoid confrontation and await the arrival of the police. The we encourage other ways of maintaining open dialog with our employees vast majority of our security officers do not carry weapons. Those who including workplace meetings, employee ombudsmen, call centers, and do have undergone specialist training and licensing requirements and are channels for reporting concerns such as the Securitas Integrity Line. usually placed in special assignments, for example, in a critical infrastrucAs a leading actor in the security market, it is important we pay wages ture facility such as an airport. that meet or exceed industry levels. Securitas has sound processes Security officers receive training, instruction and equipment in line with in place to ensure we live up to all legal standards, following local and the assignment. We work actively with occupational health and safety regional legislation and regulations regarding for example, wages, workissues in all countries. 19 countries of operation are OHSAS 18001 / ISO ing hours, overtime, social security charges and taxation. 45001 certified and most countries have health and safety committees. We closely monitor the number of work-related injuries and work-related Client relations ill health. Significant opportunities lie in developing our technology offering, but it Breaches can be reported through various channels, for example, the also poses challenges and high expectations to deliver these solutions Group’s reporting system Securitas Integrity Line. responsibly. It is vital that we protect data that we process on behalf of our clients. It is also essential that data is only shared and retained based on Talent training and retention client approvals, in accordance with applicable law and in a way that proSecuritas’ clients are demanding a higher degree of security and more tects the privacy rights of individuals. advanced security solutions. We build on the experience and expertise of Many large corporations have strict requirements for the use of big our people, leveraging our competence to meet new challenges. Expanddata. It is important to be watchful and establish processes and practices ing business areas within technology requires Securitas to develop and to safeguard data privacy. At Securitas we have policies, processes and empower our existing employees in new capacities. With our focus on training, developed in accordance with the General Data Protection Reguinnovation, we provide our employees with the tools they need to help our lations (GDPR) and according to local laws and regulations, to manage clients stay safer. Using technology efficiently requires both a wide set of these concerns. skills and specialized capabilities. We address negative implications of these technological advances Securitas has its own training centers in most countries of operaby, at a minimum, complying with all relevant legislative requirements. tion, to ensure that the employees have the necessary competence to In addition, our policies, including Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code provide the clients with high quality security services. By improving the and purchasing guidelines help support us to address these issues. Our knowledge and skills of employees, we contribute to their professional emphasis on processes for risk assessment has enabled us to analyze growth and to the understanding of the security profession. Empowering risks efficiently, including newer implications of increased digitization of employees means greater focus on training, skills and opportunities for the industry and society. professional development. We also encourage people to take on responsibility early in one’s career. Environment The average number of training hours per employee was 25.2 in 2018. Environment was not considered a material topic in our materiality Approximately 90 percent of our managers and office personnel have analysis, but as we are signatory of UN Global Compact it is important completed the course in Securitas’ Values and Ethics, and approximately for us to be transparent and work for reduced climate impact, and we 80 percent of the security officers. have therefore chosen to report CO 2 emissions anyway. Securitas Group We conduct recurring employee surveys. In 2018, employee surveys emissions policy states that we should strive to continually reduce our were carried out in Security Services Europe covering all employees. climate impact, focusing primarily on the energy and transport areas. The Security Services North America conducted an employee survey coverpolicy sets limits for CO 2 emissions for new purchased or leased company ing managers and office personnel. Our long-term ambition is to extend vehicles and Securitas AB participates in CDP. We strive to follow the Rio the survey to all employees in all major markets. Results consistently declaration’s precautionary principle regarding threats of serious or irreindicate that a critical factor for employees’ job satisfaction is feeling versible environmental damage. The Group’s operations do not require a empowered. permit under the Swedish Environmental Code. Labor practices, non-discrimination and human rights Child labor and forced labor With such a large workforce, working conditions are important. Decent Securitas does not employ or accept any form of child labor or forced labor practices, the right to organize, human rights and non-discriminalabor. In the countries of operation, there are regulations regarding who tion are all vital to Securitas, and our employees and our clients, to be can work as a security guard, including age limits. Licenses for security able to attract and retain people with the right skillset and values to meet officers are not given to persons under the age of 18 years. Age is also future demands. verified in the recruitment processes. Securitas’ UK operations comply We work in many diverse markets around the world and prioritize fair with the disclosure obligations under the Modern Slavery Act 2015. wages and working conditions wherever we operate. Securitas’ Values Securitas requires its suppliers to comply with Securitas’ Values and and Ethics Code ensures that the company upholds and promotes the Ethics Code, which includes non-acceptance of child labor and forced highest ethical business standards and we also exert our influence in dislabor. cussions with clients, unions and with industry associations. Securitas has entered into framework agreements with UNI Global Union, the Swedish Transport Workers’ Association, and the European Workers’ Council in our European division. The agreements underline our joint commitment to universal principles of business conduct as outlined Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 147 S USTA I N AB I L I T Y NOT E S Sustainability risks assessment is a dynamic process that aims to identify and analyze risks At the highest level, the Board considers where future strategic opportuin relation to Securitas’ objectives. It serves as the basis for implementing nities and risks lie, and helps shape the corporate strategy. Balanced and mitigating actions after considering the controls in place (reduce, transfer/ focused risk management is necessary for the fulfillment of Securitas’ share or accept the risk in question). Sustainability risks are handled in the strategies and the achievement of its corporate objectives. same way. Our major sustainability risks are described below. Enterprise risk management is an integral component of Securitas’ For more information on the Group’s risk management process, see operations, and risk awareness is part of the company culture. Risk pages 44–51. Risk area Description Consequence Preventions Working conditions Risk that labor practices, the Licenses to conduct security Securitas has policies and sound right to organize, human rights operations could be lost, which will processes in place to ensure we live and non-discrimination are not lead to loss of business, negative up to all legal standards and comply complied with. financial impact and brand damage. with local and regional legislation It might also lead to difficulties to and regulations. We have a global recruit and retain employees. framework agreement with UNI Global Union and the Swedish Transport Workers’ Association. Occupational health Risk that employees are injured Poor health and safety procedures Employees are trained and safety or even die due to inadequate that put our employees at risk can continuously to ensure that they health and safety processes and lead to reputational and brand can perform their tasks safely. procedures. damage, loss of business and Adequate equipment must also be difficulties to recruit and retain provided. employees. Access to talent Risk that we will not be able Not being able to fulfill our clients’ We must continuously improve to attract and retain the right requirements might lead to loss of recruitment and on-boarding talent to remain a leader in the business and market position. processes, talent management development of the security and training, and use modern tools industry. for sharing knowledge and best practices. Training Risk that our employees do not Not meeting client demands on Securitas has training centers have the right competence for the us as a provider of high-quality in most countries and provides assignments or for developing professional security services both basic and highly specialized new services and the business. could lead to lost client contracts training for employees at all levels, and difficulties to recruit and retain including skills that support the employees. strategy of data driven innovation and digitization. Securitas’ Values and Ethics Risk that employees or business Licenses could be lost, which will Securitas has policies and sound Code partners do not comply with lead to loss of business, negative processes in place to ensure we live Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code financial impact and brand damage. up to all legal standards and comply and the company’s core values. It might also lead to difficulties to with local and regional legislation recruit and retain employees. and regulations. We have a global framework agreement with UNI Global Union and the Swedish Transport Workers’ Association. 148 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S Risk area Description Consequence Preventions Ethical business standards Risk that employees or business In worst case, this type of nonSecuritas has a zero-tolerance partners are involved in corruption, ethical business behavior can lead policy against all forms of bribery unfair competition, conflicts of to major negative financial impact, and corruption. Without exception, interest and other non-ethical loss of business and reputation. all employees and business business behavior. partners must comply with local laws and regulations, as well as Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code and other key policies. Protecting data Risk that our data is not being Inadequate protection of data could Data protection and privacy are properly protected. lead to reputational and brand important and thus protected damage, loss of business and fines. through strong security, organizational and technical measures. Securitas complies with all relevant legal requirements related to the protection of data and have policies, processes and training in place. Client relations Risk that we do not meet Inability to comply with our clients’ We must have an in-depth our clients’ sustainability sustainability requirements can understanding of our clients’ needs requirements. lead to loss of business, negative and industry specific requirements, financial impact and brand damage. and a business that is sustainable in all areas. Our emphasis on employee safety and fair labor practices ensure that we deliver high quality services. Security practices Risk that employees act in a Acting outside the law, policies Securitas has policies and sound way that is contrary to local law, and conventions, and in worst processes in place to ensure that authority, Securitas’ policies and case contributing to human rights we live up to all legal standards. human rights conventions. violations can lead to reputational We make risk assessments both and brand damage, loss of business of the countries we operate in and and difficulties to recruit and retain of clients, when necessary. As a employees. signatory of UN Global Compact, Securitas commits to its ten principles. Environment Risk that our operations cause Not working to reduce climate Securitas complies with or exceed environmental damage. impact might lead to brand environmental requirements in the damage, loss of clients and countries where we operate and difficulties to recruit and retain we continuously work to reduce employees. the consumption of resources, emissions and waste. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 149 S USTA I N AB I L I T Y NOT E S Key figures NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES PER BUSINESS SEGMENT 2018 % of total 2017 % of total 2016 % of total Security Services North America 121 740 33 113 636 33 111 997 33 Security Services Europe 128 109 35 120 513 35 117 155 35 Security Services Ibero-America 63 156 17 60 993 18 60 848 18 Other 56 628 15 50 383 14 45 945 14 Total 369 633 345 525 335 945 SALARIES AND BENEFITS PER BUSINESS SEGMENT MSEK 2018 % of total 2017 % of total 2016 % of total Security Services North America 33 689 43 30 596 43 29 380 42 Security Services Europe 33 469 43 30 433 42 29 847 43 Security Services Ibero-America 9 712 12 9 563 13 8 609 12 Other 1 662 2 1 358 2 1 313 2 Total 78 532 71 950 69 149 GENDER DISTRIBUTION, AVERAGE NUMBER OF YEARLY EMPLOYEES 2018 2017 2016 Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Number of employees 234 421 65 892 300 313 227 460 60 272 287 732 225 289 56 739 282 028 Percentage of employees 78 22 100 79 21 100 80 20 100 GENDER DISTRIBUTION, BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2018 2017 2016 Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Number of Board members1 5 3 8 6 3 9 4 2 6 Percentage of Board members 62 38 100 67 33 100 67 33 100 1 Excluding employee representatives SHARE OF EMPLOYEES COVERED BY COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS, % 2018 2017 2016 Share of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 56 58 55 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER, % NEW EMPLOYEES (NUMBER) 2018 2017 2018 2017 2016 Employee turnover1 39.9 40.8 Actual number1 162 798 175 057 165 084 % of average number of yearly 1 Does not include India and Vietnam employees 54 61 59 The employee turnover for 2017 has been recalculated for certain temporary employments that were previously included in the employee turnover if they did not work during the period NEW EMPLOYEES – AGE GROUP AND GENDER IN RELATION TO TOTAL NEW EMPLOYEES, % 2018 2017 2016 Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total Under 30 years 12 39 51 13 37 50 12 39 51 30–50 years 8 29 37 8 27 35 7 30 37 Over 50 years 3 9 12 3 12 15 2 10 12 150 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S SHARE OF EMPLOYEES WITH FULL-TIME AND PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT, RESPECTIVELY, % SPLIT PER GENDER, % 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Full-time 86 85 85 Full-time, men 70 69 70 Part-time 14 15 15 Full-time, women 16 16 15 Part-time, men 10 11 11 Part-time, women 4 4 4 SHARE OF EMPLOYEES WITH PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY WORK CONTRACTS, RESPECTIVELY, % SPLIT PER GENDER, % 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Permanent 91 92 88 Permanent employees, men 72 74 71 Temporary 9 8 12 Permanent employees, women 19 18 17 Temporary employees, men 7 6 10 Temporary employees, women 2 2 2 WORKFORCE SPLIT ON EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY 2018 2017 Men Women Total Men Women Total Managers/office personnel 11 247 5 555 16 802 9 760 6 065 15 825 Security officers 274 996 68 306 343 302 257 132 60 527 317 659 Total1 360 104 333 484 1 T he difference compared with total number of employees 2018 is explained by missing or inadequate information from nine countries of operation. AREA MANAGERS AND BRANCH MANAGERS, SPLIT ON GENDER Men Men, % Women Women, % Total Area managers 363 78 104 22 467 Branch managers 1 453 87 225 13 1 678 Total 1 816 329 2 145 SPECIFICATION OF YEARS OF SERVICE PER EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY 2018 % of total 2017 % of total 2016 % of total Managers and office personnel Less than 1 year 2 962 18 3 510 19 2 303 17 1–2 years 2 450 15 2 394 13 1 741 13 2–5 year 3 280 19 3 753 21 2 671 20 5–10 years 2 963 18 3 562 19 2 802 21 Over 10 years 5 106 30 5 187 28 3 860 29 16 761 18 406 13 377 Security officers Less than 1 year 115 943 34 103 649 33 94 801 31 1–2 years 59 315 17 52 332 17 53 920 17 2–5 year 66 588 20 59 650 19 65 167 21 5–10 years 45 439 13 48 117 15 53 946 17 Over 10 years 56 014 16 50 581 16 42 968 14 343 299 314 329 310 802 Total1 Less than 1 year 118 905 33 107 159 32 97 104 30 1–2 years 61 765 17 54 726 16 55 661 17 2–5 year 69 868 19 63 403 19 67 838 21 5–10 years 48 402 14 51 679 16 56 748 18 Over 10 years 61 120 17 55 768 17 46 828 14 360 060 332 735 324 179 1 The difference compared with total number of employees 2018 is explained by missing or inadequate information from nine countries of operation. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 151 S USTA I N AB I L I T Y NOT E S WORK-RELATED INJURIES TRAINING HOURS 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Total hours worked 741 330 169 667 461 053 682 254 373 Total number of hours of training 9 084 536 8 046 648 7 957 045 Actual number of workAverage number of hours of training related injuries 6 131 5 647 6 139 per employee 25.2 25.8 24.1 Injury rate 1.7 1.7 1.8 Actual number of workrelated fatalities 2 5 3 TRAINING HOURS, PER EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY 2018 2017 2016 Notes: The injury rate is calculated based on 200 000 hours worked. Totals for Managers/office staff 370 739 283 065 N/A 2016 and 2017 have been restated to comply with the GRI definition; fatalities Security officers 8 713 797 7 763 583 N/A caused by traffic accidents occurring while traveling to or from work, or heart attacks, if not proven to be directly connected to work, have been omitted. PROPORTION OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT HIRED FROM THE LOCAL COMMUNITY, % CAUSES, WORK RELATED FATALITIES 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Hired from local community 98 96 95 Traffic accident 1 3 1 Hired from outside local community 2 4 5 Shooting, other fatal attack 1 1 1 Fall accident 0 1 0 Other accident 0 0 1 WORK RELATED FATALITIES 2018 PER COUNTRY Traffic accident Assault Colombia 0 1 Portugal 1 0 1 1 WORK RELATED FATALITIES 2017 PER COUNTRY Shooting, Traffic other fatal Fall accident attack accident USA 1 0 0 France 1 0 0 Poland 1 0 0 Argentina 0 1 0 Saudi Arabia 0 0 1 3 1 1 WORK RELATED FATALITIES 2016 PER COUNTRY Shooting, Traffic other fatal Other accident attack accident France 0 0 1 Poland 0 1 0 Thailand 1 0 0 1 1 1 152 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S GROSS DIRECT EMISSIONS AND INDIRECT MARKET-BASED EMISSIONS OF CO 2 EQUIVALENT 2018 Direct Indirect Indirect (Scope 1) % (Scope 2) % (Scope 3) % Total % Security Services North America 22 625 21 2 336 8 8 747 17 33 708 18 Security Services Europe 60 601 55 23 322 77 27 998 54 111 921 58 Security Services Ibero-America 23 646 21 3 024 10 10 047 19 36 717 19 AMEA 3 169 3 1 406 5 4 006 8 8 581 4 Other 43 0 39 0 1 046 2 1 128 1 Total 110 084 30 127 51 844 192 055 Change compared to 2017 19 -1 -4 8 tCO 2 emission per employee (full-time equivalent, FTE) 0.568 GROSS DIRECT EMISSIONS AND INDIRECT MARKET-BASED EMISSIONS OF CO 2 EQUIVALENT 2017 Direct Indirect Indirect (Scope 1) % (Scope 2) % (Scope 3) % Total % Security Services North America 10 684 12 2 538 8 9 465 17 22 687 13 Security Services Europe 57 172 62 24 130 80 30 342 56 111 644 63 Security Services Ibero-America 22 324 24 2 572 8 9 791 18 34 687 2 AMEA 2 272 2 1 146 4 3 195 6 6 613 4 Other 54 0 83 0 1 368 3 1 505 1 Total 92 506 30 469 54 161 177 136 Change compared to 2016 1 11 0 2 tCO 2 emission per employee (full-time equivalent, FTE) 0.551 GROSS DIRECT EMISSIONS AND INDIRECT MARKET-BASED EMISSIONS OF CO 2 EQUIVALENT 2016 Direct Indirect Indirect (Scope 1) % (Scope 2) % (Scope 3) % Total % Security Services North America 8 436 9 2 932 11 9 527 18 20 895 12 Security Services Europe 58 518 64 20 952 77 31 253 58 110 723 64 Security Services Ibero-America 21 184 23 2 605 9 9 471 17 33 260 19 Africa, Middle East and Asia 3 247 4 913 3 2 845 5 7 005 4 Other 77 0 40 0 1 326 2 1 443 1 Total 91 462 27 442 54 422 173 326 Change compared to 2015 -2 -2 N/A N/A tCO 2 emission per employee (full-time equivalent, FTE) 0.556 2016 is the base year for the market based emissions, and it is chosen as time the growth in sales and FTEs shows that the emissions intensity it was the first year that Securitas assessed its climate impact using the has stayed constant during the past three reporting years, despite the market based calculation method. The boundary of the climate assessincrease in total emissions. Emissions in both Scope 2 and Scope 3 have ment includes 53 reporting units, the same units as currently reporting decreased during the past two reporting years. Lower emissions in Scope in accordance with the location based method. 3 refers to less business travel by air, which is also supported by many A GHG assessment quantifies all seven Kyoto greenhouse gases where sites referring to increased use of for example video conference meetings. applicable and it is measured in units of carbon dioxide equivalence, or CO 2 e. For Securitas the following greenhouse gases are applicable and AVERAGE CO 2 EMISSIONS, ALL COMPANY OWNED AND LEASED VEHICLES have been included in the assessment: 2018 2017 2016 Carbon dioxide (CO 2 ), Methane (CH 4 ), Nitrous oxide (N2 O). Biogenic Gram/km 139 140 146 CO 2 emissions: 22.2 tons (2017: 22.1) The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard is a standard for Max CO 2 gram per km for new minivans (6–7 seater) 170 175 175 reporting climate data. The system Our Impacts has been used as the calMax CO 2 gram per km for new culation tool. Operational control is the chosen consolidation approach. company cars (max 5 seater)1 125 130 135 The increase in emissions in 2018 is explained by improved quality Number of vehicles 14 609 14 541 14 651 of reported Scope 1 (vehicles) data. Securitas makes ongoing efforts to refine the reporting in all its sites, why increases due to improved 1 According to the calculation method NEDC data quality might continue to appear in the coming years. At the same Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 153 S USTA I N AB I L I T Y NOT E S SUBSCRIPTION TO/ENDSORSEMENT Client satisfaction surveys OF EXTERNAL DECLARATIONS, PRINCIPLES, ETC Clients are an important stakeholder group and client satisfaction surveys is ISO ISO ISO OHSAS another way of maintaining a constructive dialog with this group. COUNTRY 9001 14001 27001 18001 Canada 63 % of all countries of operation conduct regular client satisfaction surveys. The share of satisfied clients lies between 75 and 95%. Austria The three key conclusions from surveys conducted in 2018 are: • Belgium (incl Luxembourg) Service quality – most clients are satisfied with the service quality • Bosnia and Herzegovina Training – training of the security officers can be further improved • Croatia Czech Rep.(incl Slovakia) Communication – more communication to make things easier for our Denmark clients Estonia Finland France Germany Hungary Ireland Latvia Montenegro Norway Poland Romania Serbia Sweden Switzerland the Netherlands Turkey UK Argentina Chile Colombia Costa Rica Ecuador Peru Portugal Spain Uruguay Australia Hong Kong India Singapore UAE Vietnam 154 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S GRI-index Securitas AB’s sustainability report is prepared according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sustainability reporting standards, with the Core application level. Where relevant, this report also highlights how our priorities reflect the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles for labor and human rights, the environment and anti-corruption and therefore acts as our UNGC Communication on Progress. UN Global GRI STANDARD Disclosure Page reference Note Compact General disclosures GRI 102: General Organizational profile disclosures 102-1 Name of the organization 57 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 17-21, 57 102-3 Location of headquarters 73 102-4 Location of operations 17 102-5 Ownership and legal form 162-163 102-6 Markets served 17-21 102-7 Scale of the organization 97 (note 10), 124 (note 38) 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 150-152 Includes data from the associated 6 companies in India and Vietnam 102-9 Supply chain 146 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 4, 61 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 147 102-12 External initiatives 15, 146,154 102-13 Membership of associations 145, 146 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4-5 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 8-9, 148-149 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 30-31, 146-147 10 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 146 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 155 S USTA I N AB I L I T Y NOT E S UN Global GRI STANDARD Disclosure Page reference Note Compact General disclosures GRI 102: General Governance disclosures 102-18 Governance structure 34-39 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for 146 economic, environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 144-145 environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance 35-41 body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 37, 39 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 144-145 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 150 Includes data from the associated 3 companies in India and Vietnam 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 144-145 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 144-145 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 145 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 136 (note 51) financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic 145 boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 145 102-48 Restatements of information – Employee turnover for 2017 has been restated due to changes in the calculation method. Percentages for 2017 in the KPI Share of employees with full-time and part-time employment, Split per gender, on page 151 have been corrected, as the data in the 2017 Sustainability Report were incorrect. Totals for work-related fatalities for 2016 and 2017 have been restated to comply with the GRI definition in 403-9. 102-49 Changes in reporting – No changes in our focus areas have been made, compared with previous year. 102-50 Reporting period 144 102-51 Date of most recent report 144 102-52 Reporting cycle 144 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the 144 report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the 144 GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 155-157 102-56 External assurance 158 Material Topics Anti-corruption Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 146 approach and its boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 146 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 146 GRI 205: 205-2 Communication and training about anti146 Includes data from the associated Anti-corruption corruption policies and procedures companies in India and Vietnam Environment Emissions Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 147 Environment was not considered a material approach and its boundary topic in our materiality analysis, but as we are a signatory of UN Global Compact, it is important for us to be transparent and work for reduced climate impact, and we have therefore chosen to report CO 2 emissions anyway. 103-2 The management approach and its 147 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 147 approach GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 153 Includes data from the associated 7, 8, 9 companies in India and Vietnam 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 153 Includes data from the associated 7, 8, 9 emissions companies in India and Vietnam 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG 153 Includes data from the associated 7, 8, 9 emissions companies in India and Vietnam 156 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S UN Global GRI STANDARD Disclosure Page reference Note Compact Social Employment Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 147 approach and its boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 147 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 147 approach GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and 150 Does not include data from the associated 6 Employment employee turnover companies in India and Vietnam. Omission: Total number of leavers. Occupational health and safety Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 146-147 approach and its boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 146-147 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 146-147 Includes data from the associated approach companies in India and Vietnam GRI 403: 403-1 Occupational health and safety 146-147, 154 Includes data from the associated 6 Occupational management systems companies in India and Vietnam health and safety 403-4 Worker participation, consultation and 146-147 Includes data from the associated communication on occupational health and safety companies in India and Vietnam 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and 146-147 Includes data from the associated safety companies in India and Vietnam 403-9 Number of work-related injuries 152 Includes data from the associated companies in India and Vietnam Training and education Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 147 approach and its boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 147 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 147 approach GRI 404: Training 404-1 Average hours of training per year 152 Includes data from the associated 6 and education per employee companies in India and Vietnam. Omission: Average number of training hours per gender. Diversity and equal opportunity Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 147 approach and its boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 147 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 147 approach GRI 405: Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies 150 Includes data from the associated and equal and employees companies in India and Vietnam. Omission: opportunity Split per age group. Client privacy Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 147 approach and its boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 147 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 147 Includes data from the associated approach companies in India and Vietnam GRI 418: Client 418-1 Substantiated complaints 29, 149 Includes data from the associated privacy concerning breaches of client privacy companies in India and Vietnam and losses of client data Risk for child labor 15, 147 1, 2, 5 Risk for forced labor 15, 147 1, 2, 4 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 157 S USTA I N AB I L I T Y NOT E S This is a translation of the Swedish original report Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report To the general meeting of the shareholders in Securitas AB (publ) corporate identity number 556302-7241 Engagement and responsibility It is the board of directors who is responsible for the statutory sustain­ ability report for the year 2018 as outlined in the table below and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is substantially different and less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. Opinion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm, March 18, 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Patrik Adolfson Madeleine Endre Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant Auditor in charge INFORMATION ABOUT: See page Environment 146-147, 149, 153-154 Social conditions 146-148 11, 15, 144, 146, 148, Personnel 150-151 Respect for human rights 15, 146-147 Anti-corruption 146, 149 Business model 10 Significant risks for sustainability 148-149 GRI index 155-157 158 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 159 QUARTE R LY DATA Statement of income 20181 MSEK Q1 2018 Q2 2018 Q3 2018 Q4 2018 Sales 23 110.5 25 208.5 25 255.2 26 132.7 Sales, acquired business 245.2 257.8 565.5 691.3 Total sales 23 355.7 25 466.3 25 820.7 26 824,0 Organic sales growth, % 6 7 6 5 Production expenses -19 305.0 -21 038.9 -21 140.5 -22 085.1 Gross income 4 050.7 4 427.4 4 680.2 4 738.9 Selling and administrative expenses -2 976.4 -3 153.9 -3 240.9 -3 283.3 Other operating income 6.8 7.8 7.5 7.5 Share in income of associated companies 9.7 4.5 5.1 12.0 Operating income before amortization 1 090.8 1 285.8 1 451.9 1 475.1 Operating margin, % 4.7 5.0 5.6 5.5 Amortization of acquisition related intangible assets -62.7 -65.5 -66.3 -65.4 Acquisition related costs -8.6 -16.1 -16.5 -78.7 Items affecting comparability – – -267.9 -186.9 Operating income after amortization 1 019.5 1 204.2 1 101.2 1 144.1 Financial income and expenses -93.5 -102.2 -91.6 -153.3 Income before taxes 926.0 1 102.0 1 009.6 990.8 Net margin, % 4.0 4.3 3.9 3.7 Current taxes -213.2 -263.3 -237.3 -248.4 Deferred taxes -22.9 -7.5 -15.2 0.6 Net income for the period 689.9 831.2 757.1 743.0 Whereof attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company 689.4 832.4 755.9 738.2 Non-controlling interests 0.5 -1.2 1.2 4.8 Earnings per share before and after dilution (SEK) 1.89 2.28 2.07 2.02 Earnings per share before and after dilution and before items affecting comparability (SEK) 1.89 2.28 2.61 2.39 Statement of cash flow 20181 MSEK Q1 2018 Q2 2018 Q3 2018 Q4 2018 Operating income before amortization 1 090.8 1 285.8 1 451.9 1 475.1 Investments in non-current tangible and intangible assets -519.3 -556.2 -543.2 -569.1 Reversal of depreciation 379.9 415.0 449.2 449.4 Change in accounts receivable -273.5 -463.1 -451.0 -387.4 Change in other operating capital employed -1 602.5 119.0 506.8 914.4 Cash flow from operating activities -924.6 800.5 1 413.7 1 882.4 Cash flow from operating activities, % -85 62 97 128 Financial income and expenses paid -243.4 -38.7 -50.2 -99.1 Current taxes paid -260.1 -233.3 -146.2 -216.7 Free cash flow -1 428.1 528.5 1 217.3 1 566.6 Free cash flow, % -182 57 109 146 Cash flow from investing activities, acquisitions -514.1 -721.6 -386.1 -133.4 Cash flow from items affecting comparability – – -23.6 -93.8 Cash flow from financing activities 804.3 311.9 -1 000.9 -490.7 Cash flow for the period -1 137.9 118.8 -193.3 848.7 Capital employed and financing 20181 MSEK March 31, 2018 June 30, 2018 September 30, 2018 December 31, 2018 Operating capital employed 9 597.7 10 514.0 9 846.5 9 198.6 Operating capital employed as % of sales 10 10 10 9 Return on operating capital employed, % 55 54 55 58 Goodwill 19 553.1 20 845.5 20 786.3 21 061.3 Acquisition related intangible assets 1 367.2 1 357.6 1 482.3 1 458.2 Shares in associated companies 423.9 452.1 441.7 452.0 Capital employed 30 941.9 33 169.2 32 556.8 32 170.1 Return on capital employed, % 15 15 15 15 Net debt -14 467.2 -16 732.4 -15 749.1 -14 513.5 Shareholders’ equity 16 474.7 16 436.8 16 807.7 17 656.6 Net debt equity ratio, multiple 0.88 1.02 0.94 0.82 1 For definitions and calculation of key ratios refer to note 3. 160 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Q UARTERLY DATA Statement of income 20171,2 MSEK Q1 2017 Q2 2017 Q3 2017 Q4 2017 Sales 22 136.1 22 897.3 22 534.2 23 911.5 Sales, acquired business 354.5 133.8 116.7 112.7 Total sales 22 490.6 23 031.1 22 650.9 24 024.2 Organic sales growth, % 4 3 5 6 Production expenses -18 610.5 -18 977.7 -18 655.6 -19 707.8 Gross income 3 880.1 4 053.4 3 995.3 4 316.4 Selling and administrative expenses -2 832.2 -2 929.2 -2 773.7 -3 058.7 Other operating income 5.7 5.9 6.3 5.9 Share in income of associated companies 2.6 6.6 7.0 5.8 Operating income before amortization 1 056.2 1 136.7 1 234.9 1 269.4 Operating margin, % 4.7 4.9 5.5 5.3 Amortization of acquisition related intangible assets -62.8 -61.2 -58.9 -72.2 Acquisition related costs -4.0 -8.4 -7.3 -28.7 Items affecting comparability – – – – Operating income after amortization 989.4 1 067.1 1 168.7 1 168.5 Financial income and expenses -102.3 -93.7 -86.2 -93.4 Income before taxes 887.1 973.4 1 082.5 1 075.1 Net margin, % 3.9 4.2 4.8 4.5 Current taxes -211.7 -256.4 -266.6 -209.7 Deferred taxes -48.4 -23.3 -32.8 -217.7 Net income for the period 627.0 693.7 783.1 647.7 Whereof attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company 628.2 691.7 783.4 646.4 Non-controlling interests -1.2 2.0 -0.3 1.3 Earnings per share before and after dilution (SEK) 1.72 1.89 2.15 1.77 Earnings per share before and after dilution and before items affecting comparability (SEK) 1.72 1.89 2.15 2.11 Statement of cash flow 20171,2 MSEK Q1 2017 Q2 2017 Q3 2017 Q4 2017 Operating income before amortization 1 056.2 1 136.7 1 234.9 1 269.4 Investments in non-current tangible and intangible assets -417.7 -449.5 -400.4 -540.8 Reversal of depreciation 353.2 362.4 353.0 376.9 Change in accounts receivable 324.7 -169.4 -661.1 56.9 Change in other operating capital employed -944.1 -26.6 272.4 650.2 Cash flow from operating activities 372.3 853.6 798.8 1 812.6 Cash flow from operating activities, % 35 75 65 143 Financial income and expenses paid -306.4 -39.3 -39.7 -40.2 Current taxes paid -311.9 -403.4 -140.6 -266.3 Free cash flow -246.0 410.9 618.5 1 506.1 Free cash flow, % -33 52 70 156 Cash flow from investing activities, acquisitions -107.0 -121.2 -56.9 -18.5 Cash flow from items affecting comparability – – – – Cash flow from financing activities 406.0 308.8 -1 023.5 -434.0 Cash flow for the period 53.0 598.5 -461.9 1 053.6 Capital employed and financing 20171,2 MSEK March 31, 2017 June 30, 2017 September 30, 2017 December 31, 2017 Operating capital employed 7 848.9 8 117.3 8 106.0 7 559.8 Operating capital employed as % of sales 9 9 9 8 Return on operating capital employed, % 62 61 62 64 Goodwill 19 251.5 18 944.2 18 361.9 18 719.1 Acquisition related intangible assets 1 342.9 1 276.5 1 213.7 1 172.8 Shares in associated companies 422.5 404.5 406.1 419.8 Capital employed 28 865.8 28 742.5 28 087.7 27 871.5 Return on capital employed, % 16 16 17 17 Net debt -13 682.7 -14 539.3 -13 606.0 -12 332.5 Shareholders’ equity 15 183.1 14 203.2 14 481.7 15 539.0 Net debt equity ratio, multiple 0.90 1.02 0.94 0.79 1 For definitions and calculation of key ratios refer to note 3. 2 Comparatives have been restated as an effect of a change in accounting principle IFRS 15. Refer to note 2 and note 6 for further information. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 161 T HE S E C U R I TA S SHA RE The Securitas Share At year-end, the closing price of the Securitas share on Nasdaq StockShareholders based in Sweden hold 49 percent of the capital and 64 perholm was SEK 142.25, corresponding to a market capitalization of MSEK cent of the votes. Compared with 2017, the proportion of foreign sharehold49 491 (49 822). Earnings per share was SEK 8.26 (7.53), which repreers in the shareholder base has increased. At December 31, 2018, sharesented a total change of 10 percent compared with 2017, and 5 percent holders outside Sweden owned 51 percent (47) of the capital and 36 percent when adjusted for changes in exchange rates. EPS before items affecting (33) of the votes. The largest shareholdings held by foreign shareholders are comparability was SEK 9.17 (7.87), which represented a total change in the UK and the US, with 12 percent of the capital and 9 percent of the votes of 17 percent compared with 2017, and 12 percent when adjusted for in the UK and 17 percent of the capital and 12 percent of the votes in the US. changes in exchange rates. The Board of Directors proposes that a diviForeign shareholders are not always recorded in the share register. Foreign dend of SEK 4.40 (4.00) per share be paid to shareholders. banks and other custodians may be recorded for multiple clients’ shares and the actual owners are then not displayed in the register. Performance of the share in 2018 At December 31, 2018, the principal shareholders in Securitas were At year-end, the closing price of the Securitas share was SEK 142.25 Gustaf Douglas, who through his family and Investment AB Latour Group (143.20). The share price decreased by 1 percent In 2018 to compare holds 10.9 percent (10.9) of the capital and 29.6 percent (29.6) of the with the OMX Stockholm Price index, which decreased 8 percent. The votes, and Melker Schörling, who through his family and the company highest price paid for a Securitas share in 2018 was SEK 164.05, which Melker Schörling AB holds 4.5 percent (5.4) of the capital and 11.0 was noted on August 28, and the lowest price paid was SEK 134.70, percent (11.6) of the votes. These shareholders are represented on the which was noted on February 12. Board of Directors by Carl Douglas and Sofia Schörling Högberg. Trading Dividend policy and cash dividend A total of 325 million (339) Securitas shares were traded on Nasdaq With a balanced growth strategy comprising both organic and acquisiStockholm, representing a value of MSEK 47 720 (47 168). The turnover tion-driven growth and continued investments in security solutions and velocity in 2018 was 92 percent (96), compared with a turnover rate of electronic security, Securitas should be able to sustain a dividend level in 48 percent (48) for the entire Nasdaq Stockholm. The average number of the range of 50–60 percent of the annual net income. The Board of DirecSecuritas shares traded each day was 1 298 500. tors proposes a dividend of SEK 4.40 (4.00) per share, corresponding The trading on Nasdaq Stockholm represented 40 percent of all traded to 53 percent of net income and 48 percent of net income before items Securitas shares in all categories of venues in 2018 (includes, for example affecting comparability. Based on the share price at the end of 2018, the BATS Chi-X Europe, Turquoise as well as dark pools and off-book). dividend yield for 2018 amounted to 3.1 percent. Share capital and shareholder structure Authorization to repurchase shares in Securitas AB At December 31, 2018, the share capital amounted to SEK 365 058 897, The 2018 Annual General Meeting resolved to authorize the Board of distributed between an equal number of shares, each with a quota Directors to resolve upon the acquisition of the company’s own shares up value of SEK 1.00. Of these shares, 17 142 600 are Series A shares and to a maximum of 10 percent of the outstanding shares and for a period up 347 916 297 are Series B shares. Each Series A share carries ten votes to the Annual General Meeting in 2019. and each Series B share carries one vote. The free float of the Securitas share is 89 percent. Securitas share in brief At December 31, 2018, Securitas had 32 197 shareholders (33 913). Series B Securitas shares are traded on Nasdaq Stockholm, part of Nasdaq In terms of the number of shareholders, private individuals make up the Nordic, and on other trading venues such as BATS Chi-X Europe. Securitas largest shareholder category with 28 750 shareholders, corresponding is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm on the Large Cap List for companies, which to 89 percent of the total number of shareholders. In terms of capital and includes large companies with a market capitalization of more than MEUR votes, institutional and other corporate entities dominate with 96 and 97 1 000, and is included in the Industrial Goods & Services sector. The ISIN percent, respectively. code for the Securitas share on Nasdaq Stockholm is SE0000163594. The ticker code for the Securitas share is SECU B on Nasdaq Stockholm, SECUB:SS on Bloomberg and SECUb.ST on Reuters. Securitas has been listed on the stock exchange since 1991. DATA PER SHARE SEK / share 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Earnings per share3, 4 8.26 7.53 7.24 6.67 5.67 Earnings per share before items affecting comparability 9.17 7.87 7.24 6.67 5.67 Dividend 4.40 1 4.00 3.75 3.50 3.00 Dividend as % of earnings per share 53 2 51 52 52 53 Yield, % 3.1 2 2.8 2.6 2.7 3.2 Free cash flow per share 5.16 6.27 4.71 5.93 5.08 Share price at end of period 142.25 143.20 143.40 130.00 94.45 Highest share price 164.05 151.80 152.90 135.00 95.80 Lowest share price 134.70 125.30 110.00 90.10 65.20 Average share price 146.96 139.07 132.01 115.80 76.94 P / E ratio 17 18 20 19 17 Number of shares outstanding (000s)3 365 059 365 059 365 059 365 059 365 059 Average number of shares outstanding (000s)3 365 059 365 059 365 059 365 059 365 059 1 Proposed dividend. 4 Number of shares used for calculation of earnings per share includes shares related to the Group’s 2 Calculated on proposed dividend. share-based incentive schemes that have been hedged through swap agreements. 3 There are no outstanding convertible debenture loans. Consequently, there is no potential dilution. 162 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 THE SECUR I TAS S H AR E LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS AT DECEMBER 31, 2018 Shareholder Series A shares Series B shares % of capital % of votes Gustaf Douglas via companies and family1 12 642 600 27 190 000 10.9 29.6 Melker Schörling via company and family2 4 500 000 12 076 798 4.5 11.0 State Street Bank and Trust Co3 0 25 276 258 6.9 4.5 BNY Mellon SA/NV3 0 17 346 312 4.8 3.3 HSBC Bank Plc3 0 11 364 949 3.1 2.2 Lannebo Funds 0 10 870 392 3.0 2.1 Swedbank Robur Funds 0 8 743 309 2.4 1.7 AMF 0 8 056 936 2.2 1.6 Skandia 0 6 642 571 1.8 1.3 SEB Investment Management 0 6 395 995 1.8 1.2 Total, ten largest shareholders 17 142 600 133 964 520 41.4 58.5 Total, rest of owners 0 213 951 777 58.6 41.5 Total as of December 31, 2018 17 142 600 347 916 297 100.00 100.00 1 Includes the holdings of family members and Investment AB Latour Group. Source: Euroclear Sweden 2 Includes the holdings of family members and Melker Schörling AB. 3 Custodian banks SHAREHOLDER SPREAD AT DECEMBER 31, 2018 Number of Number of Number of % of % of Number of shares shareholders Series A shares Series B shares capital votes 1–500 24 734 0 3 236 938 0.89 0.62 501–1 000 3 263 0 2 688 262 0.74 0.52 1 001–5 000 3 044 0 6 991 254 1.92 1.35 5 001–10 000 391 0 2 950 106 0.81 0.57 10 001–15 000 131 0 1 655 121 0.45 0.32 15 001–20 000 83 0 1 505 637 0.41 0.29 20 001– 551 17 142 600 328 888 979 94.78 96.33 Total 32 197 17 142 600 347 916 297 100.00 100.00 Source: Euroclear Sweden Share prices for Securitas, January 1 – December 31, 2014–2018 Definitions Free cash flow per share: Free cash SEK flow in relation to the number of shares 170 outstanding. 160 Market capitalization: The number of shares outstanding times the market 150 price of the share price at year-end. 140 P / E ratio (Price / Earnings): The share 130 price at the end of each year relative to 120 earnings per share after taxes. 110 Turnover velocity: Turnover during 100 the year relative to the average market capitalization during the same period. 90 Yield: Dividend relative to share price 80 50 M at the end of each year. For 2018, the 70 proposed dividend is used. 60 25 M 50 40 30 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Securitas AB Number of traded shares OMX Stockholm Price Index © NASDAQ OMX OMX Stockholm 30 Index Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 163 FIN AN C I AL I N FO R MAT ION A ND INV ITAT ION TO T HE ANNUAL GENER AL MEE TI NG Financial Information and Invitation to the Annual General Meeting Reporting dates J.P. Morgan Cazenove Sylvia Barker Securitas will release financial information for 2019 as follows: Morgan Stanley Edward Stanley Nordea Henrik Mawby Interim Reports 2019 Pareto Securities Stefan Wård January – March May 6, 2019 RBC Capital Markets Andrew Brooke January – June July 31, 2019 UBS Bilal Aziz January – September November 6, 2019 January – December February 6, 2020 Analysts that follow Securitas might change during the year. The list above is updated regularly and can be found at www.securitas.com/ investors/analyst-coverage-and-ratings/ Financial information Our financial reports are available both in English and in Swedish and can be read and downloaded at our webpage at the following address: Annual General Meeting of shareholders www.securitas.com/investors/financial-reports/ in Securitas AB (publ.) The shareholders in Securitas AB are hereby invited to attend the Annual We also offer an order and subscribe service of financial information at the General Meeting (AGM) to be held at 4.00 p.m. CET on Monday May 6, following address: 2019 at Courtyard by Marriott Hotel, Rålambshovsleden 50, Stockholm, www.securitas.com/investors/order-and-subscribe/ Sweden. Registration for the AGM begins at 3.00 p.m. CET. Other questions concerning our financial information can be addressed to us through mail, telephone or e-mail: Notice of attendance Shareholders who wish to attend the AGM must: Securitas AB (i) be recorded in the share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB Investor Relations (Euroclear), made as of Monday, April 29, 2019, P.O. Box 12307 and (ii) notify Securitas AB of their intent to participate in the AGM at the SE-102 28 Stockholm address: Sweden Telephone: +46 10 470 30 00 Securitas AB, “AGM” E-mail: ir@securitas.com c/o Euroclear Sweden AB www.securitas.com P.O. Box 191, SE-101 23 Stockholm, Sweden or by telephone +46 10 470 31 30 Investor Relations activities conducted in 2018 or Securitas arranged an investor update in September. All the presentations via the company website www.securitas.com / agm2019, from that day can be found at: www.securitas.com/investors/presentaby Monday, April 29, 2019, at the latest. tions/presentations-investor-days/. During the year Securitas participated in investor meetings, investor conferences and roadshows in London, San On giving notice of attendance, the shareholder shall state name, personal Francisco and Stockholm. identity number or equivalent (corporate identity number), address and telephone number. A proxy form is available on the company website www.securitas.com / agm2019 and will be sent by mail to shareholders Financial analysts who cover Securitas informing the company of their address and their wish to receive a copy COMPANY NAME NAME of the proxy form. Proxy and representative of a legal person shall submit AlphaValue Hélène Coumes papers of authorization prior to the AGM. As confirmation of the notificaBarclays Paul Checketts tion, Securitas AB will send an entry card, which should be presented at Carnegie Mikael Löfdahl registration for the AGM. Citi Marc van’t Sant Credit Suisse Andrew Grobler In order to participate in the proceedings of the AGM, owners with DNB Karl-Johan Bonnevier nominee-registered shares must request their bank or broker to have Exane BNP Paribas Allen Wells their shares temporarily owner-registered with Euroclear. Such registraGoldman Sachs Milou Beunk tion must be made as of Monday, April 29, 2019 and the banker or broker Handelsbanken Carina Elmgren should therefore be notified in due time before said date. HSBC Rajesh Kumar Jefferies James Winckler 164 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 N SWA ECO C NOR LA DI BEL Printed matter 3041 0242 Production: Securitas AB in cooperation with Narva Print: Elanders, Sweden, 2019 Photo: Ingemar Lindewall: Cover, pages: 1, 2, 5, 8-9, 10-11, 13, 15, 16, 18-19, 20-21, 22, 23, 24, 26, 28, 30-31, 33, 39, 40-41, 42-43, 47, 53 Unsplash/Goh Rhy Yan: 6-7 Raf Ketelslagers: 159 Photo editing: Lena Hoxter Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Securitas AB Box 12307 SE-102 28 Stockholm Sweden Visiting address: Lindhagensplan 70 www.securitas.com
