KEEP EVOLVIN' ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 THE EVOLUTION CONTENTS Helping women find a place in society through hospitality and sustainable tourism 2 Letter from our Founder 3 Evolvin' Women at glance 4 Our approach 5 Global Compact Principles 9 Corporate citizenship strategy approach 20 Performance Table goals and progress 24 Sharing our story Grow with us... one woman at the time! EVOLVIN' WOMEN COP 2018 | 1 LETTER FROM OUR FOUNDER My mum once told me, Assia if you have a glass of water you must always be able to find a drop for someone who is thirsty! The value of giving was instilled in me at a very young age. I was a few years old when my mum decided to support a foundation in the South of Italy that was working on reducing the illiteracy rate of children in South America. What started as a project to raise school fees soon became her personal mission. She realised that the children she was paying school fees for were leaving Brazil to find jobs in the US or were becoming a victim of slavery. She decided to approach the foundation to help them secure employment at the end of their school period. By proactively approaching what was the private sector, she helped many children become young adults who were able to contribute to the local economy growth. I was inspired by the many stories my mum shared Market in Dubai and the ChangeNOW Summit in France with us and the impact she generated for these where Evolvin' Women was selected by the Dubai communities. In December 2016 I decided to launch Government to represent Dubai on sustainability. Evolvin’ Women with the vision of creating a world where every girl and woman has access to equal This year in line with our commitment to ethical development opportunities and can become a governance we have established an advisory board and contributor to their family, community and national secured legal support to make sure we are aligned to economic growth. local priorities. We are planning the construction of our first Hub in Africa and expanding our operation to Due to our commitment to the Sustainable South Africa. Development Goals #4, #5 and #8 and work in the field of equality of opportunity and inclusion Social impact is at the core of our business and through Evolvin’ Women, in 2017 we became a working towards implementing the Global Compact member of the UAE task-force for the 7 Women's principles is not an additional task but what drives our Empowerment Principles (WEPs), and in 2018 we business while helping women evolve and find a place were invited to be part of their steering committee. in society. In 2018 Evolvin’ Women became one of the first micro-enterprises to become a signatory to the Keep evolvin' United Nations Global Compact and was presented as a sustainable tourism initiative for women at the Women's Economic Empowerment Global Summit Assia Riccio organised by the UN WOMEN, the African Women in Tourism Summit, the Arabian Travel Founder Evolvin' Women EVOLVIN' WOMEN COP 2018 | 2 EVOLVIN' WOMEN AT GLANCE Established in December 2016 and based in Dubai, Evolvin’ Women is a social enterprise that helps hospitality businesses in the UAE C R reduce employee turnover, embed Public Sector O M E P Evolvin' S social responsibility in their HR O Private Sector Legal Support L I Women U practices and generate a A R Community Advisory Board N C E measurable social impact while C E S providing unemployed women in developing countries with access to INPUT vocational training. As a social enterprise, we are driven by our mission and market in order to create both Women social and economic value. To develop (beneficiaries) sustainable and responsible growth, we are committed to operating following the model on the right. SOCIAL IMPACT Women who are selected for our programme are between the age of 18 and 40, unemployed, generally from a rural area in Africa and from a Community less privileged economic background that has development prevented them to access professional skill development and full time job opportunities. As a result of this, they are or might be more likely to increase the unpaid domestic labour rate or become a victim of forced labour and in some cases, violence. Women who join our programme prepare to secure international skill development placements for 2 years in the UAE together with Mentoring hours our educational partners, and return to a job in their home country. They gradually become 1020 provided to unemployed women financially independent and build a brighter future in hospitality for themselves, their Training hours 826 families and communities, despite the challenges they have faced growing up. provided to unemployed women Since May 2017 we have enrolled in our Unemployed 17 programme 17 women from Ghana and 11 of them accessed international skill development Women placements in Dubai in view of securing a job enrolled since May 2017 back in their home country at the end of the Skill development programme. placements EVOLVIN' WOMEN COP 2018 | 3 11 provided to unemployed women OUR APPROACH 1 2 3 MINDSET SETTING SKILLS We provide participants with Moving to the UAE means a We partner with education training and coaching to change of environment and the providers to deliver develop a positive frame of opportunity to stand on their employability skill training mind to embark this new feet, become more responsible through technology and facejourney. Through a blended and develop a higher level of to face sessions. With a approach of webinars, online emotional maturity. curriculum developed from a and classroom training, we selection of over 500 modules, equip them with the skills to our participants learn about set professional and career development, community goals to achieve at customer service and the end of the programme. administrative skills. 4 EXPONENTIAL SOCIAL IMPACT ” After gaining skills, knowledge and experience, we connect participants to employers in their home country that will benefit from recruiting national talents with international experience. After successfully completing the programme, our evolvin' women become evolutionary women! As evolutionary women, they will be able to: Enhance the local talent pool, join the hospitality industry and gradually become financially independent; Continue their professional development through the EVOLVE™ Programme to learn hospitality management and leadership skills; Volunteer in our Evolvin' Communities Hubs and invest the skills learned during the programme in creating sustainable tourism practices in rural areas. EVOLVIN' WOMEN COP 2018 | 4 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES Evolvin’ Women is currently working within the framework of the United Nations Global Compact. We are actively committed to all ten of these principles. Below is an outline of how we are executing policies to ensure we comply to these principles. EVOLVIN' WOMEN COP 2018 | 5 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses As per our policy Evolvin’ Women works closely with the should support and Government of the United Arab Emirates and the foreign country Embassy in Dubai to protect women while they are in Dubai. These respect the protection of women have access to medical insurance, work visa, a suitable internationally means of travel to and from their place of work, a suitable proclaimed human rights accommodation, competitive remuneration for the duration of their placement. Principle 2: make sure We have monthly Sit at the table workshops aimed at providing our participants with a seat at the table, an opportunity for them that they are not to be heard and to make a difference. We also have weekly calls complicit in human rights with every participant for the duration of our 24-month abuses programme. We ask questions to find out if there are incident of bullyism and abuse while working with our hotel partners. The weekly contact policy is to ensure there are no abuses of power and if situations are brought to our attention an investigation is launched and monitored. Mentors are also called on a monthly basis to find out similar information. Our monthly workshops provide our participants with a safe environment to share and address challenges . When you believe in the difference you can make, you will make it work! Assia Riccio EVOLVIN' WOMEN COP 2018 | 6 LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses Our supply chain policy, allows us to work only with should uphold the freedom licensed organisations and ensures that our hotel partners work accordingly to the UAE labor law. The business conducted within of association and the Evolvin’ Women gives participants the flexibility to participate at effective recognition of the their control. The tasks assigned to them are done so without a time right to collective frame, so they can learn at their own pace and get the most out of bargaining the tools at their disposal. Principle 4: the elimination Evolvin’ Women works closely with its partners in Dubai and foreign countries to ensure that participants are motivated, dedicated and of all forms of forced and willing to improve their quality of education and seek other means compulsory labour of employment. As per our policy, participants travel to Dubai when they have an employment contract and work visa according to the UAE Labour Law, they made the decision to come based on the contract they reviewed and signed. Therefore they can stay up to 2 years for the duration of the programme but are free to resign at their own discretion. They also have access to their Embassy in the UAE. When our participants return to their home countries, they are not forced into employment but are rather given the opportunity to decide what industry-specific field is most appropriate and enjoyable. Evolvin’ Women does not associate itself with brands, companies or Principle 5: the effective entities that have a history of possible or proven child labour to our abolition of child labour best knowledge. We do not enroll anyone under the legal age of work. We only work with unemployed women 18 and over. Women who complete our programme are able to create a better life for themselves and their families and increase the chances for their children to access education. By teaching women regardless of their race, age, socioeconomic Principle 6:the elimination background or nationality, Evolvin’ Women has demonstrated its of discrimination in commitment to diversity, education and to the implementation of respect of employment WEPs. Elimination of discrimination is at the heart of Evolvin’ and Women. occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals EVOLVIN' WOMEN COP 2018 | 7 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses Evolvin’ Women is aware of the challenges that arise with global warming and a changing environmental landscape. We are currently should support a designing our first Evolvin’ Communities Hub that will provide precautionary approach to women returning home after the programme in Dubai, with a space environmental challenges to train people in rural areas on sustainable tourism activities that generate new income for the community. In order to respect the environment and educate on sustainability, we are investing time and resources in preparing policies that will demonstrate our commitment to partnering with environmental friendly organisation, such as Eco Domes. Policies will ensure that the construction is environmentally friendly and sustainable by using resources that are harvested consciously and sustainably. Principle 8: undertake Evolvin’ Women has demonstrated its commitment to promoting initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility through its conscious use of resources, commitment to working with hotels who engage in greater environmental environmental initiatives. responsibility We want to work with women who want to make a difference. We Principle 9: encourage the are planning to develop a policy to support those participants who development and diffusion wish to develop environmental enterprises on their return home. of environmentally The policy will include the use of technology to educate the friendly technologies community on best practices. Assessment, Policy and Goals ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: Evolvin’ Women operates completely openly and prides itself off of Businesses should work its moral based business model. We do not work with companies or individuals with a history of extortion or bribery. against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery EVOLVIN' WOMEN COP 2018 | 8 CORPORATE CITIZEN STRATEGY & APPROACH Our strategy includes 3 pillars: Ethical governance Partnerships Environment Our inputs, outputs and outcomes are motivated by and explicit in line with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. EVOLVIN' WOMEN COP 2018 | 9 CORPORATE CITIZEN STRATEGY & APPROACH Below is an outline of our outcomes and how we are executing tactics to ensure they are reached in view of maintaining profitability while improving the quality of life of our beneficiaries and their communities. Ethical Governance Partnerships C R O Public Sector M Evolvin' E S Private Sector P O Legal Support L I Women U Community A R Advisory Board N C E C S E INPUT Women (beneficiaries) SOCIAL IMPACT Outcomes Community development Environment EVOLVIN' WOMEN COP 2018 | 10 ETHICAL GOVERNANCE Evolvin' Women is driven by the commitment to develop a framework of rules and practices that ensures accountability, fairness, and transparency in our relationship with all stakeholders Advisory board Our advisory board includes members from Accenture, our hotel partners and the United Nations Global Compact. This diversity allows us to strengthen our relationship with partners and supporters and receive feedback and advice from both private and public sector. Legal support We have clear contracts in place with all our stakeholders issued and reviewed by Winston and Strawn, our legal firm partner in Dubai. Enhance the global partnership for sustainable development, complemented by multi-stakeholder partnerships that mobilize and share knowledge, expertise, technology and financial resources, to support the achievement of the sustainable development goals in all countries, in particular developing countries We have established relationships and partnerships with the public sector in the UAE and Africa. We introduce our participants to the Ambassador of their country in Dubai and have MoU in place with governments in their country of origin. The endorsement we receive from the public sector is allowing us to guarantee transparency and be accountable while working on SDGs. Ethical 2017 2018 TOTAL Governance Government entities 1 3 4 in the UAE Government entities 0 1 1 in the developing countries EVOLVIN' WOMEN COP 2018 | 11 Evolvin’ Women is currently supported by: Ghana Tourism Authority is the Dubai Chamber of Commerce is a public service agency in charge of non-profit public organization regulating tourism in Ghana whose mission is to represent, Badiri Education and Development through marketing and promotion, support and protect the interests Academy is an initiative licensing and classification of of the business community in from NAMA Women Advancement tourism facilities and services, Dubai. Evolvin’ Women become a Establishment was established in research and development. member in 2017 and since then 2015 under an Emiri Decree by His Evolvin’ Women signed an MoU was able to connect to Highness Sheikh Dr Sultan bin with Ghana Tourism Authority in representative of the Chamber in Muhammad Al Qasimi, and is 2018 that is facilitating our Kenya and South Africa. chaired by Her Highness Sheikha presence in the market. Jawaher bint Mohammed Al Qasimi, Wife of the Ruler of Sharjah. Evolvin' Women was selected as one of the 15 social enterprises in the region to join their social entrepreneurship programme in 2018. Dubai StartUp Hub is a semiDubai Business Women Council is government initiative rooted in committed to empowering women DubaiChamber, that provides to be productive members of the clarity and direction in the journey society and economy in the UAE. of a startup entrepreneur. Evolvin’ Evolvin’ Women become a Women was selected as one their Winston & Strawn LLP is an member of the council in 2015 and stat-up n 2018 and since then has international law firm with offices since then received support and been able to connect with in the United States, Europe, Asia, exposure in the UAE market. companies in the UAE committed and the Middle East and one of to grow their social the largest law firms in the world. responsibility by supporting our Through the support received by cause. Winston & Strawn LLP, we were able to establish contracts with all our partners in the public and private sectors. EVOLVIN' WOMEN COP 2018 | 12 PARTNERSHIPS We are committed to establishing partnerships for capacity building by engaging with the private sector and the community. Private Sector Despite being a company in its infancy, we have been able to develop strong relationships with education, training and coaching providers in the UAE and Africa as well as hospitality groups. Enhance international support for implementing effective and targeted capacity-building in developing countries to support national plans to implement all the sustainable development goals M Gallery by Sofitel, Radisson Blu, the Doubletree by Hilton and the Signature Hotel in Ghana are providing skills development placements to our participants. The on-job training in international hospitality groups is facilitating the development of skills for the delivery of internationally recognised standards and best practices. Bringing this knowledge back to their home country meets the national agenda of Ministries of Tourism and Tourism Boards. We have also established a partnership with Accenture and our participants have access to their Skill to Succeed platform that aims at improving the employability of vulnerable and marginalized people around the world. This academy is highly interactive and builds skills and confidence to make career choices, find and sustain employment. Furthermore, we have established partnerships with several organisations that specialise in gender equality and support the advancement of women with limited resources. They work alongside Evolvin' Women and offer their services, time and advice on a probono basis or as part of their corporate social responsibility strategy. EVOLVIN' WOMEN COP 2018 | 13 Evolvin’ Women is currently partnering with the following hospitality groups: Partner since September 2018, has Partner since August 2018, has Partner since May 2017, has offered skill development offered skill development offered skill development placements to: placements to: placements to: Gloria Quarshie Food & Beverage Charity Bosomtwi Housekeeping Antoinette Allah-MensahFood & Beverage Joined August 2017 August 2018 Background Antoinette is a single mother from Haif-Assini in the western region of Ghana. A very ambitious young woman, Vickylisa Ackah Culinary Victoria Tang Housekeeping passionate about the hospitality industry and customer service. With family commitments and limited connections, Antoinette had to place her ambition and dreams on the side. Outcome Antoinette secured a full time job in Accra as Event Supervisor within a month from the end of the programme with an increase Dorcas Danquah Human Resources Saviour Appam Stewarding in salary of 300%. She will be able to rent a flat with her child for the first time within the next 6 months and was able to open a bank account as a result of securing a full time job. EVOLVIN' WOMEN COP 2018 | 14 Evolvin’ Women is currently partnering with the following organisations: Accenture is granting Evolvin’ AmpUz is a sustainable software Initiative Hub provides career, Women the use of their Skill To data collection service that tracks communication and Succeed platform aimed at targets and develops visual empowerment coaching improving the employability of dashboards. It is allowing Evolvin’ programmes for women and people with limited access to Women to track and monitor future female leaders in the education. indicators, outcome and social hospitality field. Initiative Hub is impact and provide stakeholders providing training to our with case studies and participants while in the UAE. transparency. Cudoo is the world’s first One-forOne e-Learning community offering 700+ online courses in Languages and Professional Bina Matthews Consulting FZE is a Speak to Inspire delivers public Development Skills. As a result of consulting and coaching speaking programme and the partnership with Evolvin’ institution that is offering is providing our participants with Women, Cudoo decided to embed coaching to our participants. techniques to gain confidence and social responsibility in their improve their public speaking business model and offer our skills. participants free access to their platform for each new client acquired. Christensen Consultancy is a consulting and coaching institution deeply committed to gender equality and promoting diversity in the workplace. Our participants are receiving training Her Time Career Coaching is a on the importance of diversity. coaching and training institution that provides emotional intelligence training to our participants. EVOLVIN' WOMEN COP 2018 | 15 Community By engaging with the community we aim at making a positive change that surpasses borders, cultures and backgrounds. Encourage and promote effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing strategies of partnerships In 2018 we launched our Change-makers community that is providing our participants with the opportunity to network and learn from professionals they would have not have had a chance to meet otherwise. Over 100 members have signed up to date. Partnerships 2017 2018 TOTAL Hospitality groups 1 2 3 Education partners 1 7 8 Change-makers N/A 105 105 Evolvin' Women is bringing the community together in a joint effort to help its participants shape their future. Denise Ryan, Change-maker EVOLVIN' WOMEN COP 2018 | 16 ENVIRONMENT At Evolvin’ Women, we are committed to reducing our environmental footprints and working towards fostering sustainable growth for our company and our clients. By working towards improving our efficiency of operations, supporting the sustainable efforts made by our partners and following in the footsteps of the Dubai Government and their sustainability initiatives, we aim to promote being an environmentally conscious business. By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse Specifically, Evolvin’ Women is planning to develop a hub in Ghana in partnership with Eco Domes, a social enterprise based in South Africa that develops eco building that are cost efficient, create local jobs and co-operatives and are environmentally safe (no wood or steel used in the building, much less cement than conventional construction and zero-waste green infrastructure integrated at design level). The current building project is inclusive of the use of solar panels to provide a constant electricity source to the hub, the installation of greywater systems to ensure water supply is managed, the use of an effective recycling system with minimal waste and the planting of trees and plants to ensure that the hub will not negatively impact its surroundings. EVOLVIN' WOMEN COP 2018 | 17 Promote public procurement practices that are sustainable, in accordance with national policies and priorities We are committed to using a supply chain that is ethical and environmentally conscious and work with organisations who are in line with our own ethical values. For example, our T-shirts are outsourced to suppliers that use exclusively fair-trade cotton. We are currently looking for suppliers that use paper developed from dry food and animal waste for the production of our notebooks. Environment 2017 2018 TOTAL (Hub) Data not available (Planning stage) EVOLVIN' WOMEN COP 2018 | 18 OUR OUTCOMES Our 3 strategic pillars aim at reaching 5 outcomes set to generate social impact in the future Participants must be able to secure a full-time job in their home country 1 and receive a salary within 6 months from the end of the Programme There must be an increase in salary of at least 200% compared to the salary 2 they were able to receive based on their CV before the programme They must be able to be in a financial position to live on their own within 23 3 years from starting a full-time job in their home country They must be able to have a bank account and directly access their salaries 4 and life savings They must secure a managerial role within 5-7 years from starting a full5 time job in their home country EVOLVIN' WOMEN COP 2018 | 19 PERFORMANCE TABLE All data are consolidated through AmpUz and our internal records. We use both Accenture and Cudoo to record the number of online training hours completed. EV E VO V II N O LL V N '' W WOOM MEEN N C COOP P 22 0 8 0 11 8 || 22 0 4 OUTCOMES REACHED Input Output Outcome Mentoring, 17 women enrolled Participation rate of youth and adults in formal and nonFace to face formal education and training in the previous 12 months, and online 1020 hours of by sex training mentoring 17 participants have improved skills and knowledge through self-assessments and on job training. 171 Face to Proportion of youth and adults with information and face training hours communications technology (ICT) skills, by type of skill 17 participants have had access to computers, 655 online training technology expertise and a work environment where the hours best technology is used to meet guests’ needs. They are exposed to new ways of doing business and are able to generate ideas to implement in their home country and advance the service industry. Proportion of time spent on unpaid domestic and care work, by sex, age and location By providing employability skill training sessions, interview simulation sessions and coaching 11 women secured skill development placements in Dubai. Antoinette, who completed the programme in August 2018 secured a full time job in Accra as Event Supervisor within a month from leaving the UAE with an increase in salary of 300%. Proportion of adults (15 years and older) with an account at a bank or other financial institution or with a mobilemoney-service provider Antoinette is more financially independent, has a bank account and direct and sole access to her income and life savings. EVOLVE 1 woman enrolled Proportion of women in managerial positions Programme By offering the EVOLVE programme, we are providing participants returning to a job back home with leadership development to help them grow within the organization. Participants gain confidence and skills to advance their career in view of increasing the number of women in managerial roles and create full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels. EVOLVIN' WOMEN COP 2018 | 21 Antoinette AllahMensah Food & Beverage Joined August 2017 August 2018 Background Antoinette is a single mother from Haif-Assini in the western region of Ghana. A very ambitious young woman, passionate about the hospitality industry and customer service. With family commitments and limited connections, Antoinette had to place her ambition and dreams on the side. Challenges Without a platform to connect with international businesses and without the right preparation to interview with global organizations, Antoinette had very limited possibilities to gain international work experience. EVOLVIN' WOMEN COP 2018 | 22 4 ANTOINETTE'S EVOLUTION Input Output Outcome Social Impact Antoinette was able to secure a Antoinette has 10 Mentoring, Hours online Face to face competency training skill development placement in become a role and online Accenture Food & Beverage in Dubai model for women in her community who training 133 She received 7 educational have been applying Hours of training by Evolvin' Women certificates during the programme to join the programme inspired She secured a full time job in by her Hours of Accra as Event Supervisor within a achievement! online technical 52 training Cudoo month from the end of the programme in August 2018 with an increase in salary of 300% Hours She will be able to rent a flat with 16 of mentoring Best advice I with industry her child for the first time within received from my professional the next 6 months mentor She was able to have a bank I can do anything I set my account in Ghana as a result of mind to and I should always securing a full time job put myself and my son first in any decision I make in life. EVOLVE Ongoing She is currently learning skills and Programme knowledge to secure a managerial role in the future e Unable to find a full Skill development Supervisory role in time job in Ghana placement in Dubai Ghana EVOLVIN' WOMEN COP 2018 | 23 SHARING OUR STORY WITH OTHERS Our founder has been actively engaged in gender equality and social entrepreneurship for the past seven years and is a regular speaker at international conferences. She has been recognized as one of the GCC's Women Leaders of 2017, received the Women in Leadership Award by CMO ASIA and the Women Super Achiever Award at the World HRD Congress 2018 for helping businesses become catalysts for equality of opportunity. EVOLVIN' WOMEN COP 2018 | 24 AWARDS & RECOGNITIONS in 2017 Evolvin' Women was In 2018 Evolvin' Women was presented as a sustainable selected by the Dubai Government Due to our commitment to the tourism initiative for women at the as one of the 4 social enterprises Sustainable Development Goals Women's Economic Empowerment in the UAE to represent Dubai on #4, #5 and #8 and our work in the Global Summit organised in the sustainability at the ChangeNOW field of equality of opportunity UAE by NAMA and UN WOMEN, Summit in France. and inclusion through Evolvin’ Women, in 2017 our founder, became a member of the UAE task-force for the 7 Women's Empowerment Principles (WEPs), a collaboration between the UN Women and the United Nations Global Compact. In 2018 Evolvin' Women won Social Enterprise of the Year at the at the African Women in Tourism Arabian Business StartUp Awards Summit 2018 and in the UAE. As a result of embedding social responsibility in HR practices within the hospitality industry, in 2018 Evolvin’ Women became one of the first micro-enterprises in at the Arabian Travel Market in the UAE to become signatory to Dubai. the United Nation Global Compact. EVOLVIN' WOMEN COP 2018 | 25 KEEP EVOLVIN' AND BE IN HOSPITALITY DIFFERENTLY A social enterprise at heart, Evolvin’ Women is improving the employability of women from developing countries and helping hospitality businesses in the Middle East and Africa embed social responsibility in their business practices. Due to our commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals #4, #5 and #8 and our work in the field of equality of opportunity, in 2017 we joined the United Nation Global Compact and the UAE task-force for the 7 Women's Empowerment Principles (WEPs). For more information, contact info@evolvinwomen.com +971 553151423 evolvinwomen.com
