Environmental, Social and Governance Review Sustainability Report 78 yy Managing Sustainability 78 –– Our Sustainability Framework 78 –– Sustainability Governance 80 –– Sustainable Development Goals 80 –– Our Supply Chain 83 yy Our Material ESG Issues 86 Enabling a Low-carbon and Circular Economy 86 –– Climate Change –– Resource Management –– Local Environmental Protection Empowering Our People and Communities 94 –– Health and Safety –– People –– Community Embedding Responsible Business Practices 103 –– Corporate Governance –– Ethical Business and Compliance –– Risk Management Corporate Governance Statement 109 Investor Relations 128 Independent Limited Assurance Report 130 Sembcorp actively contributes to improving living standards and quality of life for the local Myingyan community in Myanmar by providing educational support, enhancing access to water, upgrading and repairing community infrastructure and assisting in flood relief work Environmental, Social and Governance Review Managing Sustainability Sembcorp has long held a strong commitment to sustainability. We believe that responsible corporates We participate in RobecoSAM’s annual Corporate Sustainability In 2018, Sembcorp was once again selected as an index can play a role as agents of transformation for a sustainable future. We see sustainability at our company Assessment that determines inclusion in the Dow Jones component of both the Dow Jones Sustainability Asia Pacific Sustainability Index, as well as the CDP (formerly known as the Index and the SGX Sustainability Leaders Index. We were as inextricably linked to our ability to deliver long-term value and growth to all our stakeholders. Carbon Disclosure Project) climate change programme. conferred the Best Newcomer Award at the Sustainable Business Awards Singapore, and ranked sixth in the Singapore Governance Sustainability is one of the key pillars of our business and embed responsible business practices throughout For a list of our policies, certified facilities as well as and Transparency Index. At the Singapore Corporate Awards strategy that underpins our value creation process. our organisation. memberships and participation in external initiatives, please 2018, Sembcorp took home the gold award for the Best Annual In 2018, we developed a framework to articulate and visit the Reports & Policies and the Initiatives, Memberships Report for companies with market capitalisation of S$1 billion drive our ambition to create a sustainable future. We are a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact and Certifications pages in the Sustainability section of and above. We were ranked 27th in the Top 100 Green Utilities As a Group, we want to enable a low-carbon and (UNGC) and a supporter of the Financial Stability Board’s Task our website. and 11th in the Top Generators ranked by Renewables circular economy, empower our people and communities Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Capacity in Energy Intelligence’s Top 100 Green Utilities. Our Sustainability Framework Climate Change Health and Safety The United Nations (UN) forecasts that by 2030, world Reducing our greenhouse gas Making health and safety an population will have surpassed 8.5 billion, and the threat (GHG) emissions intensity and integral part of our everyday of climate change coupled with growing demand for ENABLING A moving towards a balanced portfolio business and culture EMPOWERING critical resources will add considerable stress to our LOW-CARBON OUR PEOPLE of low-carbon energy assets societies and the environment. Our future depends on urgent action, new business models, innovative technology AND CIRCULAR People AND ECONOMY Resource Management COMMUNITIES and behavioural change. We believe that we must be part Creating a values-based of the sustainable development agenda, and have a Growing and innovating our and performance-led responsibility to our stakeholders to provide solutions that business solutions to support culture. Providing an create value and positive impact for society. By meeting a circular economy and ensuring engaging employment the needs of society, while managing our material we manage our operations experience where environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks and efficiently to avoid or minimise our people can opportunities, we believe that we will succeed as a business and give our shareholders a sustainable return. the use of resources ENABLING A EMPOWERING grow and excel LOW-CARBON OUR PEOPLE Our Sustainability Framework articulates three ambitions Local Environmental AND CIRCULAR AND Community for the future and demonstrates our support for the ECONOMY COMMUNITIES Protection Contributing to UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). It directs our approach to integrate sustainability and manage our Minimising negative environmental the sustainable material ESG issues within our business strategy. impacts and ensuring the highest development of our standards of environmental management communities through EMBEDDING RESPONSIBLE engagement and Driven by Our Purpose BUSINESS partnerships and Our purpose and passion is to do good and play our part Corporate Governance PRACTICES investing in initiatives in creating a sustainable future. We deliver energy and that make a lasting innovative solutions that support development and Maintaining an effective governance positive impact create value – for our stakeholders and communities. and decision-making structure EMBEDDING Underpinned by Our Values RESPONSIBLE Ethical Business BUSINESS and Compliance Creative Insight PRACTICES We innovate and solve complex problems Fostering an ethical culture and conducting our business with integrity, and ensuring we comply with all Committed legal and regulatory requirements We walk the talk, do the right thing and deliver on our promises Risk Management Connected Ensuring effective identification of We value our people, forge strong material risks and putting in place an partnerships and care for our communities adequate and effective risk management and the environment and internal control system 78 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 79 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Managing Sustainability Sustainability governance Sembcorp’s board of directors oversees the business affairs Board Statement of the Group and is collectively responsible for our long-term Sembcorp’s board of directors is collectively responsible success. The main duties of the board include providing Priority for the long-term success of the company. The board SDGs leadership on Sembcorp’s overall strategy, which takes into considers sustainability issues as part of its strategy consideration sustainability issues. Our last materiality review formulation. It has determined Sembcorp’s material ESG was in 2016. In 2018, in line with the development of our factors, and exercises oversight in the management and Sustainability Framework, our management, with guidance monitoring of our material ESG factors. from the board’s Risk Committee, updated the ESG issues that are material to the Group’s long-term sustainability. These Supporting nine ESG issues are presented in our Sustainability Framework SDGs on pages 78 and 79. ESG components. With this, the award of our senior Sembcorp also has a Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC) executives’ performance incentives will specifically take into that provides strategic direction for managing sustainabilityaccount ESG performance and the achievement of ESG related risks and opportunities. The SSC guides the targets. This underscores the importance we place on Underlying development and improvement of frameworks, policies, addressing ESG risks and opportunities. SDGs guidelines, processes and initiatives to ensure that sustainability issues are effectively managed. It also directs the Sustainability contact preparation of Sembcorp’s Sustainability Report, and provides We welcome feedback on our sustainability issues and recommendations to the board’s Risk Committee for approval. reporting at sustainability@sembcorp.com. The SSC is chaired by our Group Chief Financial Officer, and The implementation of the goals will require global partnerships and collaboration across the public comprises senior executives who are accountable for the Sustainable Development Goals and private sectors, and civil society. While all goals are interrelated, SDG17 underpins the achievement of all other goals. management of Sembcorp’s material issues. The SDGs and their accompanying targets were ratified by 193 states at the historic UN Summit in September 2015. In addition, our Integrated Assurance Framework ensures that The SDGs set out a plan of action needed to address areas of key financial, operational, compliance and information critical importance for humanity and the planet by 2030. technology (IT) risks are reviewed and tested using a robust The scale and ambition of the SDGs mean that they cannot be assurance process. achieved by governments alone. Businesses and other The Sustainable Development Our Commitment to SDG 6: organisations also play important roles in addressing the As an initial but significant step, we revised the performance sustainable development agenda. Goals offer businesses an Clean Water and Sanitation scorecard for our leadership team in 2018 to include specific invaluable opportunity to Our suite of water solutions for industrial and municipal customers helps treat wastewater, reclaim and supply transform communities and water. These solutions help prevent pollution while economies for the better extending the use of water beyond one cycle, thus BOARD OF DIRECTORS reducing the use of freshwater and potable water. Risk Committee Target: In 2018, we reclaimed around 61 million m3 of Our commitment to enable a low-carbon and circular economy, empower our people and communities, and embed water. We aim to develop a target in this area Sustainability Steering Committee responsible business practices throughout our organisation, aligns with the framework set out by the SDGs. Enabling a Low-carbon Empowering Our People Embedding Responsible Our Commitment to SDG 7: and Circular Economy and Communities Business Practices We have reviewed the SDGs against our material issues to Affordable and Clean Energy identify the most significant positive and negative impacts of Environmental material issues Social material issues Governance material issues our operations. We have also considered opportunities where As an integrated energy player, our business strategy is • Climate Change • Health and Safety • Corporate Governance we can make the biggest contributions towards the SDGs aligned to meeting the global need to decarbonise. We Climate Change • People • Ethical Business • Community and Compliance while growing our business sustainably. aim to increase our share of renewable assets, while Working Committee • Risk Management managing our existing thermal assets to operate at • Resource Management For more information on our support of the SDGs, • Local Environmental Protection optimal efficiency. please visit Our Approach page in the Sustainability section of our website. Target: We plan to double our renewable energy generation capacity (from 2017 baseline) by 2022 80 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 81 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Managing Sustainability Key performance indicators Our Supply Chain We value the opportunity to positively influence our service We recognise the importance of integrating sustainability providers and suppliers towards greater health, safety and 2018 2017 2016 practices into our procurement and supply chain environment (HSE) awareness and social responsibility. In 2018, management processes. we launched our Supplier Code of Conduct. The Supplier Environmental Code defines the ESG standards of practice that we require of Climate Change 1, 2 Sembcorp’s main suppliers consist of original equipment our suppliers. We will be implementing the Supplier Code Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (million tonnes of CO2 equivalent) 23.6 22.2 r 15.1r manufacturers (OEMs), material suppliers, and engineering, across our markets in 2019, and will establish an annual GHG emissions intensity (tonnes of CO2 equivalent per megawatt hour) 0.55 0.54 r 0.45 procurement and construction (EPC) contractors. OEMs assessment of procurement practices. Renewable energy generation capacity (megawatts) 2,589 2,182 1,720 supply us with large-scale equipment such as gas turbines and Local Environmental Protection desalination units as well as process equipment such as To improve the management of our suppliers and integrate switchgears and control systems. Material suppliers provide the requirements of our Supplier Code across all stages of Water withdrawal (million m3) 1,794.0 1,782.3 e 1,874.0 fuel and chemicals needed to run our plants. EPC contractors procurement, we are currently reviewing our due diligence Waste generated 3 (thousand tonnes) 1,713.3 1,452.7 e 927.1 provide detailed EPC services for our greenfield plants. process. For example, we have enhanced our existing vendor Hazardous waste 39.9 10.0 11.9 pre-qualification process to incorporate more extensive ESG Non-hazardous waste 1,673.4 1,442.7 915.2 Our plants are designed and built to international codes and criteria. Going forward, we will look into improving the Significant spills 4 0 0 0 standards and it is with this perspective that we procure our evaluation of vendor performance for our critical suppliers. equipment. We seek to ensure we procure high-quality and Social technologically advanced equipment that is durable and from Supplier diversification Health and Safety 5 suppliers who share our commitment to sustainability. Our Our efforts to ensure supply chain security include Group Procurement Policy provides guidelines and control diversifying supply to mitigate concentration risk. Coal supply Number of fatalities 6 1 3 3 principles for various stages of the procurement process. is managed via a portfolio of suppliers and country sources. Lost time injury rate per million man-hours 0.5 1.1 1.2 Accident severity rate per million man-hours 7 10.1 15.3 17.2 People Employee turnover 8 (%) 11.6 10.1 11.4 Average training hours per employee 9 25.2 23.8 28.2 e Distribution of Suppliers by Geography1 Payments to Suppliers2 by Geography1 Community 2% Community contributions 10 (S$ million) 1.1 5.5 4.2 More performance data, including governance and qualitative data on each of our material issues, is available in this report, 28% 30% as well as in the Sustainability section of our website. 27% 24% For more information on our stakeholder engagement, materiality process and reporting scope and practice, please visit Total: Total: Our Approach page in the Sustainability section of our website. 5,602 S$4.6 billion 1 Emissions data covers entities that produce GHGs from the combustion of fossil fuels consumed in our Utilities business’ assets. It excludes emissions from anaerobic wastewater treatment plants, and maintenance and servicing equipment. Only CO2, CH4 and N2O emissions are included in the calculation of direct 4% 2% GHG emissions. Global warming potential factors used are from the UN 2006 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fourth Assessment Report for 2016 data, and the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report for 2017 and 2018 data. A 100-year time horizon is applied. Commentary on our performance can be found on pages 91 and 92 of this report 41% 42% 2 Emissions data for 2016 is presented using an operational approach, while emissions data for 2017 and 2018 are presented using an equity share approach 3 Data for waste generated excludes waste that is collected and incinerated for our customers ■ Singapore ■ China ■ India ■ Others ■ Singapore ■ China ■ India ■ Indonesia ■ Others 4 A significant spill is defined as that which resulted in a fine equal to or above S$50,000 5 Health and safety data reflects group-wide performance. Data covers both assets in operation and under construction. A detailed breakdown of health and safety data is available in the Performance and Data Commentary report in Our Performance page in the Sustainability section of our website Our suppliers and contractors provide a wide range of products and services including fuel and equipment for electricity 6 Data covers employees and contractors as well as members of the public. Details of fatalities are reported on page 101 generation, chemicals for water treatment as well as maintenance services for our power and water treatment plants. 7 The accident severity rate excludes fatalities. The accident severity rate including fatalities is reported as part of detailed performance data, available in the Performance and Data Commentary report in Our Performance page in the Sustainability section of our website In 2018, our operations in our key markets of Singapore, China and India procured goods and services from 5,602 suppliers, 8 Data covers both voluntary and involuntary turnover of permanent employees of Sembcorp and our subsidiaries, excluding Sembcorp Marine with a total expenditure of S$4.6 billion. Spending on local 3 suppliers amounted to 42% for our Singapore operations, 9 Data covers permanent and contract employees 100% for our China operations and 67% for our India operations. 42% of total payments to suppliers went to companies 10 Data from 2017 onwards covers assets under construction in Indonesia. This was mostly for our natural gas supply for Singapore operations and part of our coal supply for India r Indicates restated figure. Details can be found in the Performance and Data Commentary report of the respective year in Our Performance page in the thermal power operations. Sustainability section of our website 1 Data from some operations have been aggregated e Indicates data is based on management’s best estimates; we have since refined the accuracy and consistency of the data 2 Payments made to suppliers include payments to governments, banks and financial institutions 3 Local suppliers are defined as suppliers and service providers who are registered in the country where the product or service was procured 82 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 83 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Managing Sustainability In Singapore, Sembcorp’s operations maintain at least one primary and one secondary supplier for critical spare parts and consumables, where possible. 1.9 million MWh of renewable electricity produced globally, Fuel management equivalent to powering 390,000 households Fuel is a significant cost component for Sembcorp’s power and in Singapore1 and avoiding 1.5 million tonnes steam generation operations. Therefore, managing our various of carbon dioxide equivalent emissions fuel sources, along with their supply chains, is a key focus. Our fuel management teams look into issues such as contract management, hedging / trading and procurement, as well as 42 million m of water reclaimed for potable use, 3 logistics such as transportation and shipping, to ensure the security and reliability of our fuel supply. We secure long-term equivalent to the drinking water needs 2 of more than ~350,000 tonnes of recyclables collected in Singapore contracts for coal and gas supplies with reliable counterparties who have reserves that can sustain the useful lives of our 57 million people for a year assets. To further diversify our fuel mix and tap on sustainable sources, Sembcorp has increased our use of renewables and alternative fuels. Innovative Solutions for a Sustainable Future The challenge facing industries and communities today is one of balancing development with resource scarcity and 330,000 tonnes of wood and wood waste used as fuel 19 million m 3 environmental concerns. Sembcorp believes that we have a part to play in contributing to a sustainable future. of water reclaimed for industrial uses, to produce steam and electricity equivalent to the volume of 7,600 Our Utilities business uniquely offers energy, water and waste Olympic-size swimming pools 3 solutions. We leverage group capabilities and strengths to minimise the impact of our activities on the environment and create innovative solutions for our customers. ~75% recycling rate of fly ash in our coal-fired plants in India 70 million m3 of wastewater treated, equivalent to the volume of 28,000 Olympic-size swimming pools 3 Efficient and green energy generation Water supply, wastewater treatment and reclamation Waste recovery and energy-from-waste 1 Based on the average energy consumption of a 4-room public housing unit in Singapore. Source: Energy Market Authority, Singapore, 2017 2 Based on the average per capita consumption of drinking water. Source: World Health Organization, 2011 3 Based on a standard 50-metre Olympic-size swimming pool. Source: International Swimming Federation, 2017 * Figures denote full-year 2018 data 84 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 85 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Our Material ESG Issues Enabling a Low-carbon and Circular Economy Resource Management optimising our operations reduces our consumption of natural Global population growth and urbanisation have led to resources and our impact on the environment. Climate Resource Local Environmental unprecedented demand for critical resources. This has Change Management Protection underscored the need for us to consume resources responsibly, Local Environmental Protection Our Priorities Our Priorities Our Priorities while pursuing innovations that support a circular economy. As a result of the products and services we provide, our Reducing our greenhouse gas (GHG) Growing and innovating our business Minimising negative environmental As an integrated energy player and a provider of water and operations have varying direct and indirect impacts on the emissions intensity and moving solutions to support a circular impacts and ensuring the highest waste management solutions, our innovative solutions help environment. These include the discharge of effluent and towards a balanced portfolio of economy and ensuring we manage standards of environmental others on the journey towards sustainable development. disposal of waste, as well as the release of air pollutants into low-carbon energy assets our operations efficiently to avoid or management minimise the use of resources the atmosphere. Any improper or non-compliant emission, Operationally, achieving optimal energy and water efficiency discharge or disposal may result in harm to the environment Relevant SDGs Relevant SDGs Relevant SDGs are also business drivers for us. Maximising our efficiency and and public health, and threaten our long-term viability. Making Progress on Our Low-carbon Strategy How We Did in 2018 How We Did in 2018 How We Did in 2018 We are focused on becoming one of the region’s leading In Singapore, we grew to become one of the nation’s We grew our renewables capacity by We reclaimed around 61 million m 3 We registered zero significant spills independent renewable energy players. In 2018, we made leading solar power players, with nearly 120 megawatt peak around 20% to 2,600 megawatts. of water. We aim to develop a target notable progress towards growing our renewables and capacity of rooftop solar projects across over 1,500 sites. Our GHG emissions intensity was in this area low-carbon portfolio. We grew our global renewables higher in 2018. However, we remain In India, we emerged as the largest cumulative winner committed to meeting our 2022 portfolio in operation and under development by around target 20% to 2,600 megawatts. in the first three nationwide wind power auctions conducted by SECI, with 800 megawatts secured. In 2018, > Pages 87, 91 and 92 > Pages 91 and 92 > Pages 92 and 93 we further cemented our reputation and credibility as a green energy player when we became the first company to deliver installed capacity awarded under these contracts. Power generated with our first 250-megawatt SECI 1 Why this is material • Changes in technology and customer demand: Falling project will be supplied to Jharkhand, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh Climate Change costs and improved performance of new and emerging and Delhi, and will power more than 216,000 homes while As an energy producer, our power and steam generation technologies such as photovoltaics, energy storage, smart avoiding over 700,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent activities release GHG emissions that contribute to climate grids and downstream technologies including electric (CO2e) emissions per annum. change. Events and actions by governments in response to vehicles and decentralised generation, are bringing about climate change pose potential regulatory, technological, significant changes in the energy landscape. As a result of In the UK, we acquired UK Power Reserve (UKPR), the UK’s physical and reputational risks to our businesses. One such these technological changes, the needs of our markets and largest decentralised provider of balancing services with a significant development was the 2015 Paris Agreement on customers will change nationwide fleet of rapid response gas engines and climate change, which countries accounting for over 88% of upcoming battery storage projects. UKPR’s total capacity of global GHG emissions have ratified. However, we recognise • Weather disruption: Physical environmental risks, such as 813 megawatts includes 120 megawatts of battery storage, that in spite of these challenges, we are also uniquely extreme weather linked to climate change, may cause making it the largest battery operator in the UK. UKPR will positioned to leverage opportunities that have arisen from disruptions to our assets and operations, and to the support and enable a renewable future for the UK by actions in response to climate change. economic value chains and communities in which we bridging supply gaps between intermittent renewables operate. Exposure to physical risks varies widely across generation and conventional centralised thermal generation. As part of Sembcorp’s Climate Change Strategy, we have our operating geographies and across our businesses, identified the climate-related risks and opportunities material from our power assets to our desalination plants We also established a beachhead in Australia through our to our Utilities business as follows: investment in Vellocet Clean Energy. Our investment will • Stakeholder expectations: Our stakeholders are allow us to grow in the Australian power market, • Changes in policy and regulation: Increasingly, increasingly focused on the impact of climate change particularly in the direct supply of renewable energy governments are adapting their policies and regulations and how we respond to climate change-related risks to companies. as part of country-level strategies to reduce emissions and opportunities. As a responsible corporate citizen, and support the transition to a low-carbon economy. we recognise our obligations towards our stakeholders. These projects demonstrate our commitment to our priority Increasing global adoption of cap-and-trade schemes and Maintaining our stakeholder relationships is critical to our UN SDG 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy), which aims to carbon taxes will accelerate current trends favouring licence to operate and essential to protect our ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and renewables, which in turn can significantly impact the business reputation modern energy for all. future profitability of our assets and investments Aerial view of small scale, rapid response Our climate change public disclosures are guided by the gas engines at one of our UKPR sites recommendations of the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). 86 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 87 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Our Material ESG Issues Guide area 60x 80 Graph area 60.6 x 80.6 Our approach operations to facilitate best practice case studies and sharing Climate Change For more information on our Climate Change Strategy, GHG Emissions Intensity (Current and Targeted) of operational and efficiency issues. Compared with IEA’s 2ºC Scenario (tCO2e/MWh) The table below sets out our management approach to please visit the Reports & Policies page in the Sustainability climate change issues guided by TCFD recommendations. section of our website. 1.0 Water and wastewater management Our water business comprises industrial wastewater treatment, TCFD Recommended Disclosures water reclamation and seawater desalination. Through these Climate-related issues are managed through (SSC), which reports to the board’s Risk Committee on services, we are able to provide solutions to issues related to 0.8 our Climate Change Working Committee sustainability issues including climate change. The water scarcity as well as water pollution. (CCWC), led by the head of our Renewables achievement of our climate change targets is monitored and & Environment business. The CCWC reports incentivised via the performance scorecards of our Group Sembcorp’s comprehensive suite of water solutions is able to Governance integrate water supply, wastewater treatment and water to the Sustainability Steering Committee President & CEO and other relevant senior executives. 0.6 0.54 reclamation into a closed loop for our customers. This approach minimises liquid discharge and reduces environmental impact In formulating Sembcorp’s Climate Change The key risks related to climate change that Sembcorp’s 2017 Baseline 0.42 while conserving water resources. In treating industrial Strategy, the Group identified climatebusinesses face are changes in policy and regulation, 0.4 wastewater, we apply innovative technologies to treat multiple Strategy related risks and opportunities for our technology and customer demand, and weather disruption 2022 streams of industrial wastewater we receive from our customers. Utilities business by evaluating four key and stakeholder expectation. Target We leverage different wastewater influent profiles to optimise risk factors: physical environmental impacts on our assets, 22% from 2017 the wastewater treatment process. In doing so, we reduce brand and reputational risks, requirements for regulatory The findings from our climate-related scenario analysis 0.2 both energy consumption and chemical use in our treatment compliance, and product and market risks. shaped our strategy towards a more balanced energy portfolio. We will restrict our investments in coal-fired 2030 Target process. In some of our plants, we further channel a proportion We evaluated these climate-related risks and opportunities power plants and improve the energy efficiency of our <0.40 tCO2e/MWh of treated water for reclamation, and the reclaimed water is >26% from 2017 supplied to our customers for their industrial processes. In using near-term (2017 to 2022) and medium-term (2030) existing plants. We will focus on growing our gas and 0.0 lenses, and also considered long-term (2050) trends such as renewables portfolio as well as our green business lines Singapore, our NEWater plant produces reclaimed water that 2015 2020 2025 2030 helps meet Singapore’s potable water needs. a science-based target for the utilities sector by 2050. When while exploring new business models, products and services evaluating our markets from a climate-based scenario lens, that focus on energy efficiency, digitalisation and new Approximate GHG we used International Energy Agency (IEA) scenarios such as energy solutions. Global Energy Sector emissions intensity of Our large-scale integrated power and desalination plants use the New Policies Scenario and the 450 Scenario. Developing Asia Energy Sector Gas technology multi-stage flash distillation and reverse osmosis to provide Sembcorp Coal technology high-quality water to industries and households in water-scarce areas such as Oman and the UAE. Our desalination plant in As part of the development of our Climate transitioning from the GAF to an Integrated Assurance the UAE uses waste steam from our power plant as part of its Change Strategy, climate-related risks and Framework, which provides a more holistic and robust basis opportunities were identified as described of assurance for the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk water production process. Risk above. The ongoing identification, assessment management and internal control system. Resource Management Management Sembcorp provides solutions in energy, water and waste Energy plants use large amounts of water for cooling purposes. and management of climate-related risks is complex and multi-dimensional. Currently, our markets and The process identifies risk, including climate-related risks, management that support a circular economy and help A majority of our energy plants use seawater for cooling business units perform a high level impact assessment and from a top-down strategic perspective and a bottom-up minimise the use of resources. purposes, to minimise the use of freshwater and groundwater. review the adequacy and effectiveness of controls in perspective from each key market. We are committed to In some of our power plants, we further employ closed loop addressing climate-related risks as part of our Governance strengthening our organisational capabilities in addressing In addition, we are committed to innovation and undertake cooling water systems to minimise water drawn from the ocean. Assurance Framework (GAF). We are in the midst of climate-related risks. various initiatives to improve operational efficiency in our energy and water plants. We collaborate with institutions of Waste management The key metrics and targets we have set are We plan to achieve these targets through two key thrusts. higher learning, research institutes as well as private sector We aim to apply a circular approach across our businesses. reductions in our GHG emissions intensity The first is to reduce negative impact by reducing emissions; players to explore solutions. To further encourage innovation We operate energy-from-waste plants in Singapore and the and growth of our renewables portfolio. the second is to move towards a balanced portfolio of from the bottom up, Sembcorp’s !DEA Awards Programme UK, where energy is generated from waste. In our coal-fired Metrics low-carbon energy assets by growing our renewables capacity. also recognises innovative ideas and efforts across the Group. power plants in India, fly ash is generated as a by-product of and Targets We have set emissions intensity targets to the combustion of coal. We channel the majority of this fly ash be in line with the scale of reductions required to keep the Our wind and solar energy assets generate low-carbon Energy management to vendors who recycle it into cement and bricks. increase in global average temperature to below 2°C above energy for customers. In 2018, we grew our wind and solar Our power business generates electricity and steam. To ensure pre-industrial levels as per projections in the IEA World Energy power capacity in operation and under development by our assets generate energy efficiently, we invest in the latest In our industrial wastewater treatment operations, we actively Outlook 2016. Our target is to reduce our GHG emissions around 20% to 2,600 megawatts. This is equivalent to technologies when developing new plants as well as look to reduce the volume of sludge generated as a by-product intensity1 from 0.54 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per taking approximately 550,000 cars off the road for a year 2 retrofitting existing ones. We proactively pursue optimisation of the treatment process. Where feasible, our sludge disposal megawatt hour (tCO2e/MWh) in 2017 to 0.42 tCO2e/MWh or avoiding 2.5 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent to improve our efficiency while reducing emissions. Energy vendors convert non-hazardous sludge into products such as by 2022, and to less than 0.40 tCO2e/MWh by 2030. (CO2e) emissions. efficiency parameters are embedded in our plant operation bricks and plant fertiliser. management systems and are monitored daily. A technical 1 Refers to GHG emissions intensity of our Utilities business’ assets that produce GHGs from the combustion of fossil fuels forum discussion is held monthly for our global energy 2 Based on an average car emitting 4.6 tonnes of carbon dioxide per year. Source: US Environmental Protection Agency, 2017 88 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 89 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Our Material ESG Issues Environmental Protection Management Guidelines. We also Climate Change Sembcorp’s Total Water Management Capabilities aim to fully comply with all applicable environmental We launched our Climate Change Strategy in 2018 and set regulations and requirements. reduction targets for our GHG emissions intensity as well as growth targets for our renewables capacity by 2022. Cities Industries We integrate environmental considerations as a priority in We achieved healthy growth in our renewables portfolio in our planning for all existing and new operations, products 2018. Our emissions intensity registered a slight increase. and services. We conduct environmental assessments in However, we remain committed to meeting our 2022 target. accordance with national and / or international standards We increased our engagement on numerous platforms to CUSTOMERS and methodologies. These include environmental and social highlight the importance for businesses to take action to Potable & Wastewater impact assessments, environmental baseline studies and combat climate change. Our Group President & CEO and Industrial Water & Sewage pollution control studies. Recommendations from these other senior executives participated in various climate-related Sembcorp’s assessments form part of our management of health, safety panel discussions, including a Carbon Pricing Leadership Water Solutions and environment (HSE) risks, and these recommendations are Coalition plenary and the CleanEnviro Summit. incorporated into the planning, design, construction and SUPPLY 1 2 TREAT operation of new plants. Resource Management Water Industrial Across our plants, we pursue initiatives to increase efficiency. Treatment Wastewater / We apply stringent controls to the management of waste In the UK, we introduced the use of kaolin, a naturally Sewage Treatment generated by our operations and strive at all times to adhere occurring mineral, in our biomass power plant processes. Treated to discharge and emission limits set by local authorities. This helps to reduce slag formation, leading to increased Desalination effluent We implement containment measures to minimise any direct reliability, reduced maintenance costs and financial savings. that meets impact on the environment and the surrounding community. In our India thermal plants, we introduced electric vehicles, stringent buggies and bicycles for employees to quickly and safely move Water Freshwater environmental Our Group HSE Management System’s Incident Investigation around our sites. This helps us reduce vehicular emissions. Reclamation Sources Turning standards and Reporting Requirements allow us to take systematic steps We also launched our Virtual Brain water monitoring system in effluent into and actions in response to HSE incidents and near misses, to our water plants in China. This system monitors and predicts high-purity prevent recurrence. Our Integrated Assurance Framework (IAF) water effluent quality against regulatory compliance standards water sets out the three lines of defence that ensure compliance to and recommends corrective actions through machine learning. Seawater 3 RECYCLE our operating standards, and that such standards are effective. The Virtual Brain monitoring system will be progressively rolled out to our other water plants. In one of our Singapore For more information on our IAF, please refer to page 104. wastewater treatment plants, we piloted a project using Reclaimed cutting-edge membrane and ozonator technologies to lower Water Our performance energy consumption. We also partnered with a Singapore In 2018, Sembcorp was ranked 27th in the Top 100 Green university to develop an advanced biological process to Utilities and 11th in the Top Generators ranked by Renewables achieve higher quality effluent at a lower treatment cost. Capacity in Energy Intelligence’s Top 100 Green Utilities. These two projects are ongoing and, if successful, will help us Sembcorp is the only company from Singapore on the list, reduce our environmental impact while bringing about energy Local Environmental Protection which ranks the world’s leading electric utilities based on their and cost savings. Recovering Energy from Waste We are committed to integrating environmental protection renewable energy portfolios and GHG emissions. In 2018, and stewardship into our operations, in the belief that sound we grew our renewables capacity by over 400 megawatts to In 2018, our Energy-from-Waste Plant in Singapore started practices and performance in this area can help mitigate 2,600 megawatts, resulting in renewables accounting for over commercial operation. The plant is designed to consume environmental risks while contributing to a sustainable future. 20% of our total energy generation capacity of nearly 1,000 tonnes of industrial and commercial waste per 12,500 megawatts. day collected by Sembcorp’s solid waste management We adopt the Precautionary Principle in our approach to operations. We also recycle woodchips processed from managing environmental risks, carefully assessing the potential As part of our continual efforts to ensure the accuracy and construction and demolition waste to produce steam at environmental impacts from our operations and applying consistency of our environmental data, we adopted a cloudour Woodchip Boiler Plant. In doing so, we use around appropriate control measures to minimise them. In particular, based environmental data reporting system in 2018. 16%1 of Singapore’s wood waste annually. At our biomass we are focused on keeping our atmospheric emissions below plant in the UK, we also generated 232,000 megawattlegally acceptable levels, avoiding any pollution from effluents To further encourage innovation from the bottom up, hours of electricity, which is equivalent to the annual or disposal of waste and hazardous substances, preventing Sembcorp’s !DEA Awards Programme recognises innovative electricity consumption of over 60,000 homes 2. spills and environmental incidents, and monitoring our ideas and efforts across the Group. Some of the winning ideas 1 Based on waste management figures. Source: National Environment environmental noise. in 2018 included autonomous drones for inspections, insulator Agency, Singapore, 2017 and heater temperature controls, and the use of ultra low 2 Based on Sub-national Electricity and Gas Consumption Statistics. Source: We are guided by the principles and practices set out in our frequency technology to reduce biofouling. Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy, England, 2018 Statement of Commitment to Environmental Protection and 90 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 91 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Our Material ESG Issues Guide area 60x 80 Graph area 60.6 x 80.6 In line with the methodology used for the development of Local Environmental Protection In 2018, over 90% of the surface water drawn comprised our GHG emissions intensity targets, we started reporting our The increase in non-hazardous waste generated in 2018 was Water Withdrawal 1, 2, 3 (million m3) water from oceans and seas. We saw a decrease of nearly 11% GHG emissions and emissions intensity using an equity share due to increased electricity generation at our India thermal 2,000 in the amount of water drawn from rivers and lakes. There approach from 2017. The slight increase in the absolute power plants. The non-hazardous waste comprised mainly 1,874.0 was a decrease of around 14% in the water we obtained from 0.3% emissions and emissions intensity in 2018 was due to increased fly ash, a by-product of coal combustion in power plants. In 5.8% 1,782.3 e 1,794.0 water utilities, which was treated non-potable industrial and 0.5% 0.8% electricity generation at our India thermal power plants. 2018, we achieved an overall fly ash recycling rate of nearly 4.7% 5.4% 4.6% domestic wastewater. These decreases were due to the 75%, which amounted to nearly 1.1 million tonnes. 4.9% 5.0% divestment of our South African municipal water assets in 2018. We report emissions from the combustion of biomass 1,500 separately, in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative In 2018, we registered zero significant spills at our global 91.2% oceans Standards. These emissions amounted to approximately operations. A significant spill is defined as that which resulted and seas 447,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent in 2018, in a fine equal to or above S$50,000. 8.8% rivers compared to around 442,000 tonnes in 2017. and lakes Guide area 60x 80 Guide area 60x 80 1,000 Graph area 60.6 x 80.6 Graph area 60.6 x 80.6 89.2% 89.3% 89.6% Direct GHG Emissions (Scope 1) Waste Generated 1, 2 (thousand tonnes) and GHG Emissions Intensity 1,800 1,713.3 500 Direct GHG 1, 2 GHG Emissions Emissions Intensity (million tonnes of (tonnes of CO2 equivalent CO2 equivalent) per megawatt hour) 1,452.7 e 30 0.6 1,350 0 0.54 r 0.55 2016 2017 2018 23.6 ■ Surface water ■ Water utilities (potable and non-potable) 0.45 22.2r 927.1 ■ Groundwater ■ Wastewater from another organisation 20 0.4 900 1,673.4 1 Data is collected from meters 2 Water withdrawn during asset construction as well as water withdrawn 15.1 r during plant commissioning for a closed loop cooling system is excluded 1,442.7 from the reporting scope 3 Percentages may not add up to 100% as they are rounded to the 10 0.2 450 915.2 nearest one decimal place e Indicates data is based on management’s best estimates; we have since refined the accuracy and consistency of the data 0 0.0 0 11.9 10.0 39.9 Water Withdrawal by Source and Use WASTEWATER 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 WATER from another SURFACE WATER GROUNDWATER UTILITIES organisation 1 Emissions data covers entities that produce GHGs from the combustion ■ Non-hazardous waste ■ Hazardous waste Oceans and Seas Rivers and Lakes SOURCE of fossil fuels consumed in our Utilities business’ assets. It excludes emissions from anaerobic wastewater treatment plants, and maintenance 1,467 million m 3 141 million m 3 90 million m 3 82 million m 3 14 million m 3 1 The data excludes waste that is collected and incinerated for our customers and servicing equipment. Only CO2, CH4 and N2O emissions are included 2 Hazardous and non-hazardous waste are defined by relevant country in the calculation of direct GHG emissions. Global warming potential regulations in each market factors used are from the UN 2006 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fourth Assessment Report for 2016 data, and the IPCC e Indicates data is based on management’s best estimates; we have since refined the accuracy and consistency of the data 41% Fifth Assessment Report for 2017 and 2018 data. A 100-year time Industrial USE horizon is applied Water 2 Emissions data for 2016 is presented using an operational approach, 50.7 49.3 while emissions data for 2017 and 2018 are presented using an equity share approach 18.4% Other Uses r Indicates restated figure. After an internal verification exercise, direct % % 19.9% 100 GHG emissions for 2016 and 2017 have been restated to 15.1 and 59 Desalinated Plant Industrial 22.2 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent respectively, instead of 15.4 and Water Water Cooling Water % 22.7 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent as previously reported. GHG % Potable emissions intensity for 2017 has been restated to 0.54 tCO2e/MWh Potable Water 81.6% 80.1% instead of 0.55 tCO2e/MWh as previously reported Water Industrial Water Effluent Discharge 92 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 93 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Our Material ESG Issues Empowering Our People and Communities Cultivating a Safety Culture Health and Safety People Community Health and safety is an integral part of our everyday business organisational culture where safety is everybody’s Our Priorities Our Priorities Our Priorities and culture. We recognise that having and maintaining responsibility, through affirming positive safety behaviour good safety performance requires an organisational safety and encouraging corrective actions. We are testing a Making health and safety an integral Creating a values-based and Contributing to the sustainable part of our everyday business performance-led culture. Providing development of our communities culture and the right mindset. Our past efforts in safety web-based application to record observations and analyse and culture an engaging employment experience through engagement and partnerships, management have borne fruit, as we continue to see a the recorded safety performance data. Results from analyses where our people can grow and investing in initiatives that make downward trend in our injury rates. done allow for the identification of gaps in safety performance, and excel a lasting positive impact and hence feed into a more targeted response to enhancing Relevant SDGs Relevant SDGs Relevant SDGs To further improve our safety performance, we have embarked safety. The programme will be progressively rolled out to on a behaviour-based safety observation programme in Sembcorp employees across all markets. Singapore. The programme focuses on cultivating an Our approach • Board review Health and Safety • Oversight by the board’s Risk Committee Occupational health and safety • Leadership by our Group President & CEO How We Did in 2018 How We Did in 2018 How We Did in 2018 Our vision is to be an organisation with a proactive health and • A Group Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Our injury rates showed an We developed and launched the We made community investments of safety culture. We are committed to working towards the goal management system framework comprising: overall improvement. Regrettably, Sembcorp Mindset and Leadership S$1.1 million. 52% of our operations of zero fatalities and injuries in our workplace, with a workforce –– Group HSE Policy we suffered one fatality in 2018. Competencies. We also saw an had local community engagement that puts safety first. We benchmark our health and safety –– Group HSE management system guidelines We are committed to achieving increase in training hours from 2017, and development programmes zero fatalities registering an average of 25.2 hours performance against relevant global industry safety statistics, and standards of training per employee such as the International Oil and Gas Producers Global Safety Performance Indicators, and aim for progressive improvement. The Group HSE management system framework provides > Pages 100 and 101 > Pages 101 and 102 > Page 102 As our operations grow in different markets, the security of our guidelines and standards detailing expectations and principles staff and assets is also becoming increasingly important for us relating to different aspects and activities that take place at a to manage. In response to this, we have adopted a phased plant or site. It is further supported by Sembcorp’s 10 Elements Why this is material process has identified the following to be important areas approach in the development of our security management for Good HSE. We value lives and are committed to safety, Health and Safety of focus: programme, starting with a focus on projects under development. and believe that this is a responsibility shared by all employees Sembcorp develops and operates power and water plants as across the organisation. Health and safety key performance well as other facilities, where extensive health and safety • Employee development We have put in place structures and processes to meet our indicators have been embedded into relevant employees’ precautions are required. It is our responsibility to ensure • Employee compensation and benefits goal, including: scorecards, and the award of performance incentives for all that globally, all our employees and contractors are competent • Employee engagement and equipped to work safely. We recognise our duty of care • Employee wellness to provide a safe workplace for those who step into our • Diversity and equal opportunities Sembcorp’s 10 Elements for Good HSE premises, and we work hard to fulfil that duty. The health • Human rights and labour standards and safety of our customers is also a key priority – especially in our municipal water operations, where any lapse in health Community 1 2 3 4 5 10 and safety protocols can result in a direct impact on people Sembcorp’s long-term success is based on being a valued System of Risk in the community. partner to the communities we operate in. While Sembcorp’s Strong Safety Document Work Plan Assessment businesses play an important role in supporting economic Ownership in Design Control Management Validation & Controls of HSE and People development and improving living standards in our communities, by Every Verification The industry we operate in is becoming increasingly complex we recognise that there are social and environmental impacts Employee due to market disruptions by technological advancement, on the communities around us as a result of the development 6 7 8 9 climate change and resource scarcity. We have responded to and operation of our plants. Therefore, as part of our licence Third Party these complexities by repositioning our businesses and to operate, we aim to contribute to the sustainable Competent Operations Effective Selection and Resources Integrity Communication organisation, pursuing growth strategies and building new development of our local communities through engagement Qualification capabilities. Our employees play a vital role in ensuring we and partnerships, and investing in initiatives that make a achieve our business strategy and goals. There is therefore a lasting positive impact. critical need to develop and retain a capable, highly motivated and adaptable workforce to navigate this changing landscape. CONTINUAL ASSESSMENT AND IMPROVEMENT Of the issues relating to our people, our materiality review 94 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 95 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Our Material ESG Issues employees specifically takes into account the Group’s health from manufacturing to distribution and supply. We have a and safety performance for the year. robust maintenance and monitoring regime in place, which We value our people, includes stringent inspections and preventive maintenance of We walk the talk, forge strong partnerships We continuously do the right thing and care for our We dare to seek to learn about Assurance all critical instruments including meters and sensors at both We innovate and solve and deliver on communities and challenge the norm ourselves and the Our Group Health, Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) our and our customers’ facilities. We also conduct regular complex problems our promises the environment and lead disruption world around us assurance is aligned with the Integrated Assurance Framework laboratory tests to meet regulatory requirements and ensure (IAF) that we are transitioning to. The IAF adopts a three that the water we produce is safe for our customers and SEMBCORP Creative Insight Committed Connected Courageous Curious MINDSET lines of defence (LOD) approach that sets in place a robust end users. accountability system in order to ensure that there is continual improvement. People Our operations span 15 countries across five continents where For more information on our IAF, please refer to labour laws, regulations, employment codes and practices page 104. differ widely. All our local human resource policies comply with local laws. • First LOD – regular site-level HSSE inspections and evaluation of HSSE control effectiveness are conducted at Our human resource practices are guided by the following: SEMBCORP LEADERSHIP all plants and sites as part of our assurance regime • Oversight by the board’s Executive Resource & COMPETENCIES See It Believe It Do It Develop It Shapes the future Inspires and energises Drives performance Attracts and • Second LOD – on-site operations reviews conducted by Compensation Committee develops talent Makes decisions and Leads via influence Leads change subject matter experts from other markets and the Global • Oversight by the Senior Leadership Council tests new ideas and networks and transformation Builds great teams Operations department evaluate the effectiveness of the • The Sembcorp Mindset and Leadership Competencies plants’ or sites’ HSSE controls. On an annual basis, • Our Code of Conduct a validation and verification schedule is formulated using an • Our Human Rights Policy internal risk-based assessment to ensure that the assurance • Our Harassment Policy digital capabilities to improve the efficiency of our business, as well as recognising their contributions. This is facilitated exercise will focus on higher risk areas. Plants or sites with • Our Grievance Handling Policy the security of our and our customers’ data, and our assets through our newly launched performance management system higher risk ratings will be given priority in the assurance and operations. LeAD (Lead, Appraise, Develop). exercise. The results of the assurance then form the basis Human capital risk is monitored as part of our key risk indicators for the development of improvement plans at the site and reported biannually to the board’s Risk Committee. We also ensure that local talent are placed in senior Employee compensation and benefits management roles in each market we are in. This is key to To attract, motivate and retain employees, Sembcorp’s For more information on our on-site operations reviews, Employee development improving our ability to understand local market conditions, remuneration and reward system is market competitive and please refer to page 100. As part of equipping our workforce to respond effectively to while supporting capability building in the local communities. performance-based. To determine salary levels and benefits, change and disruptions in our operating context, we reviewed regular reviews and benchmarking are conducted against local • Third LOD – the integrated audit provides independent our approach to workforce management. A key outcome from Effective performance management is also a critical component standards and data from global market surveys and assurance to ensure compliance with our operating standards this review was the development and launch of the Sembcorp of Sembcorp’s business transformation. It involves aligning consultancy firms. In countries where there is a minimum Mindset and Leadership Competencies. our employees’ competencies to our new business direction, wage policy, Sembcorp pays above the minimum wage. Training Providing our employees with relevant HSE and technical The Sembcorp Mindset determines who we are and how we Sembcorp adopts an equal pay policy where rewards are capability development ensures that we have competent safety should operate our business. Known as the five Cs – Creative based entirely on merit and performance. Salary increases are Aligning Goals and Developing Competencies practitioners and line managers who support safe operations. Insight, Committed, Connected, Courageous and Curious – they based on individual performance and benchmarked against Training plans are tailored to the particular operation or site’s represent our promise to internal and external stakeholders To support Sembcorp’s ongoing transformation effort, the external market as well as negotiations with employee risk profile and local conditions, and is conducted on an and are critical to support our business strategy as we adapt to we launched and rolled out our enhanced performance unions and guidelines issued by the local government. Annual ongoing basis. Examples of operations-specific training include changes in our operating context. The new Leadership management system LeAD in our key markets of variable bonuses are based on the Group’s performance as defensive driving at our solid waste management unit as well as Competencies define the key characteristics of a Sembcorp Singapore, India and China, and are rolling it out in well as employees’ performance against individual targets set project commissioning and construction orientation for project employee. Underpinning each of the above competencies are phases in the UK. This system facilitates a more jointly with their supervisors. development teams. An annual global HSSE workshop is also anchor behaviours that we have identified as critical to drive structured and concerted effort to set and cascade goals, held as a platform for the learning and sharing of corporate organisational performance and build future business leaders. and moves the focus of the performance management Providing an engaging employee experience initiatives and best practices from our different operations. system from being an assessment mechanism to one that Employee engagement Employee development is a key lever of Sembcorp’s focuses on the coaching and development of staff. The As part of employee engagement, our senior leaders deliver Product responsibility: safety and quality transformation and is underpinned by the Leadership Sembcorp Leadership Competencies were introduced as consistent communications about the company’s vision, Product safety and compliance is a priority as non-compliance Competencies. With our training programmes, we aim to a key measure of performance to facilitate culture change strategy and progress. Quarterly staff communication sessions can result in serious health, safety and operational issues for reskill employees to be future-ready by driving behavioural as part of business transformation. Staff in these key are conducted face-to-face where possible and via webcast to our customers, many of whom depend on us for basic utilities change. We are focused on building our internal leadership markets have attended training on LeAD principles and a global audience. Each session is also followed by an open or require our products for their industrial processes. pipeline as part of succession planning. Part of supporting the Sembcorp Leadership Competencies. dialogue where employees can send in their questions and Compliance testing of our products is done at various stages, Sembcorp’s transformation efforts also involves building our feedback. Additionally in Singapore, we hold monthly “Meet 96 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 97 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Our Material ESG Issues the Leaders” sessions for our senior leaders to share about their Principles on Business and Human Rights. Our Code of Conduct be very different from another. We believe that our local Community investment personal leadership experiences and upcoming projects, as well sets out our stance on fairness, opportunity, non-discrimination, operations are best placed to not only understand the needs Sembcorp’s global Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as for employees to engage with them in an informal setting. dignity, respect and harassment. We abide by the Employers’ of the community, but also forge partnerships with local Framework provides a strategic and consistent approach for Pledge of Fair Employment Practices under Singapore’s stakeholders. Therefore, while the Group provides the strategic our charitable contributions and community investments. Over the course of the year, organisational updates, internal Tripartite Alliance for Fair and Progressive Employment Practices. framework, tools and guidelines to ensure consistency and We focus on fostering environmental stewardship and campaigns as well as business milestones are communicated We do not hire forced or child labour in our operations. acceptable standards, community assessments and engagements improving quality of life for the communities we are in. via channels such as briefings and workshops, emails, the as well as contributions are managed at the local level. intranet and other interactive internal digital platforms. We abide by local laws wherever we operate. Our Human Our CSR Framework aligns the tracking and reporting of our Rights Policy states that Sembcorp employees are entitled to Assessment and engagement community contributions with guidelines set by the LBG Employee wellness practise freedom of association and to be covered by collective Our assessment and engagement of the community is guided (formerly known as the London Benchmarking Group). This We recognise the impact of wellness on our employees’ bargaining agreements in the workplace, within the regulatory by our Group Stakeholder and Community Engagement Policy allows us to account for our total community giving using overall effectiveness and have set aside a dedicated wellness boundaries of each of the jurisdictions. We hold constructive as well as our Group Community Grievance Management standard definitions and valuations, and helps us ensure that budget in countries where we have major operations, such ongoing engagements with employee unions in our various Policy. Environmental and social impact studies are carried the contributions recorded are meaningfully spent on as Singapore, China and India. The budget is available for operations. In countries where our operations are covered by out in accordance with international and / or national community investment activities. department heads to use for activities that encourage collective agreements, we abide by the terms stated in these standards for major new projects and expansions. These employee well-being and team bonding. We also provide agreements, including those relating to minimum notice studies typically include social management plans that are For more information on our key programmes, please Group Term Life and Group Personal Accident coverage in all periods. Procedures for grievance handling are also specified implemented by the operations teams through the various visit Our Focus Areas: Social page in the Sustainability section our key markets. Besides mandatory medical screenings for in the agreements. Where collective agreements do not exist, stages of a site’s development. of our website. employees potentially exposed to occupational health hazards, we abide by the terms stated in employment contracts. voluntary annual health screenings are available free of charge to all employees in Singapore, China, India, Oman and the UAE. Our grievance mechanisms are readily available and transparent. We strictly prohibit any form of retaliation against an In 2018, we launched the Business Psychological Resilience individual who raises a grievance in good faith. The grievance Programme (B-PREP) in Singapore. B-PREP aims to provide procedure sets out our approach for the fair handling of DIRECT VALUE GENERATED & DISTRIBUTED BY SEMBCORP employees with a safe, supportive and caring environment to employee grievances, and employees have confidential TURNOVER S$11,689 million seek help when exposed to critical incidents that impact them channels to submit feedback. emotionally and psychologically. Our Grievance Handling Policy complements the group-wide Around the world, employee-led committees within our Whistle-blowing Policy, which encourages all employees to operations organise a range of recreational activities as well as report any possible improprieties on a confidential basis, nutrition and stress management programmes to support without fear of recrimination. The company has an easily employees’ physical and mental well-being. accessible whistle-blowing portal, and employees may also provide feedback via email or phone. The right to a work DIRECT VALUE DISTRIBUTED TO OTHERS Promoting a fair and equitable work environment environment free from harassment is part of our Human Rights Materials and Diversity and equal opportunities Policy. In the event of harassment, we ensure that remediation Services Cost Employees Governments Capital Providers Communities Sembcorp is committed to promoting a fair and equitable is undertaken in line with our Grievance Handling Policy. work environment for all employees. We believe all employees S$9,699m* S$759m* S$149m S$622m S$1.1m** should have the opportunity to thrive in a diverse workplace For more information on our Code of Conduct, Human This includes materials This includes This includes This includes dividends, This includes and subcontract costs, wages, salaries income taxes paid, distributions on donations from free from harassment. We recruit, promote, reward and Rights Policy and Whistle-blowing Policy, please visit the Report which comprise and benefits net of refunds perpetual securities our businesses’ provide career advancement and development opportunities & Policies page in the Sustainability section of our website. purchases from received and interest paid engagement with based on merit and without discrimination on the basis of age, suppliers, contractor charitable race, gender, sexual orientation, religion, family or marital Community costs and other organisations operating expenses or activities status. Our Senior Leadership Council is represented by more As we build successful and sustainable businesses, societies and than five different nationalities and our global workforce communities benefit. Our operations generate employment, includes people from over 35 nationalities. contracts for local suppliers and tax revenues for governments and result in infrastructure development in our host Human rights and labour standards communities. The direct economic value generated and Our Human Rights Policy defines our responsibility to ensure distributed by our businesses can be found on the following DIRECT VALUE RETAINED BY SEMBCORP the highest respect for human rights and the company’s page. We also recognise that our operations bring changes to expectations of our workers and business partners. We are our communities and can have positive or adverse environmental S$460 million committed to uphold and respect the spirit of the UN and social impacts that vary across our operations. Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles As a company with operations across five continents, we * On an accruals basis and Rights at Work. We are also guided by the UN Guiding understand first-hand how the needs of one community can ** Figure presented separately for information. Covers data from Sembcorp and our subsidiaries excluding Sembcorp Marine 98 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 99 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Our Material ESG Issues Guide area 60x 50 Guide area 60x 50 Graph area 60.6 x 50.6 Graph area 60.6 x 50.6 Securing Access to Clean Drinking Water Lost Time Injury Rate Per Million Man-hours 1, 2 Accident Severity Rate Per Million Man-hours 1, 3 1.5 20 Sembcorp installed 14 water treatment plants within the the installation of the water treatment plant and underground 13 villages that surround the Sembcorp Myingyan water tank for fire-fighting purposes. Our family feels safer 17.2 1.2 1.2 16 15.3 Independent Power Plant in Myanmar, providing more than living in Myingyan because, with Sembcorp’s help, my 1.1 19,000 people with access to clean drinking water within children have easy access to clean drinking water and our 500 metres of their homes. Toilets were also installed in house is now safeguarded against fire.” 0.9 12 schools within these communities. Additionally, given that the communities are located far away from the Ayeyarwady In line with our commitment to our priority UN SDG 6 0.6 8 10.1 River, underground water tanks were also installed to (Clean Water and Sanitation), this initiative has helped provide provide a quick source of fire-fighting water. safe drinking water for the communities surrounding our 0.5 plant, and improved water and sanitation management. 0.3 4 U Chit Win, village head of one of the beneficiary villages, Sate Nyan Village, said, “We are thankful to Sembcorp for 0.0 0 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 1 Group Health and Safety Performance is reported and recorded in accordance with the reporting requirements defined in the Group HSE Health and Safety Performance Reporting Standards. The principles adopted in the Standards are consistent with the general principles of the Global Reporting Initiative Standards, the International Oil and Gas Producers Association Reporting Standards, and the US National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. Occupational health and safety data covers employees and contractors in our operational assets. It excludes data from administrative offices and service companies. All injuries involved male employees and contractors 2 Lost time injury rate is defined as the number of fatalities and lost work day cases per million man-hours worked. It excludes first aid cases 3 Accident severity rate is defined as the number of lost work days per million man-hours worked. It has been charted to exclude fatalities. Accident severity rate including fatalities is reported as part of our detailed performance data available in the Performance and Data Commentary report in Our Performance page in the Sustainability section of our website • The launch of our Group Security Management System, Sembcorp Mindset and Leadership Competencies. We also which sets a framework for the implementation of security launched a new performance management system, LeAD, policies and application of consistent security standards in our key markets of Singapore, India, China and the UK. across our markets. These security standards are presently There was 100% uptake of the system for the goal setting being developed and formalised and performance review processes by over 3,500 staff in key markets within six months of its launch. Despite our best efforts, it is with deep regret that we report one fatality in 2018 due to a contractor accident at one of We continued with the Sembcorp Leaders’ Programme (SLP), our sites in India. We are deeply saddened by this incident. which has received consistently positive feedback. With the Our performance department aim to drive operational excellence by A thorough review has been carried out, following which launch of the new Leadership Competencies, the SLP will be Health and Safety providing post-review support to the improvement efforts additional safeguards have been implemented to minimise reviewed as part of the holistic Learning and Development In line with our global footprint, we continued to focus on of each site risks. We will strive to ensure that employees and contractors framework to incorporate future skills needed to develop our aligning our practices with international standards. Key maintain safe work practices and also encourage other employees and leaders. initiatives include: • An annual Global Operations and HSSE Workshop was last companies within our sphere of influence to do the same. held in Singapore in April 2018. Critical control points for Employee turnover rate was stable, increasing slightly from • Trade-based standards such as the Safe Lifting Operations power assets were identified by representatives from all We closely monitor our safety statistics to ascertain the 10.1% in 2017 to 11.6% in 2018. The voluntary turnover rate and Working At Height standards were rolled out in 2018. sites globally through a detailed process assessment effectiveness of our initiatives. We believe that our efforts to increased from 8.4% in 2017 to 9.3% in 2018. We recognise We will implement a behaviour-based safety observation exercise. These were then mapped to technical and HSSE improve our operations’ and sites’ abilities to identify and address the potential impact that our transformation efforts may have on programme for all our operating assets by 2019 standards, and, in response, site-specific standard unsafe conditions or actions have borne fruit. In 2018, we were our employees, and remain committed to consistently engage operating procedures were developed to enhance risk encouraged by positive results in both our operating assets as our employees and equip them with skills to cope with future • Operations review activities were conducted to assist sites management within our operations well as projects under construction. We saw a more than 50% changes as we continue to implement our new strategy. in identifying areas for improvement, such as operational decrease in our lost time injury rate, and our accident severity processes and health and safety. The review exercise takes • An injury case management programme was developed and rate has seen a consistent decrease in the past three years. The average number of training hours per employee was on a peer review approach, where each team conducting piloted in Singapore. All injury cases are managed through a 25.2 hours in 2018, an increase from 23.8 hours in 2017. the operations review involves the participation of and “Return To Work” programme, which encourages a positive People This increase reflects our efforts to build up our employees’ feedback from other market functions. These collaborative safety culture by helping injured employees return to work In 2018, a key enhancement of our approach to workforce capabilities to respond effectively to ongoing industry change efforts between our markets and Global Operations quickly and supporting a culture of care in the company management was the development and launch of the and disruption. 100 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 101 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Our Material ESG Issues Guide area 60x 50 Guide area 60x 50 Graph area 60.6 x 50.6 Graph area 60.6 x 50.6 Embedding Responsible Business Practices Employee Turnover* (%) Average Training Hours per Employee* Corporate Ethical Business Risk 15 30 28.2 e Governance and Compliance Management 25.2 Our Priorities Our Priorities Our Priorities 12 11.4 11.6 24 23.8 Maintaining an effective governance Fostering an ethical culture and Ensuring effective identification 10.1 and decision-making structure conducting our business with integrity, of material risks and putting in place 9 18 and ensuring we comply with all an adequate and effective risk legal and regulatory requirements management and internal control system 6 12 Relevant SDGs Relevant SDGs Relevant SDGs 3 6 0 0 How We Did in 2018 How We Did in 2018 How We Did in 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 We continue to be placed in the We rolled out our revised Code of We are in the midst of transitioning * The data covers both voluntary and involuntary turnover of permanent * Training data covers both permanent and contract employees of top 10 of the Singapore Governance Conduct and conducted training on our current Governance Assurance employees of Sembcorp and our subsidiaries, excluding Sembcorp Marine Sembcorp and our subsidiaries, excluding Sembcorp Marine. Other indicators in the People section relate to permanent employees of & Transparency Index the Code. Over 99% of our staff Framework (GAF) to an Integrated Sembcorp and our subsidiaries, excluding Sembcorp Marine have since acknowledged their Assurance Framework (IAF) e Indicates data is based on management’s best estimates; we have since compliance with the Code further refined the accuracy and consistency of the data Guide area 60x 50 Community Graph area 60.6 x 50.6 > Page 108 > Page 108 > Pages 104 and 108 In line with our commitment to manage our impact on the community responsibly and better mitigate the environmental Community Contributions (S$ million) and social impacts of our businesses, key community investments 6 and programmes are designed in consultation with local Why this is material compliance and fraud risks. Besides helping to preserve our 5.5 communities as guided by our CSR Framework. In 2018, we Corporate Governance bottom line by reducing the likelihood and impact of potential reviewed and enhanced our CSR Framework to develop a 5 We define corporate governance as the structures and losses, risk management provides a common basis to evaluate more strategic approach with our community investments. The processes in place for the transparent and accountable control new business opportunities. It also assures our board and 4.2 updated framework will be launched and implemented in 4 and governance of our organisation. Well-defined corporate shareholders that key enterprise and business risks faced by 2019. We also plan to grow the percentage of our operations governance processes are essential to enhancing corporate the organisation have been identified, assessed and managed with community investment programmes. accountability and long-term sustainability to preserve and with appropriate risk mitigation measures and controls. 3 maximise shareholder value. As part of our commitment to SDG 6, one of our priority Our approach SDGs, we invested in programmes to secure access to safe 2 Ethical Business and Compliance Corporate Governance drinking water for communities living in the vicinity of our Responsible business conduct and ethical business practices Sembcorp is led by an effective board comprising mainly plants. In 2018, we installed 14 water treatment plants in 1.1 ensure the long-term viability of our businesses and build trust independent non-executive directors. The board is collectively 1 Myanmar. To date, we have installed a total of 27 water and confidence with our stakeholders. We are committed to responsible for providing overall strategic direction and ensuring treatment plants that benefit more than 68,000 people in over high standards of behaviour and integrity in everything we do. the long-term success of the Group. Several board committees 0 50 villages in India and Myanmar. We believe in conducting our business legally, fairly, honestly have been established with clear terms of reference, both to 2016 2017 2018 and with integrity, and expect the same of those whom we do assist the board in fulfilling its responsibilities and to provide Our community investments also aim to impact the lives of business with. We have zero tolerance for fraud, bribery and independent oversight of management. youth in these communities. We have designed holistic corruption. Our businesses operate in highly regulated education programmes that not only include the physical causes such as environmental and water conservation environments where non-compliance may subject us to Furthermore, the board and management of Sembcorp upgrading of school building infrastructure, but also awareness education, as well as youth development, apprenticeships and statutory and regulatory fines and sanctions, including losing recognise that well-defined corporate governance processes raising campaigns on issues such as personal healthcare and job training programmes. There was a decrease in our our licence to operate and material litigation. It may also result are essential to enhancing corporate accountability and drug addiction. In 2018, we renovated over 35 schools and community investments as we paid out the final instalment of in damage to our reputation and credibility, limiting future long-term sustainability, and are committed to high standards classrooms, benefitting more than 6,700 students in India our investment in the enhancement of the Cool House at growth opportunities. of governance to preserve and maximise shareholder value. and Myanmar. Singapore’s National Orchid Garden in 2017. We comply with the principles and guidelines set out in the Risk Management Singapore Code of Corporate Governance 2012 issued by the In 2018, Sembcorp contributed S$1.1 million in cash and in-kind Total volunteer man-hours amounted to more than 4,000 Managing risk is an integral part of our business activities. Monetary Authority of Singapore, and our corporate to charities and community initiatives globally. Over S$470,000 hours, of which over 25% was spent outside of working hours As we continue to grow and expand globally, we are exposed governance practices are set out in the Corporate Governance comprised mandatory contributions and close to S$15,000 due to event requirements. to diverse risks, including strategic, financial, operational, Statement in this annual report. were leveraged contributions. These contributions supported 102 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 103 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Our Material ESG Issues To facilitate the effective execution of both our internal unit to provide the assurance that its risk management and reviewed. Oversight for risk management within the Group’s In our pursuit of operational excellence and business growth, processes and business needs, we have in place a clearly internal control system is adequate and effective. listed entities lies with their respective boards. Sembcorp will not compromise the health and safety of defined organisational structure which includes detailed roles our internal and external stakeholders. The health and and responsibilities for key appointment holders. This is further b. Second LOD Risk appetite framework safety of all our employees, contractors, customers and the supported by an established matrix for delegation of authority The second LOD sets the policies, standards and standard The board has determined a risk appetite framework for public is of paramount importance to the Group. We take as well as financial authority limits, which have been approved operating procedures that the markets and business units Sembcorp that forms a common understanding among both a serious view of any breach of health and safety standards by the board. A comprehensive set of group-wide governance are required to adopt. Additionally, submissions and our board and management to execute the Group’s strategy and regulations across all our operations and facilities. and functional policies ensure entity-level controls are also responses from the MCA are further validated through and objectives. Under this framework, the board has approved implemented across the Group. The Group’s internal controls substantive review by the business lines, subject matter risk appetite statements with respect to the areas below. Sembcorp recognises the need to have in place a strong policy and manual, which adopts principles of the Committee experts and corporate functions as an added layer These are aligned with how the Group categorises our and competent team that is committed to our values for of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, of assurance. material issues for the management and reporting of our transformation and growth. Sembcorp will continue to provides a framework for what constitutes an effective and overall sustainability performance: equip our employees with the relevant capabilities / adequate system of internal controls. It also provides c. Third LOD competencies and provide an engaging employment guidelines on the appropriate segregation of duties and a Group Integrated Audit (GIA) provides independent a. Economic experience, thereby creating a values-based and checklist of recommended internal controls for operations in assurance across financial, operational, compliance and IT Sembcorp actively pursues global strategies to deliver performance-led culture to ensure a sustainable business. our various markets to put in place. risks through a series of walkthroughs and substantive sustainable long-term value and growth. We will continue testing. Management works closely with GIA in closing out to invest in and develop our capabilities and expand our Sembcorp is also committed to building our digital We are in the midst of transitioning our current GAF to an IAF all material issues and gaps in a timely manner to ensure business in both existing and new markets. Investing in capabilities to improve the efficiency of our business and to provide a more holistic and robust basis of assurance for that there is continual improvement to our risk and such markets inevitably carries with it inherent risks; maintain an effective control environment to manage the the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk management and controls environment as well as an effective feedback loop however, the Group is a disciplined investor with a robust cyber risk exposure of our and our customers’ data and internal control system. The process identifies risk from a to the first and second LODs. External audit considers investment approval process that calls for the necessary our assets and operations. top-down strategic perspective and a bottom-up perspective internal controls relevant to the preparation of financial due diligence and risk management to be done. from each key market, putting greater emphasis on the three statements to ensure they give a true and fair view. The Group has set appropriate limits for investment In addition, Sembcorp believes that as an integral part of lines of defence (LOD) model. exposure in each country to manage concentration risk. our communities, we should conduct our business in a Risk Management responsible manner and make a positive contribution to a. First LOD The Group manages risk under an overall strategy, determined The Group is committed to maintaining a strong financial the communities in which we operate. The Group is Key markets and business units are required to regularly by the board of directors and supported by the board’s Risk position and targets to achieve an investment grade therefore committed to high standards of business conduct, review their risk and internal control environment to Committee and Audit Committee. The Risk Committee equivalent credit rating to ensure access to funding and engaging our stakeholders and managing our environmental ensure that they operate within the prescribed risk reviews and enhances the effectiveness of the Group’s risk protect shareholder value. The Group has a defined set of risk and social impact on local communities responsibly. appetite. This is done through a combination of detailed management and health, safety and environment (HSE) plans, management policies to manage our financial risks. The risk and control registers and review processes, established systems, processes and procedures. It also regularly reviews Group will not take part in any form of transaction that is d. Governance escalation procedures and well-defined consequence group-wide risks including significant risk exposures relating to deemed speculative in nature, under any circumstances. As a listed company on the Singapore Exchange that has management. In addition, a rigorous management foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and major both responsibility and accountability to a wide range of attestation process, the Management Control Assessment investment projects as well as corresponding risk mitigation b. Environmental stakeholders, Sembcorp is committed to maintaining high (MCA), is submitted quarterly by each market and business plans. HSE policies, guidelines and limits are also regularly Sembcorp is committed to operate in a socially responsible standards of behaviour and integrity, and aims to be best manner to manage our impact on the environment, in class for governance practices. The Group will strive to as well as provide high quality products and services that comply with all applicable laws and regulatory requirements Sembcorp’s Integrated Assurance Framework contribute to the sustainable development of the in the countries where we operate, including adopting a communities in which we operate. zero tolerance stance towards any form of fraud, bribery THREE LINES OF DEFENCE and corruption. We expect all employees to adhere to the FIRST SECOND THIRD In addition to being committed to complying with all guidelines set forth in the company’s Code of Conduct (CoC). applicable environmental standards and requirements through our established internal policies and processes, Our risk appetite statements are also supported by key risk we assess the impact of environmental and climate-related indicators, which are monitored and reported to the risks on our business, and apply appropriate control board’s Risk Committee on an ongoing basis. measures to manage them. Where viable, we also invest in the latest technologies and utilise our capabilities to Enterprise risk management Accountability Standardisation, Independent achieve better operational efficiencies and promote The Group is committed to ensuring that an effective and and Ownership Consistency and Monitoring Assurance environmental sustainability. practical enterprise risk management (ERM) framework is in Driven by Driven by Driven by place. Our framework aims to safeguard our people and Markets and Business lines / subject matter Group Integrated Audit c. Social assets, protect shareholders’ interests, facilitate informed business units experts and corporate functions and external audit Sembcorp is committed to being a responsible business decisions for value creation and ultimately enhance our brand that ensures the health and safety of our people, and and reputation. In designing our ERM framework, the Group makes a positive impact on our people and communities. has adapted and made reference to various industry risk 104 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 105 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Our Material ESG Issues management standards, such as ISO 31000 and the Enterprise Responsive anti-fraud measures Insurance As at December 31, 2018, the countries outside of Risk Management – Integrated Framework of the Committee • Fraud reporting procedures As a risk transfer mechanism, the Group has in place a Singapore in which the Group has the largest investment of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. • Fraud investigation procedures comprehensive insurance programme to protect our exposure are India (S$3.6 billion), China (S$1.8 billion), This ensures that we are in line with best practice. To sustain a • Grievance handling procedures worldwide business operations against financial loss arising Brazil (S$1.6 billion) and the UK (S$1.2 billion). Investment successful ERM programme, we believe in having the right from property damage, machinery breakdown, business exposure comprises invested capital, including reserves and processes and tools as well as instilling the right risk awareness Whistle-blowing policy interruption and / or third party liability. The Group has committed contingent support for projects and assets. culture. Our ERM framework specifically sets out a systematic Sembcorp has a Whistle-blowing Policy in place. We also engaged a panel of top-tier insurance consultants, and structured approach towards risk management through provide employees and external parties with well-defined leveraging their technical expertise and resources to e. Tax Risk Management the following activities: and accessible channels through which they may, in negotiate competitive pricing and comprehensive coverage It is our policy to comply with all relevant taxation laws, confidence, raise concerns regarding possible improprieties with insurance companies. To balance the cost of risk regulations and regulatory disclosure requirements. • Awareness training and workshops in the conduct of business activities, financial reporting or transfer, the Group focuses on insuring catastrophic events • Risk identification and assessment other matters to the Audit Committee. This facilitates while maintaining our emphasis on improving internal In 2018, Singapore implemented Country-by-Country (CbC) • Formulation of key risk management strategies independent investigation of such matters for appropriate controls over operations and maintenance. Sembcorp Reporting for Singapore multinational enterprise (MNE) • Design and implementation of risk mitigation controls resolution. The policy is available on our website and is Captive Insurance, a wholly-owned captive insurance groups. As a Singapore-headquartered MNE, Sembcorp is (preventive, detective and responsive controls) subject to review on a regular basis. subsidiary, provides first-layer coverage against property required to file a CbC Report for financial years beginning • Monitoring and timely reporting of risk management damage and business interruption losses for the Group’s on or after January 1, 2017. We are pleased to report that performance and risk exposure levels A whistle-blower may submit his / her allegations or power and utilities operations in Singapore and Teesside in during the financial year, we filed the CbC Report in • Continual improvement of risk management capabilities concerns either by telephone, email, our whistle-blowing the UK. Sembcorp Captive Insurance serves not only as an compliance with the submission requirements of the and mitigation measures portal or other communication channels. internal risk transfer mechanism, but also showcases the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore. Group’s efforts to promote greater accountability and Our ERM framework is supported by the following key pillars: The company will take reasonable steps to protect the responsibility in operations and maintenance. Over the For more information on our ERM framework and a identity of the whistle-blower. The company does not years, Sembcorp Captive Insurance has successfully built full description of our approach to managing the above a. Fraud Risk Management condone retaliatory action against the whistle-blower. up a strong capital surplus, allowing it to extend its risks as well as more information on our Tax Policy, please The possibility of fraud is an inherent risk in any The whistle-blowing case will be received by the Head of insurance reach to other operations and broaden its scope refer to Our Focus Areas: Governance page in the organisation. To manage this, the Group has established a GIA and an investigation will be conducted in compliance of coverage should the need arise. Sustainability section of our website. fraud prevention policy, which has been approved by our with the requirements set out in the company’s Whistleboard’s Risk Committee. The policy provides a framework blowing Policy. c. Financial, Market and Credit Risk Management Ethical Business and Compliance and comprehensive guidance on anti-fraud measures to Sembcorp’s financial, market and credit risk exposure is Sembcorp’s values of Creative Insight, Committed and proactively manage the risk of fraud, bribery and For more information on our Whistle-blowing Policy, managed via established policies, including treasury Connected define our approach to sustainable growth, and corruption. We actively influence and encourage our joint please refer to the Report & Policies page in the policies, financial authority limits and Governance form the foundation of Sembcorp’s CoC. Employees are ventures and associates to adopt our fraud risk Sustainability section of our website. Assurance Certification. required to comply with the requirements of the CoC, which management framework. The Group maintains a zero addresses Sembcorp’s stance in the following ways: tolerance policy for fraud, which we take to include b. Operational Risk Management Financial and market risks corruption and bribery. This stance is regularly The Group’s management of operational risk is focused on The Group defines and utilises approved financial • We treat each other fairly and with respect communicated to employees through awareness training the following areas: instruments to manage exposure to foreign exchange, • We protect personal information and e-learning programmes. commodity prices and interest rate fluctuations arising • We do not bribe Crisis management and business continuity from operational, financing and investment activities. • We deal with government officials responsibly The following key activities and complementary policies A robust and effective crisis management framework is Under the Group’s overall treasury policy, transactions for • We work with trustworthy business partners and procedures are part of our holistic approach towards put in place with the Group’s crisis management, speculative purposes are strictly not allowed. and representatives fraud risk management, and also address the risk of emergency response and business continuity procedures • We compete ethically bribery and corruption: and plans. These procedures and plans are regularly tested Default and counterparty credit risks • We avoid conflicts of interest and fine-tuned. The Group also addresses crises and A group-wide credit risk policy has been put in place to • We treat gifts, entertainment and hospitality responsibly Preventive anti-fraud measures emergencies through the implementation of appropriate ensure that we transact with creditworthy counterparties • We safeguard company assets and information • Code of Conduct prevention, preparedness, and response and recovery as much as possible. We also screen for material • We work with ethical suppliers • Conflict of Interest Policy programmes. Some of these material operational risks concentrations of credit risk to ensure that no single • We do not disclose or act on inside information • Gifts and Entertainment Policy include natural disasters, terrorism, cybersecurity attacks, counterparty or group-related counterparties has excessive • We do not facilitate money laundering or financial crimes • Fraud risk assessments epidemic outbreak and failure of critical equipment. credit exposure that may result in material impact on the • We maintain accurate records, contracts and sound • Employee and third party due diligence Group in the event of a default. internal controls Health, safety and the environment • We are good corporate citizens Detective anti-fraud measures A group-wide HSE management system which is aligned d. Investment Risk Management • We are politically neutral • Whistle-blowing Policy with international standards and industry best practice sets The Group has in place an investment approval process to • We manage our health, safety, security and environmental • Forensic data analysis the standard for operations in the various markets to ensure a prudent and disciplined approach to all responsibilities as our first priority • Compliance and monitoring actively manage HSE risks. investment decisions, including a country risk framework • Pre-employment screening that sets appropriate country risk limits. 106 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 107 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Environmental, Social and Governance Review Our Material ESG Issues Corporate Governance Statement The CoC is endorsed by the Board. Requirements of the CoC was conducted via video conference and train-the-trainers Sembcorp’s corporate governance principles are built on integrity and reflect our commitment to are communicated to employees globally through a message programme. In 2018, 96% of employees underwent training enhance shareholder value. from the Group President & CEO, face to face training in the in the enhanced CoC through various platforms, and over local language as well as a video presentation. Employees are 99% of employees have acknowledged their compliance with required to complete an annual declaration to acknowledge the CoC. We also launched our whistle-blowing portal. The The board and management of Sembcorp recognise that Board Matters that they have read and understood the principles and portal is available in the Whistle-blowing Policy document on well-defined corporate governance processes are essential to requirements of the CoC, and agree to comply with its our website. It has a pre-defined set of questions to guide enhancing corporate accountability and long-term sustainability, Board’s Conduct of Affairs (Principle 1) principles and requirements and promptly report any violation whistle-blowers in providing the required information / and are committed to high standards of governance to Effective board to lead and effect controls through available reporting channels. Suppliers and documents in reporting their concerns and also to allow the preserve and maximise shareholder value. This report sets out contractors who work with Sembcorp are expected to respect investigation team to maintain communication. the company’s corporate governance processes and activities Sembcorp is led by an effective board comprising mainly and follow the CoC as well. for the financial year with reference to the principles set out in independent non-executive directors. The board is headed by In 2018, our operations in Chile paid significant* fines totalling the Singapore Code of Corporate Governance 2012 (the Code), Ang Kong Hua. He is joined on the board by our Group The CoC also provides for escalation procedures in the event S$421,000. Two fines for incidents in 2016 and 2018 were which is applicable to this corporate governance statement President & CEO Neil McGregor, as well as Margaret Lui, of a breach of the CoC as well as feedback channels for for non-compliance with environmental regulations totalling for the financial year 2018. The board is pleased to report that Tan Sri Mohd Hassan Marican, Tham Kui Seng, Dr Teh Kok Peng, employee clarification and queries. S$362,000. They pertained to odour issues and the discharge the company has complied in all material aspects with the Ajaib Haridass, Nicky Tan Ng Kuang, Yap Chee Keong, of sewage to the ocean, stemming from failures in sewage principles and guidelines set out in the Code, and any Jonathan Asherson OBE and Dr Josephine Kwa Lay Keng, who Full compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements is lifting stations. Remedial actions have been taken, including deviations are explained in this report. was appointed to the board on August 1, 2018. the minimum expectation we prescribe for all our businesses. enhancing the electrical system of the lifting stations and level As part of our IAF, all heads of markets have to certify that metering system to better manage sewage water discharge, The company continually reviews and refines our processes Role of the board they have complied with all relevant legal and regulatory and building a new sludge thickener and dewatering plant in light of best practice, consistent with the needs and The board is collectively responsible for the long-term success requirements in their respective entities and countries of with bio-filter system for odour control. The other fine of circumstances of the Group. We are encouraged that our of the company. Each director exercises his / her independent operation. Any monetary fines and non-monetary sanctions S$59,000 was for a delay in constructing a well in a timely efforts towards excellent governance have been recognised. judgement to act in good faith and in the best interests of the imposed on the markets are also to be reported. manner as committed to under a Regulatory Development Sembcorp was ranked sixth in the 2018 edition of the company for the creation of long-term value for shareholders. Plan in 2014. The well was completed thereafter and has been Singapore Governance and Transparency Index, a well-respected The principal duties of the board are to: In view of emerging concerns on data privacy, the Group has in operation since 2015. index assessing the transparency of 589 Singapore listed established the Group Personal Data Protection Policy which companies. The index is a collaboration between CPA Australia, • Provide leadership and guidance to management on the sets out the principles and processes to govern the collection, In 2018, we embarked on transitioning from the GAF to an the Centre for Governance, Institutions and Organisations at Group’s overall strategy, focusing on value creation, use, disclosure and retention of personal data across all IAF to put greater emphasis on the three LOD model. Through NUS Business School, and the Singapore Institute of Directors. innovation and the need to ensure the necessary financial markets and business units. Markets and business units are the IAF structure, the respective LODs work closely to ensure and human resources are in place expected to abide by the policy, subject to local laws and that key financial, operational, compliance and IT risks are At the Singapore Corporate Awards 2018, Sembcorp won regulations on data protection. reviewed and tested using a robust assurance process. The IAF the gold award for Best Annual Report in the category for • Ensure the adequacy of the Group’s risk management and is expected to be implemented for all key markets by end 2019. companies with S$1 billion and above in market capitalisation. internal controls framework and standards, including Regular audits are conducted by the GIA and Group HSSE The Audit Committee, supported by the Risk Committee, ethical standards, and that our obligations to shareholders departments to ensure compliance and also to identify gaps oversees the IAF and its implementation. and the Group’s other stakeholders are met and lapses in compliance. They also work closely with management to develop action plans to prevent future Our ongoing efforts to build in-house capabilities, readiness • Review management performance and oversee the recurrences of gaps and lapses. and resilience in crisis and emergency response situations Group’s overall performance objectives, key operational require us to regularly conduct and participate in crisis initiatives, financial plans and annual budget, major Our performance simulation exercises and awareness training. While we recognise investments, divestments and funding proposals, quarterly We continued to be ranked sixth in the Singapore Governance the importance of effective crisis response procedures and full-year financial performance reviews, risk and Transparency Index, the leading index for assessing and proactive stakeholder engagement to manage a crisis, management and corporate governance practices corporate governance practices of Singapore-listed companies. we see the importance of helping affected employees cope with the psychological and emotional impacts, so that they • Provide guidance on sustainability issues such as In 2018, we undertook a suite of improvement initiatives can recover faster from an incident. We have developed a environmental, social and governance factors, as part of following a group-wide bribery and corruption risk assessment Business Psychological Resilience programme which complements the Group’s overall business strategy in 2017. We enhanced our CoC and Anti-bribery and Corruption the existing Group Crisis Management Framework and Policy to strengthen employees’ understanding of their enhances Sembcorp’s resilience in crisis and emergency obligations and foster accountability and ownership of our response situations. ethical commitments. Extensive training and awareness * A significant fine refers to a monetary sanction equal to or above S$50,000 programmes were conducted globally, including face to face that was paid during the financial year training, train-the-trainers programme, a CoC video and monthly key compliance message communications. We conducted face to face training in our operations in Singapore, China, India, Bangladesh and Myanmar. For the remaining regions, training 108 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 109 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Corporate Governance Statement To assist the board in the efficient discharge of its Executive Committee Meetings and attendance Board orientation and training responsibilities and provide independent oversight of The ExCo is chaired by Mr Ang and its members include The board meets on a quarterly basis to review and approve All new directors receive formal letters of appointment management, the board has established the following board Mr McGregor, Mrs Lui, Mr Tan and Mr Tham, who was the release of the company’s quarterly results as well as explaining the Group’s governance policies and practices, as committees with written terms of reference: appointed to the committee on May 1, 2018. deliberate on key activities and business strategies, including well as their duties and obligations as directors. New directors significant acquisitions, disposals and operational matters, and also receive an information pack that contains the Group’s • Executive Committee (ExCo) Within the limits of authority delegated by the board per its approve the Group’s budget for the following year. At these organisation structure, the contact details of members of • Audit Committee terms of reference, the ExCo reviews and approves business board meetings, the Group President & CEO updates the senior management, the company’s constitution, the • Risk Committee opportunities, strategic investments, divestments, and major board on the development and prospects of the Group’s respective committees’ terms of reference, the Group’s • Executive Resource & Compensation Committee capital and operating expenditures. The ExCo also evaluates businesses and each board committee provides a report on its policies relating to disclosure of interests in securities and • Nominating Committee and recommends larger investments, capital and operating activities. Minutes of board committee meetings are circulated prevention of insider trading, Code of Conduct, as well as • Technology Advisory Panel expenditures and divestments to the board for approval. to the board to keep directors updated on each committee’s guidelines on directors’ fees. activities. An additional board meeting is normally held at the Special purpose committees are also established from time to Technology Advisory Panel end of each financial year to review the Group’s strategy. The company conducts comprehensive orientation programmes time as dictated by business imperatives. The Technology Advisory Panel (TAP) comprises board Ad-hoc board meetings may also be convened as necessary to for new directors. These include briefings on board policies members Mr Ang, Mr McGregor, Dr Teh, Dr Kwa and consider other specific matters. At quarterly board meetings, and processes, presentations by senior management about Composition of the board committees is structured to ensure Mr Asherson, who was appointed to the panel on May 1, time is set aside for the board to discuss management Sembcorp, our overall strategic plans and direction, financial an equitable distribution of responsibilities among board 2018, as well as co-opted members Prof Ng How Yong and performance. Members of management are not present at or performance and business activities in various markets, as well members, maximise the effectiveness of the board and foster Prof Lui Pao Chuen. privy to such discussions. Annually, an off-site strategic review as facility visits. active participation and contribution. Diversity of experience meeting is organised for the board to have in-depth and appropriate skills are considered along with the need to Profiles of the members of the TAP may be found on discussions with management on the Group’s strategy and As part of training and professional development for the board, maintain appropriate checks and balances among the different pages 72 to 74. other key issues relevant to the Group. In September 2018, the company ensures that directors are briefed from time to committees. Hence, membership of the ExCo, with its greater this off-site meeting was held in the UK. time on changes to regulations, guidelines and accounting involvement in key businesses and executive decisions, and The TAP provides guidance to the Group on our vision and standards, as well as other relevant trends or topics such as membership of the Audit and Risk Committees, with their strategy in leveraging technology to enhance Sembcorp’s Board and board committee meetings, as well as annual updates to the Code of Corporate Governance. These are respective oversight roles, are mutually exclusive. leadership in our business sectors. The panel advises on general meetings (AGMs) of the company are scheduled in done either during board meetings or at specially convened technologies for research and development (R&D) as well as consultation with the directors before the start of each year. sessions, including training sessions and seminars conducted The directors and executive officers of the company have each investment, and oversees the development and application of Telephonic attendance and conference via audiovisual by external professionals which are funded by the company. given an undertaking that in the exercise of his / her powers significant emerging and potentially disruptive technologies communication channels are allowed under the company’s and duties as a director or executive officer of the company, relevant to Sembcorp. It also ensures the appropriate constitution to enable the participation of directors who are In 2018, the directors participated in the following briefings he / she shall apply his / her best endeavours to comply with management of specialised R&D projects, tapping into various unable to attend physically. Decisions made by the board and and updates provided by the company: the requirements of the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading government grant support schemes and the external board committees may be obtained at meetings or via circular (SGX-ST), pursuant to or in connection with the SGX-ST Listing technological ecosystem, and provides guidance to develop resolutions. Directors disclose personal interests in transactions • Briefings on developments in accounting and governance Manual from time to time in force, and to use his / her best systems for intellectual property creation and protection. In and recuse themselves from discussions and decisions in the standards presented by our external auditors at Audit endeavours to procure that the company shall so comply. addition, the panel advises Sembcorp’s board and event of any conflict. Should a director be unable to attend any Committee meetings management on technological trends and opportunities in line board or board committee meeting, he / she will still be sent The Group has adopted internal controls and guidelines that with the company’s growth strategies. the papers tabled for discussion and have the opportunity to • Quarterly updates on the Group’s business and strategic set out financial authorisation and approval limits for separately convey any views to the chairman for consideration developments presented by the Group President & CEO borrowings, including off-balance sheet commitments, The compositions, roles and responsibilities of the other or further discussion with other directors. If necessary, a to the board investments, acquisitions, disposals, capital and operating committees – the Audit Committee, Risk Committee, separate session may be organised for management to brief expenditures, requisitions and expenses. Significant Executive Resource & Compensation Committee and that director and obtain his / her comments and / or approval. • Quarterly overviews presented by the Group Risk investments and transactions exceeding threshold limits are Nominating Committee – are explained in this corporate department to the Risk Committee on the Group’s risk approved by the board while transactions below the threshold governance statement. The directors’ attendance at board and committee and controls environment and updates relating to risk limits are approved by the ExCo and management to facilitate meetings held during the financial year 2018 is set out on management initiatives and key emerging threats, such as operational efficiency, in accordance with applicable financial page 113. the heightened risk of cyber attacks authority limits. • Briefing on the new Code of Corporate Governance 2018 and directors’ obligations and responsibilities under the Code by external legal advisors • Public conferences, forum discussions and briefings on topics such as audit and financial reporting, regulatory and technological developments and complex industry systems engineering 110 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 111 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Corporate Governance Statement Besides such briefings, articles and reports relevant to the Review of directors’ independence Composition of Board Committees for 2018 Group’s businesses are also circulated to the directors for Each director’s independence is assessed annually by the Executive information. Furthermore, to enhance directors’ understanding board on an individual basis, focusing on each director’s Resource & of the Group’s businesses and promote their active engagement capacity to bring independence of judgement to board Executive Audit Risk Compensation Nominating Technology Board member Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Advisory Panel and stronger relationships with the Group’s stakeholders, they decisions. The directors are required to complete a Director’s regularly visit the Group’s operations in different key markets. Independence Checklist based on the guidelines provided in In 2018, the directors visited our facilities and met with the Code. The checklist also requires each director to assess Ang Kong Hua Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman government officials as well as key customers and partners as whether he / she considers himself / herself independent Neil McGregor Member Member part of the board’s off-site meeting in the UK. despite involvement in any of the relationships identified in the Margaret Lui Member Member Member Code. Thereafter, the Nominating Committee reviews the Tan Sri Mohd Hassan Marican Member Member Board Composition and Guidance (Principle 2) completed checklists, assesses the independence of the Tham Kui Seng 1 Member Member Strong and independent board exercising directors and presents its recommendations to the board. Dr Teh Kok Peng Member Member Member objective judgement Ajaib Haridass Member Chairman In 2018, all directors except Mr McGregor and Mrs Lui Nicky Tan Ng Kuang Member Member Member Board composition declared themselves to be independent. The Nominating Yap Chee Keong Chairman Member The current board comprises 11 directors, nine of whom are Committee has reviewed and recommended to the board, and independent directors. All the directors are non-executive, the board has agreed and determined that with the exception Jonathan Asherson OBE 2 Member Member Member except the Group President & CEO. The board members include of Mr McGregor and Mrs Lui, all members of Sembcorp’s Dr Josephine Kwa Lay Keng 3 Member business leaders and professionals with strong experience board for 2018 are independent. Mr McGregor is Group relevant to the Group’s businesses, from the engineering, President & CEO and an executive director of Sembcorp. Directors’ Attendance at Board and Board Committee Meetings in 2018 petrochemical, oil, power and gas and real estate industries Mrs Lui is CEO of Azalea Investment Management, a related Executive to accountancy, finance, legal and technology R&D sectors. company of Temasek Holdings (Temasek) which holds more Resource & Technology Best efforts have been made to ensure that in addition to than 10% interest in the Group. Executive Audit Risk Compensation Nominating Advisory Annual Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Panel general contributing their valuable expertise and insights to board Board member meeting meeting meeting meeting meeting meeting meeting meeting deliberations, directors also bring to the board independent and Tan Sri Mohd Hassan and Mr Haridass both sit on the board of objective perspectives to allow balanced and well-considered Sembcorp Marine, a listed subsidiary from which the company Total Number of Meetings decisions to be made. The board is of the view that there is a has received payment in excess of S$200,000 in aggregate Held in 2018 9 5 5 4 4 2 4 1 strong and independent element on the board. Given that the for consultancy services and provision of utilities services. Ang Kong Hua 9/9 5/5 – – 4/4 2/2 3/4* 1 majority of directors are non-executive and independent of Mr Haridass retired from the board of Sembcorp Marine on Neil McGregor 9/9 5/5 5/5 4/4 4/4 2/2 3/4* 1 management in terms of character and judgement, objectivity April 18, 2018. Mr Tham sits on the board of Sembcorp Design Margaret Lui 9/9 5/5 – – 4/4 2/2 – 1 on issues deliberated is assured. and Construction, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company from which the company has received payment in excess of Tan Sri Mohd Hassan Marican 9/9 – – – 4/4 2/2 – 1 Profiles of the directors may be found on pages 68 to 71. S$200,000 for consultancy services. Tan Sri Mohd Hassan and Tham Kui Seng 1 9/9 3/3 3/3 2/2 2/2 – – 1 Dr Teh Kok Peng 8/9 – 5/5 4/4 – – 4/4 1 Ajaib Haridass 9/9 – 5/5 4/4 – – – 1 Board Members for 2018 Nicky Tan Ng Kuang 8/9* 5/5 – – 3/4 2/2 – 1 Date of first Date of last re-election Yap Chee Keong 9/9 – 5/5 4/4 – – – 1 Position held appointment / re-appointment Jonathan Asherson OBE 2 8/9* – 2/2 2/2 – – 2/3* 1 Board member on the board to the board as director Nature of appointment Dr Josephine Kwa Lay Keng 3 4/4 – – – – – 4/4 – Ang Kong Hua Chairman Feb 26, 2010 Apr 20, 2018 Non-executive / Independent 1 Mr Tham was appointed a member of the Executive Committee and Executive Resource & Compensation Committee with effect from May 1, 2018. He relinquished his membership of the Audit Committee and Risk Committee on May 1, 2018 Neil McGregor Director May 1, 2014 Apr 19, 2017 Executive / Non-independent 2 Mr Asherson was appointed a member of the Audit Committee, Risk Committee and Technology Advisory Panel with effect from May 1, 2018 Margaret Lui Director Jun 1, 2010 Apr 20, 2018 Non-executive / Non-independent 3 Dr Kwa was appointed a director with effect from August 1, 2018. She has been an external co-opted member of the Technology Advisory Panel since January 1, 2013. Tan Sri Mohd Hassan Marican Director Jun 16, 2010 Apr 19, 2016* Non-executive / Independent Her service as an external co-opted member terminated with effect from August 1, 2018 Tham Kui Seng Director Jun 1, 2011 Apr 19, 2017* Non-executive / Independent * Directors conveyed their views / comments for consideration prior to the meetings they did not attend Dr Teh Kok Peng Director Oct 15, 2012 Apr 20, 2018 Non-executive / Independent Ajaib Haridass Director May 1, 2014 Apr 19, 2017* Non-executive / Independent Nicky Tan Ng Kuang Director Nov 1, 2015 Apr 19, 2016* Non-executive / Independent Yap Chee Keong Director Oct 1, 2016 Apr 19, 2017 Non-executive / Independent Jonathan Asherson OBE Director Jul 17, 2017 Apr 20, 2018 Non-executive / Independent Dr Josephine Kwa Lay Keng Director Aug 1, 2018 N.A.* Non-executive / Independent * Up for retirement and re-election at the company’s upcoming AGM 112 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 113 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Corporate Governance Statement Mr Tham hold the positions of Senior International Advisor The Code recommends that the independence of any director Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Board Membership (Principle 4) and Corporate Advisor respectively at Temasek International who has served on the board beyond nine years from the date (Principle 3) Formal and transparent process for the appointment and Advisors, a subsidiary of Temasek. Mr Tham stepped down as of his / her first appointment should be subject to a particularly Clear division of responsibilities between the board re-appointment of directors Corporate Advisor in the first quarter of 2018. rigorous review. The board has set a term limit of nine years and management for determining the independence of directors of the company. Nominating Committee The board has assessed these matters and is of the view that the Should the board decide to retain any director beyond this The Chairman and the Group President & CEO are not related All the Nominating Committee (NC) members are nonpayments received from these subsidiaries are not significant nine-year term, it will rigorously review the independence of to each other. Their roles are kept separate to ensure a clear executive directors, namely Mr Ang, Mrs Lui, Tan Sri Mohd in the context of the Group’s earnings. The board believes that that director and determine if he / she should continue to be division of responsibilities, increased accountability and a Hassan and Mr Tan. Three out of four NC members, including Tan Sri Mohd Hassan, Mr Haridass and Mr Tham’s directorships regarded as an independent director. In the financial year greater capacity of the board for independent decision-making. its chairman, are independent. They are Mr Ang, Tan Sri Mohd in these subsidiaries have not and will not interfere, or be 2018, none of Sembcorp’s current directors have served Hassan and Mr Tan. reasonably perceived to interfere, with their ability to exercise longer than nine years from the date of their appointment. The Chairman, who is non-executive and independent, chairs independent judgement and act in the best interests the board, ExCo, Executive Resource & Compensation The NC is responsible for continually reviewing Sembcorp’s of Sembcorp. In 2019, Mr Ang and Tan Sri Mohd Hassan would have Committee, Nominating Committee and the TAP. board composition to ensure strong, independent and sound served on the board for more than nine years. The board board leadership to drive the continued success of the Tan Sri Mohd Hassan and Mr Tham’s roles as advisors at has observed that over the tenure from 2010 until present, There is also a strong and independent element on the board, company and our businesses. Temasek International Advisors are non-executive in nature and both Mr Ang and Tan Sri Mohd Hassan have shown strong where nine out of 11 directors are independent. As such, the they are not involved in its day-to-day conduct of business. independence of character and judgement in the discharge of board has ascertained that there is no necessity to appoint a The key responsibilities of the NC are to: They are also not accustomed or under an obligation, whether their duties as directors. The directors have accumulated much lead independent director. formal or informal, to act in accordance with the directions, knowledge of the business of Sembcorp and contributed • Ensure that the board has the right balance of skills, instructions or wishes of Temasek. The board believes that actively to the board which is very valuable, particularly to The Chairman leads and ensures an effective and attributes, knowledge and experience in business, finance they have acted and will continue to act in the best interests the new management team and especially during this comprehensive discussion on matters brought to the board, and related industries, as well as management expertise of Sembcorp. transformation period that the Group is undergoing. The including strategic issues and business planning. He ensures critical to the company’s businesses board is of the opinion that the length of service will not the board and board committee meetings are conducted in a Hence, the Nominating Committee has recommended, and change the independence of both directors. In fact, their manner that promotes open communication, participation and • Review the composition and size of the board and its the board has determined that Tan Sri Mohd Hassan, length of service will assist the board to better understand the decision making. He also provides advice to management and committees and recommend new appointments, reMr Haridass and Mr Tham are independent notwithstanding Group and our business over the long-term, and therefore monitors all follow-up actions following the board’s decisions, appointments and re-elections to the board and board their relationships with Temasek and the Group’s subsidiaries. better serve the interests of the company and our shareholders ensuring that such decisions are translated into executive committees as appropriate by having long-term familiarity with and understanding of the action. In addition, the Chairman provides leadership and The board also considers Dr Kwa independent notwithstanding company and our operations and growth strategies. Therefore, guidance to management, particularly with regard to global • Review the directors’ independence and succession plans her relationship with the company under Guidance Note 2.1(d) after a rigorous and thorough review, the Nominating growth strategy and project investments. He also helps to for the board of the Code. Dr Kwa is a director of the Agency for Science, Committee recommended to the board that Mr Ang and Tan oversee the Group’s talent management, and works with the Technology and Research (A*STAR), an organisation with Sri Mohd Hassan shall remain independent despite serving Group President & CEO to ensure that robust succession plans • Develop a process to evaluate board and board which Sembcorp is jointly researching an R&D project under more than nine years on the board, and the board concurred. are in place for key management positions. committees’ performance the Sembcorp-EMA Energy Technology Partnership for which the company has made payment in excess of S$200,000 for At AGMs and other shareholder meetings, the Chairman plays • Review training and professional development project cost. The board is of the view that the amount paid to a pivotal role in fostering constructive dialogue between programmes for the board A*STAR is insignificant in the context of the Group’s earnings shareholders and the board and management. and Dr Kwa’s directorship on ASTAR will not interfere with her ability to exercise independent judgement and act in the best The Group President & CEO makes strategic proposals to the interests of Sembcorp. board, develops and manages the Group’s businesses in accordance with strategies, policies, budgets and business plans as approved by the board and provides close oversight, guidance and leadership to key management personnel. 114 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 115 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Corporate Governance Statement Succession planning, appointment and re-appointment Review of directors’ time commitments To provide feedback to aid in this assessment, each director is Company Secretary of directors While reviewing the re-appointment and re-election of directors, required to complete a questionnaire on the effectiveness of the The appointment and the removal of the company secretary The NC seeks to refresh board membership progressively and the NC also considers the directors’ other board directorship board, board committees and individual directors’ contribution are subject to the board’s approval. The company secretary in an orderly manner. All appointments to the board are made representations and principal commitments to ensure they and performance. The evaluation considers factors such as the assists the Chairman to ensure good information flow within based on merit and measured against objective criteria. have sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities to the size and composition of the board and board committees, the board and its committees and between the board and Candidates must be able to discharge their responsibilities as board and Sembcorp adequately. The board has adopted an board processes and accountability, board and board senior management. In addition, the company secretary directors while upholding the highest standards of governance internal guiding principle that seeks to address the competing committees’ development and effectiveness, information and attends to corporate secretarial matters, such as arranging practised by the Group. The board also recognises the time commitments that may be faced when a director holds technology management, decision-making processes, risk and orientations for new directors and assisting with their contributions of directors who have, over time, developed multiple board directorship representations. As a general rule, crisis management, succession planning, communication with professional development as required. In consultation with the deep insights into the Group’s businesses. It exercises its the board has determined that the maximum number of listed senior management and stakeholder management. The Chairman and Group President & CEO, the company secretary discretion to retain the services of such directors where company board representations held by any Sembcorp director evaluation and feedback are then consolidated and presented assists the board with scheduling of board and board appropriate, to avoid an abrupt loss of experienced directors should not exceed five. However, the board recognises that to the board for discussion on areas of strengths and committee meetings, prepares meeting agendas and with a valuable understanding of the Group. the individual circumstances and capacity of each director are weaknesses. The NC periodically reviews and improves the administers, attends and minutes board proceedings. different and there may be circumstances in which the limit on directors’ questionnaire to further enhance the assessment of With reference to the Group’s strategies and business plans, board appointments may differ as appropriate. the board and board committees’ effectiveness. The company secretary assists the board in the Group’s the NC reviews the skills mix of board members to ensure compliance with the company’s constitution and applicable that the board has the required diversity, including gender For 2018, the NC has reviewed and recommended to the For the financial year 2018, the evaluation indicated that the regulations, including requirements of the Companies Act, diversity, as well as the competencies to support our growth. board and the board is satisfied that all directors have given board and its committees continued to perform effectively to Securities & Futures Act and SGX-ST Listing Manual. When the need for a new director arises, the NC consults with sufficient time and attention to the affairs of the company and support Sembcorp. Moreover, the company secretary liaises on behalf of the management and identifies a list of potential candidates. have discharged their duties adequately. company with SGX-ST, the Accounting and Corporate These candidates are sourced through an extensive network of Access to Information (Principle 6) Regulatory Authority (ACRA) and when necessary, shareholders. contacts and external databases where appropriate, based on Board Performance (Principle 5) Directors have complete, adequate and timely the skill sets, experience, knowledge and attributes required to Active participation and valuable contributions are key information and resources Independent professional advice lead the growth of the company. Thereafter, the NC will to overall effectiveness of the board In the furtherance of its duties, the board exercises its interview the candidates and make its recommendation to Complete, adequate and timely information discretion to seek independent professional advice at the the board for approval. In accordance with the company’s Board evaluation process and performance criteria The company recognises that directors should be provided company’s expense, if deemed necessary. constitution, the new director will hold office until the next The board believes that board performance is ultimately with complete, adequate and timely information on an AGM and, if eligible, can stand for re-appointment. reflected in the long-term performance of the Group. ongoing basis that enables them to make informed decisions, discharge their duties and keep abreast of the Group’s The company subscribes to the principle that all directors, Each year, in consultation with the NC, the board assesses operational and financial performance, key issues, challenges including the Group President & CEO, should retire and submit its performance to identify key areas for improving the and opportunities. Financial highlights of the Group’s themselves for re-election at regular intervals, subject to their effectiveness of the board and board committees and requisite performance and key developments are presented on a continued satisfactory performance. The company’s constitution follow-up actions. The assessment helps the directors to quarterly basis at board meetings and the Group President & requires a third of our directors to retire and subject themselves maintain focus on their key responsibilities, while improving CEO, Group Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and members of for re-election by shareholders at every AGM (one-third board performance. senior management attend board and board committee rotation rule). meetings to provide insight into matters under discussion and address any queries that the directors may have. In addition, all newly-appointed directors submit themselves for retirement and re-election at the AGM immediately In line with Sembcorp’s strong commitment to environmental following their appointment. Thereafter, these directors are responsibility, directors are provided with electronic tablets subject to the one-third rotation rule. that give them access to board and board committee papers prior to and during meetings. As a general rule, board and Pursuant to the one-third rotation rule, Tan Sri Mohd Hassan, board committee papers are made available to directors a Mr Tham, Mr Haridass and Mr Tan will retire and have offered week prior to meetings. This is to give the directors sufficient themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM. time to review and consider matters at hand. It also ensures that discussions at the meetings can be focused on any Dr Kwa, who was newly appointed to the board on August 1, questions arising from these matters. The board has ready and 2018, will also retire and has offered herself for re-election by independent access to the Group President & CEO, senior shareholders at the forthcoming AGM. management, the company secretary and internal and external auditors and counsel at all times, should it require additional The board does not encourage the appointment of alternate information or for advice and consultation. directors. No alternate director has been or is currently being appointed to the board. 116 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 117 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Matters In its deliberations, the ERCC takes into consideration industry Level and Mix of Remuneration (Principle 8) Directors’ Fee Framework for 2018* practices and compensation norms. The Group President Competitive reward system to ensure highest S$ Procedures for Developing Remuneration & CEO does not attend discussions relating to his own performance and retention of directors and key Policies (Principle 7) compensation, terms and conditions of service, or the review management personnel Retainer fee (per annum) Remuneration of directors adequate and not excessive of his performance. In addition, no ERCC member or any Chairman (all-in fee) 1 750,000 director is involved in deliberations in respect of any Sembcorp believes that our remuneration and reward system Director’s basic retainer 75,000 With the assistance of the Executive Resource & Compensation remuneration, compensation, share-based incentives or any is aligned with the long-term interests and risk policies of the Chairman, Executive Committee 50,000 Committee, the board ensures that a formal policy and form of benefits to be granted to himself / herself. company. We also recognise that a competitive remuneration transparent procedure for determining remuneration of and reward system based on individual performance is Chairman, Audit Committee 50,000 executives and directors are in place. The ERCC has access to expert professional advice on human important to attract, retain and incentivise the best talent. Chairman, Risk Committee 35,000 resource matters whenever there is a need for such external Chairman, Executive Resource & Executive Resource & Compensation Committee consultation. In 2018, Aon Hewitt (Singapore) was engaged as The Group President & CEO, as an executive director, does not Compensation Committee 35,000 The Executive Resource & Compensation Committee (ERCC) external consultants to provide such advice. In engaging receive director’s fees from Sembcorp. As a lead member of Chairman, Nominating Committee 25,000 is chaired by Mr Ang, an independent non-executive director. external consultants, the Group ensures that the relationship, management, his compensation consists of his salary, Chairman, Technology Advisory Panel / Others 25,000 He is joined on the committee by Mrs Lui, Tan Sri Mohd Hassan, if any, between ourselves and these external consultants will allowances, bonuses and share-based incentives conditional Member, Executive Committee 30,000 Mr Tan as well as Mr Tham. Mr Tham was appointed to the not affect the independence and objectivity of the external upon meeting certain performance targets. Member, Audit Committee 30,000 ERCC on May 1, 2018. consultants. In 2018, the ERCC undertook a review of the Member, Risk Committee 20,000 independence and objectivity of Aon Hewitt (Singapore) and Details of the share-based incentives and performance Member, Executive Resource & The ERCC is responsible for developing, reviewing and confirmed that the Group had no relationship with the targets are available in the Directors’ Statement and Note 35 Compensation Committee 20,000 recommending to the board the framework of remuneration company that would affect the latter’s independence. in the Notes to the Financial Statements in this annual report. Member, Nominating Committee 15,000 for the board and key management personnel as defined in Member, Technology Advisory Panel / Others 15,000 the Code. In reviewing succession planning and the Group’s leadership Non-executive directors’ fees pipeline, the ERCC reviews the development of management An independent review of the Directors’ Fee Framework was Attendance fee (per meeting) To this end, it: and senior staff and assesses their strengths and development conducted in 2018 by our external consultants, Willis Towers Board meeting (Local) 2 2,500 needs based on the Group’s leadership competencies Watson. It concluded that existing board retainer and • Assists the board to ensure that competitive remuneration framework, with the aim of building talent and maintaining committee retainer fees were competitive while the meeting Board meeting (Overseas) 2 5,000 policies and practices for the company and management strong and sound leadership for the Group. On an annual attendance fee was higher than market. As a result, the board Committee / General meeting (Local) 2 1,500 are in place and aligned with the prevailing basis, the ERCC reviews succession planning for the position adopted a new fee framework with a reduced attendance fee Committee / General meeting (Overseas) 2 3,000 economic environment of Group President & CEO and that of officers reporting which is aligned to the market. Committee / AGM & EGM (flat fee) 3 1,000 directly to him, as well as for other selected key positions in • Reviews the Directors’ Fee Framework periodically and the company. Potential internal and external candidates for The board also voluntarily took a 15% reduction of its Teleconference (per meeting) remuneration package of each member of key management, succession are reviewed for different time horizons according financial year 2017 fee. Board meeting 1,500 and endorses or makes further recommendations on such to immediate, mediumand long-term needs. In addition, Board committee meeting 1,000 matters to the board for its consideration the ERCC also reviews the company’s obligations arising in the The framework on the right adopted by the company is based General meeting 1,000 event of termination of the contracts of service of the Group on a scale of fees divided into basic retainer fees, attendance Notes: • Establishes guidelines on share-based incentives and other President & CEO and key management personnel, to ensure fees and allowances for service on board committees. * The Directors’ Fee Framework applies to all directors except the Group long-term incentive plans and approves the grant of such that such contracts contain fair and reasonable President & CEO, who is an executive director and does not receive any incentives to key management personnel. These incentives termination clauses. directors’ fees serve to motivate executives to maximise operating and 1 With effect from January 1, 2014, the Chairman of our board only receives financial performance and shareholder value. They are one all-in chairman’s fee. He does not receive the directors’ basic fee, nor any further fees or allowances for serving as a chairman or member of any of our aimed at aligning the interests of key management board committees personnel with those of shareholders 2 Local – home country of the directors Overseas – outside home country of the directors • Reviews succession planning for key management 3 Attendance fee for attending committee meeting is payable if such meetings are held on separate days from the board meeting. In the event that the personnel and the leadership pipeline for the organisation committee meeting is held on the same day as the board meeting, only a flat fee of S$1,000 is payable 118 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 119 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Corporate Governance Statement The directors’ fees payable to non-executive directors are paid Remuneration for key management personnel • Share-based incentives Pay for performance in cash and in share awards under the Sembcorp Industries Sembcorp’s remuneration and reward system for key The company’s performance share plan and restricted As in prior years, a pay-for-performance study was conducted Restricted Share Plan 2010. The ERCC has determined that up to management personnel is designed to ensure a competitive level share plan were approved and adopted by shareholders at in 2018 by our external consultants, Aon Hewitt (Singapore), 30% of the aggregate directors’ fees approved by shareholders of compensation to attract, retain and motivate employees to an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) held by the to review the alignment between the Group’s executive pay for a particular financial year may be paid out in the form of deliver high-level performance in accordance with the company’s company on April 22, 2010. Through our share-based programme and business results. The Group benchmarked restricted share awards. Mr McGregor does not receive directors’ risk policies. Further, the level and mix of the variable incentives, we motivate key management personnel to ourselves against established comparable-sized local listed fees as Group President & CEO of the company. The payment remuneration is structured to ensure that the total remuneration continue to strive for the Group’s long-term shareholder companies with whom the Group competes for talent of directors’ fees (both the cash and share components) is for key management personnel is strongly aligned to the value. In addition, our share-based incentive plans aim to and capital. contingent on shareholders’ approval. Directors and their financial performance and returns delivered to shareholders. align the interests of participants with the interests of associates also abstain from voting on any resolution(s) The strong relationship between pay and performance has been shareholders, to improve performance and achieve The study benchmarked different elements of senior executive relating to their remuneration. validated based on the pay-for-performance study conducted sustainable growth for the company. pay, namely fixed remuneration, total cash remuneration and by our external consultants, Aon Hewitt (Singapore) in 2018. total remuneration including long-term incentives, against Share awards granted under the Sembcorp Industries Restricted The performance share award is only granted to the Group that of peer companies. It found fixed remuneration for senior Share Plan 2010 to non-executive directors as part of directors’ • Fixed remuneration President & CEO and top management, while the restricted executives at the Group to be positioned competitively vis-à-vis fees will consist of the grant of fully paid shares outright with Fixed remuneration includes an annual basic salary and, share award is granted to a broader group of executives. the Group’s relative size and complexity. Further, the total no performance and vesting conditions attached, but with a where applicable, fixed allowances, an annual wage The number of performance and restricted shares awarded remuneration over the last five years shows a robust correlation selling moratorium. Non-executive directors are required to supplement and other emoluments. Base salaries of key is determined using a valuation of the shares based on a with the Group’s key financial performance drivers, including hold shares in the company (including shares obtained by management personnel are determined based on the scope, Monte Carlo simulation. The share awards are conditional profit from operations and EVA. The performance conditions other means) worth the value of their annual basic retainer fee criticality and complexity of each role, equity against peers upon the achievement of pre-determined performance for short-term incentive plans were only partially met. (currently S$75,000); any excess may be disposed of as with similar responsibilities, experience and competencies, targets over the performance period. The performance Additionally, the shareholder return performance conditions desired, subject to securities trading rules. A non-executive individual performance and market competitiveness. conditions and targets are approved by the ERCC at the that feature in the long-term incentive plan were not met, director may only dispose of all of his shares one year after beginning of the performance period and the final number due to adverse share price movements. As a result, the realised leaving the board. Subject to shareholders’ approval at the • Annual variable bonuses of shares vested to the recipient will depend on the level value of the share incentive award was much lower than the forthcoming AGM, the cash component of the directors’ fees The annual variable bonus is intended to recognise of achievement of these targets over the performance granted value. for the financial year 2019 is intended to be paid half-yearly the performance and contributions of the individual, period, subject to the approval of the ERCC. in arrears. while driving the achievement of key business results for Overall, the study demonstrates sound correlation between the company. The annual variable bonus includes The size of the restricted share awards granted in 2018 is the Group’s executive pay, our key financial results, shareholder The actual number of shares to be awarded to each two components. based on the achievement of stretched financial and returns and peer company performance, thus reinforcing the non-executive director will be determined by reference to the non-financial targets, with emphasis on organisational strong pay-for-performance features underpinning the volume-weighted average price of a share on the SGX-ST over The first is the performance target bonus, linked to the transformation to meet future challenges and adherence executive pay programme. the 14 trading days from (and including) the day the shares are achievement of pre-agreed financial and non-financial to environment, health and safety standards. first quoted ex-dividend after the AGM (or, if the resolution to performance targets, comprising strategy, business Disclosure on Remuneration (Principle 9) approve the final dividend is not approved, over the 14 trading processes and organisation and people development. It is The restricted shares awarded will vest conditionally over a days immediately following the date of the AGM). The designed to support the Group’s business strategy and the four-year period contingent on satisfactory individual Based on the revised Directors’ Fee Framework, the computation number of shares to be awarded will be rounded down to the ongoing enhancement of shareholder value through the performance of the recipient for the financial year of non-executive directors’ fees totalled S$2,206,333 in 2018 nearest hundred and any residual balance will be settled in delivery of annual financial strategy and operational preceding each tranche of vesting, and continued (2017: S$1,938,769 – after applying the 15% reduction of cash. The share component of the directors’ fees for the objectives. On an individual level, the performance target employment with the Group. their fees). The CEO and key management personnel also took financial year 2019 is intended to be paid in 2020 after the bonus will vary according to the actual achievement of the a voluntary 10% to 15% reduction in pay given the difficult AGM has been held. Group, business unit and the individual performance. The performance share awards granted in 2018 were environment in 2018. More information on directors and key based on Total Shareholder Return, Return on Equity management personnel’s remuneration can be found under The company does not have a retirement remuneration plan The second is linked to the creation of economic value (excluding Sembcorp Marine), Total Renewable Capacity the related item in the Supplementary Information section of for non-executive directors. added (EVA) and is designed to ensure alignment with and implementation of digital initiatives to support the the financial statements in this annual report. sustainable value creation for shareholders over the longer organisational transformation efforts. The grant will have a term. An EVA linked “bonus bank” is created for each three-year performance period from January 1, 2018 to In 2018, the company had no employees who were immediate executive. Typically, one-third of the bonus bank balance is December 31, 2020. A minimum threshold performance family members of a director or the Group President & CEO. paid out in cash each year, while the remaining two-thirds is must be achieved to trigger an achievement factor, which carried forward to the following year. Such carried-forward in turn determines the number of performance shares balances of the bonus bank may either be reduced or eventually awarded. increased in future, based on the yearly EVA performance of the Group and our subsidiaries. There are provisions in The performance shares awarded will vest in two tranches, the EVA incentive plan to allow for forfeiture of the 50% vesting in March 2021 and 50% vesting in outstanding balances in the bonus bank in exceptional March 2022. circumstances of misstatement of financial results or misconduct resulting in financial loss to the company. 120 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 121 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Corporate Governance Statement Accountability and Audit The RC’s principal functions are to: Key markets, the first LOD, are in the process of adopting and For the financial year under review, the board has been assured implementing the IAF, which requires them to work with the by the Group President & CEO and Group CFO that financial Accountability (Principle 10) • Review and endorse the Group’s policies, guidelines and second LOD comprising business lines, subject matter experts records have been properly maintained, the financial statements The board is accountable to shareholders systems to govern the process for assessing and managing and corporate functions, to perform a thorough review and give a true and fair view of the company’s operations and risk, including the risk appetite assessment of their risks and internal controls and updating of finances, and the risk management and internal control Sembcorp is committed to open and honest communication the new risk and control registers. At the same time, clear systems of the Group are adequate and effective. with shareholders at all times. The company presents a balanced • Review the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk escalation procedures, consequence management framework and clear assessment of the Group’s performance, position management systems, processes and procedures of and key risk indicators that are aligned with the Group’s risk The board, with the concurrence of the Audit Committee, is and prospects to shareholders through the timely release of the Group appetite are being developed as part of the IAF methodology. of the opinion that the company’s internal controls and risk our quarterly and annual financial results. The company believes Collectively, this enables the Group to perform proactive management systems are adequate and effective as at that prompt compliance with statutory reporting requirements • Review risk-related reports submitted to it by management. management of key risks and controls. This enhances the December 31, 2018 to address the financial, operational, is imperative to maintaining shareholders’ confidence and These include updates on the Group’s risk portfolio, Group’s reporting and monitoring capabilities and also cultivates compliance and IT risks of the Group. This assessment is based trust in the company. In line with stock exchange requirements, reports on major risk exposure and any other risk-related a risk culture of accountability and ownership. As the third on the risk management and internal controls established negative assurance statements are issued by the board to issues as well as actions taken to monitor and manage LOD, Group Integrated Audit (GIA) provides independent and maintained by the Group, work performed by external accompany the company’s quarterly financial results such exposure / issues assurance across financial, operational, compliance and IT risks and internal auditors and reviews performed by senior announcements, confirming that to the best of its knowledge, through a series of walkthroughs and substantive testing. management. Internal controls, because of their inherent nothing had come to its attention which would render the • Review infrastructure and resources in place to support the Management works closely with GIA in closing out all material limitations, can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance company’s quarterly results false or misleading. management of risk including, for instance, insurance, issues and gaps in a timely manner to ensure that there is regarding the achievement of their intended control objectives. human resources, information technology (IT) systems, and continual improvement to our risk and controls environment, In this regard, the board will ensure that should any significant The company also recognises the importance of providing the reporting structure and procedures as well as an effective feedback loop to the first and second internal control failings or weaknesses arise, necessary board with accurate and relevant information on a timely LODs. External audit considers internal controls relevant to the remedial actions will be swiftly taken. basis. Sembcorp management furnishes management and Adequate and effective system of internal controls preparation of financial statements to ensure they give a true operations reports as well as financial statements to the board The Group has implemented a comprehensive enterprise risk and fair view. The IAF is expected to be implemented for all key markets by on a regular basis. management (ERM) framework where key risks identified are end of 2019. The Audit Committee, supported by the Risk deliberated by management with the support of the risk The ERM framework and IAF are also complemented by a Committee, oversees the IAF and its implementation. Risk Management and Internal Controls management function, and reported regularly to the RC. Management Control Assessment, which is a rigorous (Principle 11) Robust mechanisms and systems have been put in place to management attestation process submitted quarterly by each Audit Committee (Principle 12) identify and manage the inherent risks in our business and market and business unit to provide the assurance that its risk The board has overall responsibility for the governance of the strategy, and to monitor the Group’s exposure to key risks management and internal control system is adequate and The Audit Committee (AC) comprises independent, Group’s risk management and internal controls. The company’s that could impact the overall strategy and sustainability of effective. The submissions and responses are further validated non-executive directors. The AC is chaired by Mr Yap. He is board and management are fully committed to maintaining the business. Supporting the ERM framework is a system of through substantive review by the business lines, subject matter joined by Dr Teh, Mr Haridass as well as Mr Asherson. sound risk management and internal control systems to internal controls comprising a Code of Conduct, group-wide experts and corporate functions as an added layer of assurance. Mr Asherson was appointed to the AC on May 1, 2018. safeguard shareholders’ interests and the Group’s assets. governance and internal control policies, procedures and Mr Tham, who served on the AC since August 2013, guidelines dictating the segregation of duties, approval During the year, the Group’s risk profile was reviewed and relinquished his membership on May 1, 2018 and joined the The board determines the company’s levels of risk tolerance authorities and limits, and checks and balances embedded in updated. The adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk ExCo and ERCC. and risk policies, and oversees management in the design, business processes. The Group has also considered the various management and internal controls were also assessed and implementation and monitoring of risk management and financial risks, details of which can be found on our website. enhanced through a combination of management control The AC does not have any member who was a former partner internal control systems. assessment and integrated audits, as well as actions taken as a or director of the company’s external auditors, KPMG, within The Group is in the midst of transitioning our current follow up to these exercises. the last 12 months, or who holds any financial interest Risk Committee Governance Assurance Framework (GAF) to an Integrated in KPMG. The Risk Committee (RC) assists the board in overseeing risk Assurance Framework (IAF) to put greater emphasis on the For more information on the company’s ERM framework, management for the Group. The RC is headed by Mr Haridass, three lines of defence (LOD) model. Through the IAF structure, please refer to our website. who is joined on the committee by Mr Yap, Dr Teh and the respective LODs work together to ensure that key Mr Asherson, who was appointed to the committee with financial, operational, compliance and IT risks are reviewed effect from May 1, 2018. Mr Tham, who served on the RC and tested using a robust assurance process. Under the IAF, since April 2015, relinquished his membership on May 1, 2018 a pragmatic and collaborative approach to risk and controls and joined the ExCo and ERCC. assessment has been established, with common and consistent criteria to assess the risks and the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal controls. 122 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 123 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Corporate Governance Statement Authority and duties of the AC External auditors Internal Audit (Principle 13) Shareholder Rights and Responsibilities The AC assists the board in discharging its statutory and other Each year, the AC reviews the independence of the company’s Independent integrated audit function responsibilities on internal controls, financial and accounting external auditors and makes recommendations to the board Shareholder Rights (Principle 14) matters, operational and compliance controls, and business on their re-appointment. During the year, the AC reviewed the The integrated audit function is an important third line of and risk management practices of the Group. The AC has performance of the external auditors using audit quality defence for the company and a key component of the overall Sembcorp treats all shareholders fairly and equitably. The established terms of reference approved by the board and has indicators recommended by ACRA as reference. assurance framework. company recognises, protects and facilitates the exercise of explicit authority to investigate any matter as per its terms of shareholders’ rights and continually reviews and updates such reference. Its main responsibilities are to: The AC reviews and approves the external audit plan to The Group Integrated Audit (GIA) department provides governance arrangements. ensure the adequacy of the audit scope. It also reviews the assurance to the AC that risk management and internal control • Review the company’s policies, control procedures and external auditors’ management letter and monitors the timely systems are in place to manage and govern key aspects of the The company is committed to ensuring that all shareholders accounting practices with external auditors, internal implementation of required corrective or improvement Group’s businesses, including our financial, operational, have easy access to clear, reliable and meaningful information auditors and management measures. The AC meets external and internal auditors at least compliance and IT systems. in order to make informed investment decisions. The company once a year without the presence of management. It has regularly communicates major developments in our business • Review and act in the interest of the shareholders in reviewed the nature and extent of non-audit services provided GIA has enhanced its audit approach by linking its integrated operations via SGXNet, press releases, circulars to shareholders respect of interested person transactions (IPT), as well as by the external auditors to the Group for the year, excluding audit plan with the ERM framework and integrating operational and other appropriate channels. The company also encourages any matters or issues that affect the financial performance services provided to Sembcorp Marine, a listed subsidiary that and financial audits. Subject matter specialists were seconded shareholder participation and voting at general meetings of the Group has its own audit committee. The AC is satisfied that the from relevant departments to GIA for the purposes of these of shareholders. independence of the external auditors has not been impaired integrated audits. GIA is also deepening its capabilities in the • Review the quarterly, half-year and full-year results by their provision of non-audit services. Accordingly, the AC areas of operations, IT, and workplace health, safety and Communication with Shareholders announcements, accompanying press releases and has recommended the re-appointment of the external auditors environment audits. The GIA team has unrestricted access to (Principle 15) presentation slides, as well as the financial statements of at the forthcoming AGM. all personnel, documents, accounts and property, records and Regular, effective and fair communication the Group and the adequacy and accuracy of information correspondence and other data of the company. The auditors with shareholders disclosed prior to submission to the board for approval Details of non-audit fees payable to the external auditors also have the right to enter any premises of the Group and to are found in Note 31(a) in the Notes to the Financial request any officer to furnish all information and such Sembcorp advocates high standards of corporate transparency The AC has full access to and co-operation from management Statements in this annual report. explanations deemed necessary for them to form an opinion on and disclosure. This commitment is embodied in the company’s and full discretion to invite any director or executive officer to the probity of action and adequacy of systems and / or controls. Investor Relations Policy which adheres to fair disclosure attend its meetings. It also has reasonable resources to enable Whistle-blowing policy principles and emphasises active dialogue and engagement it to discharge its function properly. The AC oversees the Group’s Whistle-blowing Policy which The Head of GIA reports directly to the AC and administratively with shareholders, investors and analysts. has been implemented to strengthen corporate governance to the Group President & CEO. The AC participates in the Where relevant, the AC is guided by the recommended best and ethical business practices across all markets, business lines appointment, replacement or dismissal, as well as evaluation Disclosure of information on a timely basis practice for audit committees, set out in the revised and functional units. Employees are provided with accessible and compensation of the Head of GIA. Sembcorp makes every effort to ensure that shareholders and Guidebook for Audit Committees issued by Singapore’s Audit channels to report suspected fraud, corruption, dishonest capital market players have easy access to clear, meaningful Committee Guidance Committee. practices or other misdemeanours to the Group’s integrated The AC reviews the proposed scope and performance of and timely information on the company in order to make auditors and are protected from reprisal to the extent possible. the GIA function, audit findings and management responses, informed investment decisions. To do this, various channels Key audit matters This aims to encourage the reporting of such matters in good and the Group’s Integrated Audit Plan to ensure that it is including announcements, press releases, shareholder circulars The AC discusses the key audit matters with the management faith. In 2018, GIA rolled out a whistle-blowing portal on the comprehensive and to enable the effective and regular review and annual reports are utilised. All price-sensitive and material and external auditors on a quarterly basis to ensure that they internet. This whistle-blowing portal has a pre-defined set of of all activities within the purview of GIA. It ensures that no information is disseminated via SGXNet on a non-selective are appropriately dealt with. The AC concurs with the basis questions to guide whistle-blowers in providing the required limitation on audit has been imposed. Integrated audit basis and in a timely and consistent manner. The company’s and conclusions included in the auditor’s report with respect information / documents in reporting their concerns and also summary of findings and actions taken are reviewed and announcements are also uploaded to the company website, to the key audit matters. to allow the investigation team to maintain communication. discussed at AC meetings. www.sembcorp.com, after dissemination on SGXNet. For more information on the key audit matters, please For more information on our Whistle-blowing Policy, Professional standards and competency The quarterly results release date is disclosed at least two refer to pages 145 to 153 of this annual report. please refer to our website. GIA comprises members with relevant qualifications and weeks prior to the announcement date via SGXNet. On the experience and the integrated audit is carried out based on date of announcement, the financial statements as well as the the International Standards for the Professional Practice of accompanying press release and presentation slides are released Internal Auditing set by The Institute of Internal Auditors. via SGXNet and the company website. Thereafter, a briefing or teleconference by management is jointly held for the media and analysts. For half-year and full-year results announcements, results briefings are concurrently broadcast live via webcast. Investor relations officers are available by email or telephone to answer questions from shareholders and analysts as long as the information requested does not conflict with the SGX-ST’s rules of fair disclosure. 124 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 125 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Corporate Governance Statement The company also maintains a dedicated investor relations Conduct of Shareholder Meetings The company conducts electronic poll voting at shareholder Code of Conduct section on our company website to cater to the specific (Principle 16) meetings for greater transparency in the voting process. In maintaining an effective governance and effective decisioninformation needs of shareholders, investors, analysts and the Greater shareholder participation at general meetings Shareholders are informed of the voting procedures governing making structure, the Group Code of Conduct was revised financial community. Designed to provide a convenient such meetings. An independent scrutineer is engaged to and implemented in 2018. The Group President & CEO repository for investors’ information needs, the site includes All shareholders are invited to participate in the company’s review the electronic poll voting system and proxy verification regularly talks about the code in key internal meetings, filings on the company’s results announcements since the general meetings. process during the meetings to ensure that the information is which demonstrates the tone at the top in the organisation. company’s listing in 1998, an archive of the company’s results compiled adequately and procedures are carried out effectively. All employees and directors of the organisation were trained briefing webcasts, downloadable five-year financial data, The company disseminates information on general meetings The total number of votes cast for or against each resolution on the code and its key policies. a calendar of upcoming events, as well as pertinent stock through notices in our annual reports or circulars. These notices is tallied and displayed live on-screen to shareholders information such as dividend history, share price charts and are also released via SGXNet, published in local newspapers immediately after the vote has been cast. Voting results will Governance disclosure guide analyst coverage. Investor relations contact information is also and posted on the company website ahead of the meetings also be announced after the meetings via SGXNet. In line with Sembcorp’s commitment to high standards of displayed on the website for direct shareholder enquiries. to give ample time for shareholders to review the documents. corporate governance and disclosure, the company has In line with the company’s commitment towards environmental The company secretary records minutes from these shareholder completed a questionnaire with reference to the disclosure Establishing and maintaining regular dialogue responsibility, the company stopped distributing our annual meetings, including relevant comments or queries from guide developed by the Singapore Exchange in 2015. with shareholders report and circular via CD-ROM since 2018. The company’s shareholders and responses from the board and management. Sembcorp employs multiple communication platforms to annual reports and circulars are available on our website. The minutes are available upon request by shareholders. The company’s responses to the disclosure guide may be engage with our shareholders. In addition to our results Shareholders are encouraged to read the annual report on the found on pages 334 to 345 of this annual report briefings, the company also maintains regular dialogue with company website. A booklet containing the Request Form, Dealings in securities our shareholders through investor-targeted events such as Notice of AGM and Proxy Form will be sent to shareholders, The company has adopted a Code of Compliance on Dealing AGMs, roadshows, conferences, site visits, group briefings and informing them that the annual report is available online and in Securities, which prohibits dealings in the company’s one-on-one meetings. These platforms offer opportunities for directing them to where they may view it. However, we are securities by our directors and senior management within two senior management and directors to interact first-hand with mindful that some shareholders may prefer to receive a weeks prior to the announcement of the company’s financial shareholders, understand their views, gather feedback and printed copy and this will be provided upon request. statements for each of the first three quarters of our financial address concerns. year and within one month prior to the announcement of The company’s constitution allows all shareholders the right the company’s full-year financial statements. A Policy on To keep senior management and the board abreast of market to appoint up to two proxies to attend, speak and vote at Prevention of Insider Trading has also been implemented and perception and concerns, the investor relations team provides general meetings on their behalf. Under the new multiple directors and employees are advised to be mindful to observe regular updates on analyst consensus estimates and views. On proxy regime, “relevant intermediaries“, such as banks, capital insider trading laws at all times, even when dealing in the an annual basis, a more comprehensive update is presented, markets services licence holders that provide custodial services company’s securities outside the prohibited trading period. which includes updates and analysis of the shareholder for securities and the Central Provident Fund Board (CPF), are They are also reminded not to deal in the company’s securities register, highlights of key shareholder engagements for the allowed to appoint more than two proxies to attend, speak on short-term considerations. year as well as market feedback. and vote at general meetings. This will enable indirect investors, including CPF investors, to be appointed as proxies Interested person transactions For further details on Sembcorp’s communications with to participate at general meetings. Voting in absentia by mail, Shareholders have adopted an interested person transaction its shareholders, please see the Investor Relations chapter on facsimile or email is currently not permitted. Such voting (IPT) mandate in respect of interested person transactions of the pages 128 and 129 of this annual report. methods would need to be cautiously evaluated for feasibility company. The IPT mandate defines the levels and procedures to ensure that there is no compromise to the integrity of the to obtain approval for such transactions. Information regarding Dividend policy information and the authenticity of the shareholders’ identities. the IPT mandate is available on the staff intranet. The company Sembcorp is committed to achieving sustainable income and also has an internal policy and procedure to manage and growth to enhance total shareholder return. The Group’s The Group President & CEO delivers a short presentation to capture any interested person transactions. All markets, policy aims to balance cash return to shareholders and shareholders at each AGM to update them on the performance business lines and functional units are required to be familiar investment for sustaining growth, while aiming for an efficient of Sembcorp’s businesses. Every matter requiring approval at with the IPT mandate as well as the internal policy and capital structure. The company strives to provide consistent and a general meeting is proposed as a separate resolution. procedure, and report interested person transactions to the sustainable ordinary dividend payments to our shareholders, Shareholders present are given an opportunity to clarify or direct company for review and approval by the AC. The Group and the practice is to consider declaring dividends on a questions on issues pertaining to the proposed resolutions maintains a register of the company’s interested person biannual basis. before the resolutions are voted on. The board and management transactions in accordance with the reporting requirements are in attendance to address these queries or concerns and stipulated by Chapter 9 of the SGX-ST Listing Manual. obtain feedback from shareholders. External auditors and legal advisors are also present to assist the board as necessary. Information on interested person transactions for 2018 may be found in the related item under the Supplementary Information section of the financial statements on page 330. Details on our IPT Mandate can be found on our website. 126 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 127 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Investor Relations Sembcorp is committed to ensuring that all capital market players have easy access to clear, reliable and Share Ownership by Investor Category Share Ownership by Geographical Distribution meaningful information on our company in order to make informed investment decisions. Excluding shares held by the major shareholder Temasek Holdings and shareholders not identified In the context of constantly-evolving disclosure, transparency Best Annual Report at the Singapore Corporate Awards 2018 and corporate governance requirements, we aim to provide in the category of large-cap companies with S$1 billion and investors with an accurate, coherent and balanced account of above in market capitalisation. 49.5% 25.4% 39% 26% the Group’s performance and prospects. Sembcorp has a dedicated investor relations team and communicates with the We continue to rank among the top companies in Singapore investing public through multiple platforms and channels. for good corporate governance and transparency. We were These include group briefings to analysts, investors and the the sixth-highest ranked company in the 2018 edition of the media; one-on-one meetings with shareholders and potential Singapore Governance and Transparency Index (SGTI), 10.8%1 investors; investor roadshows as well as the investor relations Singapore’s leading index assessing corporate governance section of our website. practices of listed companies. The SGTI is a collaboration 29% between CPA Australia, the Centre for Governance, Institutions 14.3%2 6% Proactive Communication with the and Organisations at National University of Singapore Business ■ Strategic ■ Institutions ■ Retail ■ Not identified ■ North America ■ Europe ■ Asia ■ Rest of the World Financial Community School, and the Singapore Institute of Directors. It compares During the year, senior management and the investor relations the transparency of 589 Singapore-listed companies based on As at December 31, 2018 As at December 31, 2018 team actively engaged the financial community. We held their annual financial announcements. one-on-one and group meetings with shareholders, analysts and potential investors. These included meetings during Total Shareholder Return non-deal roadshows in Singapore, London, New York, Boston Sembcorp Industries’ last traded share price in 2018 was Times Index’s negative 6% and the MSCI Asia Pacific ex-Japan Shareholder Information and Toronto led by our senior management. In 2018, our India S$2.54 and the company ended the year with a market Industrials Index’s negative 9%. The challenging operating In 2018, institutional shareholders as a group continued to management team also joined these roadshows. Besides capitalisation of S$4.5 billion. The company’s share price environment in the oil and gas industry continued to weigh on dominate Sembcorp’s shareholder base. Other than our roadshows, we also participated in investor conferences in averaged S$2.93 during the year, registering a low of S$2.45 the earnings of our Marine business, held through our listed major shareholder Temasek Holdings, which held 49.5% of Hong Kong and Singapore. in December and a high of S$3.57 in February. Daily turnover subsidiary Sembcorp Marine. In 2018, the FTSE ST Oil & Gas our shares at the end of 2018, institutional shareholders averaged 3.9 million shares. Sector Index recorded a negative 20% return. accounted for 25% of our issued share capital or half of free Commitment to Good Corporate Governance float, while retail shareholders 1 and shareholders not As a strong endorsement of our excellence in corporate In 2018, Sembcorp Industries’ total shareholder return for the For the financial year 2018, an interim dividend of 2 cents per identified 2 accounted for the remaining half. In terms of governance and disclosure, Sembcorp won the gold award for year stood at negative 15%. This was lower than the Straits ordinary share was declared and paid to shareholders in geographical spread, excluding the stake held by Temasek August 2018. In addition, a final dividend of 2 cents per ordinary Holdings and shareholders not identified, our largest share has been proposed, subject to approval by shareholders geographical shareholding base was North America with at the coming annual general meeting to be held in April 39%, followed by shareholders from Asia and Europe, which 2019. Together with the interim dividend, this would bring accounted for 29% and 26% of the shares respectively. our total dividend for 2018 to 4 cents per ordinary share. 1 Retail shareholders include private investors, brokers, custodians a nd corporates Sembcorp Group President & CEO Neil McGregor interacting with bankers and analysts 2 Shareholders not identified include mainly shareholders that fall below the threshold of 250,000 shares 128 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 129 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Independent Limited Assurance Report Independent Practitioner‘s Limited Management’s Responsibility for the Identified The procedures selected included inquiries, observation of is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Sustainability Information processes performed, inspection of documents, analytical Reporting Criteria. Assurance Report on Sustainability Management of the Company is responsible for the procedures, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification Information of Sembcorp preparation of the Identified Sustainability Information in methods and reporting policies, and agreeing or reconciling Purpose and Restriction on Distribution and Use Industries Limited accordance with the Reporting Criteria. This responsibility with underlying records. Given the circumstances of the This report, including our conclusion, has been prepared solely includes the design, implementation and maintenance of engagement, we also performed the following: for the Company in accordance with the agreement between Attention to the Board of Directors of Sembcorp internal control relevant to the preparation of Identified us. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Industries Limited Sustainability Information that is free from material • Interviewed management and personnel in Group Human assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company for We have been engaged by Sembcorp Industries Limited misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Resources & Organisation Development, Group Health, our work or this report. (the “Company”) to undertake a limited assurance Safety, Security & the Environment, Group Ethics & engagement in respect of the selected sustainability information Practitioner‘s Independence and Quality Control Compliance, Group Finance and Group Strategic Yours faithfully from the 2018 Sustainability Report of the Company described We have complied with the independence and other ethical Communications & Sustainability departments in relation below for the year ended 31 December 2018 (the “Identified requirements of the Accounting and Corporate Regulatory to the Identified Sustainability Information; Sustainability Information”). Authority Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics for Public Accountants and Accounting Entities (“ACRA Code”), which • Obtained an understanding of how the Identified Identified Sustainability Information is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, Sustainability Information is gathered, collated and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP The respective Identified Sustainability Information for the year professional competence and due care, confidentiality and aggregated internally; Public Accountants and Chartered Accountants ended 31 December 2018 is set out below: professional behaviour. Singapore • Performed limited substantive testing, on a selective basis, 1. GRI 201-1: Direct economic value generated Our firm applies Singapore Standard on Quality Control 1 and, of the Identified Sustainability Information (i) to verify the 7 March 2019 and distributed accordingly, maintains a comprehensive system of quality assumptions, estimations and computations made in 2. GRI 303-1: Total water withdrawal by source control including documented policies and procedures relation to the Selected Sustainability Information; and (ii) 3. GRI 305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional to check that data had been appropriately measured, 4. GRI 305-4: GHG emissions intensity standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. recorded, collated and reported, to the extent we 5. GRI 306-2: Waste by type and disposal method considered necessary and appropriate to provide sufficient 6. GRI 306-3: Significant spills Practitioner‘s Responsibility evidence for our conclusion; and 7. GRI 307-1: Non-compliance with environmental laws Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion and regulations on the Identified Sustainability Information based on the • Assessed the disclosure and presentation of the Identified 8. GRI 401-1: Employee turnover procedures we have performed and the evidence we have Sustainability Information. 9. GRI 403-2: Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational obtained. We performed our limited assurance engagement in diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of accordance with Singapore Standard on Assurance The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement work-related fatalities Engagements 3000 (Revised) – Assurance Engagements other vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for 10. GRI 404-1: Average hours of training per year than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level per employee (the “Standard”). This Standard requires that we plan and of assurance in a limited assurance engagement is 11. GRI 413-1: Operations with local community engagement, perform our work to form the conclusion about whether the substantially lower than the assurance that would have been impact assessments and development programmes Identified Sustainability Information is free from material obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been misstatement. The extent of our procedures depends on our performed. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable Our assurance engagement was with respect to the year professional judgement and our assessment of the assurance opinion about whether the Company‘s Identified ended 31 December 2018. We have not performed any engagement risk. Sustainability Information has been prepared, in all material procedures with respect to (i) earlier periods and (ii) any other respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. elements included in the Company‘s 2018 Sustainability A limited assurance engagement involves assessing the Report, and in the annual report, website and other suitability in the circumstances of the Company‘s use of the Inherent Limitations publications, and therefore do not express any Reporting Criteria as the basis for the preparation of the In designing these procedures, we considered the system of conclusion thereon. Identified Sustainability Information, assessing the risks of internal controls in relation to the Identified Sustainability material misstatement of the Identified Sustainability Information and reliance has been placed on internal controls Reporting Criteria Information whether due to fraud or error, responding to the where appropriate. Because of the inherent limitations in any The Identified Sustainability Information has been assessed assessed risks as necessary in the circumstances, and accounting and internal control system, errors and against relevant criteria in the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) evaluating the overall presentation of the Identified irregularities may nevertheless occur and not be detected. Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016 (the “Reporting Sustainability Information. A limited assurance engagement is Criteria”). substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance Conclusion engagement in relation to both the risk assessment Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence procedures, including an understanding of internal control, we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that and the procedures performed in response to the causes us to believe that the Identified Sustainability assessed risks. Information for the financial year ended 31 December 2018 130 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2018 131
