28th November 2019 H.E. António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to report that Healix International reaffirms its support to the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Anti-corruption and the Environment. By continuing this commitment, we express our clear support for the United Nations Global Compact and the advancement of these principles. We will continue to communicate this to our internal stakeholders, our clients and the wider public. We reaffirm our commitment to support this by engaging as a participant, at both the local and global level, at United Nations Global Compact events, by continuing to conduct business in an environmentally conscious and ethical manner, by developing our corporate social responsibility programmes, by financially committing to the United Nations Global Compact and by providing employees with regular training on how to adhere and support these principles. We, at Healix Group of Companies, strongly believe that the principles expressed in the United Nations Global Compact should be central to everything we do, and we already have a strong business culture of accountability, corporate social responsibility and integrity. We recognize that a central requirement for participation in the United Nations Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We strongly believe in public accountability and commercial transparency, and as such, in this Communication on Progress, we will describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact into our culture, strategy and operations. We also commit to sharing this information using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Charlie Butcher Chief Financial Officer UNGC Communication on Progress Report Healix International is committed to ethical and responsible business practice. The Sustainable Development Goals (SGDs) set out by the UNGC provide a framework that we have consulted as a guide for our own mission statement, to shape our own priorities. We operate in ways that ensure we meet fundamental responsibilities in terms of human rights, labour, anti-corruption and the environment. We take a common sense approach to the goals; we recognise that any unnecessary business trips by plane would not be offset by recycling, we ensure that rules and rights applied to our staff in London must be applied in all locations, and we win business on merit, never on the back of a dinner or golf trip. The Healix Group of Companies has been providing medical and risk management solutions to clients around the world since 1992, offering bespoke services to clients who want control over their health, travel and risk provision. We endeavour to enable business to function in every environment by delivering solutions to all. Human Rights Discrimination: We have policies to protect our candidates and workers from discrimination, as well as providing training to individuals on these. We are an equal opportunities employer. All cases of bullying and harassment are taken extremely seriously and we have a policy in place as such. Physical safeguards for employees: We ensure the facilities for our workforce are safe and suitable for use. We protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats. We have numerous first aiders in our company and encourage uptake of courses when they are run. We have a defibrillator and first aid kits accessible to employees. We also take measures to ensure no physical harm can occur from improper storage or disposal of products; as such, only medical and facilities staff have access to the medical kit room and a 3rd party supplier safely removes all medical waste. We have strategies in place to ensure there are no lone workers, and those working in the evening have access to personal alarms linked to the local police. Mental safeguards for employees: We ensure all our employees operate according to the Working Time Regulations 1998 as a minimum. Healix takes physical, emotional and mental wellbeing very seriously so we run mental health workshops, wellbeing days; we have an Employee Assistance Programme and have also just introduced mental health first aiders. Benefits: We have an enhanced annual leave allocation for employees i.e. a week longer than statutory entitlement – we encourage the time to be used for rest and recuperation. Healix offers a fully funded and comprehensive private healthcare cover. Corporate Social Responsibility: We actively partake in Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives, such as fundraising for local and international charities, and volunteering employee time e.g. community clear up initiatives. We will also seek to use local suppliers where possible. Please see our CSR policy for further details. Labour Pay: All employees are paid higher than the national minimum wage rates. We also contribute higher than the basic minimum for pension contributions. We do not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour and ensure that 3rd parties do the same. Employment decisions: All stages of an employee lifecycle seeks to ensure there is no discrimination against protected characteristics. Recruitment is made on an objective basis, to ensure we select the candidate most qualified for the role. Training: We provide compulsory modern slavery training to all members of staff. We also provide extensive job-specific training, as well as providing continuous training and mentoring courses, to ensure our employees feel able and confident to undertake their own roles. Our managers all undergo leadership and mentoring training, to ensure they support their teams to the best of their ability. Environment Staff travel: We minimise unnecessary trips overseas by using trusted partners in countries around the world. Our workforces do not undertake frivolous trips abroad by plane; we encourage meetings to take place remotely and electronically. We also encourage car pooling among our staff. Energy usage: We have a policy which encourages our staff to switch off lights and computers when not in use. We also ensure we are not in premises beyond the needs of our operation; we recently downsized one of our overseas offices to ensure that energy was not being wasted on an unnecessarily large space. Recycling: We have recycling points for waste including batteries throughout our offices. We actively encourage staff to recycle where they can. Anti-corruption Bribery: All staff undergo anti-bribery and corruption training and our policies reiterate this message. Staff are aware of how to identify an incident and how to report it. Internal: We have a whistle blowing policy and a secure letter box where anonymous messages can be left. We actively encourage an open and honest relationship with managers and colleagues. Policies and procedures are fully reviewed by the relevant manager and our Compliance Officer before being signed off by a Director. Our Compliance Officer and IT Director run workshops with all new starters to cover data protection, information security and acceptable usage procedures. Due Diligence: We conduct due diligence on all of our partners before working with them: we take measures to ensure that they are not involved in any level of corruption or bribery, such as open source investigation and annual reviews. When working overseas, we ensure that although different cultures will take different views on what constitutes corruption, we always ensure our best practice is followed by employees and partners. Outcomes In terms of quantitative outcomes, we ensure all of the relevant policies above are read by all staff by implementing compulsory annual refresher training. As such, we have 100% uptake and viewership of the principles outlined therein. We rely on line managers for oversight of the less tangible measurables such as ensuring staff use their annual leave and guaranteeing that employee wellbeing is at the forefront of the business. We have lower absence records than the average, and monitor these to ensure our employee welfare is above adequate. As there is significant uptake of our benefits, we use this as an indicator of their success but also regularly communicate that staff are welcome to make suggestions on how we can improve and what additional benefits they would be interested in. Regarding qualitative measurements of results, we have multiple client testimonials attesting to the support we give them to conduct operations around the world. This is where we believe we have the most impact. Our operations teams respond to advice queries and assistance requests from students, NGOs, corporate clients, government clients, expatriates and business travellers alike. In doing so, we indirectly encourage businesses to grow in environments where previously their travellers may have hesitated to go. By providing a 24/7 medical and security operations platform and expert teams behind them, they can continue to operate in locations around the world, engaging with communities and businesses in any location. By formally tracking all of our compliments and complaints, we know exactly where our clients need us to improve our services to better enable them to operate. Our justified complaint ratio to cases opened for last 6 months = 1%. Compliments & Thank Yous ratio to cases opened for last 6 months = 5% (4% compliments + 1% thank yous). To assess our adherence to KPIs, internal and client specific process, we also carry out our own internal audits which are currently averaging at 90%. We are also subject to a number of due diligence assessments and external audits from our clients and their appointed auditors and regularly pass these with limited recommendations, in fact a recent auditor who has visited Healix 4 years in a row, has commented on how he sees year on year improvement in our service provision. In achieving the above, we believe our business embraces and supports UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 8, 9, 10 and 16.  Goal 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all.  Goal 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation.  Goal 10: Reduce inequality within and among countries.  Goal 16: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. The key theme throughout is inclusivity. By supporting businesses of all types to work in unfamiliar environments, we aim to bridge gaps to business communities that might otherwise be excluded or marginalised. The hope is that no community should be omitted from the global market because businesses don’t feel safe there – our security and medical solutions exist to enable global travel. However, we recognise we have more to do. NGOs do more to achieve the UNGC’s SDGs than most other sectors around the world. To support them to achieve their own SDGs, we have recently created a more accessible package for NGOs, so that they feel confident that their staff will be safe in each environment they go into. In support of the UNGC’s overriding principles and goals, the aim of this package is to offer NGOs an accessible and affordable security solution suited to their needs, in the hope that they can move forward to support their goals.
