United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP Communication of progress August 2019 2 United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP Antonio Guterres Grant Thornton UK LLP Secretary-General 30 Finsbury Square United Nations London New York EC2P 2YU NY 10017 USA www.grantthornton.co.uk 14 August 2019 Dear Mr. Secretary-General, At Grant Thornton UK LLP we have a strong focus of purpose, which has been fundamental to the growth of our brand as well as being a key factor in attracting and retaining talent. Our sense of social responsibility ensures we speak out on issues that impact our clients, our people and our industry. Our culture is one of Shared Enterprise and this creates the space to share ideas on how, as a firm, we can better fulfil our purpose. It is our way of saying we’re creating a different kind of firm – one where every one of us will have an opportunity to share our views and have their ideas listened to. A firm where our best thinking will be done together, where our leaders are open and transparent, where everyone is actively involved in playing their part and where everyone will be rewarded for achieving superior business performance. All of our people are empowered to take responsibility for bringing our purpose to life and then in return are able to share in the rewards. With this in mind I am pleased to confirm that Grant Thornton supports and actively promotes the adoption of The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In our third annual Communication on Progress (COP), we describe our actions to integrate The Ten Principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations and how we may look to continually improve our adoption in future years through our engagement in collaborative projects. Yours sincerely, David Dunckley Chief Executive, Grant Thornton UK LLP United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP 3 Awards Queen’s Awards for MPF Awards for Management 2019 Ranked No.1 Finance Awards Corporate Enterprise 2018 Excellence 2018 UK M&A Financial LiveWire2018 Promoting Opportunity Most Innovative Client Service Adviser (H1) Excellence in International Tax through Social Mobility Most Inclusive Firm Law Services The Social Mobility Employer Yorkshire Accountancy Global Awards Corporate Top Employers for Working Index 2017 Awards 2018 LiveWire 2017 Families Special Awards 2017 #1 for Social Mobility Brand of the Year Best in Corporate Valuation Best for Innovation (Yorkshire Live Labs) Services The British Accountancy Who’s Who Legal Awards Awards 2017 Asset Recovery Experts Practice Excellence Firm of the Year International Firm of the Year 4 United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP Contents Section Page What makes us different – our purpose 06 Human rights 08 Labour 12 Environment 16 Anti-corruption 20 United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP 5 What makes us different Our purpose We believe it’s important to our clients that the suppliers they work with are committed to making a contribution to social change and mobility through their working culture. Grant Thornton’s culture focuses on two key elements: how we can make a difference in the places and communities where both we as a firm and our clients are based; and how we need to change internally to make that happen. Our social role and value Our external focus has 3 primary components, around which we have built our firm’s objectives and which inform how we approach our work with every client and partner. Trust Building trust and integrity in the finances What does it mean for our work with our and practices of the public, private, clients and partners? financial and charity sectors It means we will always focus on what is important to each client or partner. Growth We will be supportive but never afraid to say Unlocking growth in innovative what we really think, delivering technical organisations and helping them advice that is accurate and reliable, and meet their strategic objectives bringing a pragmatic point of view to the challenges they are facing. Why? Because we want our clients and Place partners to be able to make as much of a Creating environments where businesses positive difference as possible. and people can flourish by convening ideas and promoting financial sustainability in key local institutions 6 United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP An internal culture promoting change Changing ourselves to help add more to the economy and society has meant looking closely at how we work. For example, we recognised that our firm could be more diverse in all dimensions so we completely revamped our recruitment process. We removed the requirements for minimum A-Level results and we don’t ask for personal statements that might benefit those with access to opportunities, such as internships, that might be unavailable to others. We now recruit far more people post-16 and through our Access Accountancy programme where we work directly with state schools to offer meaningful work experience opportunities that wouldn’t otherwise be available. We’ve made our working culture more flexible for family members through new technology, recognising this change in both our people and our clients. As a result we were rated No.1 for social mobility by the Government-endorsed Social Mobility Employer Index and won the Queen’s Award for Enterprise. UK Social Mobility Awards 2018 Organisation of the Year United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP 7 Human rights At Grant Thornton we respect and support the internationally proclaimed human rights and ensure the firm is not complicit in human rights abuses. Where possible and applicable, the firm encourages and adopts relevant ‘human rights’ principles as in line with current legislation and law into various employment practices and values of the firm; some of which include respecting others, valuing diversity both in the workplace and in the supply chain and maintaining a workplace that is free from prejudice, harassment and bullying. Grant Thornton advocates the fundamental rights and freedoms that everyone in the UK is entitled to. 8 United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Principle 1. We as a firm are dedicated in upholding human rights and creating an Businesses should support and respect the inclusive and diverse working environment for all our people. protection of internationally proclaimed human rights: and In a fast paced, changing world Grant Thornton is committed to making sure all firm policies remain fit for purpose, are inclusive and aligned to Principle 2. best practice. Through regular reviews we make every effort to ensure Make sure that they are not complicit in we are compliant with all current regulation, legalisation and law. human rights abuses. Our Shared Enterprise culture provides us with the opportunity to explore new ideas and firm wide goals together, allowing us to continually review and develop the practices, processes and policies we have in place, ensuring the firm’s ongoing support and commitment to our people in relation to human rights. United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP 9 Human rights Implementation The firm looks to encourage and support the UN Global Compact Human Rights Principles through various initiatives and policies. Here are some of the ways we are doing this: Firm value implementation Training implementation Our CLEARR values: Collaboration, Leadership, Excellence, As part of standard training, managers are issued with a Agility, Respect, and Responsibility underpin our culture and copy of the Equality Act 2010 – Guidelines for Managers. influence how we conduct business. They are embedded Ongoing training in this area includes various up skilling and throughout our business and set the parameters for how refresher workshops for our people managers. Recently some we expect people to behave with their colleagues, clients of these sessions have explored diversity and inclusion and and the world at large. We seek to treat everyone fairly and our obligations in this area, particularly when dealing with consistently, creating a workplace and business environment day-to-day people issues such as managing sickness absence, that is open, transparent and trusted. underperformance and general grievances. Policy implementation Inclusive decision making training has recently been introduced We are committed to continually developing and implementing to Grant Thornton. We have run a session involving our Senior the various practices, processes and policies that fully support Leadership Team around the impact of unconscious bias in and abide by current UK human rights law and regulation. To decision making both in terms of progression of talent and support this we have already implemented a number of wide selecting individuals for certain jobs. We also ran this workshop ranging policies across the firm encouraging and supporting for those responsible for the Firm’s recruitment and promotion human rights across all areas of the business. Such policy decisions (for example the partner selection panels), our own implementation examples include the following: People and Client Experience team and the Firm’s Inclusion • Inclusion policy working group. • Bullying and harassment policy We have also developed an on line programme to further • Capability policy encourage our managers to think about inclusive decision making. • Disciplinary policy We are continually looking for ways to improve our established ways of working and further remove barriers to success. • Grievance policy • Redundancy policy Modern Slavery policy and Supplier Code of Conduct • Remuneration policy implementation Our policy is to assess and address the risks of violations • Sickness absence policy of anti-human trafficking and anti-modern slavery laws. We To improve our understanding of our workforce and to identify adopt procedures that contribute to ensuring modern slavery potential barriers to success, we track the demographics does not occur in our business or supply chains and we expect of our people to compare with external benchmarks and to organisations with whom we do business to adopt and enforce monitor progression internally. The firm maintains records of policies to comply with the legislation. We actively consider this data solely for this purpose. The diversity details of any how we support or conduct business with organisations member of the firm will not be shared internally or externally involved in slavery, human trafficking, forced or child labour without their permission. and we have our firm’s Supplier Code of Conduct to assist. We also support leading academic research to further our Please click here to read the firm’s Modern Slavery Statement collective understanding of wider diversity and inclusion trends in the workplace. 10 United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP Measures and outputs As a result of the various human rights policies and processes the firm has in place, we note some of the following measures and outputs: Procurement All our entry level roles are advertised openly and formally on Our procurement policies integrate human rights into the way the careers section of the Grant Thornton website. We actively we do business throughout our supply chain, so we create partner with third party advertising providers who can provide value, preserve natural resources and respect the interests of reach across all spectrums of society. We work with Milkround the communities we serve and from whom we procure goods specifically to target students via e-marketing channels who go and services. to ‘new’ universities which have a much more diverse student population. We work with specialist providers such as Pure Through our Responsible Purchasing Policy and Supplier Code Potential and Pathway CTM, to target students of school age of Conduct, we expect our suppliers to keep to all laws relating from less advantageous backgrounds. All new advertising to their business, as well as the principles of the United National partnerships and providers have to be able to demonstrate Global Compact, the United Nations Declaration of Human that their breadth of reach encompasses students from all Rights and the International Labour Organisation. backgrounds before we embark upon any advertising with them. Social mobility Employee assistance helpline Grant Thornton UK LLP has previously been awarded Social To help employees better prepare for and cope with life Mobility Business Compact “Champion” status by the events – including the things that could potentially cause Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS), one of only anxiety and stress – Grant Thornton provides access to a 12 firms, for demonstrating leadership and exemplary practice free and confidential service offering expert advice, valuable in the field of social mobility. As a Champion, the firm have information, specialist counselling and support. been working with BIS to deliver approximately 30 commitments across the areas of: outreach; work placements; recruitment; monitoring and evaluation; and leading, championing and “By many standards, I do not fit the typical communicating best practice image of a corporate employee in the UK. We work with and are members of the Business Disability Forum. I’m a female, an ethnic minority, from a We have support available for individuals with disabilities, with a disability defined as a physical or mental impairment which has low income, deprived area. Statistically a substantial and long-term adverse effect on a person’s ability speaking, it’s much more likely that I to carry out normal day to day activities. would be unemployed or even in the Education prison system in the UK than working for We are involved in Access Accountancy, a one-week placement a professional services firm. I’m now a to provide those from less privileged backgrounds the mature student, and an associate on a 12 opportunity to develop critical skills and develop a professional network. We have an annual commitment of at least 1% of month placement with Grant Thornton. This our headcount to be placed on the programme and we also year, I will more than likely be the highest support participants progressing to our school leaver scheme earner in my immediate family. If that or talent pool them for future opportunities. isn’t exemplary of Grant Thornton’s social Since 2013, we have had flexible academic entry requirements mobility agenda, I don’t know what is.” for all our; graduate, school leaver/apprentice, internship, placement and work experience programmes. We do not Audit Associate, Birmingham office stipulate any minimum grade requirements and use a balanced screening scorecard to assess potential across a range of areas. United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP 11 Labour Grant Thornton is committed to upholding the UN Global Compact Principles in relation to labour. The firm is dedicated to ensuring that all labour standards are an active component of our people’s daily working environment and experience and implement polices and practices that encourage the adoption of such standards. 12 United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP Labour Assessment, policy and goals Principle 3. The firm recognise that we are responsible for the health, safety and Business should uphold the freedom of welfare at work of all our people, whether that be on the firm’s premises association and the effective recognition or carrying out the firm’s business elsewhere. of the right to collective bargaining Notwithstanding the firm’s legal responsibilities to comply with Principle 4. legislation, the firm is committed to keeping the workplace, our clients The elimination of all forms of forced and and suppliers, and the local community safe from any adverse compulsory labour consequences of our work activity and ensuring that all efforts are made to remove or reduce the risks of any potential impact. Principle 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and As a firm we have various processes and policies in place that support the UN Labour Principles highlighted opposite. These policies are Principle 6. frequently reviewed and updated so as to reflect any changes in UK The elimination of discrimination in respect law and legalisation. of employment and occupation. United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP 13 Labour Implementation The firm looks to encourage and support the UN Global Compact Labour Principles through various initiatives and policies. We highlight some areas of firm involvement below: Policy implementation Modern Slavery policy and Responsible Purchasing We are committed to continually developing and implementing policy implementation the various practices, processes and policies that fully support As per referenced in Human Rights, our policy is to assess and and abide by current UK labour law and regulation, supporting address the risks of violations of anti-human trafficking and the eradication of discrimination in respect of employment and anti-modern slavery laws. occupation. Our Responsible Purchasing Policy reflects our overall business A selection of policies that support the elimination of workplace purpose and in so doing seeks through the application of a discrimination are highlighted below rigorous procurement process to not only purchase goods and services at best value for money but to take into account the • Inclusion policy ethical, social, environmental, economic and legal impacts of • Bullying and harassment policy the supply chain. This means making purchasing decisions • Capability policy which reflect not only the best price in total cost terms over the lifetime of a contract but also require suppliers to: • Grievance policy • Redundancy policy • comply with all applicable UK and European laws and • Remuneration policy regulation, and • reflect the firm’s ethical, social and environmental standards. Health and Safety implementation As a responsible employer, Grant Thornton knows that All suppliers will be required to comply with, or work towards health and safety management is key to shaping a positive, compliance with, the requirements of our Supplier Code successful and vibrant culture. We are committed to protecting of Conduct. The Code sets out the minimum standards of the health and safety of all our people, as well as any visitors behaviour expected of our suppliers so that they act in a way or general public on our premises. that is corporately responsible and sustainable and aims to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. We aim to: We only expect our suppliers to maintain standards that we • Identify and act upon any health and safety risks which ourselves adhere to. are identified • Prevent accidents in the work place and when travelling Living Wage We are proud to be a Living Wage employer – meaning all our • Mitigate work related to ill health and support attendance own people and our third party contracted employees are at work paid the Living Wage, helping to tackle in work poverty. The • Provide adequate control of any health and safety risks real Living Wage is based on the cost of living and is voluntarily arising from work activities both on our premises, or for our paid by over 5,000 UK employers who believe a hard day’s people carrying out business elsewhere work deserves a fair day’s pay. It is good for business, good for To do this we will: the individual and good for society. • Comply with all relevant health and safety legislation Employee Survey implementation • Ensure our people receive sufficient information, training We conduct company-wide employee surveys to get a and supervision to enable them to carry out their duties better understanding of employee morale, satisfaction, and safely and effectively engagement at Grant Thornton. The results of these surveys • Ensure our place of work is safe and well maintained are used to improve the firm’s culture and performance. • Engage and consult with our people on day to day health and safety requirement conditions 14 United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP Measures and outputs As a result of the various labour policies and processes the firm has in place, we note some of the following measures and outputs: Health and Safety (H&S) We are part of the Stonewall Index that measures our progress Workplace inspections – the Health and Safety Officer (HSO) is for LGBT+ people and we are actively working through an required to ensure regular reviews of the workplace are carried active network to improve our position in this index through out using the safety inspection checklist. The inspection will leadership commitment, internal story telling and commitment. cover all areas of the workplace which are the responsibility of the firm. A quarterly review will be undertaken in conjunction We are disability confident level two and introduced a positive with our co-sourced facilities partners and recorded in the H&S action interview scheme that guarantees an interview for document schedule. anyone with a disability. We are actively working towards a plan to gain disability confident level 3. Annual Practice Leader sign off is the overall responsibility of the Practice Leader to ensure compliance with the firm’s We take mental health seriously and have 70 mental health H&S procedures by reviewing the completed annual H&S first aiders trained in the business to support our people with compliance confirmation/H&S compliance documents mental health concerns, as well as being champions in our submitted by the local HSO. offices focusing on awareness and preventative measures to support people with mental health issues. Social Mobility Grant Thornton was ranked number one in the first ever Social We have completed an equal pay review for all our people and Mobility Employer Index, and we are currently number two, actively taken steps to rectify any equal pay issues related grading UK businesses on their openness to accessing talent to gender. We support the progression of our female talent from all backgrounds. We actively share best practices to through our female only coaching programme, European other organisations to encourage industry wide access to the mentoring programmes and ensuring our family leave policies accountancy profession, for those of lower socio economic are diverse. In July 2017, Grant Thornton won the “Working backgrounds. We also won the Queen’s award for services to Families – Allen & Overy innovation award for our flexible social mobility and won organisation of the year in 2018. approach to family pay. This award means we are standing out in the market for our unique approaches to tackling the root To improve our understanding of our workforce, and to identify cause problems of progressing healthy diversity and inclusion potential barriers to progression, we track the demographics in our people experience. of our people to compare with external benchmarks and to monitor progression internally. The firm maintains records of Continuing Professional Development this data solely for this purpose. The diversity details of any Our culture is one that encourages the continued development member of the firm will not be shared internally or externally of all our professional people both in terms of their technical without their permission. We also support leading academic expertise and their up-to-date knowledge and understanding research to further our collective understanding of wider of our market place. This is underpinned by our firm-wide diversity and inclusion trends inthe workplace. Continued Professional Development policy which is rigorously implemented and monitored. Diversity and Inclusion We have signed the Race at Work charter and published our BAME pay gaps as a public declaration of our commitment to encourage the recruitment and progression of all people regardless of ethnic background. United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP 15 Environment As a purpose led firm we care about the work we do for our clients, the way we treat our people and the impact we have on our society and environment. We wholeheartedly support the UN Global Compact Environment Principles and are committed to the protection of the world around us, including playing our part in limiting global warming, preventing pollution and minimising our environmental impacts. We continually review and change the way we work so we can make a positive difference in the world around us through: • the efficient use of resources and systems • encouraging our people to complement our corporate activity with their efforts • sustainable procurement. 16 United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP Environment Assessment, policy and goals Principle 7. At Grant Thornton we are committed to the protection of the environment and to reducing Business should support a carbon emissions in order to slow down anthropogenic climate change. We use our precautionary approach to purchasing power to manage and minimise the negative ethical, social and environmental environmental challenges impacts of our supply chain to make a positive contribution to ethical business practices, quality of life in society and to protection of the environment. Principle 8. Undertake initiatives The firm’s environmental policy focuses on the following: to promote greater • meeting or exceeding our improvement targets environmental • complying with ISO14001 and its verification responsibility; and • adhering to all compliance obligations and keeping up to date with new legislation Principle 9. • promoting our targets, performance and further actions to our people Encourage the development • engaging our people in managing our environment impact and diffusion of • ensuring our policy is visible to our people, clients and communities. environmentally friendly technologies. To ensure we contribute to achieving the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change recommended goal of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees, we have set set sciencebased targets verified and published by the Science Based Targets initiative. Our science-based carbon targets are: • to reduce absolute Scopes 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 15% by 2023 from a 2018 base year • to reduce absolute Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions by 13% by 2023 from a 2018 base year. United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP 17 Environment Implementation The firm looks to encourage and support the UN Global Compact Environment Principles through various initiatives and policies. Here are some of the ways we do this: At Grant Thornton we are constantly seeking ways to improve the energy efficiency and environmental performance of our buildings and operations. Our ISO 14001 Environmental Management System informs our annual objectives, related targets and agreed actions. Over the past year we have undertaken the following activities to implement environmental policies and reduce environmental risk. Area Action Energy • Procured certified 100% renewable electricity contracts for all our supplies • Monitored electricity consumption • Improved access to accurate supplier data • Used profiling to identify energy savings opportunities • Increased employee awareness through environmental campaigns (e.g. switch off campaign “Goodbye Standby) • Adopted an agile working environment across our offices • Adjusted settings of Building Management Systems in some offices to reduce energy wastage • Further virtualisation of our data centre with the aim of total virtualisation going forwards Travel • Every month reported rolling twelve month carbon emissions from travel to incentivise employees to increase virtual meetings and lower carbon travel modes • Communicated environmental benefit and cost reduction of reducing travel across the group • Initiated working group to target air travel reductions through alternative travel, virtual meetings and reduction in non-essential flying Paper • Further reduced printing by 14% Waste • Continued rollout of our waste and recycling strategy across the UK • Replaced waste contractor with one providing high quality data and top class recycling facilities • Replaced single-use cups with reusable cups • Eliminated single-use plastic • Improved accuracy of monitoring • Improved employee awareness. • Improved signage on waste stations Communication • Rolled out new posters across UK offices • Enhanced usage of internal social media platforms • Communicated fun and engaging blog relating to our environmental objectives and targets • Disclose annually through the CDP Climate Change Questionnaire Procurement • Further engaged our suppliers on sustainability performance • Rolled out Responsible Purchasing Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct 18 United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP Measures and outputs As a result of the various environment policies and processes the firm has in place, we note some of the following measures and outputs: Our environmental management system across the UK is certified to ISO 14001 and is audited annually. It focuses on objectives and actions on areas that will have the most significant environmental impact both in the short and long term. We also comply with the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme which is in Phase II in 2019, and report to the Carbon Disclosure Project annually. Over the past 12 months we have: Switched to renewable electricity Reduced paper contracts at our owned consumption by sites, resulting in a 14% 94% decrease in electricity Scope 2 emissions Reduced air travel emissions by Increased recycling by 17% 4% United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP 19 Anti-corruption Grant Thornton UK LLP does not tolerate any forms of corruption, either by our people or others who are associated with us. Compliance with our anti-bribery and corruption policy is mandatory for all of our people. The firm is fully committed to upholding the tenth UN Global Compact Principle of Anti-corruption. 20 United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Principle 10. Grant Thornton is subject to the UK Bribery Act 2010, and has a zero tolerance Businesses should work against policy on bribery and corruption, avoiding even the appearance of impropriety. corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We do not tolerate any forms of bribery or corruption, either by our people or others who are associated with us. Our internal anti-bribery and corruption policy is based on UK law and sets the minimum requirements. Where the laws and regulations of other jurisdictions impose a higher standard, these must be followed where applicable. All of our people are required to undergo training on anti-bribery and corruption at the point of joining the firm and as issued from time to time thereafter.’ The firm is also subject to ethical and independence standards set by the Financial Reporting Council, the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW), and the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). The firm is wholeheartedly committed to working against corruption in all forms and implementing the necessary policies, processes and controls to ensure compliance at both firm and individual levels. United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP 21 Anti-corruption Implementation The firm supports the UN Global Compact Anti-corruption principle through leadership, policy and training. We highlight some areas of firm involvement below: We recognise the impact of our individual and collective Leadership behaviours on our reputation. We help our people to The firm’s Head of Quality and Reputation, Jonathan Riley, understand their financial crime and ethical responsibilities by provides guidance and support on the application of UK providing clear policies and procedures, efficient and intuitive and international ethical standards. He is supported by the systems, a strong culture of support and consultation, regular Firm’s Financial Crime Team who provides advice on all issues training and awareness programmes. related to bribery, corruption, tax evasion, money laundering, fraud and third party risk. He is also supported by the firm’s Policy implementation Ethics Partner and our Ethics Function also provides advice Our bribery and corruption policy is monitored by Internal on ethical issues and concerns to the wider practice. These Assurance based on the result of the Annual Regulatory teams’ combined efforts enable our people to obtain advice on Statements and Declarations. On an annual basis, all partners sensitive, high-risk or complex issues on a confidential basis. and employees are required to confirm their understanding and knowledge of key statutory and regulatory polices, and Training and e-learning programmes reports on gifts and hospitality given, and received in line with On joining the firm, all partners and employees are provided the firm’s policy. An internal audit is carried out to ensure that with the Code of Conduct and experience our orientation the policy and supporting procedures have been operated and programme including online training programmes on key are effective. policies such as anti-money laundering, confidentiality and information security and The Bribery Act. Our ethical Bribery and Corruption approach is embedded across all learning and communication Grant Thornton takes the risks associated with bribery and programmes. We have a customised e-learning programme corruption extremely seriously and is bound by the legislation relating to bribery and corruption which is designed to contained in the Bribery Act 2010. The firm has a zero tolerance heighten the awareness of the requirements of the Bribery Act approach to bribery and corruption and our anti-bribery and which must be completed by all client-facing partners and corruption policy relates to: bribery, corruption , gifts and staff (grade 2 and above) and all those involved in and hospitality, interactions with public officials (including procurement. Any instances of bribery and corruption within employees of state-owned companies), facilitation payments, the firm will be treated as gross misconduct leading to instant political contributions, charitable contributions, recruitment dismissal. and third party risk management. In addition, on an annual basis everybody is required to Whistleblowing confirm their understanding of, and compliance with, relevant A whistle blowing policy is also in operation and on an annual ethical requirements and key policies as summarised in the basis all our people are reminded of its existence and their Core Manual and the guiding principles set out in the Code of responsibilities. Employees can report potentially corrupt Conduct. practices to the head of their service line or use the confidential whistleblowing helpline. An annual report of the audit of key risk areas is prepared and presented to the firm’s senior management, who take action as appropriate. Any changes are approved by the board at regular meetings, however due to confidentiality we are unable to disclose details of these. 22 United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP Measures and outputs Ensuring appropriate anti-bribery and corruption measures are in place is vital to maintaining our reputation and to protect our business. Anti–corruption Monitoring Know Your Third Party (KY3P) policy must be followed. All We actively monitor our people’s compliance with financial must consult and obtain approval from the Financial Crime crime prevention, ethical and independence requirements in Team if they are planning to enter into an agreement with the following ways: a potentially high risk third party, namely: an introducer • on an annual basis all of our people are required to confirm who is engaged to win or retain business for us, in the UK or in the firm’s Annual Regulatory Statements and Declarations overseas, and receives fees or commission; a joint venture: process that they understand and have complied with either a separate legal entity or via contractual agreement; the firm’s policies relating to anti-bribery and corruption, where the third party is a public official, or politically independence, confidentiality, market abuse, gifts and exposed person (PEP), or is beneficially owned by a public hospitality, and whistleblowing; official or PEP. • all at Grant Thornton have the responsibility to prevent • we maintain a comprehensive log of instances which are bribery and corruption from occurring, and to respond in the reported to the Money Laundering Regulatory Officer. This right way if it does. If anyone at Grant Thornton is asked to not only includes suspicions of bribery but of any financial pay or is offered a bribe, or if anyone knows or suspects that crime. The record includes any and all follow up and another person in the firm or associated with us (including whether or not the matter was onward reported to National a client) has committed bribery, or other corrupt behaviour, Crime Agency. We have no plans to delete the records after then it is required by policy that they report this to the MLRO a predetermined period. It is our policy to retain the record or Deputy MLRO for Anti-Bribery and Corruption as soon in perpetuity. as possible. Alternatively, if they do not feel comfortable • on an annual basis, the Global Independence System reporting to the MLRO or Deputy MLRO, employees can accounts of 10% of partners and 5% of managers are contact the firm’s Whistleblowing Hotline. Reports of the reviewed against evidence to support their recorded hotline’s activity are formally reviewed quarterly by the Risk financial interests. and Audit Committee. • the firm’s internal audit function reviews compliance with • all gifts and hospitality must be transparently declared, and key internal controls across every service line on a threewhen certain limits exceeded, prior approval sought. Our yearly basis and reports to the Senior Leadership Team policy ensures any gifts and hospitality are appropriate and the Partnership Oversight Board through the Risk and from either an ethical or bribery laws perspective. Audit Committee • regular risk reviews monitor the adequacy of our Code of Conduct procedures thereby safeguarding our diverse range of Our Code of Conduct provides a clear set of standards for our stakeholders and protecting the relationships they build business, and creates an ethical and behavioural framework with Grant Thornton’s engagement acceptance procedures for how we apply our values to guide our people’s response to and independence policies. the decisions they are required to make each day. • we do not permit the creation of roles within our firm (including paid and unpaid work experience) where to do Quality so would create unacceptable risks relating to bribery and We continuously invest in processes and infrastructure that corruption, or which would not be in line with the firm’s social drive efficiency and compliance and provide direction and mobility principles. support to our people. The policies and procedures which drive • where we are engaged with, or are intending to engage, a our internal quality control systems are embedded in every part third party to undertake work on our behalf, then the firm’s of our business. United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP 23 © 2019 Grant Thornton UK LLP. All rights reserved. ‘Grant Thornton’ refers to the brand under which the Grant Thornton member firms provide assurance, tax and advisory services to their clients and/or refers to one or more member firms, as the context requires. Grant Thornton UK LLP is a member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd (GTIL). GTIL and the member firms are not a worldwide partnership. GTIL and each member firm is a separate legal entity. Services are delivered by the member firms. GTIL does not provide services to clients. GTIL and its member firms are not agents of, and do not obligate, one another and are not liable for one another’s acts or omissions. This publication has been prepared only as a guide. No responsibility can be accepted by us for loss occasioned to any person acting or refraining from acting as a result of any material in this publication. grantthornton.co.uk DS934
