Annual Report 2019 Acknowledgement of Country City West Water respectfully acknowledges the Traditional Custodians of the lands and waters upon which we work and operate, the people of the Kulin Nations The Wurundjeri Nation, The Bunurung Nation and the Wadawurrung Nation. We pay our deepest respects to their elders past, present and emerging. We acknowledge the continued cultural, social and spiritual connections that First Nations people have with the lands and waters, and recognise and value the knowledge and practice of caring for country for over thousands of generations. We will continue to build our knowledge of First Nations Values of Water, through engagement with Traditional Custodians and the Wider First Nations Communities to ensure their contributions to the future of the water management landscape and to maintain their cultural and spiritual connection. ARTWORK DESCRIPTION: City West Water’s commitment to reconciliation during National Reconciliation Week 2019 included a unique opportunity for artistic expression by our employees. The canvas, prepared by Terori Hareko-Samios, City West Water’s Senior Project Manager, First Nation Values of Water, was designed to include hand-painted additions on the theme of ‘what reconciliation means to you.’ The canvas hangs in our Footscray office. Annual Report 2019 City West Water Contents Our Year In Review 2 Our Business 32 Message from the Chair and Managing Director 2 Organisational structure 32 About Us 4 Members of the Board 34 Our vision 5 Board committees 36 Key initiatives and projects 6 Financial overview 37 Annual reporting of major non-residential water users 44 Our People 8 Total residential bill 45 Who we are 8 Financial Management Compliance Attestation 46 Choose Exceptional 9 Performance Report 47 Diversity and inclusion 10 Certification of Performance Report 50 Our Customers 14 Independent Auditor’s Report 51 Customer service results 15 Financial Report 53 Community service obligations 17 Comprehensive Income Statement 54 Water awareness campaigns and 18 Balance Sheet 55 community involvement Statement of Changes in Equity 56 Our Communities 20 Statement of Cash Flows 57 Sustainable water use 20 Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements 58 Water consumption 22 Independent Auditor’s Report 115 Drought response reporting 23 Appendices 119 Sustainable and resilient water services systems 24 Appendix 1: Disclosure index 120 Our Environment 26 Appendix 2: Disclosure of information on letter 122 Environmental management 26 of expectations Ministerial Reporting Direction 07 Further statutory obligations 31 Appendix 3: The United Nations Global Compact 127 Appendix 4: Bulk water entitlement reporting 129 City West Water Annual Report 2019 Our Year in Review The voice of our customer is now also being captured via Voice of the Customer dashboards, which provide us with greater visibility of customer data and analytics. Improved data means we can be more agile and proactive, quickly identifying and responding to hot spots. Customer insights will continue to help us enhance our service offering as we David David Ryan shift toward greater digitisation of transactions. Middleton Managing Chair Director Our community and growing city Much of the core of our organisation’s work happens out in the field, where we are also applying innovative technologies to deliver greater customer value. Managing Message from the Chair and the maintenance of our infrastructure received a boost this Managing Director year with fresh enhancements to our online field mobility system, Focus3. The enhancement now provides a structured channel of two-way communication between City West City West Water is privileged to service one of the fastest Water and our contractors to ensure our work in the growing regions in Melbourne. More than one million community continues to be delivered with efficiency and people rely on us each and every day to provide safe, best practice in safety performance. efficient and affordable services across the CBD, inner Renewals of major assets in and around the CBD have also suburbs and the vibrant communities of the west. been a major focus this year, including completing our As our customer base continues to grow, so too does the $20.8 million Spencer Street Sewer Upgrade and embarking demand on both our new and existing infrastructure. on a significant installation of 2.3km of new water pipe The impacts of a changing climate also require us to along Canning Street as part of the M205 Carlton Water think differently, to act with agility and strive for greater Main Renewal Project. Additional projects across the CBD efficiency wherever possible. included the Collins Street Water Main Renewal and the upcoming $21 million upgrade of the Lonsdale Street As such, this Annual Report 2019 outlines our sewer, set for completion by late 2020. achievements that reflect our vision to consistently Due to the high-density and high-profile nature of each put customers first and benefit the community, while project location, significant customer engagement and close equipping our people with the skills and capability to collaboration with key stakeholders was critical to successful thrive during this period of rapid transformation. project completion. Resilient, liveable cities require healthy waterways and high Our customers quality public open space with which the community can engage. While renewing and maintaining our assets to At City West Water, a customer is more than just someone support our growing city, we have also continued to focus who pays a bill. Our customers are anyone who lives, works our efforts on urban greening and re-naturalisation of unused or visits our service area: from households to small cafes, assets. In October, we celebrated the planting of our onelarge manufacturers and multinational corporations. As our millionth tree as part of Greening the West’s 1 Million Trees customers don’t get to choose their water provider, it is our project, and in July, we proudly launched our industry-leading responsibility to choose how we deliver our services, and we Stormwater Harvesting Partnership Fund. Each initiative is a choose to be exceptional. fabulous example of strong partnerships with local councils This year we delivered our Customers First strategy, which sets and organisations to enhance the health and prosperity of the out our commitments over the next three years to provide local community. greater digital experiences, enhanced tailored services, In accordance with the Drought Preparedness Plan, we again additional channels for customer engagement, support for collaborated with South East Water, Yarra Valley Water and our people to thrive via an achievement culture, as well as Melbourne Water to publish the annual Water Outlook, upgrades in business processes and technologies. providing our customers with our water security position. A live outages map is now available on our website, While Melbourne’s water availability is assessed as secure for providing real-time information to customers – available the coming year, the last 30 years has seen historical changes anywhere, any time. We also replaced our manual change of in temperature and rainfall patterns across the state, and we tenancy process with an accessible online form, providing expect our climate to continue changing over the coming our customers with a simple and easy-to-use service. decades. As Victoria becomes warmer and drier, there will be less runoff entering our water storage reservoirs. These 2 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Our Year changes have implications for water planning, which are three of our leaders recognised in the Top 50 Women in reflected in our strategies and actions. During 2018-19, we Public Sector awards. continued to work on actions to improve future drought Protection and enhancement of the safety and wellbeing response, including programs to inform the community of of our people remains critical, and we continue to evolve the importance of wise water use; works to detect leaks and our practices to improve outcomes. We recognise that we renew mains; and development and operation of stormwater have more to do to improve our performance for the benefit harvesting and recycled water schemes. of all who either access or interact with our places of work A changing climate drives us to source more of the energy – our employees, our contractors, our customers and the we use from sustainable sources through opportunities community. The launch of The Bridge – an integrated digital for energy recovery within our operations. This year we platform to support proactive health, safety, environment, entered a partnership with 12 other leading Victorian water and quality and risk management – as well as the launch corporations to purchase solar power from Kiamal Solar Farm of a staff-wide human resources system – myplace – are in north-west Victoria. This partnership, titled ‘Zero Emissions representative of this commitment. Close consultation and Water’, will support our work towards achieving the goal of engagement with our contractors will continue to be a key net zero greenhouse gas emissions as a sector by 2050. It focus for the Annual Health and Safety Plan 2019-20. will also help City West Water achieve our pledge to reduce our total carbon emissions by 80 per cent (compared to our Our financial performance baseline of 12,401 tonnes CO2-e) by 1 July 2025 and adopt a This year, we delivered a profit before tax of $95.7 million leading pathway to achieve net zero emissions by 2030. against a budget of $79.8 million. These results were driven Working across City West Water, from our Board through to by favourable outcomes on trade waste, recycling and water operations, we have taken great steps over the past year to trading revenues, gifted assets, labour costs, other operating implement our Climate Resilience Strategy. This includes some costs, depreciation and net interest expenses, as well as important work on the Water Sector Climate Adaptation below budget bulk changes. Action Plan, such as estimating the potential costs of climate Furthermore, the improved performance also results in change and updating the climate change projections that favourable returns to the State Government of Victoria inform our long-term planning. through tax and dividend payments. During 2018-19, we made total dividend payments of $20.4 million, paid income Our people tax equivalent of $45.7 million and capital repatriation Our goal is to live a culture where everyone is a leader, where of $10.9 million. our people are valued, provided with opportunity to learn In accordance with the Financial Management Act 1994, we and grow as well as supported to drive performance in are pleased to attest that our Annual Report for the year everything they do. ending 30 June 2019 is compliant with all statutory reporting Our culture score achieved this year reflects this, moving requirements. from 46 per cent of our people feeling we have the right We extend a sincere thank you to all our people for their culture to deliver on our strategy in 2017 to 71 per cent in support, efforts and achievements throughout the year, and 2019. This is due to maintaining a focus on connecting with we are grateful for having such a dedicated team at City West our people, for example through our Choose Exceptional Water. We look forward to another successful year in 2019-20. integration sessions; introduction of a fortnightly face-to-face people leader communication channel to identify important matters; and mobilising Cultural Leaders across the business to support a top down and bottom up approach to growing our culture. Our Choose Exceptional program has embedded our achievement culture throughout the year, and the launch of our supporting Capability Framework equips our people with the capabilities and skills required to implement our David Middleton David Ryan strategic objectives. Chair Managing Director We have also focused on recruiting with purpose. In order 27 August 2019 for our people to reflect the wonderfully diverse community we serve, we must tap into the greatest talents, regardless of gender, ability, race or cultural background. This year, we are proud to have achieved over 50 per cent female representation on our Executive Leadership Team, and had City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 3 About Us City West Water is a statutory water authority incorporated under the Water Act 1989. It is one of three retail water corporations in metropolitan Melbourne 2018-19 owned by the State of Victoria. The Minister for Water for the period from 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 was the Hon. Lisa Neville MP. Our core business is the supply of water, sewerage, trade waste and, where available, recycled water services to APPROXIMATELY customers in accordance with our Customer Charter. We service approximately 431,600 residential properties, 41,600 473,200 non-residential properties (which include schools, councils, HOMES AND industrial, commercial and small businesses) and more than BUSINESSES SERVED 1.1 million customers. We manage $1.9 billion of infrastructure across a service area of more than 700km2. In 2018-19, we supplied approximately 105 billion litres of drinking water to residential and non-residential customers and transferred approximately 94 per cent of sewage and trade waste collected to Melbourne Water’s Western Treatment Plant at Werribee. The remaining six per cent was treated at our Altona Treatment Plant. We operate under Statements of Obligations issued by the Minister for Water under section 4l of the Water Industry Act 1994. The statements impose obligations on us regarding MORE THAN the performance of our functions and exercise of powers. We are required to monitor compliance with the obligations set 105 BILLION out in the statements, report on non-compliance and take LITRES OF DRINKING remedial action as required. WATER DELIVERED TO The Essential Services Commission is our economic regulator. OUR CUSTOMERS It approves the prices we charge our customers, as well as the standards of service we deliver. We are required to submit a five-year Pricing Submission to the Essential Services Commission which details outcomes we intend to achieve, as well as proposed prices. The commission undertakes a public review of our Pricing Submission in consultation with all stakeholders. The new Pricing Determination took effect from 1 July 2018 and is effective for five years. Our drinking water quality is regulated by the Department of Health and Human Services under the Safe Drinking Water Act 2003. Our recycled water quality is regulated by the Environment Protection Authority under the 94% OF SEWAGE Environment Protection Act 1970. The operation of our sewage treatment plant is also regulated by the AND TRADE WASTE Environment Protection Authority. COLLECTED WAS TRANSPORTED TO MELBOURNE WATER'S WESTERN TREATMENT PLANT AND 6% TO CITY WEST WATER'S ALTONA TREATMENT PLANT 4 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Our vision To be an exceptional service provider that puts customers Successful achievement of About Us first and benefits the community. our ambition is built on six Our ambition strong foundations: Customer value is at the heart of all we do. We are driven to: • deliver exceptional services that are affordable, safe and reliable ACHIEVEMENT • be accessible and easy to deal with CULTURE • make all decisions in our customers’ best interests and with future generations in mind. We are passionate about community liveability and wellbeing. DYNAMIC We strive to: TECHNOLOGY • care for and, where possible, to enhance the environment with an eye to the future and the challenges imposed by a changing climate • be vibrant partners in the life of our community STREAMLINED • anticipate community needs and take the lead within our DELIVERY areas of influence • provide a fair return to the State Government of Victoria, to support it to meet its objectives to improve the lives of all Victorians. GREAT Our people PARTNERSHIPS Our ambition is enabled by our people. Our people are: • agile – responsive to customer needs and a changing world PURPOSEFUL • diverse – reflect the community we serve LEADERSHIP • trusted – make evidence-driven judgements, exercised with integrity. EXTENSIVE KNOWLEDGE OF THE WATER CYCLE City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 5 Key initiatives and projects 2018 July • Launched water industry cadetship • Installed 171kW solar photovoltaic system at Altona Salt Reduction Plant • Launched Stormwater Harvesting Partnership Fund, initially funding six schemes • Property+ went live enabling customers to submit development applications online August • Launched our Customers First strategy • Submitted to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Inquiry • Three of our leaders recognised in the 2018 Top 50 Public Sector Women in Victoria September • Completed Collins Street Water Main Renewal project • Completed field trial to refurbish a sewer concrete manhole using a PVC liner October • Celebrated one-millionth tree planted by Greening the West project • Launched our Capability Framework • Signed Chain of Ponds Collaboration to transform Moonee Ponds Creek • Launched interactive Outage Map to inform customers of outages and restored services November • Proudly sponsored the 2018 Walk Against Family Violence • Fran Duiker, General Manager Customers & Community, appointed WaterAid Australia Ambassador December • Completed Spencer Street Sewer Upgrade project ($20.8 million) • Launched Customer Charter 2018-23 • Migrated website platform as part of Cloud First strategy • Launched Melbourne Sewerage Strategy in collaboration with Melbourne’s other water retailers and Melbourne Water 6 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Key initiatives and projects 2019 About Us January • Launched myplace, our new human resources information system • Introduced LinkedIn Learning for all employees February • Sponsored Victoria University’s Celebrating Women in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths) Scholarship • Announced Carlton Water Main Renewal project ($13.2 million) • Welcomed first two graduates who were recruited through the Collaborative Graduate Program • Completed Sanctuary Lakes sewer upgrade ($1.2 million) March • Celebrated 10 years of great service by nine of our first ever cadets April • Launched Zero Emissions Water with 12 other water corporations • Participated in water conservation activity ‘Shower Superstars’ at Melbourne Museum • Supported customers by enabling them to request payment extensions online • Upgraded cyber security environment and Payment Card Industry compliance May • Launched The Bridge, an integrated health, safety, environment, quality and risk digital platform • Launched our Wellbeing Framework • Hosted our 11th annual Day at the Zoo as part of Cultural Diversity Week • Started work on the Burnley Street Water Main Renewal project ($0.5 million) • Completed Alexandra Parade Sewer Main Renewal project ($1.8 million) June • Delivered a record number of training and development programs • Launched our internal mentoring program • Digitised Change of Tenancy process as part of Customers First implementation • Commenced Proof of Concept trial for digital metering • Completed a six-month trial of proactive leak and burst detection in the CBD • Voice of the Customer enhanced to drive improved performance and understanding of customer needs City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 7 Our People People enable our ambition City West Water is committed to becoming an exceptional We know that enabling our people is the most fundamental service provider that puts customers first and benefits the success factor in our transformation journey, and this year, community. We aim to do this by putting the customer at the work continued on the development of our achievement heart of everything we do, and by being passionate about culture – a culture where we: community liveability and wellbeing. • value people • learn and grow • drive performance Who we are FEMALE TOTAL NUMBER AVERAGE AGE REPRESENTATION OF EMPLOYEES OF EMPLOYEES 47% 455 44 YEARS MALE PART-TIME REPRESENTATION EMPLOYEES 53% 19% FEMALE FULL-TIME LEADERS EMPLOYEES 45% 79% MALE CASUAL/FIXED LEADERS TERM EMPLOYEES 55% 2% We value people We continued our personal leadership development The framework takes a five-year strategic, integrated and program, Choose Exceptional, for all employees, and also connected approach to support the physical, emotional undertook significant work to create a Wellbeing Framework. (mental) and financial wellness of our workforce. Each Launched in May 2019, this framework seeks to support initiative is aligned with our commitment to our people being our people along the ‘whole health’ continuum by taking a agile, diverse and trusted. preventative and proactive approach to wellbeing at work through a focus on behavioural change. “Wellbeing is the critical building block in an achievement culture, where people are valued, have the ability to learn and grow, and are able to drive performance. Our Wellbeing Framework will seek to support each and every one of our people to thrive.” Louise Meadows, General Manager, People and Capability 8 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Choose Exceptional This year we have held: Our People 27 ‘WE VALUE PEOPLE’ WORKSHOPS FOR ALL EMPLOYEES 27 ‘WE DRIVE PERFORMANCE’ WORKSHOPS FOR ALL EMPLOYEES 14 ‘LEADER AS COACH’ WORKSHOPS FOR ALL PEOPLE LEADERS We learn and grow Our Capability Framework, which we launched in October 2018, supports our people to build their capability and skills, grow their careers and improve performance within their myplace gives our people leaders roles. It also enables us to invest in the capabilities needed to be an exceptional service provider. Our framework will guide more accountability over their people us in ensuring we attract and retain a diverse workforce and management activities, as well as reflect the community we serve. making it easy for our employees We drive performance to manage things that matter Throughout 2018-19, there has been an emphasis on including their leave, overtime improving our systems and processes. A key achievement was the introduction of a new Human Resources and training record. Information Management system called ‘myplace’. myplace is designed to enhance the employee experience throughout the employee lifecycle, from recruitment, onboarding and induction to access to training and management, through the collection of all of our peoplerelated data in one single source. This has also provided us with an opportunity to improve our people processes. City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 9 Diversity and inclusion We are committed to embedding diversity and inclusion into our business. The following outcomes have been achieved this financial year, in support of our Diversity and Inclusion Strategy 2016-2020. 2020 2019 TARGET ACTUAL OUR WORKFORCE WILL BE GENDER BALANCED 50 % WOMEN 47 WOMEN % WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP 50% 45% EMPLOYEES IDENTIFY AS ABORIGINAL OR TORRES STRAIT ISLANDER PEOPLES 2.5% 0% EMPLOYEES CAN SPEAK A LANGUAGE OTHER THAN ENGLISH 25% 32% EMPLOYEES IDENTIFY AS HAVING CARING RESPONSIBILITIES OUTSIDE OF CITY WEST WATER 35% 42% EMPLOYEES IDENTIFY AS HAVING A DISABILITY 10% 11% EMPLOYEES IDENTIFY AS BELONGING TO THE LGBTQI COMMUNITY 7% 2% We apply the employment principles of the Public Administration Act 2004. Employees are selected and promoted on the basis of ability, knowledge and skills in fair and open competition that ensures equal opportunity. Employees receive fair and equitable treatment without regard to race, colour, sexual preference, age, physical or mental disability, pregnancy, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. We have in place a Disability Policy and a Disability Action Plan. We work to meet our obligations under the Disability Act 2006, the Disability Discrimination Act 1992, the Equal Opportunity Act 1995, and the Charter of Human Rights and Responsibilities Act 2006 with the aim of eliminating barriers for people with a disability from accessing goods, services, facilities and employment. We also have policies for the prevention of harassment and bullying, and for equal employment. Our people have a right to work in an environment free from harassment, bullying and discrimination. Any behaviour to the contrary will result in disciplinary action up to, and including, dismissal. All employees are trained in equal opportunity and bullying prevention. Employee Support Officers are available to provide information to employees about rights and obligations in this area. 10 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Women in leadership recognised Partnerships to support women in STEM Our People Three of our female leaders were honoured as being part City West Water, in partnership with Victoria University, is of the Top 50 Public Sector Women in Victoria for 2018. Fran proud to support Dawt Hnem Sung Sarum (Nunu) as the Duiker, General Manager, Customers and Community; Elisa first recipient of the Celebrating Women in STEM (Science, Hunter, Strategy and Policy Manager, Strategy and Planning; Technology, Engineering and Maths) Scholarship. This and Maree Lang, General Manager, Infrastructure and Delivery scholarship supports the education of a future female were recognised for outstanding leadership in building high engineer through one-on-one mentoring by a senior female performing teams and transforming communities. Their leader at City West Water. success reflects our commitment to developing women In May 2019, our Altona Treatment Plant was brought to life in leadership through our Diversity and Inclusion Strategy, as for 20 budding female scientists from Taylors Lakes Secondary well as our everyday practices including supporting flexible College and Werribee Secondary College in a bid to showcase working, gender-balanced recruitment and challenging future STEM employment opportunities available to Victorian traditional gender bias in the workforce. public school students in Melbourne’s west. The touring City West Water is spearheading the water industry’s group was able to see STEM in action and learn how the approach to gender diversity. Five of the seven members of Altona Treatment Plant, since its origins in the late 1960s, has our Executive Leadership Team are women and 45 per cent of developed into a sophisticated recycled water treatment plant. senior leaders across the organisation are women. Partnership to support First “City West Water is committed to improving the Nation peoples participation representation of women in the water industry and in Melbourne’s water businesses have joined forces to support other STEM-related industries. Our partnerships with participation of First Nation peoples with the Melbourne local secondary schools and Victoria University are an water industry. Recognising that over many generations First important step in achieving this vision.” Nation peoples have managed land and water sustainably, David Ryan, Managing Director, City West Water the water businesses are looking to tap into their knowledge and experience. Providing opportunities for graduates Our Senior Project Manager – First Nation Values of Water has started work to connect City West Water, Melbourne The Melbourne Metropolitan Water Industry Graduate Water, South East Water and Yarra Valley Water with First Program continued in 2018-19, providing opportunities for Nation peoples. The role, established in June 2018, is focused graduates to learn, grow and develop a whole-of-lifecycle on building strong relationships with the First Nation view of how the water industry operates in Melbourne. community and Traditional Custodians and building First Graduates also have access to networking opportunities, Nation Water Values knowledge. mentoring and project experience across the water businesses. They become part of their respective workforce Initiatives undertaken during 2018-19 include: of engineers, planners, surveyors and environmental experts • capacity building and knowledge sharing through tackling the opportunities and challenges of the future. We facilitation of 8 Ways of Knowing: First Nation Cultural recruited two graduates through this program in 2018-19 Knowledge Exchange training sessions with a further six graduates across the disciplines of data science, economics, engineering and information technology • establishment of a First Nations Advisory Committee to to join the business in 2019-20. share knowledge and First Nation values During the year we also launched the Collaborate Cadet • metropolitan industry sharing forum collaborating and Program. The 12-week program includes a six-week rotation sharing knowledge across the businesses to agree on areas with Programmed Facility Management and six weeks with of focus for collective action City West Water. We hosted two cadets, who were placed • initiating water industry engagement with Traditional in different departments across the organisation. Custodians and the broader First Nations community. City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 11 Virtual asset tour This year, we unveiled our first Virtual Asset Tour which provides new staff with an exciting way of visiting and learning about our assets. Using 360 degree photospheres with voiceovers and graphic overlays, virtual tours allow users to explore our sites and assets while receiving insights into their purpose and operation. Virtual reality enhances visualisation and means staff can visit sites without the risks, hazards and personal protective equipment that are generally associated with a physical site visit. Our first Virtual Asset Tour covered recycled water from our treatment plants at Altona and West Werribee, as well as sewer, stormwater and potable water assets. The training has been used in induction for our Operational Control Centre staff who don’t generally get a chance to visit sites but are often required to provide information to our customers. Comparative workforce data The Comparative Workforce Data table below provides a snapshot of the diversity of employees in our organisation. Employees have been correctly classified in workforce data collections based on working arrangement and employee level. Comparative Workforce Data 2019 2018 Full time 358 357 Part time 89 75 Casual/fixed term 8 11 Total Employees 455 443 Key management personnel 9 9 Executives 6 5 Operational/Administrative staff 440 429 Total Employees 455 443 Full time equivalent 421 423 12 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Health and safety At City West Water, we foster an environment where people Demonstrating our strong commitment to health and safety, make safe choices to improve outcomes and where everyone this year we: is responsible for workplace safety. We are committed to • achieved a targeted uplift in health and safety cultural providing healthy and safe workplaces, for our employees, maturity, from ‘Developing’ to ‘Established’ (verified through contractors, customers and the wider community who access an independent assessment by Ernst & Young, Australia) and interact with our places of work. • successfully delivered on initiatives outlined in the Annual A positive safety culture, with shared attitudes, values and Our People Health and Safety Plan 2018-19 including: beliefs, is vital to our health and safety. Our Health and Safety Policy commits us to: established working groups to address critical health and • enable a positive health and safety culture safety risks, such as confined space and high pressure water jetting • strive to continually improve • provide effective health and safety leadership implemented a new health, safety, environment, quality and risk software system The Bridge. • upskill and engage our people • manage risks to health and safety and prevent adverse incidents • consult on, and communicate about, health and safety • comply with the law • provide effective, transparent and user-friendly systems. Employee Health and Safety Performance 2019 2018 2017 Hazards per 100 full time equivalent employees 3.0 7.9 7.9 Incidents per 100 full time equivalent employees 6.5 9.0 8.8 Lost time standard claims per 100 full time equivalent employees 0.2 0.0 0.0 Average cost per claim (includes non-lost time claims or medical)1 $13,610 $7,250 $10,065 Total recordable injury frequency rate per million hours worked 7.7 3.6 5.9 Notes: 1. City West Water experienced fewer claims, at a higher monetary amount, than previous years. The Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) has a key element of our Annual Health and Safety Plan 2019-20. ended the year at 7.7, against a target of <3.0, with 10 TRIFR The plan focuses on a more collaborative approach to impacting incidents during the 2018-19 financial year. Our management of critical health and safety risks and highcontractors have been the primary source of TRIFR impacting potential incident management. incidents over 2018-19, therefore contractor management is City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 13 Our Customers 2018-19 MORE THAN 1.1 MILLION 41,600 RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMERS USE NON-RESIDENTIAL OUR SERVICES PROPERTIES SERVED 431,600 RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES SERVED (AND RISING WITH SOME OF THE FASTEST GROWING AREAS IN AUSTRALIA IN OUR SERVICE AREA) MORE THAN 105 BILLION LITRES OF DRINKING WATER DELIVERED TO OUR CUSTOMERS 95 BILLION LITRES OF WASTEWATER COLLECTED 1.83 MILLION METER READINGS 7,800 TRADE WASTE CUSTOMERS (PRODUCING 50% OF METROPOLITAN MELBOURNE’S TRADE WASTE) 14 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Customer service results At City West Water, we choose to be an exceptional enabling customers to request payment extensions online by service provider that adopts a ‘customers first’ approach in launching an online form for tenancy move-in and move-out everything we do. applications. This means the 97,000 manual forms received per year can now be processed seamlessly online. Being exceptional means we always strive to deliver services that are affordable, safe and reliable; to be accessible and easy to deal with; and to make decisions in our customers’ “Our Customer Operations Team has been committed to best interests. ensuring that the voice of the customer is embedded into In 2018-19, our Customer Operations Centre responded to our decision making and initiatives. We are proud of the more than 365,000 calls and 320,000 emails and customer work we have achieved this year and we are excited to applications, assisting customers with a range of enquiries realise the benefits of future technology investments in including moving house, payment plans, and usage and the pipeline.” service charges. Our Customer Operations Centre reduced Geoff Wigglesworth, Customer Service Manager Our Customers email turnaround time from 10 days to one day. This was achieved through a program of upskilling, workload We continued to offer assistance to vulnerable customers monitoring and allocation, and buddy coaching led by our through implementation of our financial hardship and Customer Service Centre Team Leaders. family violence policies. We provide information about Through implementation of our Customers First strategy, these policies in our Customer Charter Summary given to this year we focused on becoming easier to deal with and new customers. more accessible. We made significant progress, for example EMAIL TURNAROUND TIME REDUCED FROM 10 DAYS TO 1 DAY YEARLY AVERAGE OF 97,000 TENANCY APPLICATIONS BEING PROCESSED ONLINE City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 15 Understanding our customer experience Digital metering trial A new data and analytics platform, Voice of the Customer, is With Melbourne’s population set to almost double and providing insights into what our customers need and want forecasts of more extreme weather conditions, we are and will help us improve the customer experience. working on new ways to provide better service to customers, make every drop count and optimise the operation of our By integrating data sources, for example Closed Circuit TV water network. We are working with South East Water and (CCTV) footage of our assets, billing, call recording, customer Yarra Valley Water to deliver a Proof of Concept for digital surveys, social media and our spatial system, we can better water meters to provide greater value to customers and the understand customer interactions and service requests. community. We see digital metering as integral to our vision Using a collaborative design approach between IT, the to create an intelligent water network that will: vendor and business process and data owners, this platform • provide customers with proactive leak alerts is helping to shift the mindset towards using data insights to drive innovation. • provide customers with near real-time consumption information so that they can choose to change their For the first time we asked customers who had been in consumption behaviour to save water, reduce their bill and phone contact with us if they felt that City West Water has a avoid bill shock good reputation in the community. The Customer Reputation Score for 2018-19 was 73 out of a possible 100. In 2019-20 • connect to other detection devices to proactively identify we will ask this question monthly and annually to enable leaks within our networks. comparison of responses and gain a better understanding of We have started the operational phase of the Proof of what impacts on our reputation. Concept, in consultation with our customers, deploying Providing easy access to service outage devices into small trial areas in Docklands and Richmond. and fault information Sharing Customer Charter summary Customers can access an interactive map that highlights From January 2019, new customers received a summary reported faults and outages as well as recently restored of the Customer Charter 2018-23 with their first water bill. services. The Faults and Outages map, launched on our The summary is an important guide to the level of service website in November 2018, is a simple, accessible way to customers can expect. understand where water or sewer services are disrupted and when services are restored. It is also part of our broader plan The Customer Charter outlines customers’ rights and to enhance digital services for customers. responsibilities as well as our commitments to provide safe and reliable water, sewerage and trade waste services, and recycled water services where available. The charter also contains information about our hardship, vulnerability and family violence provisions. 16 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Community service obligations City West Water provided the following community service obligations. Supporting Vulnerable Customers Our Customers 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Provision of concessions to customers 22,901 21,252 Rebates paid to not-for-profit organisations under the water and sewerage rebate scheme 559 403 Utility relief grant scheme 382 334 Water concessions to those on life support machines (haemodialysis) 10 13 We value the community we operate in and are committed to finding the best ways to support our most vulnerable customers. Concessions to pensioners and cardholders Customers who hold a pension concession card, a unable to pay a current account and are at risk of restriction Department of Veterans Affairs gold card or a health care of supply. A grant is available to a holder of a pension card are entitled to a 50 per cent concession on water and concession card, a health care card or a Department of sewerage charges, up to an annual maximum. The 2018-19 Veterans Affairs gold card which is not marked ‘dependant’. maximum was $320.90. If a customer is receiving one service Applicants must meet certain criteria to demonstrate only, they are entitled to a concession of up to half the annual that unexpected financial hardship has left them unable maximum. We invoice the Department of Health and Human to meet their water bill obligations. We invoice the Services (DHHS) for the value of those concessions. Department of Health and Human Services for the value of those concessions. Rebates paid to not-for-profit organisations under the Water and Sewerage Rebate Scheme Water concessions for people on life support machines The State Revenue Office defines certain organisations as (haemodialysis) not-for-profit. Such organisations serve the community Residential customers requiring in-home haemodialysis are in the fields of education, health or nursing care, religious entitled to a rebate on water usage and sewage disposal worship, charity, outdoor sporting or recreation activities or charges. The Department of Health and Human Services war veterans’ organisations. These organisations are entitled determines the rebate amount based on the average annual to claim a concession on the service charge portion of their water usage of an in-home haemodialysis machine of 168,000 bills. We invoice the State Revenue Office for the value of litres a year. The rebate is in addition to any other pension or those concessions. concession to which a customer may be entitled. Customers Utility Relief Grant Scheme who hold a pension concession card, a Department of Veterans Affairs gold card or a health care card are entitled to The Utility Relief Grant Scheme provides assistance to the rebate. We invoice the Department of Health and Human residential customers who are unable to pay their utility Services for the value of those concessions. The number of bills as a result of a temporary financial crisis. Assistance is concessions paid has decreased due to fewer customers provided to low income households which, as the result of seeking the concession. a short-term (within the last 12 months) financial crisis, are City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 17 Water awareness campaigns and Raising water awareness We are committed to raising awareness with customers community involvement about the water cycle and water efficiency. We achieve this through educational and cultural programs, as well as actively Day at the Zoo promoting the State Government’s Target 155 campaign that Now in its eleventh year, the annual Day at the Zoo was held encourages customers to limit their water consumption to on 21 May 2019. 155 litres per person per day. Seventeen government organisations were at Melbourne We are proud of our water awareness and community Zoo providing newly-arrived communities with information involvement campaigns. This year the following activities to improve their understanding of essential services. The were launched or continued: event attracts more than 9,000 culturally diverse community members from 70 countries speaking 52 languages. We WaterAid welcomed 1,000 participants from 24 English as a Second In November 2018, WaterAid Australia announced Fran Language schools from across Melbourne. In a joint activity Duiker, City West Water’s General Manager, Customers and with Yarra Valley Water and South East Water, we handed out Community, as its newest Ambassador. WaterAid Australia information on safe drinking water, what not to flush and how is an international not-for-profit organisation determined to get in contact with us if experiencing hardship. Our mobile to make clean water, decent toilets and good hygiene water fountain was also on site for participants to fill up their accessible for everyone, everywhere within a generation. In water bottles. support of this, we have committed to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and will continue to work with WaterAid City West Water is proud to co-host Day at the Zoo with to help change lives. the Victorian Multicultural Commission as supporting and promoting cultural diversity is an important part of Trees for Schools our philosophy. Twenty schools in the western suburbs received 50 native six-month-old tube stock, including eucalypts, correas and grevilleas, and planted them on Trees for Schools Day on 27 July 2018. The Trees for Schools project picks up on Greening the West’s goal of doubling the tree canopy of Melbourne’s west by 2050. 18 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Our Customers National Water Week In 2018, National Water Week was held from 21 to 27 October, • Kids Teaching Kids Satellite Event – in September 2018, with the theme ‘ Water for me, water for all’. The aim of we supported Truganina South Primary School to host National Water Week is to assist the community to understand Point Cook Primary School, Spotswood Primary School and take action to protect and conserve our precious water and Werribee Primary School for their first Kids Teaching resources and habitats. In Victoria, we participate in a primary Kids satellite event. Ten to 15 students and two or three school poster competition. This year, more than 150 posters teachers from each school attended. Spotswood Primary were received from Prep to Grade 6 students. School, Werribee Primary School and Point Cook Primary School presented to students on a rotating basis. These Kids Teaching Kids satellite events help schools rehearse their presentations The Kids Teaching Kids program is an education model that ahead of the ‘big’ conference and also allow schools that empowers young people to drive action on local and global have not previously been involved with Kids Teaching environmental issues. The program uses peer teaching and Kids to see first-hand what it is all about. learning as a way of ensuring the environment is front of mind and in good hands for the future. We have supported Kids Shower Superstars at Melbourne Museum Teaching Kids for five years. The theme was ‘Water: Enhancing In April 2019, we joined with Yarra Valley Water, South life and liveability’ and events included: East Water and Melbourne Water to run an activity hub at • Kids Teaching Kids Conference – we have been sponsoring Melbourne Museum to teach kids about the importance and presenting at Collingwood Children’s Farm for five of saving water. The Shower Superstars activity focused on years. This year 55 schools from across Australia participated saving water in the shower, which accounts for 32 per cent and we sponsored Rob Hyatt from the Koorie Heritage of household water use. Primary school and kindergarten Trust to present three sessions to 35 students about water children participated in the activities, which included a mock from an indigenous perspective. shower, karaoke and making stickers. This year our mobile water fountain attended 117 events, reaching 1.1 million event goers. Events included community and cultural festivals and celebrations, sporting events and fundraising activities. City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 19 Our Communities Integrated Water Management Forums Integrated water management considers the entire water cycle and the multiple services it provides when planning, delivering and operating infrastructure. Sustainable water use The Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning (DELWP) established Integrated Water Management forums to Population growth, the potential impacts of climate change identify, coordinate and prioritise opportunities and areas that and other factors influence the long-term supply and would most benefit from collaborative water cycle planning demand for water. We expect Melbourne’s population to and management. These forums help local governments, water continue to grow and our climate to continue its trend of corporations, catchment management authorities, the Victorian becoming warmer and drier. It is forecast that in the long Planning Authority and Traditional Custodians work together to term demand for water will exceed supply. Uncertainty ensure the water cycle efficiently contributes to the liveability of around future water needs highlights the importance of a region. They are based on waterway catchment boundaries taking a strategic approach to planning and preparing for and there are five forums across Melbourne. the decades ahead. We continue to be a key contributor and participant in three The following strategies and activities illustrate the Integrated Water Management forums (Werribee, Maribyrnong extensive work we are undertaking to ensure ongoing and Yarra catchments). This has involved attendance at nine water availability. forum meetings, and significantly more working group meetings. We are collaborating on several projects across Urban Water Strategy each catchment, such as the Western Growth Integrated Water Management Plan – Phase 1, where we are one of eight Our Urban Water Strategy helps prepare our service area for a collaborative partners. challenging water future, as we navigate the impacts of climate change and population growth. It outlines the likely increase in Water Security Campaign our residential population, from just over 1.1 million in June 2019 In February 2019, we committed to work with South East Water, to an estimated 2.3 million by 2066. Yarra Valley Water and Melbourne Water to commence a water The strategy sets a benchmark for service provision now and into security public awareness campaign the first major campaign the future and will help us understand, adapt to and provide for undertaken since the Millennium Drought. growing demand for water. It outlines a number of key actions, The first stage of the campaign sought to prepare stakeholders such as our ambitious plan to deliver 9.7GL* per year of alternative and the community for the State Government’s biggest water by 2065. desalinated water order in March 2019 and highlight the We currently supply approximately: continued need for water orders with rapid population growth coupled with warmer and drier weather conditions. • 2.6GL per year of recycled water to residential and non-residential customers The campaign has been further developed to inform and educate the community and business about the environmental, • 0.12GL per year of stormwater to councils for open social and economic context of water security in 2019 and space irrigation. beyond, with a key message around the importance of Our Stormwater Harvesting Partnership Fund is contributing everyone contributing to our water security. That context setting funding to a number of projects across our service area will be followed by future campaigns and specific behaviour that will deliver up to an additional 0.1GL per year of change initiatives over the next three years. recycled stormwater. With changing residential water use behaviour over the In addition, we aim to explore opportunities in established last decade, it has been established that Melbourne's water areas which have the potential to substitute 6-8GL per year of retailers need to target in-house water use to further reduce drinking water with alternative water. The Urban Water Strategy per-capita water use. A customer segmentation study, based also includes our Drought Preparedness Plan for the next five on cross-Melbourne consumer research delivered in 2019, years which ensures long-term sustainable water use. found that generally customers underestimate how much water is used for showers and overestimate how much is used Water Resource Management outdoors. The study identified that shower efficiency would be the most effective water use behaviour to target, although We work closely with Melbourne Water and the other there was potential for more efficient use of water across the metropolitan water retailers to provide timely advice and average home. recommendations on matters relating to short-term and long-term water security for Melbourne. The Water Resource This highlights a renewed focus by Melbourne’s water Management group is in place to: corporations on the importance of working together to deliver more value to the community, and to better manage our • prepare, monitor, deliver and review long-term strategic precious water resources for future generations. responses as outlined in urban water strategies, the Melbourne Water System Strategy and Water for a Future-Thriving Melbourne Melbourne Sewerage Strategy • coordinate timely and efficient actions to achieve water The metropolitan water retailers worked collaboratively to security objectives in a manner that sustains the health, develop the Melbourne Sewerage Strategy, representing an liveability and prosperity of Melburnians innovative approach to facilitate transformational change of • ensure preparedness to proactively manage any periods of the sewerage system in the face of complex challenges and water shortage through development of the annual Water opportunities, including population growth, the effects of Outlook and drought preparedness planning. climate change and the pace of urban development. * 1GL = one billion litres 20 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water The Melbourne Sewerage Strategy explains how our sewerage • Edinburgh Gardens (Yarra Council) augmenting an existing system can further evolve from a waste disposal system to stormwater harvesting facility for the iconic garden that will one that plays a critical role in meeting urban water demands, increase the storage capacity by 1ML and reduce demand for sustainably managing waste and enhancing resource recovery. potable water by a further 20ML/year. The strategy supports a 50-year vision for a liveable, thriving • State Baseball and Softball Centre (Hobsons Bay Council) Melbourne. The goals are aspirational, yet underpinned by the providing 8ML/year of harvested stormwater from our fundamental principle of ensuring affordability for our customers existing Laverton Recreation Reserve stormwater harvesting and community: facility, which currently supplies harvested stormwater to Laverton sporting reserve. • Human health and wellbeing the evolution of Melbourne’s sewerage system enhances human health and wellbeing, Recycled water provision now and in the future. We currently provide high-quality recycled water from our • Enhancing the environment Melbourne’s sewerage system Altona and Werribee treatment plants to a number of residential leads the world in protecting and enhancing natural assets developments, public open spaces and for industrial purposes including waterways, green spaces, biodiversity and marine to reduce the demand on potable water and to demonstrate environments. sustainable water use. Customers we continue to support include: • Leveraging resources Melbourne will be recognised as a • Riverwalk Estate in Wyndham to irrigate gardens, for toilet world leader in advancing the circular economy through our flushing and laundry use commitment to beneficially using 100 per cent of our water and resources while ensuring affordability for current and • Qenos Pty Ltd for steam production and cooling water in future generations of Melburnians. manufacturing processes • Community stewardship our customers and community • Sanctuary Lakes and Kooringal Golf Clubs to irrigate understand and care about the role the sewerage system green spaces plays in Melbourne’s liveability. This fosters shared stewardship • Manor Lakes Estate, Wyndham Vale to irrigate gardens and and informs the services we provide. for toilet flushing • An enabling policy and regulatory environment our • Sunshine Golf Course – to irrigate grounds at the site collaborative policy, pricing, and regulatory environment (a standalone sewer mining plant supplies irrigation for the fosters an adaptive, scalable, agile and innovative system that golf course). enables us to equitably meet Melbourne’s needs for the next 50 years and beyond. Aquifer storage and recovery Our Communities Stormwater Harvesting Partnership Fund Operational trials on the West Werribee Aquifer Storage and Recovery scheme are using Class A recycled water from the As part of our commitment to our customers to invest in Werribee recycled water plant. Recycled water has been injected, stormwater recycling, we are investing $12 million over five stored and recovered in several short cycles, and extensive years to support sustainable stormwater harvesting projects. monitoring of the aquifer and water quality has taken place. The These projects aim to improve the health and wellbeing of our trials have been used to optimise performance of the scheme. community, create greener open spaces and reduce our reliance The trial injected recycled water over a period of five months and on much of our limited potable water resources for irrigating has now reached the storage phase. The recycled water will be sporting reserves and recreational parklands. held in storage for about three months before being extracted Since launching our Stormwater Harvesting Partnership Fund in and extensively tested for quality and yield. The outcomes of the July 2018, we have co-funded approximately $4 million towards trial will inform the ongoing viability of the scheme. a number of key projects and reduced our reliance on potable Woodlands Park water by 100ML/year. In December 2018, in partnership with Melbourne Water The following key projects began in 2018-19 and are underway: and Moonee Valley City Council, we committed $0.58 million • Melbourne Tennis Centre (Melbourne & Olympic Park Trust) towards a project to restore existing ponds to native wetlands augmenting an additional 12ML/year of water to irrigate the at Woodlands Park in Essendon. The $1.3 million project will 44ha precinct of sporting reserves that would otherwise have include re-lining and upgrading the existing ponds, new been lost in drainage discharging to the Yarra River. drainage infrastructure, the installation of rockwork and erosion protection, wetland planting and a bridge crossing between the • Woodlands Park (Moonee Valley Council) restoring ponds, as well as an innovative stormwater catchment system to existing ponds to native wetlands, harvesting 12ML/year of irrigate the park’s open spaces. stormwater to support aquatic wildlife habitats and to irrigate open parkland. The project aims to harvest more than 53ML of water per annum from a nearby Melbourne Water drain to irrigate the • Balmoral Park (Brimbank City Council) receiving water parkland. The harvested water will be treated in a wetland from two nearby Melbourne Water drains to irrigate and then further treated through a filter and ultraviolet unit sporting reserves, reducing reliance on potable water by before being pumped throughout the parkland to irrigate the up to 20ML/year. native vegetation and open community spaces. The treated • Arndell Park and Greening the Pipeline (Wyndham City water will also be used to sustain aquatic wildlife habitat in and Council) reducing reliance on potable water by 26ML/year around the wetland. while providing opportunities to link communities along the These works will improve water quality, provide a more federation trail easement from Wyndham to the CBD. sustainable water supply to irrigate the park, and reduce the demand on drinking water. Construction began in May this year, with completion expected in December 2019. City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 21 Water consumption City West Water provides a range of different types of water to customers in our service area. The table below details how much water was used in our service area by residential and non-residential customers in 2018-19. 2018-19 Total Water Consumption Data Number Volume (ML)12 Residential customers Drinking water 431,574 62,7031 Recycled wastewater 7,6302 2123 Recycled stormwater Non-residential customers Drinking water 41,561 42,5994 Recycled wastewater 752 2,5275 Recycled stormwater 7 113 Total customers6 473,135 Total drinking water volume 105,302 Total recycled water volume 2,852 Total consumption 108,154 Average annual consumption7 101,649 Weekly residential drinking water consumption8 1,206 Non-revenue water Leakage9 6,743 Firefighting10 575 Other11 2,226 Total non-revenue water 9,544 Total water all sources 117,698 Average residential consumption Litres per person per day (L/pp/day) Average per capita daily residential drinking water consumption 154 Notes: 1 Includes potable water supplied to customers with recycled meters but 7 Five-year average annual consumption from 2015 to 2019 reporting periods. not connected to the recycled water network. 8 Weekly residential water consumption. 2 Only includes recycled water customers who are connected and able to 9 Balance of non-revenue water, known as real losses, which includes bursts, receive recycled water leaks and background losses. 3 Includes 82ML of potable water used in blend or backup to the recycled 10 Firefighting is part of a category called Authorised Unbilled Usage which supply system and used in the determination of non-revenue water. includes firefighting, fire service usage, water haulers’ usage, water main 4 Includes potable water supplied to customers with recycled meters but flushing and sewer cleaning. not connected to the recycled water network. 11 Other non-revenue water is known as apparent losses which includes 5 Includes 142ML of potable water used in blend or backup to the recycled unauthorised usage such as theft, misuse, illegal tampering and incorrect supply system and used in the determination of non-revenue water. meter reads. 6 Customers that receive recycled wastewater or stormwater also receive 12 ML = million litres drinking water. 22 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Corporate Water Consumption The table below shows water use at our Footscray head office. The increase in water usage for this financial year is largely attributable to a water leak in our shared office building in August 2018. The building is managed by a third party and City West Water is one of several tenants. The leak occurred in an area of the building not accessible to City West Water staff and was identified and rectified within 24 hours. All building tenants were allocated a share of the cost of the leak. 2019 2018 Water consumed 2,008kL Water consumed 1,585kL 4.8kL per full time equivalent employee 3.7kL per full time equivalent employee 326 litres per m2 of office space 257 litres per m2 of office space Drought response reporting • Continue to monitor water availability throughout the year to ensure we can meet the needs of our growing community. Metropolitan water retailers are required to prepare a Drought Preparedness Plan to manage the event of water • Continue the schools program, which helps schools shortage. Permanent water use rules are in place for identify leaks, faulty appliances and inefficient practices. metropolitan Melbourne as at 30 June 2019. Since 2012, the Schools Water Efficiency Program has saved participating Victorian schools more than 4.7 billion litres of Annual Water Outlook water, equating to a saving of more than $13.7 million. In accordance with the Drought Preparedness Plan, each year • Undertake active leak detection, reticulation mains we collaborate with South East Water, Yarra Valley Water and renewals, district metering and trialling intelligent network Melbourne Water to publish the Melbourne Water Outlook, technologies to minimise non-revenue water. which provides our customers with our water security position • Operate and develop schemes to supply recycled water to and actions over the coming year. This is part of our adaptive commercial, industrial and residential customers, and for management framework, comprising a number of interrelated the irrigation of open spaces. Our Communities long-term and short-term processes, which enables us to: • Continue to work with residential and non-residential • monitor the dynamic balance of supply and demand customers to deliver water efficiency projects, focusing each year on sector-specific programs. • guide the implementation of actions identified previously • Deliver a co-investment fund that partners with local by long-term strategic planning exercises to influence the government to deliver stormwater harvesting projects observed and potential future balance of supply and demand aimed at increasing alternative water supplies to priority • provide regular information about the balance of supply and open space precincts. demand and any actions being undertaken by water utilities. The Minister for Water announced a 125GL order of The performance of Melbourne’s water supply is evaluated desalinated water from the Victorian Desalinated Water according to storage levels on 30 November each year Project, our largest order to date. This was based on advice relative to three zones: from the metropolitan water businesses due to declining water storage volumes, weather outlook and water security • high zone – optimising supplies to secure our water supply requirements for greater Melbourne. • medium zone – taking action to reduce demand and improve supply Drought Preparedness Plan and by-law • low zone – emergency actions required to maintain our Developed in accordance with the Guidelines for Assessing water supply. the Impact of Climate Change on Water Supplies in Victoria, the Drought Preparedness Plan in its current form has been Released on 1 December 2018, the most recent Water Outlook in place since June 2012, with the Permanent Water Use assessed that Melbourne’s water availability is secure for the Plan in place since November 2011. coming year. A number of short-term and medium-term actions to improve future drought response were outlined: Under Permanent Water Use Rules, playing fields and other open spaces are able to be watered all year round. The water • Continue to inform the community about the ‘common restrictions schedule (which is contained in the City West sense’ rules that ensure the wise use of water at all times. Water Corporation Water Restrictions By-law 001/2012 as • Continue to deliver the Victorian Government’s Target 155 enacted by the Drought Preparedness Plan) also allows for voluntary water efficiency program, which encourages an approved Water Use Plan at all four stages of restrictions. metropolitan Melbourne households to use water This is designed to allow watering to take place during water efficiently, aiming for 155 litres per person per day. The restrictions to maintain open spaces and playing fields so as Victorian Water Efficiency Strategy identifies opportunities to to be available all year round. work together to deliver water efficiency measures. City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 23 Sustainable and resilient water Collins Street Renewal Project The 1915 cast iron water main in Collins Street had served us services systems well but was in need of replacement. A condition assessment determined that approximately 200 metres of 225mm Spencer Street Sewer Upgrade completed diameter water main between Elizabeth Street and Swanston This major ($20.8 million) infrastructure project to build an Street needed to be renewed. Construction works began additional sewer along Spencer Street in Melbourne’s CBD in July 2018 and the project was successfully completed in was completed in December 2018, ahead of deadline and September 2018, with minimal disruption in this busy part of within budget. The upgraded sewer is now connected and the CBD. working for the thousands of residents and commuters who The works program was developed with stakeholders to live and work along Spencer Street. minimise impacts on major events, including Melbourne The two-year project increased the capacity of the 122 yearFashion Week. A customer-focused engagement strategy old sewer and it now has 25 times more capacity to cater for was developed for all stakeholders, building on established the rapid population growth along this busy thoroughfare. relationships with the City of Melbourne and other authorities and businesses. Consultation and communication with key Construction of the additional sewer involved a pipeline 700 stakeholders and customers, through face-to-face meetings, metres long and buried 11 metres underground. Crews worked email alerts and social media helped ensure smooth 24 hours a day including weekends for just over a year to completion of the project. complete the project with minimal disruption to commuters. The project was a significant team effort and involved many Carlton Water Main Renewal Project stakeholders including Southern Cross Station personnel, Yarra The M205 Carlton Water Main Renewal Project will dig a new Trams and VicRoads as well as local community and businesses. water pipeline along most of the length of Canning Street, Visitors to the city and countless commuters displayed patience Carlton, to replace the current water pipe that runs under and tolerance while the works were underway. Nicholson Street and was constructed in 1878. Increased The greater sewerage capacity along Spencer Street now traffic density and future tram stop upgrades on Nicholson means less reliance on older infrastructure and confidence Street require the pipe to be relocated. that we will be able to meet the growing needs of the area. During the year, we established a Community Reference The completion of the project is an important milestone in Group in Carlton/Carlton North to share information with the Melbourne CBD Sewer Augmentation Strategy to service stakeholders and the community about construction impacts, the city’s rapid growth. Capacity is now set to meet future answer questions on construction activities and provide an demand and population expansion for the next 35 years. opportunity for input into community projects that will be delivered at the completion of our works. The group meets bi-monthly, and members are asked to share information with their respective community networks. 24 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water The Community Reference Group comprises of stakeholders Initiatives and investigations progressed over the year include: and community members from City West Water, Jaydo • Artificial Intelligence (AI) participating in a horizon scan (Construction Partner), City of Yarra, City of Melbourne and for AI in the water industry led by Isle Utilities, and using Bicycle Network Victoria, as well as community representatives. AI machine learning to create new insights for our asset Greening The West: 1 Million Trees Project management program. In October 2018, Greening the West celebrated planting • 3D modelling and scanning – used for live recording of its one-millionth tree as part of the 1 Million Trees Project asset condition, provision of information for hard-to-access supported by the Australian Government’s 20 Million Trees assets and assistance with design. Program (National Landcare Program). Our Communities • CBD proactive leak detection trial using acoustic We contributed to the project by planting 10,000 trees across hydrophones, transient pressure sensors and analytics. key sites including 6,000 trees at our West Werribee Salt • New technology (SEAMS) trial to optimise asset planning Reduction Plant/Aquifer Storage Recovery site. through the use of data analytics that feed into asset The project created a unique opportunity to make substantial, investment and management plans. wide-ranging improvements to the region’s liveability • Field trial to refurbish a 70-year-old concrete manhole and sustainability. It also increased the number of trees in using a Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) liner this is the first trial Melbourne’s west to add ecological value to parks, creek of its kind in Victoria and represents a significant saving corridors and open spaces. Increasing canopy cover also (up to 80 per cent) compared to the traditional method of provides much-needed cooling and refuge spaces for rehabilitating sewer manholes. wellbeing during extreme heat conditions. • Internet of Things (IoT) – exploring sensors and devices, Lonsdale Street Sewer Upgrade which have the potential to help us anticipate bursts and This major project, set for completion by 2020, will involve leaks on our network. construction of a new sewer line that will span approximately We have also been investigating the use of drones to obtain 900 metres, from Elizabeth Street to the new connection at asset information at our West Werribee site, Ballan Road Spencer Street to the west. The new sewer line will replace Recycled Tank site, Laverton Sewer asset locations and the 120-year-old sewer, which is nearing capacity. While more Sunshine Golf Course Treatment Plant. The drones used than a century ago Melbourne’s planners had the foresight to incorporate a high quality camera as well as stereo vision build infrastructure for a growing city, the expected growth sensors and infrared sensing systems. We have trained drone of residents and workers in the CBD means it is essential that pilots within our workforce involved in the program and we increase the capacity of the network. During the year, drones are being incorporated into our ongoing activities. work focused on the business case, reference design and stakeholder engagement. Maintenance of asset infrastructure also received a boost through further enhancements to our online field mobility Exploring new digital technologies system – Focus3. These enhancements have introduced real-time data capture and validation and case closure Our asset, operations and maintenance teams have been warnings, and included maps displaying asbestosat the forefront of adopting new technology, and we are affected areas. Benefits for our people in the office and in also partnering across the water sector in Australia and the field include access to more information, simplified internationally to make the most of local and global advances. administration, greater accuracy of data and improved hazard awareness. City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 25 Our Environment Environmental management This year we completed the following activities in line with our strategic objectives: • Joined the project team for the Port Phillip Bay Coastal “This year we continued our strong focus Hazard Assessment. The project will define the extent of on reducing our emissions and supporting land expected to be threatened by the coastal processes community resilience to a changing climate. of inundation, erosion and groundwater change under Through participation in Zero Emissions Water present and future climate change conditions. and Integrated Water Management Forums, we are playing a leading role on climate action.” • Worked closely with Department of Environment Land Sean Hanrahan, Senior Strategist, City West Water Water and Planning to implement the Water Sector Climate Adaptation Action Plan, which includes contributing to the Estimating the Costs of Climate Change to Water Our vision is built upon streamlined delivery, great Corporations project. partnerships and purposeful leadership. We are driven to care • Installed a 171kW roof-mount solar photovoltaic (PV) for and, where possible, enhance the environment with an system at the Altona Salt Reduction Plant to partially offset eye to the future and the challenges imposed by a changing plant power demand. climate. This year, we have focused on: Our Climate Resilience Strategy is supported by a • working towards reducing our total carbon emissions by comprehensive framework of annual targets and initiatives 80 per cent compared to our emissions baseline of 12,401 that will improve how we plan for and operate in a T CO2-e by 1 July 2025 and adopting a leading pathway to changing climate. achieve net zero emissions by 2030 • partnering with 12 other water corporations to form Zero Emissions Water, which will purchase 78GWh of renewable energy (our allocation is 3.7GWh) from Australia’s largest solar farm, to be built in northern Victoria Zero Emissions Water • supporting implementation of the Water Sector Climate Adaptation Action Plan In April 2019, City West Water joined 12 other • playing a leading role in the Werribee, Maribyrnong and leading Victorian water corporations in a new Yarra Integrated Water Management (IWM) forums. energy partnership that will help to minimise greenhouse gas emissions, reduce operating Climate Resilience Strategy costs and put downward pressure on water Our vision is to become a leader in climate adaptation and bills for customers. respond to the impacts of climate change on our services, From October 2019, the water corporations will purchase solar customers and the broader community. Our commitment power together from Kiamal Solar Farm in north-west Victoria to climate resilience aligns with our support of the United under a new umbrella organisation called Zero Emissions Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals, in particular Goal 13: Water. Purchasing energy as one large organisation, instead of Climate Action. separately, means the water corporations will procure energy at a cheaper rate, which will translate to reduced operating costs. Our Climate Resilience Strategy outlines the actions we will take over the next three years to become a leader in climate The Victorian water industry is committed to advancing adaptation and build a shared understanding with our projects that benefit the environment and create more community of the impacts of climate change. return on investment for customers. This key project will help us achieve an ambitious target of net zero emissions by 2030 This strategy is based on the latest climate science and and the partnership will allow City West Water to purchase commits us to: 3.76 Gigawatt hours (GWh) per year of renewable energy • invest in water efficiency, with the aim of assisting our which is 30 per cent of our annual energy needs. customers to become the most water efficient in the state Victorian water corporations are leading the way for other • leverage renewable energy and battery storage to provide water corporations and industries. This deal is the first of energy security and reduce emissions its kind in Australia and is a major step towards the sector • play a leading role in increasing canopy cover in achieving net zero emissions by 2050. Melbourne’s west • invest in infrastructure that delivers functional and liveability benefits to our community. 26 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Environment Policy Environmental Management System Our Environment Policy provides guidance on meeting Our Environmental Management System provides the our obligations and strategic objectives to protect the framework to ensure we manage environmental risks and environment and drive continual improvement. impacts on the environment in a coordinated and effective manner. It follows the ‘plan, check, do and act’ cycle outlined The policy outlines the following actions: in the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System 2015 • Maintain an ISO 14001 certified Environmental standard. Environmental Management System certification Management System to align strategic objectives was retained for the system in 2019. The system has an with targets and actions through our Environmental Operational Risk Register that is integrated with health and Sustainability Plan while continually improving our safety and product quality risks, which ensure the organisation environmental performance. has in place appropriate controls to manage environmental • Take actions necessary to respond to the challenges of risks and meet statutory obligations. In addition, the climate change, such as our involvement in the Zero Environmental Management System provides a framework Emissions Water partnership. for contributing to broader environmental outcomes through the delivery of our Environmental Sustainability Plan. • Regularly review targets and actions set out in the Environmental Sustainability Plan, which include the safe Environmental targets and secure management of water and optimisation of Protecting and caring for the environment is an important the environmental performance of our contractors. part of what we do, and we aim to reduce impacts to • Report progress against targets and actions set out in the the environment as much as possible, particularly from Environmental Sustainability Plan to our Board. our sewerage services. The following table outlines our environmental performance against targets. • Publicly report on environmental performance via our Annual Report and website. Environmental Targets 2019 2019 Variance 2018 Actual Target (%) Actual Our Environment Essential Services Commission regulated standards Interruptions to sewerage services restored within five hours % 97.7 98.0 (0.3) 97.5 Unaccounted for water1 % 8.3 9.3 10.8 11.2 Average time to attend sewer spills and blockages minutes 25.8 31.0 16.8 30.5 Other targets Response to sewer spills within 1 hour % 100.0 100.0 100.0 Spills due to pump station equipment failure number 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-food waste customers non-compliant % 0.8 ≤ 2.0 60.0 0.8 with trade waste agreements Compliance with Environment Protection Authority licence % 100.0 100.0 0.0 100.0 for discharge from Altona Treatment Plant ISO 14001: 2004 (Environmental Management) Retained Retain Retained ISO 22000: 2005 (Sewage quality) Retained Retain Retained HACCP (Water Quality) Retained Retain Retained 1 The reduction in unaccounted water is due to a continued proactive leak detection program, including a survey of approximately 1,800km of our network; and an initiative of establishing targeted District Metered Areas and Pressure Management Areas to improve monitoring of local leaks and bursts and ensure timely response and repair. City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 27 Greenhouse gas and energy reporting The table below measures our corporate energy performance. Corporate Energy Performance 2018-191 Variance % Tonnes CO2-e (2018-19 Performance Projected vs. Commentary Indicator 2018-19 Result) Baseline 2018-19 2018-19 Result Projected Increase driven by Water treatment 300 430 582 35 population growth and supply2 in the region Increase driven by Sewerage population growth collection, 18 in the region and 8,757 9,734 11,461 treatment and increased demand recycling 3 for recycled water from customers There has been a change in our fleet from diesel to fuel Transport 1,118 1,174 865 -26 efficient petrol vehicles which has seen a reduction in emissions. Efficient use of Other 2,226 1,302 1,090 -16 energy in depot offices Total 12,401 12,640 11,6274 Notes: 1 2018-19 emissions include Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, and exclude Scope 3 emissions except emissions from waste. This is to meet the requirements of Ministerial Directions to align reporting with Essential Services Commission indicators which include only Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. 2 Water treatment and supply includes energy expended from stormwater harvesting schemes. 3 Wastewater treatment volumes are supplied only for sewage treated at City West Water sewage treatment plants. The majority of sewage is conveyed to Melbourne Water’s Western Treatment Plant. Energy expended by City West Water in this conveyance is included in the energy use figure. 4 Total net emissions excludes a total of 2,371 tonnes of CO2-e which are a combination of behind the meter solar energy generated at Altona Treatment Plant and renewable energy purchased for large City West Water sites. 28 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Landscape masterplan This year, we produced a landscape masterplan for our we installed a 171 kW roof-mounted solar photovoltaic (PV) Werribee Recycled Water Plant site that will transform the system at the Altona Salt Reduction Plant (ASRP) to partially landscape into an educational hub. This hub will demonstrate meet the plant's power demand. We have also begun integrated water management principles on the ground using investigating opportunities to install a ground-mounted solar stormwater, recycled water and aquifer storage and recharge. PV system at our Werribee Recycled Water Plant to fully meet the plant's power demand (behind the meter) and also offset The proposed elements for the site include facilities that will the demand of our other sites via export of power to the demonstrate and promote: electricity distribution network (the grid). • integrated water management and liveability benefits to Projects of this kind remove the need to import the equivalent the community amount of electrical energy from the grid. Removing this load • delivery of recycled water to the West Werribee residential from the grid contributes to its reliability, particularly in times of areas and industrial/agricultural customers high network demand, and helps to reduce the risk of power • stormwater harvesting capabilities on site and benefits of outages that commonly occur during these periods and low salt, high quality recycled water can have a negative impact on us and our customers. These projects also contribute to our progress towards meeting our • greening opportunities across the landscape carbon emissions reduction pledge. • conservation values of the lower Werribee catchment Micro-hydro and surrounding open space such as Werribee Zoo and Werribee Park. This year, we committed $0.9 million to harness energy from our water supply network at the Terror Street Pressure Part of the site is also proposed to be restored using native Reducing Station. This will involve the installation of a 75kW vegetation to achieve biodiversity outcomes in line with micro-hydro turbine system that will use excess network our Biodiversity Action Plan. pressures to generate an estimated 280 megawatt-hours We are working with a number of councils and government (MWh) of electricity per annum, representing approximately stakeholders to identify further synergies and future liveability 2.3 per cent of our annual electrical demand (based on our opportunities for surrounding communities. consumption for 2017-18). Contributing to a sustainable future Suppliers have been engaged to deliver the detailed design of the Terror Street Micro-Hydro project and to fabricate City West Water seeks to make a meaningful contribution to the containerised turbine. When the design and turbine Our Environment a more sustainable energy future through renewable energy are completed, we will start installation with the goal of opportunities and energy efficiency initiatives – making generating power from Terror Street in early 2020. better use of our assets to lower carbon emissions. This year, City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 29 Trade waste This year, the City West Water Trade Waste team played a As population growth continues, the demand on our significant role in supporting major infrastructure projects services continues to grow. We work with food businesses across Melbourne, including the West Gate Tunnel and Metro to accept the wastewater they generate during cooking and Tunnel projects. preparation, after it has been pre-treated by an appropriately sized grease trap. This year our commercial team signed up Excavations for the West Gate and the Metro Tunnel projects their 5,500th customer – the highest number we’ve had and have at times intercepted groundwater, which needs to be one that continues to grow as the number of cafes, restaurants disposed of to sewer as trade waste. We have developed and food businesses increases across our service area. Trade Waste Agreements at multiple work sites across the city, working closely with our stakeholders to monitor and record the volume and composition of the treated wastewater. “We are proud to have worked closely with project managers at both the West Gate Tunnel and Metro Tunnel works to ensure a smooth development process.” Nathan Bennett, Business Customer Services Manager Pump-out compliance With greasy waste comes the risk of sewer blockages, and that’s why we have also escalated our grease trap pump-out compliance program. The past year we’ve had a record number of grease trap pump-outs, averaging 1,000 per month. OUR PUMP-OUT NUMBERS (COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL) INCREASED BY% MORE THAN 17 FROM THE PREVIOUS FINANCIAL YEAR THE PERCENTAGE OF NON-COMPLIANT 30 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Further statutory obligations Victorian Biodiversity Strategy We remain committed to meeting statutory biodiversity We continue to work with Melbourne Water and local requirements and working with stakeholders to value and councils to maximise the use of water sources such as improve biodiversity. stormwater and recycled water, while balancing use from traditional catchments and dams by implementing integrated As part of our commitment, we have developed our water cycle management projects. Biodiversity Plan for Action which was launched in late 2018. State Environment Protection Policy (Waters) Implementing this plan will allow us to deliver on our statutory obligations more effectively and, most importantly, deliver The State Environment Protection Policy (Waters) governs how improved environmental outcomes for Melbourne’s west. we and other agencies must work together to protect and restore Victoria’s water environments. The plan aims to: We operate a sewage treatment plant at Altona which • value biodiversity has a wastewater discharge licence from the Environment • protect ecosystems to make sure they are healthy, Protection Authority. A summary of the performance of connected and resilient to threats the Altona Treatment Plant is reported to the Environment • engage stakeholders and provide synergies with other land Protection Authority on an annual basis. Additionally, water managers, as well as achieve landscape level benefits. quality and flow data is reported to the Essential Services Commission and the National Pollutant Inventory. We have a native vegetation offset site on our land at Ballan Road, Wyndham Vale. The site is actively managed to offset We meet the requirements of the policy through a range of native vegetation removed to construct water supply and activities, including: sewerage assets. This site is also home to rare and endangered • renewing assets and undertaking preventative flora and fauna. We are in the seventh year of a ten-year maintenance to minimise spills and seepage of wastewater timeframe to restore and improve the site before maintaining through sewer overflows, leakages and collapses it in perpetuity. • complying with Environment Protection Authority Projects undertaken regularly at the site to improve habitat guidelines on environmental management for managing value include: wastewater recycling Our Environment • managing weeds and pests • ensuring that protected beneficial uses are not • maintaining fencing and security impacted outside the licensed mixing zone, as verified by monitoring in accordance with an Environment • assessing the habitat Protection Authority approved monitoring program • conducting ecological burning. • entering into trade waste agreements to divert contaminated stormwater to sewer. Victorian Waterway Management Strategy We run a sewer hydraulic compliance program to The Victorian Waterway Management Strategy emphasises the progressively bring the sewerage system into compliance proactive minimisation of impacts on waterways by water with the required standard to contain flows associated with a corporations and catchment management authorities. one-in-five-year rainfall event. Non-compliant catchments are We have been actively involved in the development of identified through standardised hydraulic modelling exercises Melbourne Water’s Healthy Waterways Strategy. This strategy in line with the rest of the industry. From there, options are sets out a vision for healthy and valued waterways that are developed to address any identified deficiencies and put integrated with the broader landscape to enhance life and forward for internal approval for capital works. liveability. It sets out targets and performance objectives for each of the waterway catchments across our region. City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 31 Our Business Organisational structure Board of Directors Health, Safety People, Diversity Risk and Environment and Executive Management Committee Remuneration and Audit Committee Committee Managing Director David Ryan General Manager, General Manager, General Manager, Chief General Manager, Chief Financial Strategy and Customers and Infrastructure Information People and Officer Planning Community and Delivery Officer Capability Michael Amanda Fran Maree Jennifer Louise Wootten Smith Duiker Lang Rebeiro Meadows 32 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Governance The Hon. Lisa Neville MP was appointed as the Minister for Environment, Climate Change and Water in December 2014, then as Minister for Water on 23 May 2016. As Minister for Water, the Hon. Lisa Neville is responsible for urban water, irrigation water, groundwater, water corporations and governance, allocation and trading, permanent water use rules and water restrictions. The Minister for Water appoints the directors of City West Water and the State Government sets their remuneration. Directors are eligible for reappointment for subsequent terms. The Board is responsible for setting and overseeing the policies, objectives and strategies of City West Water and for ensuring that risk is appropriately managed. The Board met nine times in 2018-19. It is committed to performing its role in accordance with the highest standards of corporate governance. There were three committees of the Board: the Risk Management and Audit Committee met five times; the Health, Safety and Environment Committee, and the People, Diversity and Executive Remuneration Committee both met four times. The Board comprises eight non-executive directors and the Managing Director. Each director brings specialist skills to City West Water. All non-executive directors (including the Chair) are appointed by the Minister for Water. The Managing Director is appointed by the Board. The Board seeks independent review of its performance on an annual basis and reports to the Minister for Water and the Treasurer of Victoria on the outcomes of these reviews. Our Business City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 33 Members of the Board DAVID MIDDLETON MARY BETH BAUER Chair Director B. Eng, M. Eng, MBA, GAICD BA, FAICD, ACA, CPA (US) Mr Middleton was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2015. Ms Bauer was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2015. Mr Middleton was a Director at Yarra Valley Water from Ms Bauer has over 20 years’ experience as a senior executive, October 2011 to September 2015. Mr Middleton has held advising CEOs and boards across Australia in a diverse range various roles at Jacobs (previously CH2M Hill) and is currently of industries. Ms Bauer has a very strong focus on governance Executive Director Water for the Middle East Asia Pacific and her professional experience includes finance, audit region. He is currently Chair at CH2M Beca Limited, and and risk, business strategy development, financial markets, serves on both CH2M Hill Australia Pty Ltd and Halcrow Pacific mergers and acquisitions and all aspects of investor and Pty Ltd boards. Mr Middleton has extensive international stakeholder relations and strategic communications. She also experience in the water industry and brings a background serves on the Fisher Leadership Board. and experience in the design and construction of water and Committee membership: wastewater infrastructure. People, Diversity and Executive Remuneration Committee membership: Committee (Chair) People, Diversity and Executive Remuneration Committee Risk Management and Audit Committee Health, Safety and Environment Committee BRUCE COHEN Ex-officio member of Risk Management and Audit Committee Director DAVID RYAN B.Comm, LLB, M.Comm, Ph.D (Pub. Pol.) Managing Director Dr Cohen was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2015. B.Env.Sc, MBA, MCorp Env & Sus Mgt, GAICD Dr Cohen is the principal at BKE Consulting. During his career Mr Ryan was appointed as Managing Director on 14 June 2016. he has been a Director at Melbourne Water, Snowy Hydro Ltd Mr Ryan has over 15 years’ experience in the water sector. and Victorian Energy Networks Corporation, as well as the Mr Ryan is a graduate of the Australian Institute of Company Chair of VicTrack and the Victorian Commission for Gambling Directors, a Director of VicWater and is a past President and and Liquor Regulation. current Director of the Institute of Water Administration. Committee membership: Committee membership: Risk Management and Audit Committee Health, Safety and Environment Committee CONSTANTINA DERTIMANIS Attends all committee meetings Director ELIZABETH PARKIN Grad Dip. International Studies, Bachelor of Arts, University Director, Deputy Chair of Sydney B. Bus, F. Fin, ANZCA, FINSIA Ms Dertimanis was appointed to the Board on 28 April 2016. Ms Parkin was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2015. Ms Dertimanis is a public policy professional who has extensive experience as a senior advisor to State and Federal Ms Parkin has held a number of executive management Ministers and has worked in both State and Federal public roles and is currently Group Manager Business and services. She has worked on high profile United Nations Organisational Performance at Dairy Australia. She projects advocating in partnership with global NGOs. Ms is Deputy Chair of First Samuel and a Trustee of the Dertimanis is a Trustee of the Queen Victoria Women’s Centre Northcote Trust Fund. She was previously a Director at Trust where she provides advice to the government on the Yarra Valley Water and North East Region Water Authority. impact of issues that affect women in the community. Committee membership: Committee membership: Risk Management and Audit Committee (Chair) Health, Safety and Environment Committee People, Diversity and Executive Remuneration Committee People, Diversity and Executive Remuneration Committee 34 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water TANIA FRYER Director LLB(Hons), BA, LLM(Comm), GAICD Ms Fryer was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2017. Ms Fryer has over 20 years’ experience in technology, telecommunications and law. Ms Fryer was previously an executive at Telstra and prior to this was a lawyer at Allens Linklaters, specialising in technology and intellectual property. Ms Fryer also serves on the board of Grey Innovation Group , Potential(x) and the State Committee JDRF (Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation). Committee membership: Risk Management and Audit Committee Health, Safety and Environment Committee BILL JABOOR Director MBA, BA, Grad.Dip Local Government Management, Assoc. Dip. Business Studies Mr Jaboor was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2015. Mr Jaboor has over 45 years’ experience working in different roles within local government across Victoria and Queensland. Over the past 20 years he has been CEO at the cities of Brimbank, Hobsons Bay, Greater Shepparton and Benalla. He is currently Chair of Victoria Legal Aid, a Member of the Department of Justice and Regulation Independent Review Panel and Board Member of Community Chef. Committee membership: Health, Safety and Environment Committee (Chair) People, Diversity and Executive Remuneration Committee CHRISTOPHER LOVELL Director BA, LLM, FAICD Mr Lovell was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2017. Our Business Mr Lovell was previously a Director of the Barwon Region Water Corporation and Deputy Chair. Mr Lovell is the Chair of Holding Redlich Lawyers, a Director of Clemenger Group Limited, VicForests, and the Victorian Managed Insurance Authority (VMIA), and a member and past Chairman of the Executive Committee of Law Exchange International. Mr Lovell is also chair of the North Melbourne/Parkville Community Reference Group for Metro Rail and the current Independent Chair of Parkville Precinct Reference Group and the CBD Community Reference Group for the Melbourne Metro Tunnel. Committee membership: Health, Safety and Environment Committee People, Diversity and Executive Remuneration Committee City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 35 Board committees Risk Management and Audit Committee The Risk Management and Audit Committee assists the Board to City West Water’s occupational health and safety and of Directors in fulfilling its governance responsibilities by environment policies and procedures and related audit and providing financial reports and other financial information reporting processes. In addition, it ensures the continuous produced by City West Water. In addition, it provides oversight improvement of City West Water’s policies and procedures for of, and direction to, City West Water’s internal control systems, health and safety and the environment. legal and regulatory compliance processes, auditing and People, Diversity and Executive reporting processes, and risk management systems. All Remuneration Committee members of the Risk Management and Audit Committee are independent. The People, Diversity and Executive Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting City West Water’s policy on executive Health, Safety and Environment Committee remuneration and individual remuneration packages for The Health, Safety and Environment Committee assists senior executives. The committee is also responsible for the Board in fulfilling its governance responsibilities in oversight of City West Water’s Diversity Action Plan, reviewing relation to workplace health and safety and environment the effectiveness of the corporation’s organisational structure issues. It does this by providing oversight of, and direction and monitoring the effectiveness of the corporation’s people management activities. Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings People, Diversity Risk Management Health, Safety and Executive Board Meeting and Audit and Environment Remuneration Committee Meeting Committee Meeting Committee Meeting Eligible Attended Eligible Attended Eligible Attended Eligible Attended David Middleton 9 8 n/a n/a 4 2 4 3 Elizabeth Parkin 9 8 5 5 n/a n/a 4 4 David Ryan 9 8 n/a n/a 4 4 n/a n/a Mary Beth Bauer 9 8 5 5 n/a n/a 4 4 Bruce Cohen 9 9 5 5 n/a n/a n/a n/a Constantina 9 7 n/a n/a 4 3 4 4 Dertimanis Tania Fryer 9 9 5 5 4 4 n/a n/a Bill Jaboor 7 7 n/a n/a 3 3 3 3 Christopher Lovell 9 9 n/a n/a 4 4 4 4 36 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Financial overview 2019 highlights Full year profit before tax of $95.7 million was $15.9 million dividend payments of $20.4 million, a capital repatriation of above budget. This was due mainly to favourable outcomes $10.9 million and paid income tax equivalent of $45.7 million on trade waste, recycling and water trading revenues, gifted to the Victorian Government. assets, labour costs, other operating costs, depreciation and Total borrowings increased by $69.7 million during the year. net interest expenses, as well as below budget bulk charges. The increase in borrowing was primarily for the purpose The favourable result was partly offset by lower than budget of funding capital expenditure to support growth in our service, usage and disposal charges, as well as lower than service area as well as continued investment in network and budget developer contributions and miscellaneous charges, information and communications technology (ICT) assets. higher than budget responsive maintenance costs, and Capital expenditure for the year was $124.3 million. higher than budget abnormal costs. Return on equity was 7.5 per cent (2018 9.4 per cent) while Revenue increased by $7.0 million in 2019. This was cash interest cover was 3.0 times (2018 3.1 times). despite a net deferral of $17.4 million of revenue due to the introduction of AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Gearing, as measured by total debt/total assets, increased to Customers. During 2018-19, City West Water made total 50.5 per cent (2018 49.8 per cent). $124.3 MILLION $45.7 MILLION CAPITAL INCOME TAX EQUIVALENT EXPENDITURE PAID TO THE STATE GOVERNMENT $20.4 MILLION $95.7 MILLION TOTAL DIVIDEND PROFIT BEFORE TAX Our Business PAYMENTS City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 37 Summary of Financial Results 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 $’m $’m $’m $’m $’m Revenue from contracts 704.8 697.9 684.0 669.6 598.8 with customers Other income 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.5 0.3 Total revenue 705.3 698.3 684.5 670.1 599.0 Bulk charges 349.2 341.6 337.0 355.1 323.6 Environmental contribution 26.5 18.6 18.6 18.6 18.6 Employee benefits 41.9 45.1 42.5 40.4 37.8 Depreciation and amortisation 52.5 50.9 47.9 47.3 42.0 Finance expenses 66.4 64.9 63.5 63.3 62.9 Other operating expenses 73.1 64.5 64.8 79.6 66.9 Total expenses 609.6 585.5 574.2 604.4 551.7 Profit before tax 95.7 112.8 110.3 65.7 47.3 Summary of Financial Position 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 $’m $’m $’m $’m $’m Current assets 111.5 114.9 119.9 113.5 108.1 Non-current assets 2,362.6 2,255.2 2,163.3 2,050.3 2,051.6 Total assets 2,474.1 2,370.1 2,283.2 2,163.8 2,159.6 Current liabilities 168.2 145.6 101.3 105.7 152.3 Non-current liabilities 1,455.1 1,388.2 1,342.1 1,315.4 1,267.4 Total liabilities 1,623.3 1,533.7 1,443.4 1,421.1 1,419.7 Net assets 850.8 836.3 839.8 742.7 739.9 Net cash flows from operating activities 88.1 92.0 73.9 64.4 63.5 Payments for infrastructure, property, 126.6 101.8 83.4 82.9 81.7 plant and equipment Summary of Capital Expenditure 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 $’m $’m $’m $’m $’m Total capital expenditure 124.3 109.8 90.6 88.3 77.2 City West Water manages a number of capital projects. For information on recent capital projects undertaken by City West Water and the broader Victorian public sector refer to the most recent Budget Paper 4 State Capital Program (BP4) available on the Department of Treasury and Finance’s website. This publication also contains information on the asset investment program of the Department of Treasury and Finance and its related portfolio agencies. 38 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Summary of Financial Performance 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Cash interest cover (times) 3.0 3.1 2.6 2.3 2.2 Gearing ratio (%) 50.5 49.8 48.3 50.4 48.9 Internal financing ratio (%) 44.9 18.2 73.0 57.9 58.6 Current ratio (times) 0.9 0.8 1.3 1.2 0.8 Return on assets (%) 6.7 7.6 7.8 6.0 5.2 Return on equity (%) 7.5 9.4 9.3 5.9 5.0 EBITDA margin (%) 30.4 32.7 32.4 26.4 25.6 Further information on current year financial performance can be found in the Performance Report section of this report. Information and Communication Technology Expenditure During the 2019 reporting period, City West Water had a total Information and Communication Technology (ICT) expenditure of $30.7 million, with details shown below. All operational ICT ICT expenditure related to projects to create or enhance ICT expenditure capabilities Non BAU ICT Total ICT Business as expenditure Operational Capital expenditure Year usual (BAU) ICT (operating and expenditure1 expenditure $'m expenditure capital) $'m $'m $'m $'m 2019 15.8 14.9 0.0 14.9 30.7 2018 14.2 9.8 0.0 9.8 24.0 2017 16.7 9.8 0.0 9.8 26.5 2016 14.3 13.3 0.0 13.3 27.6 2015 19.5 14.1 0.0 14.1 33.6 1 City West Water does not incur operational expenditure relating to projects to create or enhance ICT capabilities. ICT expenditure refers to City West Water’s costs in providing business-enabling ICT services. It comprises Business As Usual (BAU) ICT expenditure and Our Business Non Business As Usual (Non BAU) ICT expenditure. Examples of projects worked on during 2019 include purchase of additional hardware (meeting room equipment, field mobility devices), robotic process automation; a new health, safety, environment and quality system; and a new human resources information system. Non BAU ICT expenditure relates to extending or enhancing City West Water's current ICT capabilities. BAU ICT expenditure is all remaining ICT expenditure which primarily relates to ongoing activities to operate and maintain current ICT capability. Examples of this include licence fees, external support, maintenance costs and help desk services. City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 39 Matters subsequent to the end of the financial year The Act allows City West Water to refuse access, either fully or partially, to certain documents or information. Examples No matter or circumstance has arisen since 30 June 2019 of documents that may not be accessed include: some which has significantly affected, or may significantly affect: internal working documents, law enforcement documents, • the corporation’s operations documents covered by legal professional privilege, such as • the results of those operations, or legal advice, personal information about other people, and information provided to City West Water in confidence. • the corporation’s state of affairs in the financial year subsequent to 30 June 2019. From 1 September 2017, the Act was amended to reduce the Freedom of Information (FOI) processing time for Consultancies requests received from 45 to 30 days. In some cases, this During 2018-19, City West Water engaged no consultants time may be extended. where the total fee payable to the consultant was less than If an applicant is not satisfied by a decision made by City $10,000 (GST exclusive). West Water, under section 49A of the Act they have the right We engaged 16 consultants on various consultancies where the to seek a review by the Office of the Victorian Information total fees payable to the consultant was $10,000 or greater (GST Commissioner within 28 days of receiving a decision letter. exclusive). The total expenditure during 2019 in relation to these During 2018-19 City West Water received 40 requests for consultancies was $720,078 (GST exclusive). Details of individual access to documents under the Act. consultancies can be viewed at citywestwater.com.au. Request No. These consultancies include arrangements where an individual or organisation is engaged to provide expert Access in full 21 analysis to facilitate decision making and perform a specific Access in part 9 one-off task that involves skills or perspective which would not normally be expected to reside within City West Water. Access denied 0 Examples of these consultancies include projects such as a Other withdrawn 3 health and safety maturity assessment, a guideline for design Other – outside the Act 2 and construction of stormwater harvesting schemes and the development of a sewer flow monitoring strategy. Other – no documents 1 Not finalised 4 City West Water engages a number of individuals and organisations to provide works or services on behalf of the Total 40 corporation. This includes services such as interpreting, recruitment and facilitation. These contract services are not Of these 40 requests: considered to be consultants, and are not included in the • eight were from law firms above numbers. • seven were from insurance companies Other information • the remainder were from the general public. Freedom of Information City West Water made 43 FOI decisions during the 12 months The Freedom of Information Act 1982 (the Act) allows the public ended 30 June 2019: a right of access to documents held by City West Water. The • 26 decisions were made within the statutory 30 day purpose of the Act is to extend as far as possible the right of time period the community to access information held by government departments, local councils, ministers and other bodies • 14 decisions were made within an extended statutory 30subject to the Act. 45 day time period • three decisions were made within 46 to 90 days. These City West Water is subject to the Freedom of Information Act 1982. were also within the statutory time period as clarification An applicant has a right to apply for access to documents was required for two requests and the application fee was held by City West Water. This comprises documents both paid late with the other. created by City West Water or supplied to City West Water by The average time taken to finalise requests in 2018-19 an external organisation or individual, and may also include was 25 days. maps, films, microfiche, photographs, computer printouts, computer discs, tape recordings and videotapes. Information No requests were subject to a complaint or internal review by about the type of material produced by City West Water is the Office of the Victorian Information Commissioner. available at citywestwater.com.au 40 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water FOI requests can be lodged online via the City West Water Consequently, City West Water is required to include website at www.citywestwater.com.au/about_us/who_we_ a statement on its compliance with the building and are/freedom_of_information. An application fee of $29.60 maintenance provisions of the Building Act 1993 in relation to applies. Access charges may also be payable if the document these buildings. pool is large, and the search for material is time consuming. To achieve this in 2018-19: From 1 July 2019 • our buildings were inspected by a competent inspector Application fee $29.60 • occupancy permits were issued Search charge $22.20 per hour • assets were maintained under the required standards Photocopying (black & white) $0.20 per A4 page and codes • the Oracle Asset Management System was used to maintain the assets. Access to documents can also be sought through a written request to City West Water’s FOI team, as detailed in s17 of City West Water requires that appropriately qualified the Act. consultants and contractors are engaged for all proposed works on land controlled by City West Water and that their When making an FOI request, applicants should ensure work and services comply with current building standards. requests are in writing, and clearly identify what types of All such consultants and contractors are expected to have materials and/or documents are being sought. appropriate mechanisms in place to ensure compliance Requests for documents in the possession of City West Water with the building and maintenance provisions of the should be addressed to: Building Act 1993, Building Regulations 2018 and the National Freedom of Information Officer Construction Code. City West Water In relation to our existing buildings in Altona Meadows and Locked Bag 350 West Werribee, City West Water’s Asset Maintenance Unit is Sunshine Vic 3020 responsible for: For further information about FOI, refer to the Act and • mandatory testing of emergency and exit lighting and lift regulations or go to the government’s website at foi.vic.gov.au equipment in accordance with relevant standards Building Act 1993 • monthly, quarterly and bi-annual inspection and preventive City West Water owns or controls: maintenance • four buildings at 293 Queen St, Altona Meadows • routine mechanical services and monthly and annual fire service audits. • two buildings at William Thwaites Drive, West Werribee Programmed Facility Management is responsible for the same • one building at 218 Kensington Road, West Melbourne works at the buildings at West Melbourne and Brooklyn as • one building at 73 Old Geelong Road, Brooklyn. they run the day-to-day operations at these sites. The testing and inspections at these sites inform the works program which is delivered annually through existing Our Business maintenance contracts. In 2018-19: Number of major works projects undertaken by City West Water 0 major projects (greater than $50,000) 0 building permits Number of building permits, occupancy permits or certificates of final inspection 8 occupancy permits issued in relation to buildings owned by City West Water 8 certificates of occupancy 0 emergency orders Number of emergency orders and building orders issued in relation to buildings 0 building orders Number of buildings that have been brought into conformity with building standards 0 buildings brought into during the reporting period conformity City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 41 Protected Disclosure Act 2012 The Protected Disclosure Act 2012 (the Act) encourages and an environment where the Essential Services Commission assists people in making disclosures of improper conduct by determines cost-based pricing. City West Water lodged a Price public officers and public bodies. The Act provides protection Submission to the commission to enable it to make a Pricing to people who make disclosures in accordance with the Determination for 2019 to 2023. The commission made a final Act and establishes a system for the matters disclosed to be determination on prices in June 2018. These prices took effect investigated and rectification action to be taken. from 1 July 2018. City West Water does not tolerate improper conduct by City West Water’s processes continue to be consistent employees or the taking of reprisals against those who with the requirements of the Competitive Neutrality Policy come forward to disclose such conduct. City West Water is Victoria statement. committed to ensuring transparency and accountability in its Local Jobs First administrative and management practices, and supports the – Victorian Industry Participation Policy making of disclosures that reveal corrupt conduct, conduct involving a substantial mismanagement of public resources The Local Jobs First Act 2003 requires public sector bodies or conduct involving a substantial risk to public health and to report on the implementation of the Local Jobs First safety or the environment. Policy Departments and apply the Local Jobs First-Victorian Industry Participation Policy (VIPP) in all procurement activities City West Water will take all reasonable steps to protect people valued at $3 million or more in metropolitan Melbourne and who make such disclosures from any detrimental action in statewide projects, and $1 million or more for procurement reprisal for making the disclosure. City West Water will also activities in regional Victoria. afford natural justice to the person who is the subject of the disclosure to the extent that it is legally possible. City West During 2018-19, City West Water commenced two contracts Water's Protected Disclosure Act 2012 Guidelines and Procedures totalling $11,182,254 for which Local Jobs First VIPP plans are available on our website. were required: City West Water is not able to receive protected disclosures. • Design and construction of West Werribee Sewer Pump Disclosure of improper conduct or detrimental action by Station (SPS44) $7,946,648 City West Water or any of its employees and/or officers may • Construction of Davis Road Dual Water Mains and MGP be made directly to the Independent Broad-based AntiConnections $3,235,606 corruption Commission. These jobs occurred in metropolitan Melbourne, and 93.4 per Independent Broad-based Anti-corruption Commission (IBAC) cent of the goods and services employed for these projects Victoria were supplied, produced or carried out by local industry. Level 1, North Tower, 459 Collins Street Melbourne VIC 3000 The total Local Jobs First VIPP plan or Local Industry Phone: 1300 735 135 Development Plans (LIDPs) commitments achieved as a result Internet: ibac.vic.gov.au of contracts commenced include: Email: see the website above for the secure email disclosure • local content of 93 per cent of the total value of process, which also provides for anonymous disclosures. the contracts Competitive Neutrality Policy Victoria • a total of 14 retained jobs (Annualised Employee Equivalent Competitive neutrality requires government businesses to (AEE)) were committed ensure where services compete, or potentially compete, • one retained apprenticeship/traineeship. with the private sector, any advantage arising solely from their government ownership be removed if it is not in the The total Local Jobs First – VIPP plan or LIDP commitments public interest. Government businesses are required to cost achieved as a result of contracts completed during 2018-19 and price these services as if they were privately owned. for remediation of Werribee Recycled Water Plant include: Competitive neutrality policy supports fair competition • estimated 91 per cent of content was local between public and private businesses and provides government businesses with a tool to enhance decisions on • 23.7 FTE (49,310 hours) split 50/50 between new and resource allocation. This policy does not override other policy retained employees objectives of government and focuses on efficiency in the • one apprenticeship, one traineeship and a graduate provision of service. engineer were retained. City West Water has an independent Board of Directors with Government advertising expenditure independent and objective performance monitoring. City West Water pays income tax equivalent and dividends to the City West Water did not incur any expenditure on Victorian Government, and pays a Financial Accommodation government advertising campaigns during either the current Levy to the Victorian Government for its borrowings through or previous reporting periods. Treasury Corporation of Victoria. City West Water operates in 42 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Financial Management Act 1994 Other information as required under the Financial Management Act 1994, but not specifically referred to, has been retained by the Accountable Officer and is available on request by the Minister for Finance, Members of Parliament, and the general public. Other information available on request In compliance with the requirements of the Standing Directions of the Assistant Treasurer, details in respect of the items listed below have been retained by City West Water and are available on request, subject to the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act 1982: • a statement that declarations of pecuniary interests have been duly completed by all relevant officers • details of shares held by a senior officer as nominee or held beneficially in a statutory authority or subsidiary • details of publications produced by City West Water about itself and how these can be obtained • details of changes in prices, fees, charges, rates and levies charged by City West Water • details of any major external reviews carried out on City West Water • details of major research and development activities undertaken by City West Water • details of overseas visits undertaken including a summary of the objectives and outcomes of each visit • details of major promotional, public relations and marketing activities undertaken by City West Water to develop community awareness of City West Water and its services • details of assessments and measures undertaken to improve the occupational health and safety of employees • a general statement on industrial relations within the corporation and details of time lost through industrial accidents and disputes • a list of major committees sponsored by City West Water, the purpose of each committee, and the extent to which that purpose has been achieved, and • details of all consultancies and contractors including: Our Business consultants and contractors engaged services provided, and expenditure committed to for each engagement. Requests for documents in the possession of City West Water should be addressed to: Freedom of Information Officer City West Water Locked Bag 350 Sunshine VIC 3020 Disclosure of major contracts City West Water did not enter into any major contracts during 2019. A ‘major contract’ is a contract entered into during the reporting period valued at $10 million or more. City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 43 Annual reporting of major non-residential water users Names of Major Customers and their Participation in Water Efficiency Programs The Water Act 1989 requires water corporations to publish the number and names of customers who are not farming, irrigators or domestic consumers, using 100ML or more of water per year. Farmers, irrigators and domestic users may decline or opt out of the requirement to have their names published. The Water Act also requires water corporations to indicate if these customers have participated in water efficiency programs. These customers have participated in water efficiency programs: Name of Customer1 AMP Capital Investors Melbourne Central Pty Ltd Asahi Premium Beverages Laverton Melbourne Health Asahi Premium Beverages Tullamarine Melbourne Water – Hoppers Crossing Pumping Station Baybrick Landco Pty Ltd Merpalm Pty Ltd Campari Australia Pty Ltd Mobil Refining Australia Pty Ltd Carlton & United Breweries Ltd Mr P C Song Choldame Nominees Nufarm Australia Limited CSF Proteins Proprietary Limited Orica Australia Pty Ltd2 CSR Building Product Limited Peerless Holdings Pty Ltd Department of Health and Human Services VCCC Qenos Pty Ltd3 Department of Justice Port Phillip Prison Seqirus Pty Ltd Department of Justice and Regulation Ravenhall Prison St Vincent's Hospital, Melbourne Diamond Valley Pork Pty Ltd Swancomb Pty Ltd Epworth Hospital (Richmond) Telstra Corporation Essendon Fields The Australian Steel Company (Operations) Pty Ltd G H Operations Pty Ltd The Royal Childrens Hospital GPT Funds Management Limited University of Melbourne Integro Foods Australia Pty Ltd Victoria Racing Club Limited Ixom Operations Pty Ltd Wadren Pty Ltd & QIC Werribee Pty Ltd Jeskan Nominees Pty Ltd Western Health Melbourne Airport Wilmar Sugar Pty Ltd Melbourne & Olympic Parks Trust Zoos Victoria – Melbourne Zoo Notes: 1 Two customers have elected not to be named in this table 2 Business Park consumption for all tenants 3 includes recycled water use 44 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Customers by Volume Range Customers by volume range ML/Year1 Number of customers Equal to or greater than 100ML and less than 200ML 29 Equal to or greater than 200ML and less than 300ML 6 Equal to or greater than 300ML and less than 400ML 2 Equal to or greater than 400ML and less than 500ML 2 Equal to or greater than 500ML and less than 750ML 1 Equal to or greater than 750ML and less than 1,000ML 2 Greater than 1,000ML 4 Total number of customers 46 1 The smallest volume category (100ML – 200ML) would equal 40-80 Olympic swimming pools, while the largest category (>1,000ML) is more than 400 Olympic swimming pools Total residential bill Over the past five years we have worked hard to reduce prices for our customers. In the 2018-19 financial year, City West Water customers had the lowest average residential water bills of any capital city in Australia. We understand that affordability is a key priority for our customers and we will continue to look for ways to provide exceptional services at the lowest possible prices. 2018-19 Total Residential Water Bill for a City West Water Customer Based on Average Consumption During the Year 150kL 200kL average usage average usage Water service charge $231.16 $231.16 Water usage charges $375.00 $515.45 Sewerage service charge $256.52 $256.52 Sewage disposal charge $92.05 $122.74 Our Business TOTAL $954.73 $1,125.87 • City West Water price changes for future years in the current regulatory period will be limited to changes in financing costs, inflation and the cost of any desalination water orders. • The actual change in a customer’s bill will depend on their water usage. • 15GL of desalinated water was ordered for the 2018-19 financial year, of which City West Water received 3.9GL. Customers did not face additional charges on their water bills as the order was funded from the Victorian Government’s sale of surplus Renewable Energy Certificates. City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 45 Financial Management Compliance Attestation I, David Middleton, on behalf of City West Water Corporation, certify that City West Water Corporation has complied with the applicable Standing Directions 2018 under the Financial Management Act 1994 and Instructions. David Middleton Chair Melbourne 27 August 2019 46 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Performance Report As part of their annual reporting obligations, metropolitan water corporations are required to include a consolidated performance report comprising both financial and non-financial performance indicators. The objective of the report is to provide a consistent view of the current and ongoing performance of the corporation. Financial performance indicators % Variance % KPI 2018 2019 2019 Key performance indicator to prior Notes Variance Notes Number Result Result Target year to target Cash interest cover Net operating cash flows before F1 3.1 3.0 2.3 -3.2% 30.4% 1 net interest and tax / net interest payments Gearing ratio F2 Total debt (including finance leases) / 49.8% 50.5% 52.2% 1.4% -3.3% total assets *100 Internal financing ratio Net operating cash flow less F3 18.2% 44.9% 32.9% 146.7% 2 36.5% 3 dividends and capital repatriation / net capital expenditure * 100 Current ratio Current assets / current liabilities F4 (excluding long term employee 0.8 0.9 1.3 12.5% 4 -30.8% 5 provisions, contract liabilities and deposits) Return on assets F5 Earnings before net interest and tax / 7.6% 6.7% 6.5% -11.8% 6 3.1% average assets * 100 Return on equity F6 Net profit after tax / average total 9.4% 7.5% 6.5% -20.2% 7 15.4% 8 equity *100 EBITDA Margin Earnings before interest, tax, F7 32.7% 30.4% 31.0% -7.0% -1.9% depreciation and amortisation / total revenue *100 1.) Cash interest cover exceeded target in 2019 mainly as a result of lower 5.) The 2019 current ratio was below target due mainly to higher than than expected interest payments due to lower than expected interest expected short term borrowings. In addition, contract liabilities were rates and borrowing levels. The interest payments budget for the 2020 higher than expected due to a larger than expected deferral of contract Our Business financial year has been revised downwards as a result. revenue as a result of the implementation of AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. 2.) The internal financing ratio was higher in 2019 mainly because of higher dividend payments in 2018. Dividend payments were higher in 2018 as a 6.) Return on assets was lower in 2019 compared to prior year due mainly result of the $11.4m special dividend and the deferral of the 2017 interim to the deferral of revenue as a result of the first-time application of AASB dividend into 2018. The 2019 interim dividend has also been deferred 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. As AASB 15 remains in place into 2020. The ratio is expected to smooth out in future years when the going forward, return on assets is expected to smooth out in future years. business returns to its traditional dividend regime. 7.) Return on equity was lower in 2019 compared to prior year due mainly 3.) The 2019 internal financing ratio was higher than target due to to lower net profit after tax which was impacted by higher bulk charges, the deferral of the 2019 interim dividend. The ratio is expected to Environmental Contribution and operating expenses. The business smooth out in future years when the business returns to its traditional continues to prudently manage its costs in order to maximise returns to dividend regime. its shareholder. 4.) The current ratio was higher in 2019 mainly due to the favourable tax 8.) Return on equity was higher in 2019 compared to target due to higher position which has been driven by the lower profit before tax in 2019. than expected net profit after tax which was driven by lower than The current ratio is expected to smooth out in future years. expected bulk charges, depreciation and interest expenses. As a result of factors taken into account during the 2020 budget setting process it is expected that return on equity will be in line with budget in future years. City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 47 Water and sewerage service performance indicators % % KPI Key performance indicator 2018 2019 2019 Variance Notes Variance Notes Number Result Result Target to prior to target year Unplanned water supply interruptions Number of customers receiving more than five unplanned water WS1 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% supply interruptions in the year / total number of water (domestic and nondomestic) customers *100 Interruption time WS2 Average duration of unplanned water 119.6 112.7 120.0 -5.8% 1 -6.1% 1 supply interruptions (minutes) Restoration of unplanned water supply interruptions Unplanned water supply WS3 97.0% 97.9% 99.0% 0.9% -1.1% interruptions restored within five hours / total unplanned water supply interruptions *100 Containment of sewer spills Sewer spills from reticulation and SS1 branch sewers contained within 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 0.0% 0.0% five hours / total sewer spills from reticulation and branch sewers *100 Sewer spills interruptions Number of residential sewerage SS2 97.2% 99.7% 98.0% 2.6% 1.7% customers affected by sewerage interruptions restored within 5 hours 1.) Average duration of unplanned water supply interruptions for 2019 saw This has had the effect of moving interruptions into a planned a year on year improvement and an improvement against target. This environment which has the added benefit of providing customers can be attributed to factors such as operations supervisors re-attending with ample notification of an impending water supply interruption. sites during works to ascertain progress and guide and assist crews to While the target remains at 120.0 minutes for the duration of the ensure interruption times are kept to a minimum. Hydrovac units are current pricing submission, it will be reviewed as part of the next being used where possible to facilitate shorter excavation durations. pricing submission process. 48 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Customer responsiveness performance indicators KPI Key performance indicator 2018 2019 2019 % Variance to prior Notes % Variance Notes Number Result Result Target year to target Water quality complaints CR1 Number of complaints per 1,000 0.7 1.2 0.7 71.4% 1 71.4% 1 customers Billing complaints CR4 Number of complaints per 1,000 1.3 1.0 1.2 -23.1% 2 -16.7% 2 customers 1.) Of the 555 water quality complaints received in 2019, approximately 120 2.) City West Water has worked over the last year to better understand were attributable to an operational decision by our wholesaler. Had this the needs of our customers and take action to address their issues event not occurred, the complaints figure would have been 0.91, which proactively. Initiatives such as the Customer First Strategy, changes in is within City West Water’s historical range of between 0.45 and 0.98. In the operation of the Customer Service team and the digitising of simple the second half of the year, City West Water experienced a higher than customer interactions have all led to a decrease in billing complaints normal incidence of water quality complaints. This can be attributed to both against target and year on year. While the target remains at 1.2 for a higher number of bursts and leaks, which often lead to complaints the duration of the current pricing submission it will be reviewed as part of discoloured water due to recharging of water mains after repair. of the next pricing submission process. While water quality complaints are highly variable from year to year, it is anticipated that in the absence of any large events the target will be met in future years. Environmental performance indicators KPI Key performance indicator 2018 2019 2019 % Variance to prior Notes % Variance Notes Number Result Result Target year to target E1 Effluent reuse volume (end use) 42.3% 40.0% 40.0% -5.4% 1 0.0% Effluent reuse volume (%) Total net CO2 emissions E2 13,013.0 11,627.0 12,640.0 -10.7% 2 -8.0% 2 Net tonnes CO equivalent 1.) Customer service levels were delivered for the supply of recycled 2.) Net CO emissions reduced in 2019 due mainly to a reduction in fuel water, although total volume supplied was slightly lower than last year. consumption as well as extra procurement of green energy. The target Recycled water supply is optimised across inflows, customer demand for 2020 has been reduced to 12,080 tonnes. and operational factors such as energy requirements. Our Business City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 49 Certification of Performance Report We certify that the accompanying Performance Report of City West Water Corporation in respect of the 2019 financial year is presented fairly and in accordance with the Financial Management Act 1994. The Performance Report outlines the relevant performance indicators for the financial year as determined by the Minister for Water and as set out in the corporation’s 2019 Corporate Plan. The actual and comparative results achieved for the financial year are measured against predetermined performance targets. Performance against these targets and subsequent explanation of any significant variance between the current year and prior year has been fairly presented. As at the date of signing, we are not aware of any circumstances which would render any particulars of the Performance Report to be misleading or inaccurate. David Middleton David Ryan Michael Wootten Chair Managing Director Chief Financial Officer Melbourne 27 August 2019 50 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Independent Auditor’s Report Independent Auditor’s Report To the Board of the City West Water Corporation Opinion I have audited the accompanying performance report of the City West Water Corporation (the corporation) for the year ended 30 June 2019, which comprises the: • financial performance indicators • water and sewerage service performance indicators • customer responsiveness performance indicators • environmental performance indicators • certification of performance report. In my opinion, the performance report of the City West Water Corporation in respect of the year ended 30 June 2019 presents fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the performance reporting requirements of Part 7 of the Financial Management Act 1994. Basis for Opinion I have conducted my audit in accordance with the Audit Act 1994 which incorporates the Australian Standards on Assurance Engagements. I further describe my responsibilities under that Act and those standards in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the performance report section of my report. My independence is established by the Constitution Act 1975. My staff and I are independent of the corporation in accordance with the ethical requirements of the Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards Board’s APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (the Code) that are relevant to my audit of the performance report in Victoria and have also fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code. I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion. Board's The Board is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the Our Business responsibilities for performance report in accordance with the performance reporting requirements the performance of the Financial Management Act 1994, and for such internal control as the Board report determines is necessary to enable the preparation and fair presentation of the performance report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 51 Independent Auditor’s Report (continued) Auditor’s As required by the Audit Act 1994, my responsibility is to express an opinion on responsibilities for the performance report based on the audit. My objectives for the audit are to the audit of the obtain reasonable assurance about whether the performance report as a whole is performance report free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes my opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with the Australian Standards on Assurance Engagements will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the decisions of users taken on the basis of this performance report. As part of an audit in accordance with the Australian Standards on Assurance Engagements, I exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. I also: • identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the performance report, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the corporation’s internal control • evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the performance report, including the disclosures, and whether the performance report represents the underlying events and results in a manner that achieves fair presentation. I communicate with the Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that I identify during my audit. MELBOURNE Paul Martin 30 August 2019 as delegate for the Auditor-General of Victoria 2 52 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Financial Report Comprehensive Operating Statement 54 Balance Sheet 55 Statement of Changes in Equity 56 Statement of Cash Flows 57 Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements 58 1 About this report 58 2 Funding delivery of services 60 3 Cost of delivering services 64 4 Statutory obligations 71 5 Assets available to support the provision of services 75 6 Other assets and liabilities 82 7 Financing our operations 87 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements 90 9 Other disclosure 104 Statutory Certification 114 Financials Financials City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 53 Comprehensive Operating Statement For the year ended 30 June 2019 Note 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Income Revenue from contracts with customers 2.1 704,800 697,916 Other income 2.6 498 401 Total income 705,298 698,317 Expenses Bulk charges 3.2 (349,235) (341,601) Environmental Contribution 4.5.1 (26,457) (18,563) Employee benefits 3.3.1 (41,884) (45,069) Depreciation and amortisation 5.1, 5.5 (52,510) (50,875) Finance expenses 7.1.2 (66,418) (64,939) Other operating expenses 3.5 (73,087) (64,493) Total expenses (609,591) (585,540) Profit before income tax expense 95,707 112,777 Income tax expense 4.1 (32,608) (33,735) Profit after income tax expense 63,099 79,042 Other comprehensive income/(expense) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Increase/(decrease) in physical asset revaluation surplus due to revaluation of assets 5.1 (11,655) (16,272) Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit superannuation plan 3.3.3 176 3,087 Deferred income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 4.1 2,140 4,158 Other comprehensive income after tax (9,339) (9,027) Total comprehensive income after tax 53,760 70,015 The Comprehensive Operating Statement should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 54 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Balance Sheet As at 30 June 2019 Note 30 June 30 June 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 ASSETS Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 1,327 746 Receivables 6.1 100,492 107,872 Inventory 6.5 2,474 1,698 Other non-financial assets 6.6 7,231 4,571 Total current assets 111,524 114,887 Non-current assets Infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 5.1 2,191,376 2,086,215 Intangible assets 5.5 167,148 164,442 Defined benefit superannuation asset 3.3.3 4,085 4,526 Total non-current assets 2,362,609 2,255,183 TOTAL ASSETS 2,474,133 2,370,070 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Payables 6.2 96,240 90,732 Advances and deposits 6.3 7,172 6,135 Borrowings 7.1 19,900 22,700 Current tax liability 4.3 10,430 Provision for employee benefits 3.3.2 13,613 12,571 Contract liabilities 6.4 29,889 1,348 Other provisions 6.7 1,385 1,669 Total current liabilities 168,199 145,585 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 7.1 1,230,000 1,157,500 Deferred tax liabilities 4.2.2 223,432 228,819 Provision for employee benefits 3.3.2 1,686 1,833 Total non-current liabilities 1,455,118 1,388,152 TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,623,317 1,533,737 NET ASSETS 850,816 836,333 Financials EQUITY Contributed equity 9.3.1 189,248 200,128 Physical asset revaluation surplus 9.3.2 171,256 180,718 Retained profits 9.3.3 490,312 455,487 TOTAL EQUITY 850,816 836,333 The Balance Sheet should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 55 Statement of Changes in Equity For the year ended 30 June 2019 Note Contributed Physical Retained Total equity asset profits equity $’000 revaluation $’000 $’000 surplus $’000 Opening balance at 1 July 2017 211,008 191,906 436,884 839,798 Comprehensive income for the year Profit after income tax expense 9.3.3 79,042 79,042 Other comprehensive income after tax 9.3.2, 9.3.3 (11,188) 2,161 (9,027) Total comprehensive income after tax (11,188) 81,203 70,015 Transactions with the State in its capacity as owner Dividends paid 4.4 (62,600) (62,600) Capital repatriation 9.3.1 (10,880) (10,880) Total transactions with the State in its capacity as owner (10,880) (62,600) (73,480) Closing balance at 30 June 2018 200,128 180,718 455,487 836,333 Opening balance at 1 July 2018 200,128 180,718 455,487 836,333 Adjustments on adoption of new accounting standards 1.3 (7,997) (7,997) Revised opening balance 200,128 180,718 447,490 828,336 Comprehensive income for the year Profit after income tax expense 9.3.3 63,099 63,099 Other comprehensive income after tax 9.3.2, 9.3.3 (9,462) 123 (9,339) Total comprehensive income after tax (9,462) 63,222 53,760 Transactions with the State in its capacity as owner Dividends paid 4.4 (20,400) (20,400) Capital repatriation 9.3.1 (10,880) (10,880) Total transactions with the State in its capacity as owner (10,880) (20,400) (31,280) Closing balance at 30 June 2019 189,248 171,256 490,312 850,816 The Statement of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 56 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Statement of Cash Flows For the year ended 30 June 2019 Note 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Cash flows from operating activities Receipts Receipts from customers, developers and others 676,384 697,064 Goods and Services Tax refunded by the Australian Tax Office1 20,295 11,931 Interest received 198 83 Payments Payments to suppliers and employees (477,453) (450,094) Interest and other finance costs paid (66,265) (64,167) Income tax paid (45,679) (43,540) Environmental Contribution paid (19,843) (18,563) Government Water Rebate paid 473 (40,685) Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 7.2.1 88,110 92,029 Cash flows from investing activities Payments for infrastructure, property, plant, equipment, and intangibles (126,552) (101,808) Proceeds from sale of infrastructure, property, plant, equipment and intangibles 603 401 Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities (125,949) (101,407) Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings (new and refinanced) 195,000 202,700 Repayment of borrowings (paid down and refinanced) (125,300) (125,000) Dividends paid (20,400) (62,600) Capital repatriation paid (10,880) (10,880) Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities 38,420 4,220 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 581 (5,158) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the financial year 746 5,904 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the financial year 7.2 1,327 746 1 Goods and services tax refunded from the Australian Taxation Office is presented on a net basis. The Statement of Cash Flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Financials City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 57 Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2019 1 About this report City West Water is a statutory water authority incorporated under the Water Act 1989. 1.3 Changes in accounting policies The following standards have been adopted by the The principal address of the corporation is: corporation during the financial year. City West Water Corporation • AASB 9 Financial Instruments, effective for periods starting 1 McNab Avenue on or after 1 January 2018 and thus to the corporation on 1 Footscray 3011 July 2018. AASB 9 Financial Instruments replaces AASB 139 Financial 1.1 Basis of preparation Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. It introduces new requirements for recognition, classification and These financial statements are presented in Australian dollars. measurement of financial instruments, a new impairment The historical cost convention is used unless a different model for financial assets based on expected credit losses measurement basis is specifically disclosed for the relevant item. and simplified hedge accounting. On adoption, City West All amounts in the financial statements have been rounded to Water has applied the standard on a modified retrospective the nearest thousand dollars unless otherwise stated. basis. As a result, comparatives for 2018 have not been The accrual basis of accounting has been applied in preparing restated. The impact of the change on City West Water’s these financial statements. Assets, liabilities, equity, income 2018 accounts would have been an increase in the expected and expenses are recognised in the reporting period to which credit loss allowance of $0.4m. Further disclosures in relation they relate, regardless of when cash is received or paid. to AASB 9 can be found in note 6.1.1 of this report. Judgements, estimates and assumptions are required to • AASB 15 Revenue, effective for periods starting on or after 1 be made about financial information being presented. January 2018 and thus to the corporation on 1 July 2018. The significant judgements made in the preparation of AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers replaces these financial statements are disclosed in Section 8 of this AASB 118 Revenue. AASB 15 introduces a five-step model report. Estimates and associated assumptions are based on for recognising revenue: professional judgements derived from historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable 1.) Identify the contract in the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these 2.) Identify performance obligations under the contract estimates. Areas involving a high degree of estimates and assumptions that can materially impact the financial 3.) Determine the transaction price statements include: 4.) Allocate the transaction price • fair valuation of infrastructure, property, 5.) Recognise revenue. plant and equipment • actuarial assumptions used to determine the assets On adoption, City West Water has applied the new standard and liabilities of City West Water’s defined benefit on a modified retrospective basis to contracts that are not superannuation fund completed at 1 July 2018. As a result, comparatives for 2018 • estimated useful lives of assets have not been restated. Further disclosures in relation to AASB 15 can be found in Note 2 of this report. • impairment of assets • provisions The tables on page 59 show the adjustment recognised for • income tax each individual line item as a result of the adoption of AASB • contract liabilities 15. Line items that have not been affected by the changes have not been included. • accrued revenue (unbilled charges) • deferred tax recognition. 1.4 Compliance information Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and also in future These general purpose financial statements have been periods that are affected by the revision. prepared in accordance with the Financial Management Act 1994 and applicable Australian Accounting Standards, which These financial statements cover City West Water as an include Interpretations issued by the Australian Accounting individual reporting entity. Standards Board. Accounting policies selected and applied in these financial 1.2 Accounting policies statements ensure that the resulting financial information Accounting policies are selected and applied in a manner satisfies the concepts of relevance and reliability, thereby which ensures that the resulting financial information ensuring that the substance of the underlying transactions or satisfies the concepts of relevance and reliability, thereby other events is reported. ensuring that the substance of the underlying transactions or other events is reported. These annual financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of City West Water on 27 August 2019. Unless otherwise stated, all accounting policies applied are consistent with those of the prior year. 58 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 1 About this report (continued) Impact on Balance Sheet of transitional adjustments made on 1 July 2018 Note 2018 as Adjustment Restated as reported $’000 at 1 July $’000 2018 $’000 Contract liabilities 6.4 (1,348) (11,425) (12,773) Deferred tax assets 4.2.1 5,729 3,427 9,156 Retained profits 9.3.3 455,487 (7,997) 447,490 Impact on Comprehensive Operating Statement for the year ended 30 June 2019 Note 2019 per 2019 per Movement AAASB 15 AASB 118 $’000 $’000 $’000 Revenue Developer contributions 2.3 71,407 100,232 (28,825) Total revenue 71,407 100,232 (28,825) Profit before income tax expense 95,707 124,532 (28,825) Income tax expense 4.1 (32,608) (41,256) 8,648 Profit after income tax expense 63,099 83,276 (20,177) Impact on Balance Sheet as at 30 June 2019 Note 2019 per 2019 per Movement AASB 15 AASB 118 $’000 $’000 $’000 Current assets Income tax refundable 6.6 2,821 (2,821) Total current assets 2,821 (2,821) Current liabilities Current tax liability 4.3 6,650 (6,650) Contract liabilities 6.4 29,889 1,065 28,824 Total current liabilities 29,889 7,715 22,174 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 4.2.2 223,432 222,608 824 Total non-current liabilities 223,432 222,608 824 Total liabilities 253,321 230,323 22,998 Net assets 250,500 230,323 20,177 Financials Equity Retained profits 9.3.3 490,312 510,489 (20,177) Total equity 490,312 510,489 (20,177) City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 59 2 Funding delivery of services City West Water’s core business is the supply of water, sewerage, trade waste and, where available, recycled water services to customers in accordance with the corporation’s Customer Charter. City West Water collects revenue from residential and non-residential customers, developers and others in order to fulfil its vision to be an exceptional service provider that puts customers first and benefits the community. Revenue is measured as the fair value of consideration received or receivable. City West Water recognises revenue when the amount can be reliably measured, it is probable that the future economic benefits will flow to the corporation and specific criteria have been met for each of the corporation’s activities. Structure 2.1 Summary of revenue from contracts with customers 2.2 Sales of goods and services 2.3 Developer contributions 2.4 Other revenue 2.5 Timing of recognition of revenue from contracts with customers 2.6 Other income 2.1 Summary of revenue from contracts with customers 2019 2018 Note $’000 $’000 Sale of goods and services 2.2 609,388 587,898 Developer contributions 2.3 71,407 82,260 Other revenue 2.4 24,005 27,758 Total revenue from contracts with customers 704,800 697,916 2.2 Sales of goods and services 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Service charges water 106,996 104,490 Usage charges water 268,601 253,844 Service charges sewerage 121,018 118,045 Disposal charges sewage 72,731 113,605 Trade waste charges 29,000 29,614 Recycled water charges 6,336 7,168 Water trading revenue 4,233 1,817 Government Water Rebate provided to customers 473 (40,685) Total sales of goods and services revenue 609,388 587,898 City West Water has an ongoing obligation to provide water and sewerage services to customers in its area. The corporation is obligated to provide a continuous supply of services across its network, so customers simultaneously receive and consume benefits in line with City West Water performing its obligation. Therefore, revenue is recognised over time. City West Water recognises revenue for water and sewerage services in the amount which it has a right to receive, as this amount is considered by management to correspond directly with the value to the customer of City West Water’s performance to date. This accounting treatment is an application of the practical expedient given in paragraph B16 of AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. 60 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 2 Funding delivery of services (continued) Service charges represent charges for access to water and sewerage services provided to customers. This performance obligation is satisfied over time. At balance date, any portion of service charges that are billed in advance and the performance obligation is not satisfied is recognised as contract liabilities (refer Note 6.4). Water usage charges, sewage disposal charges, trade waste charges and recycled water charges are all recognised as revenue over time as the performance obligation is satisfied. City West Water measures these charges based on the regulated prices and the volume of water consumed by customers, and sewage and trade waste disposed by customers. At balance date, the charges for fully satisfied performance obligations that are unbilled are estimated and contract assets are recognised (refer Note 6.1). Water trading revenue is recognised at a point in time when the trade occurs. This is when the performance obligation is satisfied. 2.3 Developer contributions 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Developer contributed assets 47,315 48,137 Developer cash contributions 24,092 34,123 Total developer contributions 71,407 82,260 Developer contributed assets arise when developers pay for the cost of construction of new assets and subsequently ‘gift’ these assets to City West Water, which maintains them in perpetuity. In accordance with the requirements of AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, revenue is recognised at a point in time when City West Water has satisfied its performance obligation either: • when a Statement of Compliance is issued to the customer, or • when the customer is connected to City West Water’s network for the provision of water and sewerage services. Developer contributed assets are recognised at their fair value when the corporation obtains control over them. Fair value is determined as cost. Where actual cost is not available, City West Water deems cost by assessing the value of works using a schedule of rates determined by the corporation. Developer cash contributions represent charges levied on developers to recover the costs of augmenting or constructing infrastructure assets to meet the future demands of urban growth. Developers are required to make a fair and reasonable contribution towards the cost of developing City West Water’s water supply distribution systems and sewage disposal systems. In accordance with the requirements of AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, revenue is recognised at a point in time when City West Water has satisfied its performance obligation either: • when a Statement of Compliance is issued to the customer • when the customer is connected to City West Water’s network for the provision of water and sewerage services, or • when the customer receives consent from City West Water to connect to the corporation's network. The point in time when the corporation satisfies its performance obligation will vary depending on the type of application submitted by the customer. Rates applicable to developer cash contributions are regulated by the Essential Services Commission. Financials City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 61 2 Funding delivery of services (continued) 2.4 Other revenue 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Fees and charges 15,129 20,391 Works and services provided to third parties 7,836 6,372 Other 1,040 995 Total other revenue 24,005 27,758 Fees and charges are recognised as revenue at a point in time when City West Water has completed its performance obligations. Fees and charges represent a variety of services provided by City West Water such as processing of application fees and making new connections or alterations to the corporation’s network. City West Water uses pricing principles to calculate the price of individual services rather than direct regulation by the Essential Services Commission. Revenue from works and services provided to third parties is recognised as revenue at a point in time when City West Water has completed its contractual obligations. Revenue represents charges for services to third parties such as the collection of drainage and parks rates on behalf of Melbourne Water and the Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning respectively. Other items are recognised as revenue on completion of City West Water’s contractual obligations. Other items consist mainly of administration fees and one-off charges for services provided. 62 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 2 Funding delivery of services (continued) 2.5 Timing of recognition of revenue from contracts with customers The corporation derives revenue from the transfer of goods and services over time and at a point in time for the following charges. Total revenue Service Usage Service Disposal Trade Recycled Water Government Developer Other from charges charges charges charges waste water trading water rebate contributions revenue contracts water water sewerage sewerage charges charges revenue $’000 $’000 $’000 with $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 customers $’000 2018 At a point in 1,817 (40,685) 82,260 27,758 71,150 time Over time 104,490 253,844 118,045 113,605 29,614 7,168 626,766 Total 104,490 253,844 118,045 113,605 29,614 7,168 1,817 (40,685) 82,260 27,758 697,916 2019 At a point in 4,233 473 71,407 24,005 100,118 time Over time 106,996 268,601 121,018 72,731 29,000 6,336 604,682 Total 106,996 268,601 121,018 72,731 29,000 6,336 4,233 473 71,407 24,005 704,800 2.6 Other income 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Interest income 191 89 Rental income 185 191 Net gain on sale of non-current physical assets 122 121 Total other income 498 401 Interest income is recognised when earned. Rental income is billed in advance and recognised over the period to which the income relates. A gain on sale of non-current physical assets is recognised on disposal of an asset. It is measured as income from the sale of an asset less the asset’s book value and costs of disposal. Financials City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 63 3 Cost of delivering services This section provides an account of the expenses incurred by City West Water in delivering services and the accounting policies that are relevant for an understanding of the items recognised in the financial statements. Structure 3.1 Summary of cost of delivering services 3.2 Bulk charges 3.3 Employee benefits 3.4 Remuneration of auditor 3.5 Other operating expenses 3.6 Commitments for operating lease expenditure 3.1 Summary of cost of delivering services 2019 2018 Note $’000 $’000 Bulk charges 3.2 349,235 341,601 Employee benefits in the Comprehensive Operating Statement 3.3.1 41,884 45,069 Other operating expenses 3.5 73,087 64,493 Total cost of delivering services 464,206 451,163 3.2 Bulk charges 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Bulk water and sewerage charges1 349,235 341,601 Total bulk charges 349,235 341,601 1 2019 bulk water and sewerage charges include $1.2m for desalinated water costs Bulk water and sewerage charges are levied by Melbourne Water Corporation for the cost of water City West Water purchases and for sewage treated at Melbourne Water’s Western Treatment Plant. Variable charges are levied in arrears and are payable on a weekly basis. Fixed charges are levied once a month, and are payable on the 15th of the month to which they refer. Any variable charges that remain outstanding at period end are accrued. 3.3 Employee benefits 3.3.1 Employee benefits in the Comprehensive Operating Statement 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Salaries and wages, annual leave and long service leave 36,797 40,157 Accumulation fund superannuation expense 3,390 3,528 Defined benefit superannuation expense 617 811 Termination benefits 1,080 573 Total employee benefits in the comprehensive operating statement 41,884 45,069 64 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 3 Cost of delivering services (continued) Employee benefits refers to all payments made to employees during the year. It includes payments to all City West Water staff as well as contract and agency staff. Payments are made for ordinary time, overtime, allowances, on-costs, Fringe Benefits Tax, redundancy costs and Workcover. Any employee benefits outstanding at year end are accrued. A portion of employee benefits directly attributable to capital projects is capitalised and depreciated so as to apportion the cost of a capital project over the life of the asset created by the project. The amount recognised in the Comprehensive Operating Statement in relation to superannuation is employer contributions for members of both defined benefit and accumulation superannuation plans that are paid or payable during the reporting period. Contributions to accumulation superannuation funds are made in accordance with the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992. Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before normal retirement date, or when an employee accepts an offer of benefits in exchange for the termination of employment. Termination benefits are recognised when City West Water is demonstrably committed to terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period are discounted to present value. 3.3.2 Employee benefits in the Balance Sheet 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Provision for employee benefits Current Annual leave unconditional and expected to be paid within 12 months 2,151 2,176 Annual leave unconditional and expected to be paid after 12 months 386 410 Long service leave unconditional and expected to be paid within 12 months 858 717 Long service leave unconditional and expected to be paid after 12 months 5,905 5,651 On-costs unconditional and expected to be paid within 12 months 440 434 On-costs unconditional and expected to be paid after 12 months 959 930 Other employee benefits 2,914 2,253 Provision for employee benefits current 13,613 12,571 Non-current Long service leave conditional 1,462 1,589 On costs conditional 224 244 Provision for employee benefits non-current 1,686 1,833 Total provision for employee benefits 15,299 14,404 Reconciliation of movement in provision for employee benefits 2019 $’000 Opening balance 14,404 Additional provisions recognised 8,126 Movements due to transfers in/(out) (38) Reductions arising from payments/other sacrifices of economic benefits (7,193) Closing balance 15,299 Financials City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 65 3 Cost of delivering services (continued) Provision is made for benefits accruing to employees in Defined benefit fund respect of annual leave, long service leave (LSL), on-costs, Defined benefit fund members receive a lump sum benefit termination benefits and bonuses for services rendered to on retirement, death, disablement or withdrawal from the reporting date. fund. Benefits are calculated on a multiple of an employee’s Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-monetary final salary. The multiple is dependent on an employee’s benefits, and annual leave are all recognised in the provision length of service and their contribution rate. for employee benefits as current liabilities as the corporation A liability or asset in respect of defined benefits does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement of superannuation is recognised and measured as the these liabilities. difference between the present value of employees’ accrued Depending on the expectation of the timing of settlement, benefits at reporting date and the net market value of the liabilities for wages, salaries, and annual leave are measured at: superannuation plan’s assets at that date. • nominal value component that the corporation expects to City West Water is not the trustee of the defined benefit fund. settle wholly within 12 months, and The plan’s trustee is responsible for the governance of the • present value component that the corporation does not plan. The trustee has a legal obligation to act solely in the best expect to settle wholly within 12 months. interests of plan beneficiaries. The trustee has the following roles: Unconditional LSL is disclosed as a current liability even when • administration of the plan and payment to beneficiaries from the corporation does not expect to wholly settle the liability plan assets when required in accordance with the plan rules within 12 months because it will not have the unconditional • management and investment of the plan assets right to defer the settlement of the entitlement should an employee take leave within 12 months. • compliance with superannuation law and other applicable regulations. The components of LSL liability are measured at: There are a number of risks to which the plan exposes the • nominal value component that the corporation expects to corporation. The more significant risks relating to the defined settle wholly within 12 months, and benefits are investment risk, salary growth risk, legislative risk • present value component that the corporation does not and pension risk. expect to settle wholly within 12 months. City West Water’s plan assets are invested by the trustee in a Conditional LSL is disclosed as a non-current liability. In this pool of assets with assets from other employers’ plans. The case there is an unconditional right to defer the settlement assets have a benchmark weighting to equities of 50 per of the entitlement until the employee has completed the cent and therefore the plan has a significant concentration requisite years of service. This non-current LSL liability is of equity market risk. However, within the equity investments recognised at present value. Any gain or loss following the allocation both globally and across sectors is diversified. revaluation of the present value of the non-current LSL liability The Equipsuper Contribution and Funding Policy provides for is recognised as income or an expense. a review of the financial position of the plan every six months Performance bonuses are an element of other employee as at 30 June and 31 December, with the contribution rate benefits. Performance bonuses for the corporation’s executive comprising a long-term contribution rate and an adjustment to officers are based on a percentage of the annual salary package meet the financing objective of a target funding ratio of 105 per provided under their contract of employment. A liability is cent. City West Water’s current funding ratio is 126.4 per cent. recognised and is measured as the aggregate of the amounts There were no plan amendments affecting the defined accrued under the terms of the contracts to balance date. benefits payable, curtailments or settlements during the year. 3.3.3 Superannuation All City West Water employees are members of either the Equipsuper defined benefit fund or an approved accumulation fund of their choice. The majority of employees of City West Water are members of either the Equipsuper fund or the Vision Super fund. All new City West Water employees who are not already members of the Equipsuper defined benefit fund must join an accumulation fund. 66 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 3 Cost of delivering services (continued) Fair value of Defined benefit Net defined plan assets obligation benefit liability/ $’000 $’000 (asset) $’000 Opening balance at 1 July 2017 31,021 28,771 (2,250) Current service cost 859 859 Interest income 705 (705) Interest expense 657 657 Actuarial return on plan assets less interest income 1,813 (1,813) Contributions by plan participants 237 237 Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in financial assumptions (717) (717) Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from liability experience (557) (557) Benefits paid (2,577) (2,577) Taxes, premiums and expenses paid (136) (136) Closing balance at 30 June 2018 31,063 26,537 (4,526) Opening balance at 1 July 2018 31,063 26,537 (4,526) Current service cost 723 723 Interest income 788 (788) Interest expense 682 682 Actuarial return on plan assets less interest income 819 (819) Contributions by plan participants 220 220 Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 1,048 1,048 Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from liability experience (405) (405) Benefits paid (4,942) (4,942) Taxes, premiums and expenses paid (110) (110) Closing balance at 30 June 2019 27,838 23,753 (4,085) Fair value of plan assets As at 30 June 2019 Total Level 2 1 $’000 $’000 Investment funds 27,838 27,838 Total 27,838 27,838 1 Inputs based on observable market data (either directly using prices or indirectly derived from prices). Financials City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 67 3 Cost of delivering services (continued) Significant actuarial assumptions at reporting date 2019 2018 Assumptions to determine defined benefit cost Discount rate 2.7% p.a. 2.4% p.a. Expected salary increase rate 4.0% p.a. 4.0% p.a. Assumptions to determine defined benefit obligation Discount rate 1.3% p.a. 2.7% p.a. Expected salary increase rate 3.0% p.a. 4.0% p.a. The assumptions used to determine the defined benefit cost are based on the assumptions used to calculate the defined benefit obligation for the prior year. The assumptions used to calculate the defined benefit obligation are determined as follows: · discount rate based on the yield on Commonwealth Government bonds of the same duration as the liabilities that make up the defined benefit obligation. · expected salary increase rate determined by reference to City West Water’s expected salary increases under its enterprise agreement. Sensitivity analysis The defined benefit obligation as at 30 June 2019 under several scenarios is presented below. Scenarios A and B relate to discount rate sensitivity. Scenarios C and D relate to salary increase rate sensitivity. Base case Scenario A Scenario B Scenario C Scenario D -0.5% p.a. +0.5% p.a. -0.5% p.a. +0.5% p.a. discount rate discount rate salary increase salary increase rate rate Discount rate 1.3% p.a. 0.8% p.a. 1.8% p.a. 1.3% p.a. 1.3% p.a. Salary increase rate 3.0% p.a. 3.0% p.a. 3.0% p.a. 2.5% p.a. 3.5% p.a. Defined benefit obligation 1 ($'000) 23,753 24,826 22,745 22,878 24,671 1 includes contributions tax provision. The defined benefit obligation has been recalculated by changing the assumptions as outlined above while retaining all other assumptions. The Equipsuper Contribution and Funding Policy provides for a review of the financial position of the plan each six months, as at 30 June and 31 December, with the contribution rate comprising a long term contribution rate and an adjustment to meet the financing objective of a target funding ratio of 105 per cent. City West Water’s current funding ratio is 126.4 per cent. As such, City West Water is not currently required to contribute to the defined benefit superannuation plan. 68 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 3 Cost of delivering services (continued) Expected contributions City West Water does not expect to make any employer contributions for the year ending 30 June 2020. Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation as at 30 June 2019 is eight years (30 June 2018, eight years). Expected benefit payments for the financial year ending on: ($’000) 30 June 2020 1,895 30 June 2021 1,922 30 June 2022 2,113 30 June 2023 1,789 30 June 2024 2,153 Following five years 9,915 3.4 Remuneration of auditor 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Amounts received, or due and receivable by the auditor of City West Water for the audit of the financial report: Victorian Auditor-General’s Office 145 141 Total auditor’s remuneration 145 141 Financials City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 69 3 Cost of delivering services (continued) 3.5 Other operating expenses Other operating expenses are recognised as incurred if they can be reliably measured. Costs are measured at nominal value. 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Operating contracts 33,972 29,583 Information technology 9,240 7,199 Billing and collection 7,038 7,160 Operating leases 3,581 3,574 Impaired receivables refer Note 6 3,182 1,370 Energy 2,286 1,608 Facilities maintenance 2,112 1,824 Insurance 1,463 1,182 Licence fees 571 723 Grants and water conservation initiatives 414 353 Other 9,228 9,917 Total other operating expenses 73,087 64,493 Other operating expenses generally represent the day to day running costs incurred in normal operations. It also includes impaired receivables expense. Other operating expenses are recognised on an accrual basis in the reporting period in which they are incurred. Operating contracts are expenses related to City West Water’s maintenance contractor and the field work performed by it. Billing and collection costs are all costs relating to the issuing of bills and the collection of debt. Information technology expenditure relates to all operating expenses, maintenance contracts, licence fees and other costs associated with operating the information technology environment of the corporation. Operating lease payments are recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term. Routine maintenance, repair costs and minor asset renewal costs are expensed as incurred. Where the expenditure relates to the replacement of a component or the enhancement of an asset and the cost satisfies the requirements of an asset, the cost is capitalised and depreciated. 3.6 Commitments for operating lease expenditure City West Water has operating lease commitments for its head office in Footscray, two maintenance depots in Brooklyn and West Melbourne, two land leases and two IT leases. These commitments are not recognised in the Balance Sheet. They are disclosed below at their nominal value. 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Not later than one year 5,017 4,636 Later than one year but not later than five years 24,891 20,184 Later than five years 53,086 61,203 Total lease commitments 83,004 86,023 70 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 4. Statutory obligations This section provides an account of the statutory obligations of City West Water. Structure 4.1 Income tax expense 4.2 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities 4.3 Current tax liability 4.4 Dividends 4.5 Environmental Contribution 4.1 Income tax expense 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Income tax expense Current tax 32,428 38,460 Deferred tax relating to temporary differences (1,645) (4,725) Under/(over) provided in prior years 1,825 Total income tax expense 32,608 33,735 Income tax expense is attributable to: Profit from continuing operations 32,608 33,735 Total income tax expense 32,608 33,735 Deferred income tax expense/(benefit) included in income tax expense comprises: Decrease/(increase) in deferred tax assets 3,852 313 Increase/(decrease) in deferred tax liabilities (5,497) (5,038) Total deferred income tax expense/(benefit) (1,645) (4,725) Reconciliation of income tax expense to prima facie tax payable Profit before income tax expense 95,707 112,777 Tax at the Australian tax rate of 30 per cent (2018 30 per cent) 28,711 33,833 Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible/(taxable) in calculating taxable income: Non-deductible expenses 90 215 Non-deductible depreciation 886 886 Additional deductible expenses/non-assessable income 2,921 (1,199) Total income tax expense 32,608 33,735 Deferred income tax recognised in other comprehensive income Gain/(loss) on revaluation of infrastructure (1,930) (5,566) Gain/(loss) on revaluation of land and buildings (263) 482 Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit superannuation plan 53 926 Financials Total deferred income tax recognised in other comprehensive income (2,140) (4,158) City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 71 4 Statutory obligations (continued) City West Water is subject to the National Tax Equivalent Regime (NTER) pursuant to section 88(1) of the State Owned Enterprises Act 1992. Under this regime City West Water is required to pay the Victorian Government an amount equal to the tax liability applicable if City West Water was a private company. The tax equivalent rules are based on the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (as amended). Income tax expense or revenue for the period is the tax payable or receivable on the current period’s taxable income based on the applicable tax rate adjusted by changes in deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities attributable to temporary differences. 4.2 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for temporary differences at the tax rates expected to apply when the assets are recovered or liabilities are settled, based on those tax rates which are enacted or substantively enacted at balance date. The relevant tax rates are applied to the cumulative amounts of deductible and taxable temporary differences to measure the deferred tax asset or liability. No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised in relation to these temporary differences if they arose as the result of a transaction that at the time of the transaction did not affect either accounting profit or loss or taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax assets are recognised for deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that future taxable amounts will be available to utilise those temporary differences and losses. 4.2.1 Deferred tax assets 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 The balance of deferred tax assets comprises temporary differences attributable to: Amounts recognised in the Comprehensive Operating Statement Accrued expenses 41 24 Provisions 6,051 5,643 Amortisation of intellectual property 10 12 Business related costs 26 49 Prepayments 1 Developer revenue not assessable (824) Total deferred tax assets 5,304 5,729 Movements: Opening balance at the start of financial year 5,729 6,042 Adjustments on adoption of new accounting standards refer Note 1.3 3,427 Credited/(charged) to the Comprehensive Operating Statement (3,852) (313) Closing balance at the end of financial year 5,304 5,729 Deferred tax assets expected to be recovered within 12 months 5,227 5,643 Deferred tax assets expected to be recovered after more than 12 months 77 86 Total deferred tax assets 5,304 5,729 Set off of deferred tax assets pursuant to set off provisions (5,304) (5,729) Net deferred tax assets 72 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 4 Statutory obligations (continued) 4.2.2 Deferred tax liabilities 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 The balance of deferred tax liabilities comprises temporary differences attributable to: Amounts recognised in the Comprehensive Operating Statement Fixed assets depreciation 85,880 88,504 Developer contributed assets 58,828 59,714 Defined benefit superannuation fund asset (132) (76) Amounts recognised in equity Defined benefits actuarial gain 1,381 1,434 Land and buildings revaluation 2,458 2,721 Infrastructure assets revaluation 80,321 82,251 Total deferred tax liabilities 228,736 234,548 Movements: Opening balance at the start of the financial year 234,548 243,744 (Credited)/charged to the Comprehensive Operating Statement (5,497) (5,038) (Credited)/charged to equity (315) (4,158) Closing balance at the end of financial year 228,736 234,548 Deferred tax liabilities expected to be settled after more than 12 months 228,736 234,548 Total deferred tax liabilities 228,736 234,548 Set off of deferred tax assets pursuant to set off provisions (5,304) (5,729) Net deferred tax liabilities 223,432 228,819 4.3 Current tax liability 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Current tax liability 10,430 Total current tax liability 10,430 City West Water’s current tax liability is tax payable based on the current financial year’s taxable income less any instalments paid during the year. Financials City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 73 4 Statutory obligations (continued) 4.4 Dividends 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Final dividend paid during 2019 in respect of 2018 20,400 Final dividend paid during 2018 in respect of 2017 48,200 Interim dividend paid in respect of current year 14,400 Total dividends paid 20,400 62,600 As City West Water is a Public Non-financial Corporation, it is required to pay a dividend in accordance with a determination by the Treasurer of Victoria under the Water Act 1989. An obligation to pay a dividend only arises after a formal determination is made by the Treasurer following consultation between the Board, the relevant portfolio Minister and the Treasurer. The 2019 interim dividend of $15.5m was deferred to 2020. As the 2019 final dividend has not been determined by the Treasurer, it has not been provided for at reporting date. The Board’s preliminary estimate of the 2019 final dividend is $28.8m. 4.5 Environmental Contribution Section 193 of the Water Industry (Environmental Contributions) Act 2004 (the Act) establishes an obligation for water corporations to pay into the consolidated fund environmental contributions in accordance with an Order issued by the Minister for Water. The Environmental Contributions Order 2016 to 2020 establishes a schedule of amounts payable by each corporation for the reporting periods 2017 to 2020. The purpose of the Environmental Contribution is set out in the Act. Funds may be used for the purpose of funding various water related initiatives that seek to promote the sustainable management of water or are likely to address adverse water related environmental impacts. Consistent with the Environmental Contributions Order 2016 to 2020 made under Section 193 of the Water Industry Act 1994, City West Water pays an Environmental Contribution to the Victorian Government. These contributions are recognised as expenses when they occur. 4.5.1 Environmental Contribution expense 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Environmental Contribution expense 26,457 18,563 Total Environmental Contribution expense 26,457 18,563 4.5.2 Environmental Contribution commitment Consistent with the requirements of the Water Industry Act 1994, City West Water has a commitment to pay an Environmental Contribution of $26.5m for the next year to the Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning. 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Not later than one year 26,457 26,457 Later than one year but not later than five years 26,457 Total Environmental Contribution commitment 26,457 52,914 74 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 5. Assets available to support the provision of services City West Water controls infrastructure and other assets that are utilised in fulfilling its objectives and conducting its activities. These assets represent the resources that are owned by City West Water for use in the delivery of services. Where the assets included in this section are carried at fair value, additional information is disclosed in Section 8 of this report regarding how fair value is determined. Structure 5.1 Infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 5.2 Depreciation of infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 5.3 Impairment of infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 5.4 Commitments for capital expenditure on infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 5.5 Intangible assets 5.6 Amortisation of intangible assets 5.7 Impairment of intangible assets 5.8 Commitments for capital expenditure on intangible assets Financials City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 75 5 Assets available to support the provision of services (continued) 5.1 Infrastructure, property, plant and equipment Specialised NonNonInfrastructure Plant & Motor Leasehold Works in Total land specialised specialised assets equipment vehicles improvements progress $’000 $’000 land buildings $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 2018 Fair value at 31,317 1,003 5,010 1,749,032 35,871 4,190 6,967 190,184 2,023,574 1 July 2017 Accumulated depreciation at (638) (27,831) (1,659) (1,122) (31,250) 1 July 2017 Carrying amount at 1 July 31,317 1,003 4,372 1,749,032 8,040 2,531 5,845 190,184 1,992,324 2017 Additions 151,027 151,027 Developer 48,142 (48,142) contributed assets Transfers (net) 1 (187) 1,865 2,668 46,795 383 935 20 (52,490) (11) Revaluation (decrement)/ increment recognised 3,055 186 (19,513) (16,272) in other comprehensive income Revaluation (decrement)/ increment recognised in 94 94 profit or loss Disposals (net) (276) (276) Impairment (net) (748) (30) (778) Depreciation expense (194) (35,447) (3,024) (805) (423) (39,893) Fair value at 34,279 3,054 7,678 1,788,261 36,254 4,412 6,987 240,549 2,121,474 30 June 2018 Accumulated depreciation at (832) (30,855) (2,027) (1,545) (35,259) 30 June 2018 Carrying amount at 34,279 3,054 6,846 1,788,261 5,399 2,385 5,442 240,549 2,086,215 30 June 2018 1 Balance represents a transfer to/from intangible assets. This occurs upon capitalisation of a project that generates both tangible and intangible assets. 76 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 5 Assets available to support the provision of services (continued) Specialised NonNonInfrastructure Plant & Motor Leasehold Works in Total land specialised specialised assets equipment vehicles improvements progress $’000 $’000 land buildings $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 2019 Fair value at 34,279 3,054 7,678 1,788,261 36,254 4,412 6,987 240,549 2,121,474 1 July 2018 Accumulated depreciation at (832) (30,855) (2,027) (1,545) (35,259) 1 July 2018 Carrying amount at 1 34,279 3,054 6,846 1,788,261 5,399 2,385 5,442 240,549 2,086,215 July 2018 Additions 159,878 159,878 Developer 47,252 (47,242) contributed assets Transfers (net) 1 1,366 104,806 1,137 1,349 (109,620) (962) Revaluation (decrement)/increment (1,734) (134) (9,787) (11,655) recognised in other comprehensive income Revaluation (decrement)/increment (67) (67) recognised in profit or loss Disposals (net) (80) (401) (481) Impairment (net) (37) (37) Depreciation expense (247) (37,853) (2,195) (796) (424) (41,515) Fair value at 32,545 2,853 9,044 1,892,599 28,893 4,671 6,987 243,518 2,230,297 30 June 2019 Accumulated depreciation at (1,079) (24,552) (2,134) (1,969) (38,921) 30 June 2019 Carrying amount at 32,545 2,853 7,965 1,892,599 4,341 2,537 5,018 243,518 2,191,376 30 June 2019 1 Balance represents a transfer to/from intangible assets. This occurs upon capitalisation of a project that generates both tangible and intangible assets. Financials City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 77 5 Assets available to support the provision of services (continued) Initial recognition Land and buildings All assets are measured at cost on initial recognition. An independent valuation of land and buildings is required Cost is determined as cash paid or the fair value of other every five years. Interim management valuations may consideration given up at the date of acquisition plus occur in between independent valuations if fair value any costs directly attributable to acquisition. Fair value at assessments indicate material changes in values. The last acquisition is equal to cost. independent valuation was undertaken by a Certified Practicing Valuer, Peter Molloy AAPI of Property Dynamics The cost of non-current assets constructed by City West Water Pty Ltd, on behalf of the Valuer-General Victoria (VGV) as includes all costs directly attributable to their construction. City at 30 June 2016. An interim management valuation of West Water has a policy of capitalising labour costs which are land was performed at 30 June 2017 using VGV indices. directly attributable to capital projects. In the case of developer The interim valuation led to an increment of $2.0m which contributed assets, where actual cost is not available, cost was recognised in the accounts at 30 June 2017. Another is calculated using a schedule of rates determined by the interim management valuation was performed on 30 June corporation based on historical cost information. 2018, which led to an increment of $3.3m recognised in An asset is capitalised when it is probable that future the accounts at 30 June 2018. A third interim valuation economic benefits associated with the item will flow to City was performed on 30 June 2019 which led to a $1.9m West Water and the item can be measured reliably. decrement recognised in the accounts as at 30 June 2019. City West Water has a capitalisation threshold of greater than The carrying amount (cost less accumulated depreciation) of or equal to $100 inclusive of GST (2018 $100). land and buildings exclusive of revaluations was $4.4m (2018 $4.4m) and $7.2m (2018 $6.0m) respectively. Subsequent measurement Infrastructure, property, plant and equipment are Infrastructure subsequently measured at fair value less accumulated The valuation of infrastructure assets has been determined depreciation and impairment losses (if applicable). Fair value in accordance with an independent valuation. KPMG was is determined with regard to an asset’s highest and best use engaged by City West Water as experts for this purpose. considering legal or physical restrictions imposed on the asset, The valuation is at fair value based on the income approach public announcements, or commitments made in relation to (discounted cash flow method). For the purpose of the the intended use of the asset. Fair value determination of nonfair value estimate provided, fair market value is defined as current physical assets is discussed further in Section 8 Risks the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to contingencies and valuation judgements. transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market The carrying amount of a replaced or abandoned asset is participants at the measurement date. written off in the Comprehensive Operating Statement as The carrying amount (cost less accumulated depreciation) of an expense. An asset’s carrying amount is written down infrastructure exclusive of revaluations was $1,714.2m immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying (2018 $1,596.9m). amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. Plant and equipment, motor vehicles Revaluation increases or decreases arise from differences and leasehold improvements between an asset’s carrying value and fair value. Plant and equipment, motor vehicles and leasehold Net revaluation increases are credited directly to equity in the improvements are measured at carrying value (current physical asset revaluation surplus unless the increase reverses replacement cost) which is fair value. Unless there is market a previous decrease that was recognised in profit or loss. In evidence that carrying value is significantly different to market this case, the increase is recognised in profit or loss. value no adjustment will be made to the existing carrying value. Net revaluation decreases are recognised immediately as expenses in profit or loss, unless there is an asset revaluation surplus. In this case the decrease is recognised against the physical asset revaluation surplus. There were no changes in valuation techniques throughout the year to 30 June 2019. 78 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 5 Assets available to support the provision of services (continued) 5.2 Depreciation of infrastructure, property, plant and equipment All infrastructure assets, buildings, plant and equipment and other non-current physical assets (excluding items under operating leases and assets held for sale) that have a limited useful life are depreciated. Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis at rates that allocate an asset’s value less any estimated residual value over its estimated useful life. The useful life and residual value of each group of assets is reviewed annually. Depreciation of a new infrastructure asset begins in the month following the practical completion of works. Depreciation of other new assets begins in the month following acquisition. Useful lives The estimated useful lives of infrastructure, property, plant and equipment are listed below. Asset type Range Buildings 5 90 years Infrastructure assets 3 100 years Plant and equipment 3 50 years Motor vehicles 5 years Leasehold improvements 7 20 years 5.3 Impairment of infrastructure, property, plant and equipment Infrastructure, property, plant and equipment are assessed annually for indicators of impairment. If there is an indication of impairment, the assets concerned are tested as to whether their carrying value exceeds their recoverable amount. Where an asset’s carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount the difference is written off by a charge to the Comprehensive Operating Statement, unless the write-down can be offset against an asset revaluation surplus amount applicable to that class of asset. Recoverable amounts for assets held primarily to generate net cash inflows are measured at the higher of the net present value of future cash flows expected to be obtained from the asset and fair value less costs to sell. It is deemed that, in the event of the loss of an asset, the future economic benefits arising from the use of the asset will be replaced unless a specific decision to the contrary has been made. A reversal of an impairment loss on a revalued asset is credited directly to equity unless an impairment loss on the same class of asset was previously recognised in the Comprehensive Operating Statement. In this case the reversal of that impairment loss is recognised in the Comprehensive Operating Statement. 5.4 Commitments for capital expenditure on infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Not later than one year 17,817 10,015 Later than one year but not later than five years 3,793 Total capital commitments 21,610 10,015 Financials Commitments for future expenditure include capital commitments arising from contracts. These commitments are not recognised in the Balance Sheet. They are disclosed at nominal value inclusive of GST payable. These future expenditures cease to be disclosed as commitments once the related liabilities are recognised in the Balance Sheet. City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 79 5 Assets available to support the provision of services (continued) 5.5 Intangible assets Software Water Other Works in Total $’000 entitlements intangible progress $’000 $’000 assets $’000 $’000 2018 Cost at 1 July 2017 96,004 96,916 32,799 225,719 Accumulated amortisation at 1 July 2017 (56,969) (56,969) Carrying amount at 1 July 2017 39,035 96,916 32,799 168,750 Additions 6,795 6,795 Transfers (net) 1 34,065 26 (34,080) 11 Impairment (net) (132) (132) Amortisation expense (10,982) (10,982) Cost at 30 June 2018 130,069 96,916 26 5,382 232,393 Accumulated amortisation at 30 June 2018 (67,951) (67,951) Carrying amount at 30 June 2018 62,118 96,916 26 5,382 164,442 2019 Cost at 1 July 2018 130,069 96,916 26 5,382 232,393 Accumulated amortisation at 1 July 2018 (67,951) (67,951) Carrying amount at 1 July 2018 62,118 96,916 26 5,382 164,442 Additions 12,740 12,740 Transfers (net) 1 6,818 (5,856) 962 Impairment (net) Amortisation expense (10,996) (10,996) Cost at 30 June 2019 119,045 96,916 26 12,266 246,095 Accumulated amortisation at 30 June 2019 (61,105) (78,947) Carrying amount at 30 June 2019 57,940 96,916 26 12,266 167,148 1 Balance represents a transfer to/from infrastructure, property, plant and equipment. This occurs upon capitalisation of a project that generates both tangible and intangible assets. Intangible assets are initially recognised at cost and subsequently at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses (if applicable). Intangible assets consist of software, water entitlement rights and other intangible assets. Software Software assets are initially recognised at cost and subsequently recognised at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses (if applicable). Water entitlements Water entitlements have an indefinite useful life as they are held in perpetuity. As such they are not amortised. Instead they are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that they might be impaired. Water entitlements represent City West Water’s bulk water entitlements held in Northern Victoria as a result of its investment in Stage 1 of the Goulburn-Murray Water Connections Project. The project was originally established in 2007 as the Northern Victoria Irrigation Renewal Project (NVIRP). On 1 July 2012 NVIRP was merged with Goulburn-Murray Water to form the Goulburn-Murray Water Connections Project. The metropolitan water retailers contributed $300m to the $1 billion Stage 1 investment. Stage 1 will generate long term average annual water savings of 225GL which will be shared equally between irrigators, the metropolitan water retailers and the environment. The carrying amount at balance date represents City West Water’s share of contributions, net of the share of contributions from four regional urban water corporations with access to Melbourne’s pooled entitlement. 80 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 5 Assets available to support the provision of services (continued) Other intangible assets Other intangible assets have an indefinite useful life as they are held in perpetuity. As such they are not amortised. Instead they are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that they might be impaired. 5.6 Amortisation of intangible assets All intangible assets with a useful life are amortised. Amortisation is generally calculated on a straight line basis at rates that allocate an asset’s value less any estimated residual value over its estimated useful life. The useful life and residual value of each group of assets is reviewed annually. Amortisation of new software and other intangible assets begins in the month following commissioning. Useful lives The estimated useful lives of intangible assets are listed below. Asset type Range Software 3 10 years Water entitlements Indefinite Other intangible assets Indefinite 5.7 Impairment of intangible assets Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested annually for indicators of impairment. If there is an indication of impairment, the assets concerned are tested as to whether their carrying value exceeds their recoverable amount. Where an asset’s carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount the difference is written off by a charge to the Comprehensive Operating Statement, unless the write-down can be offset against an asset revaluation surplus amount applicable to that class of asset. The recoverable amount for most intangible assets is measured as the higher of current replacement cost and fair value less costs to sell. Recoverable amounts for assets held primarily to generate net cash inflows are measured at the higher of the present value of future cash flows expected to be obtained from the asset and fair value less costs to sell. It is deemed that in the event of the loss of an asset, the future economic benefits arising from the use of the asset will be replaced unless a specific decision to the contrary has been made. A reversal of an impairment loss on a revalued intangible asset is credited directly to equity, unless an impairment loss on the same class of asset was previously recognised in the Comprehensive Operating Statement. In this case a reversal of that impairment loss is also recognised in the Comprehensive Operating Statement. 5.8 Commitments for capital expenditure on intangible assets 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Not later than one year 682 1,124 Later than one year but not later than five years 76 Total capital commitments 682 1,200 Financials Commitments for future capital expenditure on intangible assets include capital commitments arising from contracts. These commitments are not recognised in the Balance Sheet. They are disclosed at nominal value inclusive of GST payable. These future expenditures cease to be disclosed as commitments once the related liabilities are recognised in the Balance Sheet. City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 81 6 Other assets and liabilities This section sets out the assets and liabilities that arose from City West Water’s operations Structure 6.1 Receivables 6.2 Payables 6.3 Advances and deposits 6.4 Contract liabilities 6.5 Inventory 6.6 Other non-financial assets 6.7 Other provisions 6.1 Receivables 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Contractual Contract assets 45,679 53,420 Trade receivables 55,822 51,650 Less: Expected credit loss allowance (3,486) (2,736) Total contractual receivables 98,015 102,334 Statutory Trade receivables 2,477 5,538 Total statutory receivables 2,477 5,538 Total receivables 100,492 107,872 Represented by Current receivables 100,492 107,872 Contractual receivables are classified as financial instruments. They are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost less provision for impairment. Contract assets are recognised for water and sewage usage as well as other works and services where performance obligations have been satisfied but not yet invoiced. An accrual is done to account for water and sewerage services not billed at the end of the period. The accrual of water usage charges and sewage disposal charges is made by using the volume of water City West Water purchases from Melbourne Water. Trade receivables are due for settlement no later than 21 days from the date of recognition. Trade receivables consist of receivables for the provision of water, sewerage and trade waste services to residential and non-residential customers as well as billing and collection fees associated with these receivables. Statutory receivables are not classified as financial instruments as they do not arise from contracts. Statutory receivables are recognised and measured similarly to contractual receivables, except for impairment. Statutory trade receivables are GST receivables. 82 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 6 Other assets and liabilities (continued) 6.1.1 Movements in the expected credit loss allowance 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Opening balance at the start of the year (2,736) (3,260) Remeasurement of opening balance on adoption of new accounting standards refer Note 1.3 (410) Provision for expected credit loss recognised during the year (3,072) (2,519) Contractual receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 2,731 3,073 Closing balance at the end of the year (3,486) (2,736) City West Water applies the AASB 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses a lifetime expected loss allowance for contractual receivables. To measure expected credit losses, contract receivables have been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and days past due. The expected loss rates are based on the payment profiles of sales over a period of three years prior to 30 June 2019 (three years to 1 July 2018). The historical loss rates are adjusted to reflect current and forward-looking information on factors affecting the ability of customers to settle receivables. Receivables are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. Indicators of non-recovery include, amongst others, the failure of a debtor to engage in a repayment plan and failure to make contractual payments for a period of greater than 90 days past due. 6.1.2 Loss allowance for contractual trade receivables Current 30-59 days 60-89 days Greater Not Total $’000 $’000 $’000 than 90 days impaired $’000 $’000 $’000 1 July 2018 Expected loss rate 0.5% 4.7% 19.5% 38.2% Gross carrying amount 35,688 5,436 1,455 6,370 2,701 51,650 Loss allowance (171) (257) (284) (2,434) (3,146) Net carrying amount 35,517 5,179 1,171 3,936 2,701 48,504 30 June 2019 Expected loss rate 0.5% 2.8% 14.8% 36.9% Gross carrying amount 38,383 5,086 2,316 7,286 2,751 55,822 Loss allowance (181) (140) (343) (2,822) (3,486) Net carrying amount 38,202 4,946 1,973 4,464 2,751 52,336 The following table reconciles the prior period’s closing impairment measured under the incurred loss model in accordance with AASB 139 to the new impairment allowance in accordance with the AASB 9 expected loss model at 1 July 2018. Loss ReLoss allowance measurement allowance under AASB 139 under AASB 9 Measurement category Contractual trade receivables (2,736) (410) (3,146) Financials Total (2,736) (410) (3,146) City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 83 6 Other assets and liabilities (continued) 6.2 Payables 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Contractual Trade payables 52,919 46,600 Other payables 17,455 17,755 Deferred developer reimbursements 20,711 19,425 Sundry liabilities 270 361 Total contractual payables 91,355 84,141 Statutory Trade payables 312 2,471 Other payables 4,572 4,120 Total statutory payables 4,885 6,591 Total payables 96,240 90,732 Represented by Current payables 96,240 90,732 Contractual payables are classified as financial instruments. They are measured at amortised cost and recognised on an accrual basis in the period in which they are incurred. Trade payables represent liabilities for goods and services provided to City West Water prior to the end of the financial year that are unpaid at the end of the financial year. Other payables represent accrued loan interest. Statutory payables are recognised and measured similarly to contractual payables, but are not classified as financial instruments and are not included in the category of financial liabilities as they do not arise from contracts. Deferred developer reimbursements represent a liability to reimburse developers for their costs incurred in constructing water, sewerage and/or recycled water assets on behalf of City West Water. It is City West Water's policy to settle all payables within 30 days of receipt of invoice or, in the event of a dispute, within 30 days of the resolution of the dispute. 6.2.1 Maturity analysis of contractual payables Carrying Nominal 1 Year Over 1 Total amount Amount or less Year $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 2018 Payables 84,141 84,141 84,141 84,141 Total contractual payables 84,141 84,141 84,141 84,141 2019 Payables 91,355 91,355 91,355 91,355 Total contractual payables 91,355 91,355 91,355 91,355 84 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 6 Other assets and liabilities (continued) 6.3 Advances and deposits 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Advances and deposits 7,172 6,135 Total advances and deposits 7,172 6,135 Advances and deposits represent deposits received as security for capital works. 6.4 Contract liabilities 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Contract liabilities 29,889 1,348 Total contract liabilities 29,889 1,348 Contract liabilities represents income received in advance of the corporation performing obligations required to recognise the income in the Comprehensive Operating Statement. The balance of contract liabilities has been impacted in 2019 by the first-time application of AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. City West Water has performance obligations relating to developer revenue from contracts with customers that are recognised either at a point in time or over time. Refer to Note 2.3 for details of these performance obligations. 6.5 Inventory 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Inventory (at cost) 2,474 1,698 Total inventory 2,474 1,698 Inventory represents stock on hand at the end of the reporting period. Inventory is primarily used for the repair and maintenance of existing assets. Inventory is measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Financials City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 85 6 Other assets and liabilities (continued) 6.6 Other non-financial assets 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Prepayments 4,410 4,571 Income tax refundable 2,821 Total other non-financial assets 7,231 4,571 Prepayments represent payments made in advance of the receipt of goods or services or that part of expenditure made in one accounting period covering a term extending beyond that period. Amounts are recognised as an asset upon payment and subsequently expensed over the period the payment covers. 6.7 Other provisions 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Current Insurance provision 509 558 Biosolids management and desludging of Altona Treatment Plant lagoon 126 Other sundry provisions 876 985 Total other provisions current 1,385 1,669 Reconciliation of movements in other provisions Insurance Biosolids/ Other Total $’000 desludge $’000 $’000 $’000 Carrying amount as at 1 July 2018 558 126 985 1,669 Additional provisions recognised 784 (126) 826 1,484 Payments/other sacrifices of economic benefit (833) (935) (1,768) Carrying amount as at 30 June 2019 509 876 1,385 Other provisions are recognised when the corporation has a present obligation, the future sacrifice of economic benefits is probable and the amount of the provision can be measured reliably. The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at reporting date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. When a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows, using a discount rate that reflects the time value of money and the risks specific to the provision. When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be received from a third party, a receivable is recognised if it is virtually certain that the economic benefits will be received and their amount can be measured reliably. 86 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 7 Financing our operations This section provides information on the sources of finance used by City West Water during its operations as well as interest expense (the cost of borrowings) and other information relating to the financing activities of the corporation. Structure 7.1 Borrowings 7.2 Cash flow information and balances 7.1 Borrowings 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Treasury Corporation of Victoria current 19,900 22,700 Treasury Corporation of Victoria non-current 1,230,000 1,157,500 Total borrowings 1,249,900 1,180,200 Borrowings refers to interest bearing liabilities raised from public borrowings through the Treasury Corporation of Victoria Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred and subsequently measured at amortised cost. Borrowings include overnight (11am) borrowings, floating rate notes, fixed rate loans and flexi loans. Borrowings are used to meet working capital requirements and fund capital expenditure. Any difference between the initial amount recognised (net of transaction costs) and the redemption amount is recognised in the Comprehensive Operating Statement over the period of the interest bearing liabilities using the effective interest method. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the corporation has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after balance date. City West Water has classified borrowings which mature within 12 months as non-current liabilities on the basis that the corporation has discretion to, and will refinance or roll over these loans with the Treasury Corporation of Victoria pursuant to section 8 of the Borrowings and Investment Powers Act 1987. 11am borrowings are classified as current borrowings. No security has been provided in respect of any existing liability. During the current and prior years there were no defaults or breaches of any loan. City West Water’s credit rating is BBB. (2018 BBB). 7.1.1 Maturity analysis of borrowings Weighted Carrying Nominal 1 year Over Total average amount amount or less 1 year $’000 interest rate1 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 2018 Borrowings fixed 4.13% 1,117,500 1,117,500 1,117,500 1,117,500 Borrowings floating 1.95% 62,700 62,700 22,700 40,000 62,700 Total borrowings 1,180,200 1,180,200 22,700 1,157,500 1,180,200 Financials 2019 Borrowings fixed 3.88% 1,210,000 1,210,000 1,210,000 1,210,000 Borrowings floating 1.32% 39,900 39,900 19,900 20,000 39,900 Total borrowings 1,249,900 1,249,900 19,900 1,230,000 1,249,900 1 Exclusive of financial accommodation levy. City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 87 7 Financing our operations (continued) 7.1.2 Finance expenses 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Finance expenses Interest on borrowings 49,097 49,007 Financial accommodation levy 17,307 15,925 Bank charges 14 7 Total finance expenses 66,418 64,939 Finance expenses include costs incurred in connection with the borrowing of funds. Finance expenses include interest on bank overdrafts, and short and long-term borrowings. Finance expenses are recognised in the period in which they are incurred. 7.2 Cash flow information and balances 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Cash and cash equivalents Cash at bank/(bank overdraft) 1,327 746 Total cash and cash equivalents 1,327 746 Cash and deposits, including cash equivalents, comprise cash on hand and cash at bank, deposits at call and highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less. They are held for the purpose of meeting short term cash commitments, are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. For cash flow statement presentation purposes, cash and cash equivalents includes bank overdrafts, which are included as current borrowings on the Balance Sheet. 88 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 7 Financing our operations (continued) 7.2.1 Reconciliation of profit after income tax to net cash inflow from operating activities 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Profit after income tax expense 63,099 79,042 Non-cash movements: Depreciation and amortisation of assets 52,511 50,875 Impaired receivables 3,482 2,519 Defined benefit superannuation fund expense 617 811 Asset impairments 104 910 Asset revaluation increment (94) Net (gain)/loss on disposal of non-current physical assets (122) (121) Developer contributed assets (47,315) (48,137) Movements in assets and liabilities: Decrease/(increase) in receivables 3,899 (68) Decrease/(increase) in prepayments 161 (2,987) Decrease/(increase) in inventories (776) (555) Decrease/(increase) in deferred tax assets due to change in accounting standards 3,427 Increase/(decrease) in payables 6,757 19,205 Increase/(decrease) in advances and deposits 1,037 166 Increase/(decrease) in contract liabilities 28,541 759 Increase/(decrease) in contract liabilities due to change in accounting standards (11,425) Increase/(decrease) in current tax liability (13,250) (5,080) Increase/(decrease) in provision for employee benefits 895 (524) Increase/(decrease) in other provisions (284) 33 Increase/(decrease) in deferred tax liabilities (3,248) (4,725) Net cash inflow from operating activities 88,110 92,029 Financials City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 89 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements City West Water is exposed to risk from its activities and outside factors. In addition, it is often necessary to make judgements and estimates associated with recognition and measurement of items in the financial statements. Structure 8.1 Financial instruments specific disclosures 8.2 Contingent assets and contingent liabilities 8.3 Fair value determination 8.1 Financial instruments specific disclosures Introduction Financial instruments arise out of contractual agreements that give rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity. Due to the nature of City West Water’s activities, certain financial assets and financial liabilities arise under statute rather than a contract (for example, taxes, dividends and the Environmental Contribution). Such assets and liabilities do not meet the definition of financial instruments in AASB 132 Financial Instruments: Presentation. Categories of financial instruments Receivables and cash are financial instrument assets with fixed and determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market. These assets are initially recognised at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial measurement, receivables are measured at amortised cost less provision for impairment. Financial liabilities are initially recognised on the date of origin. They are initially measured at fair value plus any attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost, with any difference between the initial recognised amount and the redemption value being recognised in profit and loss over the period of the interest bearing liability using the effective interest rate method. City West Water recognises the following liabilities in this category: • payables (excluding statutory payables) • borrowings. Financial instrument assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is presented in the balance sheet when the corporation has a right to offset the amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired. A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires. At the end of each reporting period, the corporation assesses whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of assets is impaired. All financial instrument assets are subject to annual review for impairment. In assessing impairment of statutory (non-contractual) financial assets, which are not financial instruments, professional judgement is applied in assessing materiality using estimates, averages and other methods in accordance with AASB 136 Impairment of Assets. 90 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) 8.1.1 Categorisation of financial instruments Note Contractual financial Contractual financial assets loans and liabilities at amortised cost receivables $’000 $’000 2018 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 746 Receivables 1 6.1 102,334 Total financial assets 103,080 Financial liabilities Payables 1 6.2 84,141 Borrowings fixed 7.1.1 1,117,500 Borrowings floating 7.1.1 62,700 Total financial liabilities 1,264,341 2019 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 1,327 Receivables 1 6.1 98,015 Total financial assets 99,342 Financial liabilities Payables 1 6.2 91,355 Borrowings fixed 7.1.1 1,210,000 Borrowings floating 7.1.1 39,900 Total financial liabilities 1,341,255 ¹ Does not include statutory receivables or payables. Financials City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 91 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) 8.1.2 Financial risk management objectives City West Water aims to maintain its gearing ratio within the and policies Essential Services Commission’s benchmark ratio of 60 per cent. City West Water’s gearing ratio (debt/total assets) for the City West Water’s activities expose it to a variety of financial year was 50.5 per cent compared to 49.8 per cent in 2018. risks, principally market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the The corporation’s debt to regulatory asset base (RAB) target establishment and oversight of City West Water’s risk is 69.0 per cent. The target was achieved in 2019 with a management framework. City West Water’s principal financial debt to RAB of 66.4 per cent. instruments comprise: City West Water has an interest coverage target (measured • cash assets as net cash flow from operations less net interest expense/ net interest expense) of 1.1 times. This target was achieved in • receivables (excluding statutory receivables) 2019 with interest coverage of 1.5 times. • payables (excluding statutory payables) The only externally imposed capital requirements applying to • borrowings. City West Water are: City West Water’s principal financial instruments are loans • that the financial accommodation does not exceed the sourced from the Treasury Corporation of Victoria. These approval limits set by the Treasurer of Victoria pursuant to loans include overnight (11am) borrowings, floating rate the Borrowing and Investment Powers Act 1987 notes and fixed rate loans. They are primarily used to meet • that City West Water, with the exception of a trading working capital requirements and fund capital expenditure. account with overdraft facilities, is required to borrow The corporation has other financial assets and liabilities such as exclusively with the Treasury Corporation of Victoria receivables and payables which arise directly from its operating pursuant to the Borrowing and Investment Powers Act 1987. activities. City West Water’s overall financial risk management strategy is to manage its financial risks within a range that is in 8.1.2.1 Financial instruments credit risk accordance with the risk criteria established by the Board of Directors. The Chief Financial Officer evaluates and implements Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to City West Water as the risk mitigation strategies in consultation with the corporation’s result of a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument relevant departments. The main purpose in holding financial failing to meet a contractual obligation. Credit risk arises instruments is to prudently manage the corporation’s financial principally in connection with City West Water’s receivables. risks within Government policy parameters. City West Water’s exposure to credit risk is influenced by the City West Water uses different methods to measure individual characteristics of each customer. The corporation’s different types of risk to which it is exposed. These methods receivables balance consists of amounts due from a large include sensitivity analysis in the case of interest rate risk number of residential customers as well as non-residential and ageing analysis for credit risk. All interest income customers spread across a diverse range of industries. earned by City West Water is generated by cash deposits Receivables balances are monitored on an ongoing basis. Where with Department of Treasury and Finance's Central Banking applicable, collection action is taken to ensure that exposure to System or 11am (short term) deposit with the Treasury bad debt is minimised. City West Water has in place a policy and Corporation of Victoria. a procedure for the collection of overdue receivables. City West Water manages its capital by maintaining a prudent City West Water’s maximum exposure to credit risk is the level of gearing in order to provide the State with adequate carrying amount of receivables. returns and to ensure City West Water can fund its operations There was no material change to City West Water’s credit risk as a going concern. profile during 2019. 92 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) 8.1.2.2 Financial instruments liquidity risk 8.1.2.3 Financial instruments market risk Liquidity risk is the risk that City West Water will no longer Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices will affect meet its financial obligations as they fall due. City West Water’s the fair value of future cash flows of City West Water’s financial policy is to pay its trade accounts payable liablilities within 30 instruments. Market risk is comprised of interest rate risk, days, or in the event of a dispute, within 30 days from the date foreign exchange risk and other price risk. City West Water’s of resolution. exposure to market risk is purely through interest rates. City West Water manages liquidity risk by maintaining City West Water’s exposure to market interest rates relates adequate bank overdraft and Treasury Corporation of Victoria to its floating rate debt, roll over of fixed rate debt and new borrowing facilities, continuous monitoring of forecast inflows borrowings. City West Water’s borrowings are sourced from and outflows and matching the maturity profile of financial the Treasury Corporation of Victoria and are managed within assets and financial liabilities where appropriate. the range of Board and Treasurer approved limits. Interest rates and borrowing requirements are monitored regularly. City West Water’s borrowings are sourced from the Treasury City West Water manages its exposure to interest rate changes Corporation of Victoria while surplus funds are invested in the by holding a mixture of fixed and floating rate debt. City Central Banking System. West Water’s Treasury Risk Management Policy requires the The carrying amounts of contractual financial liabilities corporation to limit the proportion of floating rate debt to a represent the corporation’s maximum exposure to liquidity risk. maximum of 30 per cent of total debt. City West Water has The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities must minimal exposure to interest rate risk through cash holdings be estimated for recognition and measurement and for and manages its interest rate exposure on cash by investing disclosure purposes. its surplus funds with the Central Banking System. The carrying values less any impairment provisions of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair value due to their short term nature. The fair values of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes are estimated by discounting future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to City West Water for similar financial instruments. Financials City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 93 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) Interest rate exposure and maturity analysis of financial instruments The carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities that are exposed to interest rates and the corporation’s sensitivity to interest rate risk is set out in the table below. Note Weighted 1 Year Over 1 NonTotal average or less year interest $’000 interest rate $’000 $’000 bearing $’000 2018 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 1.04% 746 746 Receivables 1 6.1 102,334 102,334 Total financial assets 746 102,334 103,080 Financial liabilities Payables 1 6.2 84,141 84,141 Borrowings fixed 7.1.1 4.13% 1,117,500 1,117,500 Borrowings floating 7.1.1 1.95% 22,700 40,000 62,700 Total financial liabilities 22,700 1,157,500 84,141 1,264,341 2019 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 1.64% 1,327 1,327 Receivables 1 6.1 98,015 98,015 Total financial assets 1,327 98,015 99,342 Financial liabilities Payables 1 6.2 91,355 91,355 Borrowings fixed 7.1.1 3.88% 1,210,000 1,210,000 Borrowings floating 7.1.1 1.32% 19,900 20,000 39,900 Total financial liabilities 19,900 1,230,000 91,355 1,341,255 1 Does not include statutory receivables or payables. 94 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) Interest rate risk sensitivity The table below represents the sensitivity of City West Water’s financial assets and financial liabilities to interest rate risk. Interest rate risk -0.5% +0.5% Note Total Profit Equity Profit Equity $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 2018 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 1 7.2 746 (17) (17) 17 17 Receivables 2 6.1 102,334 Total financial assets 103,080 (17) (17) 17 17 Financial liabilities Payables 2 6.2 84,141 Borrowings 3 7.1 1,180,200 920 920 (920) (920) Total financial liabilities 1,264,341 920 920 (920) (920) Total increase/(decrease) 903 903 (903) (903) 2019 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 1 7.2 1,327 (5) (5) 5 5 Receivables 2 6.1 98,015 Total financial assets 99,342 (5) (5) 5 5 Financial liabilities Payables 2 6.2 91,355 Borrowings 3 7.1 1,249,900 1,032 1,032 (1,032) (1,032) Total financial liabilities 1,341,255 1,032 1,032 (1,032) (1,032) Total increase/(decrease) 1,026 1,026 (1,026) (1,026) 1 Calculation is based on average cash holdings of $1.0m (2018 $3.3m). 2 Does not include statutory receivables and payables. 3 Calculation is based on new borrowings, loans refinanced, forward rate agreements struck during the year and average 11am balance during the year. Financials City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 95 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) 8.2 Contingent assets and contingent liabilities Contingent assets and liabilities are not recognised in the Balance Sheet but are disclosed and, if quantifiable, are measured at nominal value. Contingent assets and liabilities are presented inclusive of GST receivable or payable respectively where applicable. Contingent assets are assets that arise from past events, whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain future event(s) that are not within the control of the corporation. These are classified as either quantifiable where the potential economic benefit is known or non-quantifiable. Contingent liabilities are: • possible obligations that arise from past events, whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or nonoccurrence of uncertain future event(s) that are not within the control of the corporation, or • present obligations that arise from past events but are not recognised because: it is not probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligations, or the amount of the obligations cannot be measured with sufficient reliability. Quantifiable contingent assets In the ordinary course of business a developer will often provide a commitment to City West Water to construct water supply and sewerage assets as part of a development project. These assets are constructed within an agreed timeframe and upon completion, ownership is transferred to City West Water. Assets that service a particular development are paid for by the developer. Assets that are required to be upsized to service adjoining developments are paid for by City West Water. Upon completion of these assets they will be transferred to City West Water, which will maintain them in perpetuity. These assets will be recognised as developer contributions upon completion (refer Note 2.3). 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Quantifiable contingent assets Water supply assets under construction 36,856 25,108 Sewerage assets under construction 27,885 29,102 Water supply assets committed to 64,397 34,094 Sewerage assets committed to 40,931 46,689 Total quantifiable contingent assets 170,069 134,993 Quantifiable contingent liabilities Contingent upon the completion of the above assets City West Water has a liability to reimburse developers for additional works constructed at City West Water’s request. These reimbursements will occur either immediately on completion of the assets or be deferred for an agreed period in accordance with the conditions of the agreement between City West Water and the developer. These reimbursements will be recovered through a combination of new customer contributions plus service and usage charges from all customers. This is consistent with the Essential Services Commission’s final determination for water and sewerage prices in June 2018 (for the 2019 reporting period). 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Quantifiable contingent liabilities Reimbursement for water supply assets 25,862 21,089 Reimbursement for sewerage assets 64,720 47,998 Total quantifiable contingent liabilities 90,582 69,087 96 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) Non-quantifiable contingent assets and liabilities City West Water determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing City West Water has legal claims pending arising out of a categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is small number of disputes associated with its capital program significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the and delivery of services. Due to the uncertainty inherent end of each reporting period. in litigation an accurate assessment of any outcome is not possible. City West Water is of the view that further disclosure 8.3.1 Fair value determination of financial assets of these disputes may prejudice the position of and liabilities the corporation. The fair values of financial liabilities are determined as follows: 8.3 Fair value determination • Level 1 fair value of a financial instrument with standard terms and conditions and traded in active liquid markets are Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset determined with reference to quoted market prices or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between • Level 2 fair value is determined using inputs other than market participants at the measurement date. quoted prices that are observable for the financial asset or The following assets and liabilities are carried at fair value: liability, either directly or indirectly • land, buildings, infrastructure, property plant and equipment • Level 3 fair value is determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted • defined benefit superannuation liability/(asset). cash flow analysis using unobservable market inputs. In addition, the fair values of other assets and liabilities which are carred at amortised cost need to be determined for disclosure purposes. Fair value hierarchy In determining fair value a number of inputs are used. To increase consistency and comparability in the financial statements, these inputs are categorised into three levels, also known as the fair value hierarchy. These levels are as follows: • Level 1 quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities • Level 2 valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable • Level 3 valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable. Financials City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 97 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) Fair value of financial instruments measured at amortised cost and fair value hierarchy measurements Note Carrying Fair Fair value measurement using amount value Level 1 3 Level 2 4 Level 3 5 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 2018 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 746 746 746 Receivables 1 6.1 102,334 102,334 102,334 Total financial assets 103,080 103,080 746 102,334 Financial liabilities Payables 1 6.2 84,141 84,141 84,141 Borrowings 2 7.1 1,180,200 1,256,849 1,256,849 Total financial liabilities 1,264,341 1,340,990 1,340,990 2019 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 1,327 1,327 1,327 Receivables 1 6.1 98,015 98,015 98,015 Total financial assets 99,342 99,342 1,327 98,015 Financial liabilities Payables 1 6.2 91,355 91,355 91,355 Borrowings 2 7.1 1,249,900 1,383,481 1,383,481 Total financial liabilities 1,341,255 1,474,836 1,474,836 1 Does not include statutory receivables or payables. 2 Fair value of borrowings is calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at the yield offered by the Treasury Corporation of Victoria as at 30 June each year. 3 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets. 4 Inputs based on observable market data (either directly using prices or indirectly derived from prices). 5 Inputs not based on observable market data. Net fair value of financial instruments is determined on the following bases: • cash, receivables, accounts payable and deposits are valued at their carrying amounts as this is considered to be fair value • borrowings are valued by discounting the expected future cash flows at the yield offered by the Treasury Corporation of Victoria as at 30 June each year. There were no transfers between levels during the reporting period. 98 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) 8.3.2 Fair value determination of non-financial Infrastructure assets are measured using the income physical assets approach (discounted cash flow method).This method calculates fair value by discounting estimated future cash Subsequent valuation of infrastructure, property, plant and flows of the business to their present value and arriving equipment is at fair value. An asset’s fair value is determined at an enterprise value range. Net debt is deducted from with regard to the property’s highest and best use after the enterprise value range to obtain an equity value. The due consideration is made for any legal or constructive valuation of infrastructure assets is derived from the equity restrictions imposed on the asset, public announcements, or value after deducting all other assets and liabilities and commitments made in relation to the intended use of the grossing up for deferred tax of 30 per cent. In order to assess asset. When an event or change in circumstances causes a the reasonableness of the enterprise valuation, cross checks transfer between input levels, City West Water deems the are performed by comparing the earnings before interest, transfer to occur at the end of the reporting period in which tax and depreciation and the regulated asset value multiples the event takes place. under the income approach against multiples implied by Non-specialised land is valued using the market based direct share prices for comparable trading organisations and recent comparison method. Under this valuation method, assets are transactions in comparable assets. Any goodwill generated compared to comparable sales of comparable assets. As nonby this approach is negligible and has no bearing on the specialised land does not contain significant unobservable valuation of infrastructure assets. Such an approach is often inputs these assets are classified as Level 2 fair value assets. referred to as a market approach or a relative value approach. Specialised land is also valued using the direct comparison Judgement is applied in selecting the appropriate valuation method, although it is adjusted for community service within the enterprise value range. obligations (CSOs) to reflect the specialised nature of the The assumptions adopted in calculating fair value in this land being valued. The CSO adjustment is a reflection of the manner are considered to be significant unobservable inputs. valuer’s assessment of the impact of restrictions associated As such, infrastructure is classified as a Level 3 fair value asset. with an asset to the extent that is also equally applicable to Refer to Section 5 for further information on non-financial market participants. This approach uses the highest and best physical assets. use consideration and takes into account the use of the asset that is physically possible, legally permissible and financially A full valuation of City West Water’s infrastructure assets was viable. As adjustments for CSOs are significant unobservable performed by KPMG as at 30 June 2019. The valuation process inputs, specialised land is classified as a Level 3 fair value asset. derived a range of values. The valuation adopted by City West Water represents the mid-point of this range. All buildings held by City West Water are non-specialised in nature and classified as Level 2 fair value assets under the The rate used to discount free cash flows to their present market based direct comparison approach. value is based on assumptions that market participants would reasonably be expected to use in determining the fair value of the corporation after taking into account the market cost of debt and equity. The 2019 valuation resulted in a decrement of $9.8m compared to a decrement of $19.5m in 2018. Financials City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 99 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) Fair value of non-financial physical assets Carrying Fair value measurement using: amount Level 1 1 Level 2 2 Level 3 3 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 2018 Freehold land at fair value 37,333 Non-specialised land 3,054 Specialised land 34,279 Non-specialised buildings at fair value 6,846 6,846 Infrastructure assets at fair value 1,788,261 1,788,261 Plant and equipment at fair value 5,399 5,399 Motor vehicles at fair value 2,385 2,385 Leasehold improvements at fair value 5,442 5,442 Total infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 1,845,666 9,900 1,835,776 2019 Freehold land at fair value 35,398 Non-specialised land 2,853 Specialised land 32,545 Non-specialised buildings at fair value 7,965 7,965 Infrastructure assets at fair value 1,892,599 1,892,599 Plant and equipment at fair value 4,341 4,341 Motor vehicles at fair value 2,537 2,537 Leasehold improvements at fair value 5,018 5,018 Total infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 1,947,858 10,818 1,937,040 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets. 2 Inputs based on observable market data (either directly using prices or indirectly derived from prices). 3 Inputs not based on observable market data. 100 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value movements Specialised Infrastructure Plant and Motor Leasehold land assets equipment vehicles improvements $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 2018 Opening balance at 1 July 2017 31,317 1,749,032 8,040 2,531 5,845 Purchases (sales) (276) Transfers into/(out of) of Level 3 Developer contributed assets 48,142 Transfers from work in progress (187) 46,795 383 935 20 Gains or losses recognised in profit after income tax Depreciation (35,447) (3,024) (805) (423) Impairment (748) Revaluation increment/(decrement) 94 Subtotal 94 (36,195) (3,024) (805) (423) Gains or losses recognised in other comprehensive income Revaluation increment/(decrement) 3,055 (19,513) Subtotal 3,055 (19,513) Closing balance at 30 June 2018 34,279 1,788,261 5,399 2,385 5,442 2019 Opening balance at 1 July 2018 34,279 1,788,261 5,399 2,385 5,442 Purchases (sales) (80) (401) Transfers into/(out of) Level 3 Developer contributed assets 47,252 Transfers from work in progress 104,806 1,137 1,349 Gains or losses recognised in profit after income tax Depreciation (37,853) (2,195) (796) (424) Impairment Revaluation increment/(decrement) Subtotal (37,853) (2,195) (796) (424) Gains or losses recognised in other comprehensive income Revaluation increment/(decrement) (1,734) (9,787) Subtotal (1,734) (9,787) Closing balance at 30 June 2019 32,545 1,892,599 4,341 2,537 5,018 Financials City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 101 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) Description of significant unobservable inputs to Level 3 valuations 2018 Significant Range Valuation Asset unobservable (Weighted Sensitivity of the input to fair value technique input Average) Specialised Market Community 9% 40% A significant increase or decrease in a CSO land approach Service Obligation (27%) adjustment would result in a significantly (CSO) adjustment lower or higher fair value. An increase or decrease of 0.25% in the Discount rate 5.2% 5.8% estimated discount rate would result in an (WACC) (5.5%) increase of $377m or a decrease of $202m to the valuation. An increase or decrease of 0.25% in the Terminal growth 3.25% terminal growth rate would result in an rate (3.25%) increase of $246m or a decrease of $200m to the valuation. Income Infrastructure approach 1.9% A significant increase or decrease in the assets (discounted cash Inflation rate (1.9%) inflation rate would result in a significantly flow method) higher or lower fair value. $83.768m A significant increase or decrease in the Terminal value terminal value of capital expenditure would capital expenditure $102.384m ($93.076m) result in a significantly higher or lower fair value. 3 100 years A significant increase or decrease in the Useful life (74.2 years) estimated useful life of an asset would result in a significantly higher or lower fair value. $1,000 $469,000 A significant increase or decrease in cost per Cost per unit ($16,000) unit would result in a significantly higher or Plant and Current lower fair value equipment replacement cost 3 50 years A significant increase or decrease in the Useful life (13.8 years) estimated useful life of an asset would result in a significantly higher or lower fair value. $21,000 $49,000 A significant increase or decrease in cost per Cost per unit ($37,000) unit would result in a significantly higher or Current lower fair value. Motor vehicles replacement cost 5 years A significant increase or decrease in the Useful life (5 years) estimated useful life of an asset would result in a significantly higher or lower fair value. $1,674 $724,000 A significant increase or decrease in cost per Cost per unit ($159,000) unit would result in a significantly higher or Leasehold Current lower fair value. improvements replacement cost 7 – 20 years A significant increase or decrease in the Useful life (15.3 years) estimated useful life of an asset would result in a significantly higher or lower fair value. 102 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) 2019 Significant Range Valuation Asset unobservable (Weighted Sensitivity of the input to fair value technique input Average) Specialised Market Community 9% 40% A significant increase or decrease in a CSO land approach Service Obligation (27%) adjustment would result in a significantly lower (CSO) adjustment or higher fair value. An increase or decrease of 0.25% in the Discount rate 5.2% 5.8% estimated discount rate would result in an (WACC) (5.5%) increase of $264m or a decrease of $316m to the valuation. An increase or decrease of 0.25% in the Terminal growth 3.25% terminal growth rate would result in an increase rate (3.25%) of $272m or a decrease of $217m to the valuation. Income Infrastructure approach 2.3% A significant increase or decrease in the assets (discounted cash Inflation rate inflation rate would result in a significantly flow method) (2.3%) higher or lower fair value. $92.067m A significant increase or decrease in the Terminal value $112.527m terminal value of capital expenditure would capital expenditure result in a significantly higher or lower fair value. ($102.297m) 3 100 years A significant increase or decrease in the Useful life estimated useful life of an asset would result in (74.7 years) a significantly higher or lower fair value. $1,000 $469,000 A significant increase or decrease in cost per Cost per unit unit would result in a significantly higher or Plant and Current ($16,000) lower fair value equipment replacement cost 3 50 years A significant increase or decrease in the Useful life estimated useful life of an asset would result in (13.9 years) a significantly higher or lower fair value. $21,000 $49,000 A significant increase or decrease in cost per Cost per unit unit would result in a significantly higher or Current ($35,000) lower fair value. Motor vehicles replacement cost 5 years A significant increase or decrease in the Useful life estimated useful life of an asset would result in (5 years) a significantly higher or lower fair value. $1,674 $724,000 A significant increase or decrease in cost per Cost per unit unit would result in a significantly higher or Leasehold Current ($114,000) lower fair value. improvements replacement cost 7 – 20 years A significant increase or decrease in the Useful life estimated useful life of an asset would result in (15.3 years) a significantly higher or lower fair value. A significant movement is considered to be a movement of sufficient magnitude as to have a material impact on the financial statements. A material impact is defined by AASB 101 Presentation of Financial Statements as a movement that could individually or collectively with other movements influence the economic decisions that users make on the basis of the financial statements. The sensitivity of the fair value of infrastructure assets to a change in key assumptions is detailed in the table below. Assumption 2019 2018 Terminal year growth rate +/0.50% -20.9% 32.8% -22.3% 35.1% Terminal year growth rate +/0.25% -11.5% 14.4% -12.3% 15.4% Financials Discount rate +/0.50% -25.7% 41.1% -27.8% 44.4% Discount rate +/0.25% -16.7% 14.0% -18.0% 15.1% Terminal year growth rate sensitivity impacts steady state cash flows, representing those expected to be received in perpetuity. Discount rate sensitivity impacts the present value of free cash flows to the corporation. City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 103 9 Other disclosure This section includes additional material disclosures required by accounting standards or otherwise for the understanding of this financial report. Structure 9.1 Responsible persons and executives 9.2 Related parties 9.3 Equity 9.4 Ex gratia expenses 9.5 Accounting Standards issued that are not yet effective 9.6 Subsequent events 9.1 Responsible persons and executives The relevant Minister and directors of City West Water are deemed to be responsible persons by Ministerial Direction pursuant to the provisions of the Financial Management Act 1994. 9.1.1 Responsible persons Persons who held the position of responsible person at any time during the 2019 financial year were as follows: The Hon. Lisa Neville MP Minister for Water 1 July 2018 30 June 2019 Mr David Middleton Chair 1 July 2018 30 June 2019 Mr David Ryan Managing Director 1 July 2018 30 June 2019 Ms Elizabeth Parkin Director 1 July 2018 30 June 2019 Ms Mary Beth Bauer Director 1 July 2018 30 June 2019 Dr Bruce Cohen Director 1 July 2018 30 June 2019 Mr Bill Jaboor Director 1 July 2018 30 June 2019 Ms Constantina Dertimanis Director 1 July 2018 30 June 2019 Ms Tania Fryer Director 1 July 2018 30 June 2019 Mr Christopher Lovell Director 1 July 2018 30 June 2019 Persons who held the position of responsible person at any time during the 2018 financial year were as follows: The Hon. Lisa Neville MP Minister for Water 1 July 2017 30 June 2018 Mr David Middleton Chair 1 July 2017 30 June 2018 Mr David Ryan Managing Director 1 July 2017 30 June 2018 Mr Philip Clark Director 1 July 2017 30 September 2017 Ms Mary Beth Bauer Director 1 July 2017 30 June 2018 Dr Bruce Cohen Director 1 July 2017 30 June 2018 Mr Bill Jaboor Director 1 July 2017 30 June 2018 Ms Kim McAliney Director 1 July 2017 30 September 2017 Ms Elizabeth Parkin Director 1 July 2017 30 June 2018 Ms Constantina Dertimanis Director 1 July 2017 30 June 2018 Ms Tania Fryer Director 1 October 2017 30 June 2018 Mr Christopher Lovell Director 1 October 2017 30 June 2018 The Minister’s remuneration and allowances are set by the Parliamentary Salaries and Superannuation Act 1968 and are reported in the Department of Parliamentary Services’ Financial Report. 104 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 9 Other disclosure (continued) Remuneration received or receivable by responsible persons in connection with the management of City West Water Corporation during the current and previous reporting periods is reported in the table below. 2019 2018 No. No. $ $ 10,000 19,999 2 30,000 39,999 1 2 40,000 49,999 1 2 50,000 59,999 5 3 90,000 99,999 1 1 400,000 409,999 1 420,000 429,999 1 Total 9 11 2018 2019 $’000 $’000 Total amount 853 854 9.1.2 Executives 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Short term employment benefits 1,730 1,690 Post employment benefits 114 122 Other long term benefits 32 3 Termination benefits 130 Total 1,876 1,838 Total employees (no.) 6 8 Annualised employee equivalent 1 5.6 5.8 1 Annualised employee equivalent is based on working 38 ordinary hours per week over the reporting period. The number of executive officers other than the Minister or • Post-employment benefits includes superannuation responsible persons and their total remuneration during the benefits paid or payable on a discrete basis when reporting period is shown in the table overleaf. employment has ceased. Remuneration comprises employee benefits in all forms • Other long term benefits includes long service leave, other of consideration paid, payable or provided for by the long service benefits and deferred compensation. corporation, or on behalf of the corporation, in exchange for Financials • Termination benefits includes termination of employment services rendered, and is disclosed in the following categories: payments, such as severance packages. • Short term employee benefits includes amounts such as wages, salaries, annual leave or sick leave that are usually paid or payable on a regular basis, as well as non-monetary benefits such as allowances and free or subsidised goods or services. City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 105 9 Other disclosure (continued) 9.2 Related parties Relevant Minister The relevant Minister for City West Water for the period 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 was the Hon. Lisa Neville MP, Minister for Water. Transactions with the relevant Minister and relevant Minister related entities Outside of normal citizen type transactions, there were no material transactions with the relevant Minister, their close family members or business interests during the reporting period. Key Management Personnel Key management personnel (as defined in AASB 124 Related Party Disclosures) include the Managing Director and the Board of Directors, who have the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the corporation either directly or indirectly during the year. The names of persons who were key management personnel of City West Water at any time during the current or previous financial years are as follows: D. Middleton, D. Ryan, P. Clark, M. B. Bauer, B. Cohen, B. Jaboor, K. McAliney, E. Parkin, C. Dertimanis, T. Fryer and C. Lovell. Transactions with key management personnel and key management personnel related entities Mr David Middleton is a Director of CH2MHill Australia Pty Ltd. During the year City West Water paid CH2MHill $0 (2018 $124,942) for services relating to works at the corporation’s treatment plants. Mr David Ryan is the Chair of the Managing Directors Committee of the Victorian Water Industry Association (VWIA) and is also a Director of VWIA. During the year City West Water paid $265,561 (2018 $127,709) to VWIA with a further $0 (2018 $4,250) outstanding and payable. In addition, City West Water received $27,711 (2018 $0) from VWIA for secondment of a staff member. Mr Chris Lovell is the Chair of the CBD Community Reference Group Melbourne Metro Rail Authority (MMRA), the Parkville Stakeholder Reference Group MMRA, and the Parkville Community Reference Group MMRA. During the year, City West Water received $227,515 (2018 $197,485) from Rail Projects Victoria (formerly MMRA) with a further $161,687 (2018 $87,771) outstanding and receivable for services rendered to the Metro Tunnel Project. Outside of normal citizen type transactions, there were no further material transactions either with key management personnel, their close family members or business interests during the reporting period other than remuneration for employment. Key management personnel with related party interests are not involved in any decision-making processes relevant to the related party. Payments to key management personnel 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Short term employment benefits 787 788 Post employment benefits 58 58 Other long term benefits 1 8 8 Termination benefits Total 853 854 Total employees (no.) 9 11 1 Other long term benefits represent long service leave. 106 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 9 Other disclosure (continued) Other related parties City West Water Corporation has invested $10 in ZEW as at 30 June 2019. All Victorian cabinet ministers and their close family members, as well as all departments and public sector entities that are As required by Australian Accounting Standards, City controlled and consolidated into the whole of government West Water Corporation has assessed the nature of its consolidated financial statements are considered to be relationship with ZEW, and has concluded that it does not related parties of City West Water. have control, joint control or significant influence over ZEW. The water corporation will account for its investment in Transactions with cabinet members and ZEW as a financial instrument within the scope of AASB 9 related entities Financial Instruments. ZEW is a related party of City West Outside of normal citizen type transactions, there were no Water Corporation. material related party transactions with cabinet members, On 30 October 2018, ZEW entered into an 11-year Power their close family members or their personal business interests Purchasing Agreement (PPA) with a solar farm energy during the current or prior financial years. generator. In relation to the PPA, ZEW will act as a central Power Purchase Agreement specific disclosure intermediary between the energy generator and the water corporations. The PPA contains a contract for difference (CFD) City West Water Corporation is one of 13 water corporation payment mechanism in respect of electricity generated by members of Zero Emissions Water (ZEW) Limited, a public the facility and the sale and supply of large-scale generation company limited by guarantee. ZEW’s substantial objective certificates from the facility. The PPA contains certain is to acquire electricity, contracts for difference (contracts on conditions precedent with the target commercial operation which the corporation may make a gain or loss depending date of 1 October 2019. At 30 June 2019, the conditions on the movement in the market for electricity) and other precedent in the PPA were not completed, and ZEW does not derivative products in relation to electricity, and/or green have a contractual obligation for the CFD derivative. Therefore, products from an energy and emissions reduction facility(ies) there are no transactions to recognise as at 30 June 2019. in Victoria and in turn supply these products to its members. This vehicle provides the opportunity for water corporation Upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent, the CFD members to collaboratively promote energy and emissions derivative will be recognised as a financial liability and will reduction initiatives in Victoria and to reduce emissions. be measured at its fair value. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the derivative will be recognised in profit and loss. On 30 October 2018, a Members’ Agreement was entered into between the water corporations and ZEW in order to The Members’ Agreement specifies that City West Water regulate their rights and obligations as members of ZEW Corporation must make a loan available to the ZEW and as participants in the project. The Members’ Agreement amounting to $67,084.97. The loan provided to ZEW establishes the operating activities of ZEW and the decisionmeets the definition of a financial asset as it gives rise to a making responsibilities of the ZEW Directors. contractual right for City West Water to receive cash from ZEW at the end of the loan term. Once the facility is operational, the financial impact of the Members’ Agreement with ZEW is expected to be an increase in revenue and/or expenses, and recognition of large-scale generation certificates as intangible assets or assets held for sale. Financials City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 107 9 Other disclosure (continued) Victorian Government City West Water is subject to the provisions of the Water Act 1989 and the Water Industry Act 1994. City West Water operates under specific legislation and is subject to independent economic regulation. City West Water operates under a Board of Directors appointed by the Victorian Government and makes income tax equivalent and dividend payments to the Victorian Government. Transactions with government controlled entities The below table details City West Water’s dealings with government controlled entities, which are considered to be related parties of City West Water. The following three pages contain more detailed information regarding related parties with significant transactions with City West Water. Paid Payable Received Receivable $ $ $ $ 2018 Yarra Valley Water 338,110 81,961 11,329 Goulburn Murray Water 494,588 Development Victoria 4,948 63,098 Western Water 54 108,394 5,105 Victorian Auditor-General’s Office 129,690 81,000 Rail Projects Victoria 197,485 87,771 Environment Protection Authority 122,154 Energy and Water Ombudsman Victoria 89,472 52,611 Public Transport Victoria 26,588 2019 Yarra Valley Water 367,815 39,708 6,001 Goulburn Murray Water 408,313 6,547 Development Victoria 1,629,598 Western Water 5,555 36,168 64,750 Victorian Auditor-General’s Office 171,600 49,600 Rail Projects Victoria 227,515 161,687 Environment Protection Authority 124,129 Energy and Water Ombudsman Victoria 129,960 Public Transport Victoria 32,134 700,000 108 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 9 Other disclosure (continued) Related parties with significant transactions Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning City West Water bills and collects parks charges on behalf of the Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning (DELWP). Due to the nature of the agent/principal relationship between City West Water and DELWP, City West Water does not recognise these amounts in its accounts. City West Water recognises an administration fee collected from DELWP relating to the billing and collection of parks charges as revenue. City West Water makes various other payments to and receives other payments from DELWP which are recognised as revenue and expenses. 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Payments Parks Charge collected on behalf of DELWP 50,725 49,092 Environmental Contribution 19,843 18,563 Other 4 138 Receipts Billings and collection fee 2,282 2,210 Other 63 Payables Environmental Contribution 6,614 Parks Charge collected on behalf of DELWP 58 43 Receivables Billings and collection fee 132 200 Department of Treasury and Finance The Department of Treasury and Finance monitors the implementation of City West Water’s Corporate Plan in consultation with the Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning. 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Payments Income tax equivalent 45,679 43,540 Dividend 20,400 62,600 Financial Accommodation Levy 16,854 15,259 Capital repatriation 10,880 10,880 Licence fee 524 379 Payables Financial Accommodation Levy 4,572 4,120 Income tax equivalent 2,369 10,430 Receipts Financials Interest on CBS deposit 255 Receivables Income tax equivalent 2,821 City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 109 9 Other disclosure (continued) Treasury Corporation of Victoria As required by the State Government pursuant to the Borrowing and Investment Powers Act 1987, City West Water’s borrowings are sourced solely from the Treasury Corporation of Victoria. 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Payments Finance costs 47,941 47,334 Administration fees 1,460 1,297 Receipts Net borrowings during the year 69,700 77,700 Interest received 19 72 Payables Total borrowings 1,249,900 1,180,200 Finance costs 17,533 17,272 Administration fees 463 483 Receivables Interest receivable 7 Melbourne Water Corporation City West Water sources all its drinking water from Melbourne Water Corporation and the majority of its sewage is treated by Melbourne Water Corporation at the Western Treatment Plant. City West Water bills and collects drainage charges as an agent for Melbourne Water. Due to the nature of the agent/principal relationship between City West Water and Melbourne Water, City West Water does not recognise these amounts in its accounts. City West Water recognises an administration fee collected from Melbourne Water relating to the billing and collection of drainage charges as revenue. City West Water makes various other payments to and receives other payments from Melbourne Water which are recognised as revenue and expenses. 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Payments Bulk water and sewage charges 348,155 340,692 Drainage Charge collected on behalf of Melbourne Water 60,401 64,188 Property information statements 201 218 Other 141 364 Receipts Billings and collection fee 3,886 3,751 Other 82 50 Payables Bulk water and sewage charges 3,628 2,874 Drainage Charge collected on behalf of Melbourne Water 1,261 1,274 Property information statements 86 103 Other 16 Receivables Billings and collection fee 132 200 110 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 9 Other disclosure (continued) State Revenue Office The State Revenue Office is the Victorian Government’s tax collection agency. The State Revenue Office administers Victoria’s tax legislation and collects a range of taxes, duties and levies. 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Payments Payroll tax 2,520 2,382 Unclaimed monies 920 1,475 Receipts Pension rebate 559 403 Land tax refund 250 219 Payables Payroll tax 203 195 Receivables Pension rebate 290 284 Department of Health and Human Services City West Water provides a number of services to the community including the administration of the Pension Rebate and Health Care Card schemes on behalf of the Department of Health and Human Services. 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Payments Safe Drinking Water Levy 140 138 Receipts Pension rebate 22,901 21,252 Administration fee on pension rebate 205 179 Utility relief grant 382 334 Dialysis users rebate 10 13 Other 19 Receivables Pension rebate 3,068 3,256 Administration fee on pension rebate 20 21 Dialysis users rebate 2 5 Other Victorian Government controlled entities Water and sewerage services were provided to other government controlled entities for properties within City West Water’s Financials service area under normal commercial terms and conditions. City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 111 9 Other disclosure (continued) 9.3 Equity 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Contributed equity 189,248 200,128 Physical asset revaluation surplus 171,256 180,718 Retained profits 490,312 455,487 Total equity 850,816 836,333 9.3.1 Contributed equity 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Contributed equity at the beginning of the financial year 200,128 211,008 Capital repatriation (10,880) (10,880) Contributed equity at the end of the financial year 189,248 200,128 In line with the requirements of the Financial Management Act 1994, additions to net assets which have been designated as contributed equity by the Assistant Treasurer are recognised as contributed equity. Other transfers that are in the nature of contributions or distributions have also been designated as distributions to or contributions from owners. 9.3.2 Physical asset revaluation surplus 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Physical asset revaluation surplus at the beginning of the financial year 180,718 191,906 Infrastructure assets revaluation, net of tax (7,857) (13,948) Land revaluation, net of tax (1,605) 2,759 Physical asset revaluation surplus at the end of the financial year 171,256 180,718 Physical asset revaluation surplus is used to record revaluation increments and decrements in the value of non-current physical assets. 9.3.3 Retained profits 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Retained profits at the beginning of the financial year 455,487 436,884 Adjustment to opening balance on adoption of new accounting standards refer Note 1.3 (7,997) Profit after income tax expense 63,099 79,042 Final dividend paid during 2019 in respect of 2018 (20,400) Final dividend paid during 2018 in respect of 2017 (48,200) Interim dividend paid in respect of current year (14,400) Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit superannuation plan (net of tax) 123 2,161 Retained profits at the end of the financial year 490,312 455,487 Retained profits represent accumulated retained profits over the lifetime of the corporation. 112 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water 9 Other disclosure (continued) 9.4 Ex gratia expenses 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Forgiveness or waiver of debt 141 567 Other 9 12 Total ex gratia expenses 150 579 Ex gratia expense items greater than or equal to $5,000 individually or in total are disclosed. In exceptional circumstances City West Water may waive part of a customer’s debt. This will occur at the discretion of the corporation when there has been a significant undetected leak on a customer’s property, unexplained high usage on a customer’s account, or in cases of financial hardship. Ex gratia expenses are recognised as part of other expenses (refer Section 3). 9.5 Accounting standards issued that are not yet effective Certain new Australian Accounting Standards have been published that are applicable to City West Water, but are not mandatory for the 30 June 2019 reporting period. These standards are listed below. Standard Effective date Key changes Impact Assessment has indicated that City West Water will need to include most operating leases on the Balance Sheet. This will lead to a right of use lease asset of approximately $97.4m and a right of use lease liability of Key changes introduced approximately $97.4m on adoption. by AASB 16 include the recognition of most Recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities will cause AASB 16 Leases 1 January 2019 operating leases (which are net debt to increase. Depreciation of lease assets and not currently recognised) interest on lease liabilities will be recognised in the on the Balance Sheet. Comprehensive Operating Statement. Cash paid for the principal portion of a lease liability will be presented within financing activities and interest payments will be presented within operating activities in the Statement of Cash Flows. 9.6 Subsequent events No matter or circumstance has arisen since 30 June 2019 which has significantly affected, or may significantly affect: • the corporation’s operations • the results of those operations • the corporation’s state of affairs in the financial year subsequent to 30 June 2019. Financials City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 113 Statutory Certification The attached financial statements of City West Water Corporation (the corporation) have been prepared in accordance with Direction 5.2 of the Standing Directions 2018 under the Financial Management Act 1994, applicable Financial Reporting Directions, Australian Accounting Standards including Interpretations and other mandatory professional reporting requirements. We state that, in our opinion, the information set out in the Comprehensive Operating Statement, Balance Sheet, Statement of Changes in Equity, Statement of Cash Flows and accompanying notes presents fairly the financial transactions during the year ended 30 June 2019 and the financial position of the corporation at 30 June 2019. At the time of signing, we are not aware of any circumstance which would render any particulars included in the financial statements to be misleading or inaccurate. This financial report was authorised for release by the Board of Directors on 27 August 2019. David Middleton David Ryan Michael Wootten Chair Managing Director Chief Financial Officer Melbourne 27 August 2019 114 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Independent Auditor's Report Independent Auditor’s Report To the Board of the City West Water Corporation Opinion I have audited the financial report of the City West Water Corporation (the corporation) which comprises the: • balance sheet as at 30 June 2019 • comprehensive operating statement for the year then ended • statement of changes in equity for the year then ended • cash flow statement for the year then ended • notes to the financial statements, including significant accounting policies • statutory certification. In my opinion, the financial report presents fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the corporation as at 30 June 2019 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the financial reporting requirements of Part 7 of the Financial Management Act 1994 and applicable Australian Accounting Standards. Basis for I have conducted my audit in accordance with the Audit Act 1994 which incorporates the Opinion Australian Auditing Standards. I further describe my responsibilities under that Act and those standards in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Report section of my report. My independence is established by the Constitution Act 1975. My staff and I are independent of the corporation in accordance with the ethical requirements of the Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards Board’s APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (the Code) that are relevant to my audit of the financial report in Victoria. My staff and I have also fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code. I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion. Key audit Key audit matters are those matters that, in my professional judgement, were of most matters significance in my audit of the financial report of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of my audit of the financial report as a whole, and in forming my opinion thereon, and I do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Financials City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 115 Independent Auditor's Report (continued) Key audit matter How I addressed the matter Revenues from service and usage charges are derived from a complex IT billing system with several inputs, including external service providers Note 2.2 – Sales of Goods and Services Revenues from service and usage charges: My key procedures included: $609 million.  testing the operating effectiveness of key application I considered this to be a key audit matter because: controls and key manual controls in the billing  revenue recognised is financially significant to the system corporation  obtaining an understanding of management's  revenue is generated by a complex IT system that approach to estimating the value of unbilled water uses several inputs and business rules and sewerage services revenue at year end and  revenue includes a significant accrual for unbilled assessing the reasonableness of key assumptions water and sewerage services at year end that and inputs involves a higher degree of estimation  substantive analytical procedures uncertainty  reviewing the adequacy of the revenue recognition  a key input, customer water volume and measurement policies consumption, relies on external service providers  assessing the adequacy of financial statement to conduct meter readings. disclosures against the requirements of Australian Accounting Standards. The fair value estimate of infrastructure assets is derived from an income-based valuation approach that uses a complex discounted cashflow model ('DCF model') Note 5.1 – Infrastructure, property, plant and equipment Fair value estimate of infrastructure assets: My key procedures included: $1.893 billion  obtaining an understanding of management's I considered this to be a key audit matter because: approach to estimating the fair value of  the infrastructure assets are financially significant infrastructure to the corporation  assessing the competence and capability of  the fair value estimate relies on management’s management's expert engaged to assist with the use of an external valuation expert valuation process  the DCF model is highly complex and involves  engaging a subject matter expert to assist us in significant management judgements, obtaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence, underpinned by various subjective assumptions including:  the calculated value is sensitive to small changes the appropriateness of using an income-based in key assumptions used in the DCF model valuation approach  the model's forecast period is long, and includes the reasonableness and consistency of all the a terminal value, which increases the difficulty in assumptions used in the DCF model accurately estimating the fair value identify any changes to the DCF model and/or  applicable accounting standard AASB 13 Fair assumptions. Value Measurement (AASB 13) and the Assistant the reasonableness of all inputs used in the Treasurer issued Financial Reporting Direction model, with specific reference to underlying data 103H Non-financial physical assets (FRD 103H) and supporting documentation both require extensive financial report the DCF model’s computational accuracy disclosures. the appropriateness of all infrastructure asset related financial report disclosures with regard to AASB 13 and FRD 103H, including the significant observable and unobservable inputs utilised in the model and the sensitivity analysis  evaluating our subject matter expert's workings and concluding the work was adequate for the purposes of our audit. 2 116 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Independent Auditor's Report (continued) Board’s The Board of the corporation is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the responsibilities financial report in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and the Financial for the Management Act 1994, and for such internal control as the Board determines is necessary financial to enable the preparation and fair presentation of a financial report that is free from report material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial report, the Board is responsible for assessing the corporation’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless it is inappropriate to do so. Auditor’s As required by the Audit Act 1994, my responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial responsibilities report based on the audit. My objectives for the audit are to obtain reasonable assurance for the audit about whether the financial report as a whole is free from material misstatement, whether of the financial due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes my opinion. Reasonable report assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with the Australian Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of this financial report. As part of an audit in accordance with the Australian Auditing Standards, I exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. I also: • identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial report, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the corporation’s internal control • evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Board • conclude on the appropriateness of the Board’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the corporation’s ability to continue as a going concern. If I conclude that a material uncertainty exists, I am required to draw attention in my auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial report or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify my opinion. My conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of my auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the corporation to cease to continue as a going concern. • evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial report, including the disclosures, and whether the financial report represents the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. Financials 3 City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 117 Independent Auditor's Report (continued) Auditor’s I communicate with the Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and responsibilities timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in for the audit internal control that I identify during my audit. of the financial From the matters communicated with the Board, I determine those matters that were of report most significance in the audit of the financial report of the current period and are therefore (continued) key audit matters. I describe these matters in the auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, I determine that a matter should not be communicated in the auditor’s report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. MELBOURNE Paul Martin 30 August 2019 as delegate for the Auditor-General of Victoria 4 118 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Appendices Appendix 1: Disclosure index 120 Appendix 2: Disclosure of information on letter 122 of expectations Ministerial Reporting Direction 07 Appendix 3: The United Nations Global Compact 127 Appendix 4: Bulk water entitlement reporting 129 Financials Appendices City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 119 Appendix 1: Disclosure index City West Water’s 2019 Annual Report is prepared in accordance with all relevant Victorian legislation and pronouncements including Financial Reporting Directions (FRDs), Ministerial Reporting Directions (MRDs) and Standing Directions of the Assistant Treasurer. This index has been prepared to facilitate identification of City West Water’s compliance with statutory disclosure requirements. Legislation Disclosure Required Page Charter and purpose FRD 22H Manner of establishment and the relevant Minister 106 FRD 22H Purpose, functions, powers and duties 4 FRD 22H Key initiatives and projects 6-7 FRD 22H Nature and range of services provided 4 Management and structure FRD 22H Organisational structure 32 FRD 22H Directors of the Board 104 Financial and other information FRD 10A Disclosure Index 120-121 FRD 22H Five year summary of financial results 38-39 FRD 22H Disclosure of ICT expenditure 39 FRD 22H Workforce data disclosure 12 FRD 22H Current year financial review 37 FRD 22H Significant changes in financial position during the year 37 FRD 22H Operational and budgetary objectives and performance against objectives 37 FRD 22H Major changes or factors affecting performance 37 FRD 22H Employment and conduct principles 10 FRD 22H Health and safety 13 FRD 22H Subsequent events 40 FRD 22H Application and operation of the Freedom of Information Act 1982 40-41 FRD 22H Application and operation of the Protected Disclosure Act 2012 42 FRD 22H Statement on National Competition Policy 42 FRD 22H Statement on availability of other information 43 FRD 22H Environmental performance 26-30 FRD 22H Compliance with building and maintenance provisions of the Building Act 1993 41 FRD 22H Details of consultancies over $10,000 41 FRD 22H Details of consultancies under $10,000 41 FRD 22H Disclosure of government advertising expenditure 42 FRD 22H Workforce inclusion policy 10 FRD 22H Key initiatives and projects 6-7 FRD 25D Local Jobs disclosure in the Report of Operations 42 FRD 27C Presentation and reporting of performance information 47-49 FRD 30D Standard requirements for the design and print of annual reports Whole report SD 3.7.1 Financial management compliance attestation 46 SD 5.2 Specific requirements under Standing Direction 5.2 3, 114 120 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Appendix 1: Discolsure index (continued) Legislation Disclosure required Page Ministerial Reporting Directions MRD 01 Presentation and reporting of performance information 47-49 MRD 02 Reporting on water consumption and drought response 22-23 MRD 03 Environmental and social sustainability reporting 26-30 MRD 04 Disclosure of information on bulk entitlements 129-130 MRD 05 Annual reporting of major non-residential water users 44-45 MRD 06 Greenhouse gas and energy reporting 28 MRD 07 Disclosure of information on letter of expectations 122-126 Compliance attestation and declaration SD 3.7.1 Financial management compliance attestation 46 SD 5.2.2 Specific requirements under Standing Direction 5.2 3, 114 Other requirements under Standing Direction 5.2 SD 5.2.1(a) Compliance with applicable Australian accounting standards and other authoritative 58 pronouncements SD 5.2.1(a) Compliance with Ministerial Directions 58 Other disclosures required by FRDs in notes to and forming part of the financial statements FRD 3A Accounting for dividends 74 FRD 11A Disclosure of ex gratia payments 113 FRD 17B Wage inflation and discount rates for employee benefits 68 Disclosures of responsible persons, executive officers and other personnel (Contractors with FRD 21C 104-105 Significant Management Responsibilities) in the Financial Report FRD 103H Non-financial physical assets 76-79 FRD 105A Borrowing costs 88 FRD 106 Impairment of assets 79, 81 FRD 109 Intangible assets 80-81 FRD 110A Cash flow statements 57 FRD 112D Defined benefit superannuation obligations 68-69 FRD 114A Financial instruments General Government Entities and Public Non-Financial Corporations 87, 90-95 FRD 119A Transfers through contributed capital 112 FRD 120M Accounting and reporting pronouncements applicable to the 2018-19 reporting period 113 Legislation Water Act 1989 Water Industry Act 1994 Freedom of Information Act 1982 Building Act 1993 Protected Disclosure Act 2012 Local Jobs First Act 2003 Financial Management Act 1994 Appendices City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 121 Appendix 2: Disclosure of information on letter of expectations Ministerial Reporting Direction 07 Performance indicators, definitions, measures and reporting requirements for the seven priority areas outlined in the Letter of Expectations are identified in the table below. Priority Area Key Performance Indicator Measure Definition Comments Climate Change E2 Emission reductions E2 Total net emissions of CO Net tonnes of CO Greenhouse Provide services Demonstrate reasonable progress toward achievement of equivalent tonnes. equivalent emissions Gas and Energy that minimise the entity's emission reduction pledge. (scope 1 and scope 2 Reporting p.28 environmental emissions only) for the impacts, mitigate whole business and its climate change activities. and put in place E3 Climate adaptation E3 Qualitative description of Planning for adaptation Drought adaptation strategies a) Apply the Guidelines for Assessing the Impact of how adaptation to climate to all changed conditions Preparedness Plan and actions. Climate Change on Water Suppliers in Victoria and change and variability are anticipated under climate p.23 demonstrate adaptation by: integrated across all relevant change. These include business decisions, in the the warmer, drier climate Urban Water • their application in drought preparedness and urban parts of the business specified. conditions, more intense Strategy p.20 water strategies (Urban water corporations). Include consideration of rainfall and more frequent Climate Resilience short, medium and long-term extreme events predicted Strategy p.26 • Rural water corporations (as applicable) develop low flow changes. for the future. contingency plans that include an appropriate range of Environmental climate scenarios. Policy p.27 b) Integrate climate change adaptation into decisionmaking across the business (all sources of water, wastewater, and where relevant drainage and flood management) including*: • source waters and demand • built assets • natural environment • people and workplace • interdependencies • customer and product delivery. 122 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Appendix 2: Disclosure of information on letter of expectations Ministerial Reporting Direction 07 (continued) Priority Area Key Performance Indicator Measure Definition Comments Customer and C1 Customer satisfaction (Urban Water Corporations excl. (a) C1(U) Customer As per Essential Services No report required. community Melbourne Water) satisfaction survey The Commission definition. Department of outcomes Essential Services Commission Environment, Note this indicator includes both direct and proxy measures. will collect customer Land, Water and All aspects of Overall, reporting on measures identified for this indicator service delivery will satisfaction survey data on an Planning (DELWP) should demonstrate high or improving levels of customer ongoing quarterly basis. to obtain data from be customer and satisfaction over time. community centred. Essential Services Commission. (b) CR1 Water quality No. of water quality Customer complaints complaints regarding Responsiveness discolouration, taste, odour, Performance stained washing, illness Indicators p.49 or cloudy water per 1,000 customers. (c) CR4 Number of billing Billing/payment issues Customer payment issues complaints for 1,000 Responsiveness customers year on year. Performance Indicators table p.49 C2 Customer and community engagement Stakeholder C2 Development and delivery Customers First engagement based on best practice that demonstrates of an engagement strategy/ Strategy launched. approaches to engagement that are open, honest and plan/policy and publication The strategy occur frequently. The DELWP Community Charter or IAP2 of the engagement strategy/ includes guiding framework could be considered as a guide. plan/policy or equivalent principles that explanation (via the water are based on corporation's website). consultation with our diverse customers. Available at: https://www. citywestwater.com. au/documents/ strategy.pdf Our customer charters keep customers informed and provide contact details for all customers. https://www. citywestwater. com.au/about_us/ customer_charter. aspx Voice of the Customer provides regular insights into our customers’ need and want. p.15-16 Appendices City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 123 Appendix 2: Disclosure of information on letter of expectations Ministerial Reporting Direction 07 (continued) Priority Area Key Performance Indicator Measure Definition Comments Water for AC1 Engagement of Aboriginal communities Effective AC1.1 A strategy that Explore and develop Reconciliation Aboriginal and genuine engagement of Aboriginal communities demonstrates how the opportunities for business Action Plan cultural, spiritual for involvement in business opportunities and access to water corporation will build arrangements with and economic water for economic development. Measures related to this capability and understanding Traditional Owners and https://www. values indicator will not be considered in isolation. Rather, reported of procurement processes to Aboriginal enterprises to citywestwater. Recognise and information will be used to help build a broad picture of address barriers for Aboriginal deliver value-for-money com.au/about_us/ support Aboriginal engagement, taking into account the relevant local context. enterprises to supply goods/ catchment and water reports_publications/ cultural values and services to water corporations. services. reconcilliation_ economic inclusion action_plan.aspx in the water sector. Provide opportunities for cross-cultural learning 8 Ways of Knowing: AC1.2 Number/explanation in the water sector, as First Nation Cultural of sponsorships of Aboriginal well as skills training and Knowledge people in relevant study and employment for Aboriginal Exchange Training training courses, including Victorians. p.11 scholarships, vocational education and traineeships. Establishment AC1.3 Number of staff within of First Nations the water corporation who Advisory Committee have undertaken a crossp.11 cultural training course (by Metropolitan relevant Traditional Owner) in industry sharing the last 5 years. forum p.11 AC2 Engagement of Traditional Owners. AC2.1 Number of Inform Traditional Owners Industry engagements with Traditional when opportunities arise to engagement p.11 Effective and genuine engagement of Traditional Owners Owners in water planning and access water entitlements for inclusion of Aboriginal values in water planning. management and report on within existing framework. Measures related to this indicator will not be considered in outcomes. Incorporate traditional isolation. Rather, reported information will be used to help ecological knowledge build a broad picture of engagement, taking into account AC2.2 Number of pilot into water planning and the relevant local context. programs to test different management using ways to achieve shared Aboriginal Waterway benefits. Assessments and other tools developed by Traditional Owners. Notify and engage with Traditional Owners to achieve shared benefits. AC3 Aboriginal Inclusion Plan/Reconciliation Action Plan AC3 Development of either an Aboriginal Inclusion Plan or To be considered in conjunction with AC1 a Reconciliation Action Plan, reflecting measures AC1.1 to AC1.3 and AC2.1 to AC2.2 as appropriate. 124 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Appendix 2: Disclosure of information on letter of expectations Ministerial Reporting Direction 07 (continued) Priority Area Key Performance Indicator Measure Definition Comments Resilient and L1 Integrated Water Management (IWM) (urban) L1 Progress towards: Facilitating regional IWM Forums p.20 liveable cities and stakeholder collaboration towns In relevant IWM forum(s), actively facilitate and champion a) establishment of and (including local Sustainable and water's contribution to deliver liveability for cities and towns participation in government) to Resilient water Contribute of the region consistent with the forum's objectives. deliver place-based services systems to healthy IWM forum(s) in your region p.24-25 IWM outcomes for the communities by b) development of and community projects that supporting safe, contribution to Strategic support the liveability and affordable, high Direction Statement(s) in your resilience of cities and quality services region towns of the region. and resilient environments. c) Implementation of priority IWM plans and projects, as applicable d) delivering IWM outcomes for the region L2 Water efficiency (urban) Implement water efficiency L2 Continue to collaborate on Target 155 p.18 programs aligned with Target 155 (Metros) and Target Your the Victorian Water Efficiency Water Use (Regional Urban). Strategy and work together Water efficiency through a coordination information p.18-19 group to develop statewide initiatives L3 Water bills (urban) L3 Total residential bill based Comparison with national Total residential on: median for relevant utility water bill for a Victorian water bills are amongst the lowest in Australia. sized groupings. City West Water a) average consumption b) customer based (not applicable to MW) 200kl consumption. on average consumption during the year p.45 Relevant data: 150kL average usage has been our benchmark L4 Payment management and hardship {not applicable L4 L4 No report required. to MW) Overall improved access to instalment plans for DELWP to management of payments. Understand year on year trends a) Number of instalment plans a) For urbans, definition obtain data from in hardship grants. at the end of the reporting as per Essential Services Essential Services period Commission (UPP1) and Commission (UPP1 (UPP6). and UPP6) b) Number of customers awarded hardship grants a) 32,577 customers on instalment plans b) 583 customers awarded hardship grants Recognising Rec1 recreational values recreational values Not applicable to Melbourne metropolitan retail Support the water corporations. wellbeing of rural and regional communities by considering recreational values in water management Appendices City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 125 Appendix 2: Disclosure of information on letter of expectations Ministerial Reporting Direction 07 (continued) Priority Area Key Performance Indicator Measure Definition Comments Leadership and G1 Diversity and inclusion G1.1 Development and A Diversity Inclusion Plan/s CWW has a Diversity Culture delivery of a Diversity Inclusion that includes gender equity and Inclusion Improve gender and cultural diversity in workforce including Plan/s and publication (via the and cultural, indigenous Plan that includes Water corporations gender equity in executive leadership. Diversity Inclusion water corporation's website) inclusion. gender equity and reflect the needs plans to be based on best practice. The approach of the of the Inclusion Plan or cultural, indigenous of our diverse DELWP Diversity and Inclusion Strategy 2016-2020 could be equivalent explanation. inclusion communities. considered as a guide. https://www. citywestwater. com.au/about_us/ reports_publications/ Diversity_inclusion_ strategy.aspx p.10 G1.2 Number of females Our People p.8-13 occupying senior executive positions over projected Target 50%, 2018-19 five-year period. Result: 45% at 30 June 2019 G1.3 Adopt a 1% target for Diversity and Aboriginal people in the Inclusion Strategy business consistent with Vic 2016 – 2020 government policy[1] and work to a stretch target of 3% by https://www. 2020 (DELWP policy[2]). citywestwater. com.au/about_us/ reports_publications/ Diversity_inclusion_ strategy.aspx City West Water has a 2020 target of 2.5% G1.4 Actions taken to improve City West Water participation by Traditional established a First Owners in Board committees Nations Advisory and other organisational Committee Committees. and initiated water industry engagement p.11 G1.5 Number of respondents Staff participation in the No report required. to the VPSC People Matter Victorian Public Sector DELWP to obtain Survey from each water Commission (VPSC) People data from VPSC. corporation should be high Matter Survey. Water or improving over time (to corporation to encourage be based on participation staff participation to in alternate years with complete annual survey or implementation measures equivalent survey. achievements reported in follow up year). Results indicate favourable response to implementation of diversity inclusion plan. G2 Board performance review G2 Board performance report No report required. submitted to the Minister DELWP to review Annual Board performance review to help monitor for Water by 31 March each reports internally. and improve the Board's effectiveness in leading the year with identified actions organisation. for continuous improvement. Monitoring of previous year's actions have had a positive result on the Board's ability to lead the organisation. G3 Health and Safety Sustained annual improvement G3 Performance indicators Health and Safety against H&S performance benchmarks (AS/NZS standard adopted to monitor p.13 4801). occupational health and safety in line with FRD 22H, section 6.10. Financial F1-F8 Financial Indicators F1 interest cover Financial indicators as Performance Report Sustainability F2 gearing ratio prescribed by PRF. p.47-49 Delivering safe Overall reporting on these measures should demonstrate F3 internal financing ratio and costeffective financial sustainability and provide a positive picture of a F4 current ratio water and corporation’s financial sustainability over time. F5 return on Assets wastewater services F6 return on equity in a financially F7 EBITDA Marqin sustainable way. 126 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Appendix 3: The United Nations Global Compact As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we outline below where our policies, actions and programs highlighted in this annual report align with the 10 principles of the UN SDGs. Global Compact Principles Description Page Reference Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and City West Water is committed to providing respect the protection of internationally a healthy and safe workplace for all staff, proclaimed human rights; and contractors, customers and the community, where the wellbeing of individuals 2. Make sure that they are not complicit is supported and diversity is actively in human rights abuses. encouraged and championed. The following policies and programs outlined in this report reflect this commitment: • Diversity and Inclusion Strategy committing to fair and equitable treatment for employees without regard to race, colour, sexual p.10 preference, age, physical or mental disability, pregnancy, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. • Health and Safety Policy, performance and p.13 associated actions • Community service actions and financial inclusion programs to support customers p. 17-19 and community across our service area • Our commitment and involvement in the p.18 WaterAid program Global Compact Principles Description Page Reference Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the City West Water is committed to a diverse freedom of association and the and inclusive workplace culture free of effective recognition of the right discrimination where the human rights of to collective bargaining; employees, customers and the community are supported. Our efforts are reflected through 4. The elimination of all forms of forced the following items in this report: and compulsory labour; 5. The effective abolition of child labour; • Our employee targets for Aboriginal and p.10 and Torres Strait Islander peoples • Transparency in employee benefit reporting p.10 6. The elimination of discrimination in • Diversity and Inclusion Strategy and actions p.10 respect of employment and regarding equal opportunity and fairness occupation • As noted in our Corporate Plan 2019-20, the (Commonwealth) Modern Slavery Act 2018 came into effect from January 2019. As required City West Water will report annually (from 2020) on the risks of modern slavery in our operations and supply chains, and the action we have taken to assess and address those risks, and the effectiveness of their response. • City West Water staff have access to unions and professional associations, with local delegates engaging in regular meetings with the City West Water executive. • City West Water recognises the importance of unions and staff representation when negotiating enterprise agreements and Appendices consulting on significant work changes. City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 127 Appendix 3: The United Nations Global Compact (continued) Global Compact Principles Description Page Reference Environment 7. Businesses should support a The protection and enhancement of our precautionary approach to environment is embedded in City West environmental challenges; Water’s vision for the future. City West Water is dedicated to benefiting customers and the 8. Undertake initiatives to promote community, and understands the intrinsic link greater environmental responsibility; between water, the environment and human and health and wellbeing. The following actions 9. Encourage the development and and strategies highlighted in this annual diffusion of environmentally friendly report, reflect this commitment: technologies. • Reporting on progress regarding our commitment and obligations outlined p.27 within our Environmental Policy • Climate Resilience Strategy p.26 • Urban Water Strategy actions and report p.20 on progress • Our delivery of Greening the West initiative p.25 and progress • Stormwater harvesting and integrated water p.20 management programs • Energy recovery and renewable energy p.29 implementation Global Compact Principles Description Page Reference Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against City West Water is committed to ensuring corruption in all its forms, including transparency and accountability in its extortion and bribery administrative and management practices, and the corporation supports the making of disclosures that reveal corrupt conduct, conduct involving a substantial mismanagement of public resources or conduct involving substantial risk to public health and safety or the environment. • Commitment to compliance with the p.43 Protected Disclosure Act 2010 • Oversight of the corporation’s financial reports and information by the Risk p.36 Management and Audit Committee • Reporting on related party transactions as p.106-111 part of our Financial Statements. 128 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water Appendix 4: Bulk water entitlement reporting City West Water Corporation holds individual delivery entitlements to the water resources of the Greater Yarra System – Thomson River Pool (managed by Melbourne Water Corporation), the Victorian Desalination Project and the Murray and Goulburn river systems. Reporting Greater Yarra Victorian requirements System – Thomson Desalination Goulburn System12 River Murray17 River Pool1 Project7 Amount of water taken clause 16.1(a) clause 13.1(a) clause 14.1(b) 0 ML18 115,084.000 ML2 0 ML8 0 ML13 Opening carryover at clause 16.1(b) clause 13.1(a) clause 14.1(c) clause 11.1(a) 1/7/18 115,037.370 ML3 0 ML9 5,206.180 ML14 4,480.275 ML19 Annual water allocation clause 16.1(b) clause 13.1(a) clause 14.1(c) clause 11.1(a) made available during 77,707.353 ML 5,696.620 ML9 8,041.90 ML14 5,898.400 ML19 2018-19 Closing carryover as at clause 16.1(b) clause 13.1(a) clause 14.1(c) clause 11.1(a) 30/6/19 74,322.491 ML3 5,689.271 ML9 7,930.676 ML14, 15 5,356.741 ML19, 20 Compliant with clause 16.1(c) clause 13.1(e) n/a n/a entitlement volume yes5 yes10 Assignment of bulk clause 16.1(d) clause 13.1(b) clause 14.1(d) clause 11.1(b) entitlement 0 ML 0 ML -4,900.000 ML16 -4,740.000 ML21 Permanent transfer clause 16.1(d) clause 13.1(b) clause 14.1(e) clause 11.1(c) of all or part of bulk None None None None entitlement Approval, amendment clause 16.1(e) and implementation of continuing6 n/a n/a n/a the metering program Amendment of bulk clause 16.1(f) Clause 13.1(c) Clause 14.1(f) Clause 11.1(d) entitlement None None None None Any new bulk clause 16.1(g) clause 13.1(d) entitlement of water None None None None granted Any failure to comply clause 16.1(h) clause 13.1(f) clause 14.1(g) clause 11.1(e) with any provision of None None None None this bulk entitlement Any difficulties experienced or anticipated in clause 16.1(i) clause 13.1(g) clause 14.1(h) clause 11.1(f) complying with this bulk None None None None entitlement and any remedial action taken or proposed Notes for compliance with bulk entitlements: Greater Yarra System Thomson River Pool 1 City West Water holds Bulk Entitlement (Greater Yarra System Thomson River Pool City West Water) Order 2014. Compliance requirements are set out in clauses 16.1(a)-(i). 2 City West Water is a primary entitlement holder with an annual entitlement share of 152,797 ML. 3 The Resource Manager – Melbourne Water makes seasonal allocations monthly and maintains City West Water water account and carryover accounting. Carryover on 30 June 2019 accounts for estimated spills of 3,338.231 ML. 4 For water accounting purposes, water sourced during 2018-19 under the Bulk Entitlement (Desalinated Water – City West Water) Order 2014 is considered to have been carried over and held in the Melbourne Headworks System under the Bulk Entitlement (Greater Yarra System Thomson River Pool City West Water) Order 2014. 5 Compliance with the entitlement volume is measured by compliance with the overall cap within the source entitlements for the Thomson and Yarra systems (held by Melbourne Water). 6 Metering programs for this bulk entitlement are continually maintained and reviewed via the Bulk Water Supply Agreement between City West Water and Melbourne Water and System Management Rules established by Melbourne Water. Appendices City West Water Annual Report 2019 | 129 Appendix 4: Bulk water entitlement reporting Victorian Desalination Project 7 City West Water holds Bulk Entitlement (Desalinated Water – City West Water) Order 2014. Compliance requirements are set out in clauses 13.1(a)-(g). 8 City West Water does not take water directly from the Victorian Desalination project infrastructure. City West Water may take an average annual volume of up to 39,595 ML of desalinated water over any period of five consecutive years that is delivered to a delivery point to the Melbourne headworks system. 9 The Resource Manager – Melbourne Water makes seasonal allocations monthly and maintains City West Water water account and carryover accounting. 10 The Hon Lisa Neville MP, Minister for Water announced a 15 GL desalinated water order for the 2018-19 year. City West Water received its share of 3,959.500 ML during 2018-19. The Hon Lisa Neville MP, Minister for Water announced a 125 GL desalinated water order for the 2019-20 year, of which 1,737.120 ML of City West Water’s total 32,995.833 ML share was delivered in 2018-19. 11 Compliance with the entitlement volumes is measured with respect to whether the annual volume taken exceeds the entitlement. This didn’t occur this year. Goulburn System 12 City West Water holds Bulk Entitlement (Goulburn System City West Water) Order 2012. Compliance requirements are set out in clauses 14.1(a)-(h). 13 City West Water holds this entitlement as a result of its investment in the Goulburn Murray Water Connections Project Stage 1. City West Water took no water from this resource in 2018-19. 14 The Resource Manager – the Northern Victorian Resource Manager makes allocation equal to one-ninth of the total Phase 4 water savings achieved in the Goulburn component of the Goulburn Murray Irrigation District (GMID) from Goulburn Murray Water Connections Project Stage 1 as verified in the latest audit. 15 Carryover on 30 June 2019 accounts for estimated evaporative losses of 417.404 ML. 16 City West Water has water management action plans in place to manage water allocations in excess of its use. These strategies include the transfer of allocations between bulk entitlement allocation accounts and selling water allocation. River Murray 17 City West Water holds Bulk Entitlement (Murray River – City West Water) Conversion Order 2012. Compliance requirements are set out in clauses 11.1(a)-(f). 18 City West Water holds this entitlement as a result of its investment in the Goulburn Murray Water Connections Project Stage 1. City West Water took no water from this resource in 2018-19. 19 The Resource Manager – the Northern Victorian Resource Manager makes allocation equal to one-ninth of the total Phase 4 water savings achieved in the River Murray component of the Goulburn Murray Irrigation District (GMID) from Goulburn Murray Water Connections Project Stage 1 as verified in the latest audit. 20 Carryover on 30 June 2019 accounts for estimated evaporative losses of 281.934 ML. 21 City West Water has water management action plans in place to manage water allocations in excess of its use. These strategies include the transfer of allocations between bulk entitlement allocation accounts and selling water allocation. 130 | Annual Report 2019 City West Water City West Water This publication is copyright. No part 1 McNab Avenue may be r eproduced by a process except Footscray Vic 3011 in accordance with the provisions of the ABN 70 066 902 467 Copyright Act 1968. citywestwater.com.au ISSN: 2203-9910 (Print) ISN: 2203-9929 (Online)
