UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 United Nations Global Compact GIRTEKA LOGISTICS CONTENT CEO LETTER ............................................................................................................................................ 4 OUR MISSION ......................................................................................................................................... 6 ROAD SAFETY.......................................................................................................................................... 8 HEALTHY LIFESTYLE.............................................................................................................................. 12 HUMAN RIGHTS ..................................................................................................................................... 16 LABOUR ................................................................................................................................................... 18 ENVIRONMENT ....................................................................................................................................... 20 ANTI-CORRUPTION ............................................................................................................................... 26 DIVERSITY ............................................................................................................................................... 28 EDUCATION A DIVERSE WORKFORCE OF 13 000+.......................................................................... 32 Copyright © All rights reserved. Contact: wecare@girteka.eu CEO LETTER In a dynamic, rapidly changing world, Girteka Logistics, as a leading, internationally recognised brand, has a strong opportunity to set an example and initiate a positive impact on our society. As such, we are pleased to present Transport is a vital part of our 4th CSR report, in which we highlight our achievements, as well as the actions showing our everyday life, and we how we are continuing to integrate and expand the Global Compact principles into our need to ensure that we business strategy through training, development, and local cultural and environmental manage and monitor the initiatives. impact we make. Our daily task is basically to deliver goods across a wide geographical area. Thus, in 2018 we announced having approximately 13.000 professional employees, more than 5.600 trucks and 5.800 trailers operating in Europe, company in Europe, and well trusted by its Scandinavia and beyond. That represents an growing number of customers”. intense growth of 30.% this year. Being the largest asset based FTL transport and logistics Within our sustainability progress, our main company in Europe, our ambition is to grow to objective remains towards the Vision Zero over 10.000 trucks and 23.000 employees by target. Our goal to help towards achieving this 2021. is to educate over 10 000 children by 2021. In addition, the implementation during 2018 of Transport is a vital part of our everyday life, and the innovative Transics system, empowering we need to ensure that we manage and monieasier tracking and on-time communication tor the impact we make. Our rapid growth as with our drivers, substantially contributed an international brand increases our responsitowards their safety and helped to save bility towards greater road safety. resources. Therefore during 2018, as part of a continuous Our mission statement perfectly emphasizes cooperation with the Lithuanian Police, we the social, environmental and economic participated in numerous significant, road responsibility we carry daily and a core princisafety related initiatives: Traffic Safety Day; the ple of this mission is ‘WE CARE‘. It’s a principle 100th anniversary of the Lithuanian Police; a we are committed to and implement throughcampaign of distributing reflectors “Be Visible”; out all internal and external operations and the discussion festival “Makes sense!” decisions. (“BŪTENT!”); and “Vision Zero” traffic safety conference. We are proud of the achievements, progress and positive impact Girteka Logistics has made One of the organizers of the latter event pointin corporate social and environmental responed out: “This is the first time I have met a transsibility throughout 2018 and we are looking port company that cares about road safety, forward to fulfilling our future challenges. drivers’ safety, education, running traffic schools for children and providing Eco driving. Kind regards, Girteka Logistics is the premium transport Edvardas Liachovičius 4 WHO WE ARE CSR /10 Principles Our mission, vision and values are essential elements of Girteka Logistics organizational strategy and serve as foundational guides in the establishment of our objectives. of the UN Global OUR MISSION Compact WHAT IT IS AND WHY WE DO IT SHAREOUR CLIENTS HOLDERS COMMUNITY HAULIERS VISION Girteka Logistics the first European company with 10 000 own trucks. VALUES THINK • We target excellence in all areas of our business • We combine best solutions for each and every client • We plan and achieve best results, with a clear focus on the process as well ACT • We invest in technology and innovative management practices • We take responsibility and achieve what we promise • We aim to deliver on time, with traffic safety our priority in planning LEAD Sustainability and environmental responsibility our board of directors and the company’s exec• We are flexible and take an individual approach to every request are an inherent part of our company’s DNA. utive leaders regularly communicate to our • We help each other to be leaders in our work From our very beginning we have made employees, clients and suppliers. • We act responsibly towards environment and communities consistent efforts to improve our social and environmental impact on the planet. We continue to support the UN Global Compact corporate governance principles on human Sustainability is essential to the way we do rights, better labour practices, environmental business, and as such, a keynote priority that protection and anti-corruption. 6 7 ROAD SAFETY seen at night. To emphasis this point, visitors There was also an interactive zone introducing have to find three cat visuals (without reflecthe public to police activities, and an entertaintors) which are quite difficult to find, and which ment space for children, along with the opporstrengthens the reason why reflectors should tunity for visitors to experience the Girteka be worn in the dark. This trailer is a regular part Logistics educational reflection zone trailer. of all of our external events. ‘BŪTENT’ (‘MAKES SENSE’) BE VISIBLE’ CAMPAIGN Girteka Logistics participated in the second Organised by the Lithuanian Road Administraannual discussion festival “Būtent!” (Makes tion, the ‘Be Visable’ campaign was launched Sense!). One of the main goals of the event is to in October by Rokas Masiulis Minister for demonstrate that important decisions are Transport and Communications. inseparable from a diversity of attitudes. Girteka Logistics provided its educational The initiative to hold discussion festival in reflective zone trailer, and local inhabitants Lithuania was inspired by the examples of were invited to visit it. Specialist consultations MORE THAN Democracy festivals in all Scandinavian counwere provided by the Road Administration and 1000 tries as well as Latvia and Estonia. We were the Ministry of Transport and Communications. invited to participate in the event by the Nordic Council of Ministers Office in Lithuania. The campaign will see more than 20.000 light reflectors distributed free of charge to PEOPLE VISITED OUR Our Strategic Partnerships Director, Kristian people throughout the rural regions to encourREFLECTION ZONE age them to be aware of the importance of Kaas Mortensen, participated in a panel discusbeing seen when walking near roads. sion on road safety entitled ‘No-One Died On The Road This Year’, held in the open air with fellow panelists including the Minister for TransNATIONAL ROAD port and Communications Mr Rokas Masiulis. SAFETY DAY The discussion revolved around activities and solutions that would significantly reduce the In 2018 we were proud to be a key partner in number of road accidents and help achieve Girteka Logistics is proud to be a member of the National Road Safety Day, along with the “Vision Zero” a strategy supported by the the United Nations Global Compact. We aim to organisers Lithuanian Police and Lithuanian Lithuanian Ministry as well as by national be a positive example in international logistics Road Administration. Governments across Europe. “It was very by actively participating in community events valuable for Girteka Logistics and myself to join and contributing to social initiatives. Girteka Logistics brought along two of its such a high level road safety discussion at special event trailers to support this special Butent. Road Safety is at the heart of our As one of the largest transport companies in day, including our educational reflection zone company, and with 10 000+ truck drivers on Europe we are pleased to be able to contribtrailer. Trainers from the Girteka Logistics the road we must engage at every possible ute to the promotion of road safety throughout Drivers Academy pointed out blind zones for angle to be the best in the industry,” said Lithuania. Our work in this field is actively drivers and provided advice on how pedestriKristian Kaas Mortensen. supported and helped by a close partnership ans should act when a truck is on the road. The with the Lithuanian Police who has been truck cab was available for visitors to climb into educating children about road safety for more During the two-day event, the audience was and experience the view a driver has and to invited to experience the Road Safety Zone for than ten years, and who is a regular coordinabecome acquainted with the cab’s integrated tor of all of our external road safety awareness children and adults, created specifically for this smart system. event by Girteka Logistics. Here children took events. part in interesting and entertaining lessons, LITHUANIAN POLICE learning road safety rules with an opportunity EDUCATIONAL 100th ANNIVERSARY to apply them in practice. In charge of the activities was Police Inspector-Commissioner Aistė REFLECTION ZONE At the end of September in Vilnius Cathedral Dijokaitė, “There is a lot of information about Girteka Logistics has invested in transforming a Square, Girteka Logistics took part in celebraroad safety, but in my experience,children trailer into a road safety educational zone. The Inside, in complete night-time darkness, tions for the 100th anniversary of the Lithuaniremember more and understand better when inside walls in this have been covered with visitors use only a small torch to read the an Police. The event began with a parade of they get involved in the lesson and can particiinformation panels, outlining road safety facts information. It is harder to see those visuals the Lithuanian Police School cadets, and a pate by sharing their own experience, ask and figures and providing tips and advice on that are without reflectors, highlighting the number of welcoming speeches from the questions and get answers from a road safety how to be safe on or near the road at night. importance of wearing reflectors in order to be President’s office and from several Ministers. specialist.” 8 9 ROAD SAFETY DAY “BŪTENT” Road safety day +youtube link Some numbers, Būtent photo +youtube link maybe statistics from reflector zone 6 Police 100 photo ROAD SAFETY +youtube link INITIATIVES LI T HU AN IAN PO LI C E 100 ANNIVERSARY ‘VISION ZERO’ In December, Girteka Logistics sponsored and from Sonja Forward, a Researcher at the participated in the two-day conference ‘Vision Swedish Road and Transport Research Zero for Sustainable Road Safety in the Baltic Institute (VTI) “This is first time I have met a Region’, held in Vilnius. The major aim of the transport company that care about road event was to highlight road safety by cooperasafety, driver’s safety, education, running tion between Sweden, Norway, Denmark and traffic schools for children and who provide Lithuania. Eco driving. Because of this, Girteka is a premium transport company in Europe, well The event had 41 presenters including the trusted by their growing number of customEuropean Commission Deputy Director ers”. General of DG MOVE. Participants and speakers came from eight European countries – all Vision Zero for road safety originated as a of who were also invited to visit the Girteka concept in Sweden in 1995, to focus on the Logistics educational reflection zone trailer. prevention of accidents so that no-one should die or be seriously injured in traffic. It is now an The event received considerable media initiative that has taken off in many countries coverage as well as a special commendation around the world. 10 Our reflector zone trailer at the “Būtent!” 11 HEALTHY Lifestyle UNICEF supporting com unity ev WE RUN V ilnius marathon en ts Girteka Logistics is a firm believer and support200 colleagues took part in 21 activities, er of promoting a healthy-lifestyle and sport including a series of lectures, and healthy activities. As part of our commitment to this, we eating and work-out sessions in offices, all of have helped to organise a wide variety of which were organized and delivered by employee related activities this year including professional coaches from a variety of sports basketball and football teams, running and and health clubs. biking marathons, an active summer party for employees, yoga, and much more. Colleagues worked up a sweat and enjoyed taking part in: flexibility/relaxation workout with CELEBRATING THE 25th foam rollers; playday with board games; lecture on healthy cooking and eating; nutrition ANNIVERSARY OF UNICEF yoga; laughter yoga; conscious breathing; We actively communicate and invest in road ‘pound rock out’; and a special session on safety by educating not just our drivers, but ‘getting ready for running’ with Ignas Brasevičialso the most valuable assets for the future – us – a Lithuanian long distance runner and children. A Girteka Logistics trailer-scene competitor in the men's marathon at the 2017 decorated the UNICEF children's race: „For World Athletics Championships. Every Child“. Another important national event that we happily participated in and one that we The wellness week was a great preparation for were very proud to have been part of. Even the 100 of our employees who participated in the smallest things contribute to a better tomorrow ‘We Run Vilnius’ half-marathon. All 100 for children in need. completed their distance and proved the importance of sport and healthy lifestyle. The two fastest male and female participants were CAKE DAY FOR OVER 3000 presented with special motivational gifts for CHILDREN‘S CHARITY FUND their success. “MAMŲ UNIJA” This initiative has become an integral part of ‘COMMUNITY CLEAN-UP TREES PLANTED social activities at Girteka Logistics. For one CAMPAIGN’ IN LITHUANIA day each year, working colleagues are invited Every year employees join a national traditionto bake and share cakes within the workplace. al community spring clean-up campaignAs well as a lot of cakes being eaten, the event Through this action, Girteka Logistics actively provides not only a lot of fun but also raises a demonstrates its commitment to responsible substantial amount of funds for the Lithuanian environmental practices, and in doing so, y charity fund Mamų Unija. This year, almost all ha rit Girteka Logistics divisions in Lithuania were encourages employees to consider more CAKE DAY /”Mamų unija” c responsible social and environmental behavinvolved in the initiative, and we raised just iour. over 2 000 Euro which went towards the improvement of the daily life of sick children. We believe, that the protection of the environment benefits us all, and we all share responsiSPORTS AND bility to ensure that future generations inherit a cleaner and more sustainable society. In WELLNESS WEEK addition to the clean-up action, Girteka LogisIn 2018, for the first time in the history of Girteka tics plants 1 000 trees, making it a total of Logistics, we organized a sports and wellness 4 000 trees planted since we started supportweek in all our offices. At six locations, over ing this campaign. 12 13 LITHUANIAN STREET MUSIC DAY 2018 We love Lithuanian culture and invariably strive to be part of it. Street Music Day we transformed one of our trailers into a live stage and invited the locally renowned pop band “Skamp” to perform. The trailer was open-air, and the weather was warm enough for Skamp OPEN DOOR DAY to perform live as we drove them around the streets of Vilnius. OPEN DAYS AT GIRTEKA LOGISTICS VILNIUS AND ŠIAULIAI HQs At our Vilnius administration HQ, we opened our doors to over 1 000 guests and visitors who came to see how we work, what we do, and how we do it – especially our LEAN system of operational management. At our transport and logistics HQ in Šiauliai, we opened our doors to welcome some special guests and neighbours, the Royal Danish Air Force – who are currently conducting a NATO air policing mission at the Šiauliai Lithuanian Air Force Base. During the visit NATO pilots and support-staff had a brief presentation of Girteka Logistics activities as well as a tour around the administration premises, including the drivers’ academy and the maintenance services. One of the most engaging and entertaining highlights of the visit was the truck parking and slalom competition whereby two teams of pilots competed against our drivers to complete the tasks in the most precise manner possible. SUMMER FESTIVAL Sustainability and social engagement between working colleagues are one of the keys to work-place wellbeing. As part of our efforts to encourage this, we annually organize a summer festival which this year included a competition to reach the national record for having the most people (more than 1000) at any one time blowing bubbles which we did! SUMMER FESTIVAL 'UNSEEN LITHUANIA' Girteka Logistics' Šiauliai transport centre appeared as a series of aerial photos in the photography album ‘Unseen Lithuania’ by the internationally acclaimed Lithuanian photographer Marius Jovaiša. The album shows unusual aerial views of the land and cities, of nature and historical buildings, and his pictures of our Šiauliai transport centre show the white tops of our trucks and trailers. 14 Šiauliai transport base in the “Unseen Lithuania”11 15 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Respect for human rights, equality and diversiMEASUREMENT AND ty are the main pillars in the workplace, and as such, are rooted into our company’s culture. FUTURE GOALS During 2018, we substantially increased our Girteka Logistics is proactive in its commitment visibility in the promotion of road safety and to the protection and safety of all employees. protection. This included high profile participaFor those areas of our business most exposed tion in two Lithuanian Ministry supported to safety risks, we have developed tailor-made events: ‘Butent’ and ‘Vision Zero’. awareness information and training resources, along with a management structure to support We will continue to encourage and monitor this commitment. feedback from employees through our ‘Kaizen’ process a system of improvement Nevertheless, safety remains our key priority through suggestions made by employees. In for the future, and whether on the road, at our addition, we will continue our efforts to own sites or those of our clients, we are promote a greater understanding of our Code committed to continuous improvement. of Conduct, in order to deepen the understanding of its importance across all levels of our company structure. Girteka Logistics ensures that: •.. Employees are provided with safe, suitable Building on our progress this year, one of our and sanitary work facilities. aims for 2019 is to continue to enhance •.. Employees at Girteka Logistics are protectemployee participation and understanding of ed from workplace harassment, including human rights and employee safety through an physical, verbal, sexual or psychological increased number of training courses and harassment, abuse or threats. through management education courses. We •.. Measures are taken to eliminate ingrediwant to grow our CSR so that we become a ents, designs, defects or side-efects that leader both nationally and internationally. could harm or threaten human life and health during usage or disposal of products At every stage of our supply chain, we endeavas well as while providing services. our to work closely with all of our partners, suppliers and clients to ensure that we all conduct only ethical, socially and environmentally conscious business decisions and good practices. 16 17 Therefore we must continue to engage with our employees at every step of our growth and ensure that the employee handbook reflects LABOUR this joint understanding. Girteka Logistics has labour unions within the company that every employee is free to join. We also have a range of employee activities funded by the Girteka Logistics that we will DRIVING SIMULATOR continue to support and seek feedback from in order to improve. In 2018 we initiated the ‘Yammer’ internal intranet system. This system will encourage a PRINCIPLE 3: greater culture of transparency, and help to gather ideas and feedback from across our Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effecworkforce in order to improve relations with, tive recognition of the right to collective bargaining. and services for our work colleagues. PRINCIPLE 4: We have a variety of employees with different nationalities and cultural backgrounds, and our The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. aim is to support and further develop our achievements in cultural and gender diversity. PRINCIPLE 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Our employees have annual mandatory work safety training courses in which they are PRINCIPLE 6: instructed on safety precautions and ergonomic posture in their working environment. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. CELEBRATING OUR Girteka Logistics respects and values the forced and compulsory labour; freedom of 10 000th DRIVER individuality and diversity that every employee association and the right to collective bargainApproximately 80.% of our employees are brings. We do not tolerate any form of discrimiing; child labour; discrimination and privacy; drivers, and that is why we proudly call them nation on any basis: gender, age, race, nationregular employment; health and safety; wages our frontline Ambassadors. At the start of 2018, ality, religion, disability, place of origin, gender and working hours – including driving time and we reached our 8 000th driver employed and identity, sexual orientation or any other reason, rest periods; safe driving and cabotage and by August we were celebrating our 10 000th and we seek to create a positive and open international driving. driver, a strong move towards our 2021 goal of working environment across all of our sites and having a total of 20 000 drivers employed by offices wherever we operate. We operate ethical employment and Girteka Logistics. We marked these milestones business practices that include: with celebrations and the presentation of a Girteka Logistics ensures that: Proactive commitment to workplace safety commemorative award to both drivers. •.. The company does not participate in any •.. on the road, at our own facilities, and at form of forced or bonded labour, nor do we client sites In line with how we value our drivers, we are accept child labour or the conditions that Respect for all individuals, valuing diversity constantly investing in better working condi•.. and never tolerating discrimination of any allow this. tions for them. During 2018 we purchased •.. Wages are in compliance with all relevant kind around 2 000 new DAF trucks and installed national labour laws and standards. ‘Transics’ a new transport management •.. Employment-related decisions are based MEASUREMENT AND system. We continuously improve our driver’s on relevant and objective criteria and education in our in-house Drivers Academy, 10 000th DRIVER agreed in partnership with employee repreFUTURE GOALS where we have a driving simulator and sentatives and unions. With ambitions to increase the number of 21 teachers. •.. Employees are granted freedom of associaemployees substantially in the coming three tion and are fully informed of their rights to years, it is an absolute prerequisite that we In addition, we are very pleased that our collective bargaining. place labour rights and employee conditions at drivers constantly initiate change and improvethe very top of our priorities. Our growth and ments through the Kaizen process, where they We are clear and unambiguous in our compasuccess is absolutely interdependent with the can submit ideas for improvements either via ny Code of Conduct on labour and labour respect and value we afford our employees. our website or in person at our transport rights, and make statements on the following centres. key elements of labour and working conditions: 18 19 500 NEW DAF TRUCKS 4 000 TREES PLANTING G OAL E T UR FU ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Being an environmentally responsible compaMEASUREMENT AND ny means getting the balance of economic, improve our environmental performance The main goals of our EMS are: social, and environmental factors right. We FUTURE GOALS through a faster and more thorough ability to •.. to reduce pollution, CO2 emissions, and take measures to minimize adverse impacts on We believe that the best measurement of identify risks and opportunities, how to waste human health and the environment throughout environmental impact can be seen in our asset minimise/maximise them, more specific •.. to increase the sorting and recycling of the value chain. This includes minimizing pollubased investments. We only invest in new qualitative evaluation, better awareness of life waste tion and its impact, promoting an efficient and highly energy efficient buildings and operacycle economics, and more emphasis on •.. to build awareness by involving employees sustainable use of resources, including energy tions. This includes environmentally correct communicating our results through external and partners in efforts to protect the and water, and minimizing CO2 emissions in collection, treatment and disbursement of any communication channels. environment transport. Our aim is to ensure that the local hazardous waste. •.. to apply green criteria for purchasing and environment at sites of administration, producWe are constantly strengthening our use of procurement tion, warehouses or garages shall not be intermodal solutions in order to reduce our •.. to comply with environmental legislation We continue to strive to have the most energy exploited or degraded. CO2 emissions and use more eco-friendly •.. to prevent potential environmental incidents efficient fleet of trucks and trailers in Europe, transportation of cargo. In 2018, a new and be ready to address any that might We invest considerable resources in training Girteka Logistics ensures that: intermodal train line was opened in Calais, occur our employees in using this equipment to the France and we had the honour to participate in •.. Emergency procedures are in place to highest standards, including extensive this event. This way of cargo transportation prevent and address accidents affecting the eco-driving skills training (with our drivers requires half the number of trucks and half the GREEN TRANSPORT environment and human health. winning awards in the process). •.. Environmental damage is avoided via human resources, and reduces the occurTECHNOLOGY rence of road accidents, technical damage or regular maintenance of the supply-chain This year we continued our programme of Girteka Logistics is the leading FTL carrier in wear. and environmental protection system (air reducing paper usage, of using only eco paper Europe, with with a new fleet consisting of pollution control, waste, water treatment and encouraging e-invoicing which is now comfortable and spacious Volvo, systems, etc.). more than 50% of all of our invoices. In ENVIRONMENTAL Mercedes-Benz, and DAF trucks. Making •.. We only invest in energy efficient facilities addition, we have continued our pledge of MANAGEMENT SYSTEM these trucks run at maximum technological and equipment, from offices and warehousplanting 1 000 trees per year, making our total capacity is something we invest heavily in. es to trucks and trailers, where the goal is to to date of 4 000 trees planted. ISO 14001:2015 be the most fuel-efficient road carrier in Girteka Logistics has a well implemented Europe Since 2011, Girteka Logistics has had a well Environmental Management System (EMS) •.. Handling and storage of chemical and other implemented Environmental Management which is certified to ISO 14001:2015 standard. dangerous substances is done in accordSystem which is certified under the ISO Having this reassures both clients and employance to international requirements and rules 14001:2004 standard and now upgraded to ees of our green commitment and of wanting (Girteka Logistics holds ADR certificate). ISO 14001:2015 version. This helps us to to make a real difference every day. 20 21 ECO LEAGUE INITIATIVES TOP 100 EUROPE’S DIGITAL CHAMPIONS (FINANCIAL TIMES) At the end of March, Girteka Logistics, installed CO2 and other pollutants into the environ“Transics” a fleet digital transport management. Our trailers also use the latest fuel-effiment system . Since then, all trucks and trailers cient cooling technologies, with solar batteries have integrated tablets with this innovative to charge the cooling units. Solar batteries are software that sends and receives all the also used on our trucks to help maintain a GPS real-time data relevant to managers and signal. customers. For example, if a truck deviates from the route or changes its temperature, the ECO LEAGUE – A NEW Girteka Help Centre is automatically informed, and can then immediately contact and assist ECONOMICAL DRIVING the driver. INITIATIVE AT GIRTEKA This system also has apps for mobile phones, LOGISTICS so communication with the driver is available ECO League is a motivational programme for even when the driver is outside the truck. This drivers at Girteka Logistics to encourage safe innovative fleet tracking system package helps and economical driving. By employing this us to improve fleet efficiency and customer initiative, we can reduce the risk of errors and service. accidents while protecting the environment and improving the quality of our services. At the end of November, the Financial Times news portal announced a list of the top 100 The first season of ECO League ran from July 1, most innovative companies in Europe. Among 2018 until December 31, with the following their ranks was a single Lithuanian company criteria used to calculate the ECO score: idling Girteka Logistics. We were highly praised by time, coasting, average brake counter, the “Financial Times” for our achievements in average stop counter. Participants were those corporate digital innovation this year. drivers who had completed ECO training. GREENER TRUCKS AND Depending on the economic indicator collectTRAILERS ed, participants fell into a relevant category: bronze, silver, gold or platinum. Each of the Girteka has the newest and most environmendrivers had the opportunity to rise from a lower tally friendly fleet of over 5 600 trucks with an qualification group to a higher one and vice average age of just two-years. They meet versa. Euro 6 emission standards, which compared with earlier models, release substantially less 22 Drivers Academy truck23 On January 9, 2019 Vilnius Transport Unit of Girteka Logistics welcomed Laimutis Gervinskas as the winner of the first ECO League season. Laimutis, a longtime employee of Girteka Logistics, collected 97.19 points out of 100 and won a holiday travel voucher worth 1000 Euro. According to the winning driver, such programmes as ECO League are really beneficial and should be further developed. Congratulating the winning driver, Chief Transport Officer Donatas Načajus said: “Today we are happy that our growth and development is proven not only by numbers, but also by ensuring the quality of transportation! When driving economically, we also drive safely and responsibly, thus reducing the risk of errors and accidents.” The second season of ECO League started on January 1, 2019. The finish of the season and the calculation of results is scheduled for June 30 2019. GIRTEKA LOGISTICS TESTS IVECO LIQUEFIED NATURAL Iveco Stralis 460 LNG gas-powered trucks. GAS (LNG) TRUCKS The initial results look promising. Girteka Logistics has an increasing number of “We started our first tests with LNG trucks last clients who have extremely high environmenyear. Already then we noticed that 100 kilometal expectations, and as such we are continualters of LNG powered truck can drive about 20 ly looking to reduce our CO2 emissions from percent cheaper. We checked not only the across our trucks and transport services. With fuel consumption, but also how many these increasing client expectations, Girteka kilometres a truck can overcome with fully Logistics has recently been testing several charged gas reserves. The results showed that our drivers managed to drive 1500 km with a full tank of fuel” said Donatas Načajus, Chief Transport Officer at Girteka Logistics. With 98% of Girteka Logistics’ clients based outside Lithuania, the testing was carried out in the Benelux countries and in France. Trucks using Bio LNG can substantially contribute towards the reduction of CO2 emissions by up to 85%, as well as the reduction of particulate CO2 85 % matter and nitrous oxide (NOx) by as much as 95%. 95 Although the cost of purchasing LNG trucks is higher than that of conventional fuel trucks, % NOX Girteka Logistics recognises that the environmental benefits are clear, and as such, we will remain committed to using LNG trucks in 2019. What‘s more, as our client base becomes more demanding in their environmental requirements, our move into building a larger fleet of cleaner fuel trucks will continue. 24 Girteka Logitics LNG truck25 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Girteka Logistics has a clear ethics code and ethical business standards and uphold them anti-corruption policy, including transparent in their day-to-day work. Our Code of procurement procedures. We are clear and Conduct is used as the foundation for our unambiguous in our company Code of training on these subjects. The Code of Conduct on anti-corruption and compliance Conduct was updated in 2017 and is availawith laws, and in this, we make the following ble for download on our company website. statements: MEASUREMENT AND •.. Corruption in any form is not accepted, including bribery, extortion, kickbacks FUTURE GOALS and improper private or professional We believe that a continued strong focus on benefits to customers, agents, contracour procurement operations remains of high tors, suppliers, or employees of any such importance to the way we operate and do party or government officials. business. We will continue to balance our •.. We are committed to conduct business negotiations and ensure transparent and only with reputable customers and suppliopen procurement procedures. ers involved in legitimate business activities with funds derived from legitimate As a company we participate in numerous sources. tenders and transactions in many different •.. Our employees comply with applicable countries, both as an issuer and as a recipilaws and regulations governing our ent of tenders. We believe we must monitor business activities worldwide. We respect this area and educate our employees and regulations of competition laws. management on a continual basis. •.. The confidence of all information and business data is respected In 2019 we will continue to reinforce awareness of our values and of our Code of GIRTEKA LOGISTICS Conduct by including this in our education ENSURES THAT: activities for all our employee groups. In addition, with over 3.000 clients and suppli•.. Our company is not involved in and does ers, we will continually strive to ensure that not accept corruption when doing they are all fully aware of our commitment to business. the UN Global Compact 10 Principles. •.. Anti-corruption and/or ethical behavior measures are mentioned while agreeing Within the company, we have systems in on contracts and business discussions place to allow employees the possibility to with business partners. report safely and anonymously. This system •.. Internal procedures are established to we will continue to monitor and to ensure support the company’s anti-corruption that it provides a safe and secure reporting commitment. structure for employees/clients to report any malpractices. Our employees are continuously trained and expected to familiarize themselves with the 26 DIVERSITY GENDER AND NATIONALITY well-developed systems that combine not DIVERSITY GENDER only IT solutions but also training and commuThe Drivers Academy is the heart and soul of nication with drivers. “We have been investGirteka Logistics. Here we annually train our ing for many years in our drivers 'theoretical 11 000+ professional drivers in a variety of and practical training at Girteka Logistics technical skills including eco-driving, road Drivers' Academy, so drivers choose Girteka safety, and a wide range of national and Logistics when there is a shortage of such international specific industry requirements. experienced and professional drivers in Head of this academy is Mrs. Daiva Kirklienė, Europe and Scandinavia. believes Daiva who has helped to develop the academy to Kirklienė. be one of the leading technical training establishments in Europe. With her extensive We asked Daiva a few questions about her team, she is constantly improving road safety and the work she does with Girteka Logistics. through improving the skills and technical abilities of our drivers. She provides Girteka Truck driving is traditionally considered a Logistics with a truly aspirational and exempredominantly male domain, how did you get plary model of female leadership within our interested in truck driving and training company, perhaps especially so to the programmes? female drivers we have. I always take all challenges life gives, and the Girteka Logistics’ Drivers Academy operates chance to run the Drivers Academy was a across three main centres: in Šiauliai, in completely new activity from the very start Vilnius and in Smolensk. There are not only even until now. In addition, I like to drive and I the administrative services of the training learned to drive a motorcycle and a car while teachers, accounts team, and transport I was still studying at school. Only since workmanagers housed, but also modern facilities ing at Girteka Logistics have I learned to drive for drivers returning from voyages – includa truck, but I still don’t have a truck driving ing washing and drying machines, showers, licence. toilets, kitchen, and snack vending machines. Your training programme is split between theory and practical, how long does it take to The training duties are split between the complete the training and do you have a three centres with those who carry cargo to 100% success rate? and from European countries, trained in Šiauliai, those who transport cargo to the Training takes five days and is a mix of theory Scandinavian countries, trained in Vilnius and practical learning. Depending on the type and for transportation in the East are trained of training, every driver must repeat this every in Smolensk. one or two years. Not all student drivers are successful however, and from the first day of The training programmes are all overseen by training, there are always a few students who the Head of the Drivers Academy, Daiva dont pass. For these, they receive a negative Kirklienė who is in charge of a team of 21 grade and must retake the whole course teachers. For some time now, Girteka Logisagain in full. If they dont pass this they will not tics has been working with reliable and be employed by Girteka Logistics. 28 Head of the Drivers Academy, Daiva Kirklienė ECO Driving, is this mandatory for all drivers or is it available for just those who are interested? Our ECO driving training is mandatory and all our drivers are trained in ECO driving and afterwards eligible to take part in our ECO league. Is your training programme self developed? All of our training programmes are developed by us in accordance with EU regulations, and national directives on freight transport. When preparing and constantly updating programmes, we encourage and listen to comments and suggestions from our BACK colleagues (processes, claims, law, transport, etc.). In developing the ECO driving training programme we cooperated with OFFICE 58 42 % % trailer manufacturers and we keep in regular touch with them, discussing various eco driving parameters. We are very pleased that trailer manufacturers are already taking our comments and suggestions into account when designing software upgrades to reduce fuel consumption. With such a diverse range of nationalities, how do you manage the communication process within the academy? With regard to the different nationalities we have – and we have around 18 different nationalities within our drivers it’s still enough to communication mainly using Lithuanian and Russian. However, during this year, we plan to start training using also Polish and English. DIVERSITY NATIONALITIES Girteka Logistics welcomes and embraces a 20 DIFFERENT range of different nationalities. Our Code of NATIONALITIES Conduct makes clear our stance on diversity EMPLOYED in the workplace ensuring that there is no discrimination on nationality, religion, sexual orientation, and gender. We are proud of the diversity in our nationalities and can cite amongst our drivers citizens from such diverse countries as Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Georgia, Moldova, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, and the Philippines. 30 EDUCATION A DIVERSE WORKFORCE OF 13 000+ 80 MANAGERS STUDYING IN ISM UNIVERSITY EDUCATIONAL AND quick adaptation to market changes. “Cooperation with the ISM University of 500 PARTICIPANTS IN NEWBIE DAY CULTURAL INITIATIVES Management and Economics is essential for Employee development and improvement is a us as a fast growing company in order to train highly important value to us, and one in which professional managers and motivate our we are constantly investing in. We have more reserve managers . We strive to make sure than 10 training programmes focused on that our managers employ methods that are solving emerging challenges in working consistent with future business trends to situations, as well as external training courses, ensure effective teamwork and internal corpoe-learning programmes, and the newly estabrate culture. It is our goal to inspire our “We have a significantly different business lished Masters and leadership courses in colleagues to grow and improve together with model than our main international peers such partnership with ISM University. the company.” says Edvardas Liachovičius, as DSV, DB Schenker, DHL and Kühne & Chief Executive Officer of Girteka Logistics. Nagel, in that we own our trucks and employ In 2018 Girteka Logistics’ Training Academy’s our own drivers. Our ability to deliver high the most popular training programs were quality and increasing capacity with our own Newbie Day for 500 back office employees assets has put us in pole position”, says ATTRACTING NEW DRIVERS Kristian Kaas Mortensen, Strategic Partnerand sales & customer service trainings for 400 managers. European companies are greatly challenged ships Director, Girteka Logistics. by a lack of truck drivers, whilst Girteka LogisWe also provide career orientation for young tics has now grown to more than 3 000 new Girteka Logistics continues to implement people, including programmes for university drivers in 2018. simple, yet industry leading and business career days in partnership with universities and improving initiatives ranging from advanced Trucks Driver Challenge 2018 that took place colleges. truck driver recruitment and training to setting in Gothenburg, Sweden in September. up a technology lab outside the company that For younger children we organise a range of will further empower technological advances. Vygintas said: “It was my first participation in highly successful events through the year such Girteka Logistics expects to deliver nearly this type of competition. I was not particularly as Traffic Safety Days organized with the local STUDIES IN ISM UNIVERSITY 450.000 full truck loads in 2018, making the prepared for the competition, but every day police. company a noticeable logistics leader. spent teaching others to drive safely and economically helped enormously”. LEADERSHIP MANAGEMENT– WINNING TRUCKS DRIVER There were around 12 000 drivers from 44 PARTNERSHIP WITH CHAMPIONSHIP markets worldwide participating in national ISM UNIVERSITY Every two years, the Volvo Trucks Driver qualifying competitions. The Lithuanian Challenge highlights the very best drivers who qualifying tournament in fact turned out to be a As many as 80 Girteka Logistics company very good day’s work for Girteka Logistics, as take safe, fuel efficient and productive driving managers have started their studies at the ISM we scooped the top three prizes in an to an art form. University of Management and Economics extremely tough and challenging driving where they will learn effective leadership skills competition. We are so proud that Girteka Logistics Drivers and management methods and techniques. Academy teachers took part in, and won first This programme is the first business-oriented The final in Gothenburg, Sweden saw Vyginthree places in the national heat of the Volvo product of such a large scale developed by tas compete against 32 of the best drivers Trucks Driver Challenge. the ISM University, setting a new standard for from all over the world to showcase top-class company investment in employee education. skills for the World Champion title. We firmly The winner of the Lithuanian truck driver The long-term cooperation between Girteka believe that representing Lithuania was a top championship Mr. Vygintas Vitkauskas has Logistics and the ISM University is the result of award for Drivers Academy and a great recogbeen qualified as the single Lithuanian reprean innovative approach to business trends and nition for Girteka Logistics. sentative to compete in the international Volvo 32 33 CERTIFICATES: ISO 9001 – QUALITY MANAGEMENT Our quality management system is certified according to ISO 9001 standard. Its key objectives are creating added value for clients in ways consistent with profitable growth, providing high-quality services on time, and regularly offering clients new solutions. ISO 14001 – ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Our environmental management system is certified according to ISO 14001 standard. Girteka Logistics strives to take a green approach in everything it does. See the section of this site on environmental protection. Girteka Logistics as well work to reduce environmental pollution and CO2 emissions. We encourage the sorting of waste within the company for recycling and waste disposal. GDP (GOOD DISTRIBUTION PRACTICE) Girteka Logistics is working with many leading Pharma companies, we follow GDP (Good Distribution Practice). Girteka Logistics GDP certified by SGS. Obtaining this GDP certificate from SGS further underlines Girteka Logistics commitment to be the best in class in every industry it operates. For GDP transport we use a dedicated part of our fleet, and employees who are trained in and fully understand GDP. Part of our benefits are: GDP compliant fleet, where we only use our own trucks and trailers New Frigo trailers with double deck capability Full FTL coverage in Europe, Scandinavia and CIS GDP supported by standard operating procedures Access to our 24/7/365 service backed by our SOS center On time deliveries with high capacity SQAS (SAFETY & QUALITY ASSESSMENT SYSTEM) ATTESTATION The attestation confirms that Transport service assessment has been carried at Girteka Logistics. The assessment covers the “Core” and “Transport service specific” elements Copyright © All rights reserved. and has been carried out using the Cefic SQAS Transport service Questionnaire and Contact: wecare@girteka.eu Guidelines. SQAS – is a detail report which each chemical company needs to evaluate according to its own requirements. TAPA TSR LEVEL 1 Our security management system is certified according to TAPA TSR level 1 standard. The Transport Asset Protection Association (TAPA) standard provides the minimum acceptable security requirements to ensure the protection for high value goods transportation. 34 Contact Us: +370 5 239 4090 info@girteka.eu www.girteka.eu /company/GirtekaLogistics /GirtekaLogistics /GirtekaLogistic /c/GirtekaGroup
