ACHIEVING Sustainability Report 2017/18 MORE 2 Foreword Foreword GRI 102-14 April 2019 Dear readers, We are in an exciting transformation phase at the moment: As part of our company vision, we set ourselves the objective of developing Aurubis from a copper producer to a multi-metal group by 2025. Due in part to this transformation, sustainability is the foundation of our activities and will continue to guide them to a great extent. For example, sustainability is an integral part of our new Group strategy, which focuses on growth, efficiency, and responsibility. We developed and adopted the new Sustainability Strategy 2018–2023 accordingly. It encompasses the aspects “People – Environment – Economy” and is intended as a framework for responsible corporate governance into the future as well. Sustainability has always been the foundation of our activities – and it will continue to guide them to a great extent. Our current projects are making valuable contributions to the success of both the company strategy and the Sustainability Strategy. Two examples are our growth project Future Complex Metallurgy (FCM) and our new management system, the Aurubis Operating System (AOS). FCM will contribute to our strategic target of doubling the volume of directly supplied complex recycling raw materials in the Aurubis Group by 2022/23 compared to 2016/17. AOS helps us achieve continuous improvements in results and avoid operating losses. On the following pages, we provide an overview of the instruments, measures, and activities from fiscal year 2017/18 that demonstrate our emphasis on responsible business activity. Our strategic focus on Economy is increasingly influenced by our “closing-the-loop” approach. With our multi-metal recycling, we are closing the material cycle for copper and other metals. Two numbers highlight the importance this circular economy holds for us: With about 700,000 t of recycling materials processed per year, we are the world’s largest copper recycler, producing roughly one-third of our copper cathodes from recycling material. Multi-metal recycling therefore contributes substantially to our sustainable success – from both an economic and ecological perspective. Our Industrial Heat project is an excellent success story for the strategic focal point Environment: In October 2018, we commissioned a 3.7-km-long pipeline that transfers excess heat from our Hamburg plant to our partner enercity, which then supplies the neighborhood HafenCity East with heat. We avoid 20,000 t of CO2 per year as a result. We therefore improve the CO2 balance outside of our plant premises as well, making a significant contribution to the energy transition. Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 Foreword 3 From left to right: DR. THOMAS BÜNGER Chief Operating Officer JÜRGEN SCHACHLER Chief Executive Officer RAINER VERHOEVEN Chief Financial Officer To be successful in the long term, it is essential for us to be able to depend on qualified employees now and in the future. Consequently, training and education will remain key components of People, another strategic focus. We continuously train our employees through qualification and development programs. At the same time, we train young people in many occupations – with consistently high retention rates that we are proud of. Two modern training centers were recently built in Hamburg and Lünen, creating excellent conditions for us to continue on this path in the future. We present these and other sustainability achievements transparently in this Sustainability Report. Like Sustainability Reports in years past, this report is oriented CONTENTS to the internationally recognized guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and serves as the Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact (UNGC) at 4 Company Profile the same time. We have participated in the UNGC since late 2014 and support its ten 7 Sustainability at Aurubis 14 Economy principles. Moreover, we take part in climate protection initiatives such as the CDP 23 Environment (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project), and in our company’s Annual Report 2017/18, 35 People we published a separate Non-Financial Report in accordance with the German CSR 48 Sustainability Strategy 2013–2018 Directive Implementation Act for the first time ever. 50 About this Report 52 GRI Content Index 58 Imprint As a member of society, we believe it is important to maintain a dialogue with employees, customers, suppliers, politics and society, capital market participants, the media, non-governmental organizations, and the scientific community. We are regularly in contact with our key stakeholders regarding all topics relevant to sustainability, for instance in one-on-one discussions or at shareholder events, visitor open houses, and customer and supplier meetings. We would like to warmly invite you, too, to be in contact with us, to stay up to date online by visiting www.aurubis.com, and to approach us if you have any questions – we welcome your ideas and comments! Sincerely, Jürgen Schachler Dr. Thomas Bünger Rainer Verhoeven Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 4 Company Profile Company Profile GRI 102-1, 102-3, 102-4, 102-5 Aurubis AG is a provider of non-ferrous metals that operates For this purpose, we use copper concentrates that are obtained worldwide. As an integrated group, we process complex metal from ores and are offered by mining and trading companies on the concentrates, scrap metals, and metal-bearing recycling materials global market. We purchase the necessary raw materials for our into metals of the highest purity. In addition to our main metal, two primary smelters in Hamburg and Pirdop (Bulgaria) – we don’t copper, our product portfolio also includes gold, silver, hold any stakes in mines. lead, nickel, tin, minor metals such as tellurium and selenium, and platinum group metals. In addition to copper concentrates, we also process copper scrap and other metal-bearing recycling materials and bought-in The company’s headquarters is located in Hamburg (Germany). intermediate products at our secondary smelters in Lünen The headquarters is also home to key production facilities. Our (Germany) and Olen (Belgium), among other sites. We source additional sites are primarily located in Europe, with larger most of the materials on the European market. The main suppliers production centers in Germany, Belgium, and Bulgaria. Furthermore, are metal trading companies, though some recycling materials we also have a production site in the US, and a global sales and also reach us directly from product manufacturers. service network. We produce copper cathodes, some of which we process A VARIETY OF METALS – OUR BUSINESS MODEL further into standard and specialty products made of copper and GRI 102-2 its alloys. Products made of different metals and a series of other by-products such as iron silicate and sulfuric acid round off our In accordance with our Vision 2025, we are consistently expanding portfolio. Aurubis’ customers include companies in the semi-finished our current business model, which is focused on copper, to products industry; the electrical, electronics, and chemical encompass a broader multi-metal approach. We are increasingly industries; and suppliers of the renewable energies, construction, extracting other metals in addition to copper from systematically and automotive sectors. purchased raw materials and intermediate products and then processing them into marketable value-added products. From raw materials to end users – An overview of the value chain and our business model Raw materials Metal Refining & Processing Processors and end users »» Copper concentrates Cathodes Precious metals »» Cable and »» Blister copper Recycling Minor metals wire industry »» Copper scrap Rod Sulfuric acid »» Construction sector »» E-scrap »» Machinery and Shapes Iron silicate »» Other plant engineering recycling materials Specialty profiles »» Transportation »» Chemistry »» Other applications Flat Rolled Products Flat rolled products Specialty wire Aurubis AG Upstream and downstream value-added stages Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 Company Profile 5 Europe, the US, and Asia – Our sites and employees GRI 102-4, 102-7 EUROPE ASIA DE Hamburg Headquarters 2,462 CN Shanghai Aurubis Metal Products 5 Aurubis AG (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.1 E. R. N. Elektro-Recycling 13 Hong Kong 3 1 NORD GmbH Beijing 3 1 Peute Baustoff GmbH 12 UAE Dubai Aurubis Middle East FZE 1 3 Lünen Aurubis AG 629 SG Singapore 3 3 TH Bangkok 3 3 Stolberg Aurubis Stolberg 438 JP Tokyo 3 1 GmbH & Co. KG Emmerich Deutsche Giessdraht GmbH 112 KR Seoul 3 1 Fehrbellin CABLO Metall-Recycling & 47 VN Ho Chi 3 1 Handel GmbH Minh City Röthenbach RETORTE GmbH Selenium 44 Employees in Asia 19 Chemicals & Metals Nersingen/ CABLO Metall-Recycling & 18 Total employees 6,673 Strass Handel GmbH All of the companies listed in the table are fully consolidated in the Aurubis Annual Report 2017/18, with the exception of those indicated as non-consolidated companies. Berlin Aurubis AG 3 Group Representative Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG, Stolberg (DE), 308 employees, Office is not included; these employees are not in the table. Hanau Aurubis AG 2 1 Non-consolidated company. BG Pirdop Aurubis Bulgaria AD 866 2 After the end of the fiscal year, we opened a new sales office in Tampa, Florida, with two employees on October 1, 2018. These two employees are not included in this table or in the employee figures reported. BE Olen Aurubis Belgium NV/SA 582 3 Agency/self-employed sales employee, non-consolidated. Brussels Aurubis Belgium NV/SA 27 NL Zutphen Aurubis Netherlands BV 311 FI Pori Aurubis Finland Oy 262 IT Avellino Aurubis Italia S.r.l. 95 Raw materials Sales and distribution network Mortara Aurubis Mortara S. p. A. 28 Concentrates and recycling materials An international sales and are the raw materials used to produce distribution network markets UK Smethwick/ Aurubis UK Ltd 23 copper. our products. Birmingham SK Dolný Kubín Aurubis Slovakia s. r. o. 16 SE Finspång Aurubis Sweden AB 9 – FR Lyon/ Aurubis Product 3 Products Slitting centers Septème Sales GmbH The copper is processed into products. Service centers located near our RU St. Aurubis Rus LLC1 3 Some products are already the result of customers slit strip to the desired Petersburg copper production. dimensions. ES Barcelona Aurubis Product 1 Sales GmbH TR Istanbul Aurubis Turkey Kimya 1 Cathodes Specialty profiles Anonim Sirketi 1 Employees in Europe 6,007 Iron silicate Specialty wire US 2 Rod Strip/foil US Buffalo Aurubis Buffalo Inc. 642 Sulfuric acid Precious metals Chicago Aurubis Buffalo Inc. 5 Employees in the US 647 Shapes Minor metals Status: September 30, 2018 Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 6 Company Profile THE FRAMEWORK FOR OUR ACTIVITIES – »» S egment Flat Rolled Products (FRP) processes copper and OUR GROUP STRUCTURE copper alloys – primarily brass, bronze, and high-performance In fiscal year 2017/18, the Aurubis Group’s organizational structure alloys – into flat rolled products and specialty wire and then was oriented to the underlying business model. The Group’s markets them. We plan to leave the strip sector and further organizational structure is made up of two operating segments: strengthen our strategic orientation towards the multi-metal business. In fiscal year 2017/18, we therefore signed a contract »» S egment Metal Refining & Processing (MRP) processes with Wieland-Werke AG to sell Segment FRP. The European complex metal concentrates, copper scrap, and metal-bearing Commission blocked the sale in February 2019. We are currently recycling materials into metals of the highest quality. From an reviewing other strategic alternatives for this business area. organizational perspective, MRP includes the Commercial and Operations divisions. The Commercial division combines raw This organizational core is framed by the central functions material purchasing and product sales, while the Operations Corporate Development and Technology, as well as by supporting division is responsible for manufacturing all of the base products units such as Human Resources and Finance & Controlling. and metals, as well as processing them further into products such as rod and shapes. Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 Sustainability at Aurubis 7 Sustainability at Aurubis Sustainability is a significant part of our activities. This includes a The original Sustainability Strategy ended during the reporting responsible approach to all people affected by these activities, for period and has now been replaced by our new Sustainability instance employees, suppliers, customers, and neighbors. The same Strategy 2018–2023. The development process in 2017 was broken applies to our environment, as we are aware of the limits of natural down into two phases. In the first phase, we analyzed the internal resources and want to keep negative impacts from our business and external requirements, as well as current trends. With the to a minimum. Sustainable business conduct is enshrined in our support of the relevant departments, we determined the status company culture – at the individual sites and across all business quo, potential for improvement, and areas that require attention processes. at Aurubis. In the second phase, we assessed this information and reviewed the key topics from the 2015 materiality matrix to Based on our company vision, we are developing Aurubis into a determine whether they were up to date or possibly needed to be multi-metal group. To advance this transformation process, we shifted. The results were used to derive the Sustainability Strategy’s revised our Group strategy in 2017. Sustainability is an integral nine action areas, which can be categorized under the three focal component of this Group strategy, which illustrates the high priority points People, Environment, and Economy. For each of these focal placed on responsible corporate governance at Aurubis. Our points, we set up a working group made up of representatives from responsible conduct is not limited to our company, but extends the relevant departments, which developed concrete targets and beyond the plant boundaries as well. measures for each action area in workshops. RESPONSIBLY PLANNING THE FUTURE – OUR The Aurubis Sustainability Strategy SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Responsible corporate governance makes an important contribution to securing our company’s future. Our Sustainability Strategy 2018– 2023 establishes the framework. It follows the company’s mission of responsibly transforming raw materials into value to provide metals for an innovative world. Based on the pillars of People, Environment, and Economy, we developed concrete targets and action plans for individual areas to make the company’s sustainable development measurable and controllable. We thus continue to expand the sustainability activities that we have systematically structured and expanded over the past several years – from sustainability reporting to the development of our first Sustainability Strategy in 2013. The Sustainability Strategy 2013–2018 and the status of the targets can be found at the end of the report on pages 48-49. Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 8 Sustainability at Aurubis Our Sustainability Strategy – Action areas, measures, and targets ECONOMY Growth and innovation Target: W e have set ourselves the target of growing in the processing of complex raw materials. This will increase the importance of other metals besides copper in Aurubis’ portfolio. Key measures KPIs » Developing and implementing innovative metallurgical processes »1  00 % increase in sales of metals besides copper by FY 2022/23 with which we can expand our raw material base, among other things (base FY: 2016/17) » Establishing new sales channels for metals with strong demand growth » Improvement in earnings: project success of € 200 million by FY 2019/20 » Sustainably, successfully implementating the efficiency enhancement (base FY: 2014/15) program » Return on capital employed (ROCE): 15 % target Recycling solutions Target: We have set ourselves the target of using a larger volume of complex secondary raw materials in addition to copper raw materials, extracting many other metals besides copper in order to make these metals useful for society. Key measures KPIs » Increasing the volume of complex recycling materials sourced » Direct sourcing of complex recycling materials from collection points: » Establishing and developing “closing-the-loop” systems as a result 100 % volume growth by FY 2022/23 (base FY: 2016/17) of new or intensified cooperation with original equipment manufacturers » Number of “closing-the-loop” systems with direct and indirect (OEMs), retailers, or copper product customers product customers from the metal value chain: target increase of » Analyzing market conditions and future opportunities for sustainable at least 10 by 2022/23 (base FY: 2017/18) products (think tank for metals, products, and services) Responsible supply chain Target: We have set ourselves the target of continuing to manage our supply chains responsibly. In the process, we will take impacts on the social environment, the natural environment, and economic aspects into account. Key measures KPIs » Introducing the Aurubis Business Partner Code of Conduct » Percentage of contracts with primary raw material suppliers including a across the Group (by FY 2018/19) human rights clause: 100 % target by FY 2022/23 (base FY: 2016/17; » Implementing Aurubis Business Partner Screening across the Group base percentage > 80 %) (by FY 2020/21) » Including human rights, environmental protection, and safety clauses in supply contracts for primary raw materials (by FY 2022/23) » Identifying a suitable sector solution ENVIRONMENT Energy and climate Target: We have set ourselves the target of further increasing our energy efficiency and reducing CO2 emissions wherever possible. Key measures KPIs » Introducing the ISO 50001 standard for energy management » More flexibility in electricity use: 10 % target by FY 2022/23 across the Group (by FY 2021/22) » CO2 emissions: reduction target > 100,000 t by FY 2022/23 » Increasing flexibility in electricity purchasing (base FY: 2012/13) » Energy efficiency projects (such as increased heat extraction for supplying district heating and internal company electricity projects) » Investigating processes and electricity consumption in relation to the German Climate Action Plan 2050 and analyzing the requirements for new investments (starting FY 2018/19) Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 Sustainability at Aurubis 9 Protection from environmental impact Target: We have set ourselves the target of conserving natural resources and maintaining a clean environment for future generations. Key measures KPIs » Introducing the ISO 14001 standard for environmental » Specific metal emissions to water: reduction target of 40 % by 2022 management across the Group (by 2022) (base year: 2012, copper production) » Reducing specific metal emissions to water in multi-metal » Specific dust emissions to air: reduction target of 15 % by 2022 production with site-specific projects and individual measures (base year: 2012, copper production) » Reducing specific dust emissions to air in multi-metal production with site-specific projects and individual measures » Reducing specific SO2 emissions to air with site-specific projects and individual measures PEOPLE Training and education Target: We have set ourselves the target of providing qualifications to our employees, continuously strengthening their skills, and promoting their development to ensure mutual success and motivation. Key measures KPIs » Regularly identifying qualification needs to expand project, process, » Training hours used for development measures: target and management expertise in a targeted way (by FY 2022/23) of 18 hours per FTE (full-time equivalent) and year by FY 2022/23 » Group-wide introduction of the Aurubis Operating System (AOS) » Employee participation in AOS: targets by FY 2022/23 (base FY: 2017/18) pillar “training and education” (by FY 2022/23) › Inclusion of employees in pillar activities: target of > 90 % » Ensuring Group-wide knowledge management to identify, › Inclusion of employees in the performance management system: preserve, transfer, and enhance knowledge across functions target of > 90 % (by FY 2022/23) › Active employee participation in improvement teams: target of > 20 % Future-oriented employer Target: We have set ourselves the target of creating a work environment for good, close cooperation and promoting involvement and creativity. We form a team that passionately works toward progress. Key measures KPIs » Improving the “health” of the organization with strategically aligned » Organizational Health Index HR instruments and services, as well as individual development tools » Diversity Index (age structure, international quality, » Regularly identifying employees’ needs with respect to working percentage of female employees; index under development) time arrangements » Developing a diversity policy Health and safety Target: We want to avoid work-related accidents, injuries, and illnesses (Vision Zero) Key measures KPIs » Preparing all sites for the introduction of the ISO 45001 standard » LTIFR (Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate1): target of ≤ 1.0 for occupational health and safety (by FY 2019/20) (by FY 2021/22) » Implementing behavior-based safety across the Group (by FY 2020/21) Societal engagement Target: We have set ourselves the target of contributing to a livable environment for future generations. In the process, we focus on areas of action that are linked with Aurubis’ key areas of expertise. As a responsible, committed company, we want to promote enthusiasm for our company and for our work. Key measures KPIs » Developing and implementing a strategy for societal engagement at Group level (by FY 2018/19) 1 Lost time of at least one full shift. Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 10 Sustainability at Aurubis The three focal points and the nine accompanying action areas are One of the most important sustainability management tasks is also the primary basis for the structure of this Sustainability Report. to establish our Sustainability Strategy among our employees, in As part of our responsible corporate governance, the topics of the operating processes of everyday work, and with our external compliance and human rights play a key role in addition to the nine stakeholders. Every employee should live the Sustainability Strategy actions areas, complementing the aspects “People – Environment – each day and contribute to implementing the agreed measures Economy.” Information on these topics is provided in the sections and targets. Compliance, pages 12-13, and Human Rights, page 13. The sustainability organization at Aurubis HOW WE CONTROL OUR ACTIVITIES – OUR SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Executive Board GRI 102-11, 102-16 Vice President Investor Relations & We implement the targets set forth in our Sustainability Strategy Corporate Communications in our everyday work with the help of sustainability management concepts and systems. Responsible corporate governance requires Sustainability common values and rules to point the way. At Aurubis, the legal framework, corporate values, and internal policies ensure that our conduct is legally sound and that our communication with Sites colleagues and business partners is fair and trusting. These guidelines also help us safeguard the careful use of resources. Aurubis’ Code of Conduct prescribes the correct conduct for all of the employees across the Group, in accordance with our concept of responsible corporate governance. ACTIVE DIALOGUE – OUR STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT GRI 102-12, 102-13, 102-16, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, 415-1 Together with employees and employer representatives, we identified five values that are important to us: Performance, Communicating with stakeholders is very important to us. Responsibility, Integrity, Mutability, and Appreciation. The We engage in an open and transparent dialogue with employees, acronym PRIMA, which means “great” in German, is derived customers, suppliers, policymakers and governmental authorities, from the first letter of each value. capital market participants, the media, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), the scientific community, and interested Aurubis’ principle of active prevention is a basic component of members of the public. We regularly discuss topics relevant to responsible business activities. We act conscientiously in our sustainability, for example raw material recovery along the value operating business and are growing to a sensible and healthy chain, the development of resource-efficient production processes, extent. Both of these factors form the basis of our sustainable company environmental protection at our sites, and our contribution economic success. to the circular economy. At the same time, we identify social trends, political developments, internal and external risks, and potential We also adhere to the German Corporate Governance Code. for our business early on in these discussions. Accordingly, we value close cooperation between the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board, as well as consideration of This dialogue with our stakeholders takes place in the form of talks, shareholders’ interests. We rely on open communication, a forums, and events. The discussions we have during visitor days, responsible approach to risks, and proper accounting and auditing. shareholder events, capital market conferences, and supplier and customer meetings are especially intensive. With these different From an organizational perspective, the Sustainability department forms of dialogue, we hope to involve a broad spectrum of is part of the Investor Relations & Corporate Communications stakeholders who are interested in the company and/or are directly division; the head of Investor Relations & Corporate Communications impacted by our business processes. We review the makeup of reports directly to the Executive Board. The Sustainability our stakeholder groups at regular intervals to make sure that they department serves as the interface between the headquarters and are up to date. In the process, we make sure to include the the sites and coordinates all of the processes related to this topic. neighborhoods surrounding our sites and to maintain a balance At the same time, it is also responsible for continuously reviewing between experts and interested members of the public, as well and developing the sustainability targets. In the process, the as between critics and supporters of our business activities. The department cooperates with the relevant divisions and departments opinions of local citizens are especially important to us when it in the Aurubis Group, and assists with the operative implementation comes to public participation in the course of permit procedures of sustainability measures. Another focus of its work is Business and environmental impact assessments, as well as in the Partner Screening related to aspects relevant to sustainability. More establishment of complaint mechanisms. information about this is available in the section Responsible Supply Chain, pages 20-22. Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 Sustainability at Aurubis 11 Aurubis stakeholder dialogue in fiscal year 2017/18 Stakeholder Form of dialogue Topics related to sustainability in FY 2017/18 Capital market (analysts, » Annual General Meeting » Successes of the efficiency improvement program institutional and private investors, » Capital Market Day » Growth initiatives retail investors, financial press/ » Shareholders’ Dialogue events » Our sustainability activities (focus: energy and climate protection) other multipliers, banks) » Conferences » Roadshows ›G  lobal Challenges Index » Forums ›C  DP Climate Change 2018 program: B » Reverse roadshows/site visits › I SS-oekom Corporate Rating 2019: Prime » Sales briefings ›M  SCI 2019: AA » Conference calls › S ustainalytics 2018: 68 of 100 Customers » Personal discussions and communication » General market information several times a year » Technical topics (including quality workshops) » Trade fairs » Closing the loop and sustainability topics » Conferences » Acquisition of Deutsche Giessdraht GmbH and planned sale of Segment Flat Rolled Products (FRP) › E coVadis 2018: Gold Status Suppliers Personal discussions several times a year Contract negotiations, new materials, current market situation, plans (phone calls, conferences, mutual visits) and projects on the supplier side and at Aurubis, sustainability issues Media Interviews, phone calls, briefings, press Financial results, recycling, energy management (especially conferences and events, individual TV industrial heat), copper production, personnel changes, shoots in the plants, press releases acquisition of Deutsche Giessdraht GmbH, planned sale of Segment Flat Rolled Products (FRP), education and training Employees » Sounding boards (active forum » Aurubis Operating System (AOS) for change processes) » The successful Industrial Heat project » Fireside chats, for example with apprentice » The planned sale of Segment Flat Rolled Products (FRP) representatives and young high-potential employees » Leadership Summit » Information events on current topics » Annual evaluations » Employee magazine CU » Intranet Neighbors near the sites » Personal discussions Local and regional economic development, social involvement, » Public participation in permit procedures education, environmental protection (noise, specific emissions and environmental impact assessments to air and water), plant safety » Register for company incidents and complaints from locals » Meetings related to local sponsoring projects NGOs Personal discussions Climate and environmental protection, recycling, responsibility in the supply chain, human rights Policymakers/governmental » Discussions with legislative and executive Environmental protection, energy and climate, the circular authorities representatives at state, national, and economy, finance, taxes, trade policy, sustainability, innovation, EU level supply chains, human rights » Participation in public consultations, in some cases indirectly through associations Scientific community Joint research projects, collaborations » Research, including basic research in the areas of (internship offers, thesis projects), plant tours battery technology and power electronics » Discussions on the topics of energy and recycling » A broad spectrum of topics for thesis projects and plant tours We engage in objective, trusting, and open dialogue, and have been involved for many years in a number of national and international initiatives and projects on sustainability issues such as climate and environmental protection, labor standards, human rights, and the fight against corruption. For example, these include: »» B  .A.U.M. – German Association of Environmental Management (since 2001) »» CDP – Carbon Disclosure Project (since 2015) »» DCGK – German Corporate Governance Code (since 2002) »» IG BCE – Equality Charter of the Mining, Chemical, and Energy Industrial Union (since 2014) Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 12 Sustainability at Aurubis »» U  NGC – United Nations Global Compact, with involvement Selected memberships in associations: in the local networks in Germany and Bulgaria (since 2014/15) »» Responsible Care – as a member of the German Chemical »» Agoria (Belgian Federation for the Technology Industry) Industry Association (VCI), we take part in the chemical »» ASSOMET (Italian Association of Non-Ferrous Metals Industries) industry’s sustainability initiative »» BAMI (Bulgarian Association of the Metallurgical Industry) »» Federation of German Industries (BDI) In Hamburg, we have been a member of the Environmental »» German Equities Institute (DAI) Partnership since 2003 and a member of the Partnership for »» EERA (European Electronic Recyclers Association) Air Quality and Low-emission Mobility, both of which are »» Eurometaux – European Association of Metals coordinated by the city of Hamburg. The goal of the partnership »» European Copper Institute (ECI) is to reduce nitrogen dioxide emissions. »» German Chambers of Industry and Commerce (including Hamburg, Dortmund, Aachen) Producing and processing copper is energy-intensive – whether »» International Copper Association (ICA) in smelting, scrap recycling, or strip rolling, to name just a few »» Metallinjalostajat (Association of Finnish Steel and examples. This is why, in Germany, we participate in the Energy Metal Producers) Efficiency Platform led by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs »» German Chemical Industry Association (VCI) and Energy, as well as the national Energy Efficiency Networks »» VNMI (Dutch Association of the Metallurgical Industry) Initiative through the networks of the German Non-Ferrous Metals »» German Federation of the Metal Industry (WVMetalle) Association (WVM) and the Hamburg Industrial Association. Since early 2017, Aurubis Stolberg has been a member of the Energy We are also interested in dialogue in the political sphere. Through Efficiency Network of the Aachen region to discuss energy-saving our Group representative offices in Berlin and Brussels, we find measures with other companies. Representatives visit each other’s out early on about new legislative proceedings and other initiatives companies to see how energy-efficiently others are already working, that could decisively influence our work. Our five employees on site how improvements have been made, and where there might still be therefore serve as contacts for actors in the European Commission, reduction potential. the European Parliament, the German Bundestag, the German federal ministries, and German federal state offices. We are Since 2013, we have participated in the EU projects Organizational politically neutral in the process, and communicate with all parties Environmental Footprint and Product Environmental Footprint, that are part of the democratic system and that don’t hold which seek to achieve an environmental balance in organizations discriminatory or bigoted views. Plant visits and political briefings and products. The goal of this collaboration is to develop and test are open to representatives of all parties committed to basic the methods for determining the environmental footprint. On this democratic consensus. We make this political communication basis, the European Commission is striving to create a single market transparent and open. We don’t take any party-specific positions, for “environmentally friendly products” and “environmentally nor do we favor anyone in our donations or sponsoring activites. friendly organizations.” We carry out our lobbying activities with the greatest level of Together with 22 national and international partners, we have transparency possible. Aurubis is included in the European Union’s also participated in the European research project FORCE – Cities Transparency Register and publishes data regarding its expenditures Cooperating for Circular Economy since 2016. The project is for lobbying at European level. As part of an initiative of the German concerned with developing new concepts to avoid and treat waste, Chemical Industry Association (VCI) to increase transparency in especially from plastics, biomass, wood, and end-of-life electrical lobbying, Aurubis advocates for the introduction of a national devices. We support the project with our expertise as a multilobbying transparency law in Germany. metal recycler with the goal of improving the recycling of strategic metals (e.g., copper, gold, silver, and lead) through the best COMPLIANCE – ACTING IN ACCORDANCE possible collection and dismantling system for waste electrical WITH OUR VALUES AND THE LAW and electronic equipment. GRI 102-16, 102-17, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 205-1, 205-2, 205-3, 206-1 We are an active member of the main economic, industry, For us, compliance isn’t just following the law. It also means that and specialist associations at national and international level. we act in accordance with ethical principles and defined values, Involvement in associations is important to us, even if the as well as internal corporate policies. Our Code of Conduct, which associations’ members have different views. The objective is to is valid for all employees across the Group, summarizes our encourage members to work together with stakeholders besides common values. Together with the Executive Board, our compliance policymakers, for example investors and NGOs, by using our employees promote a compliance culture and actively strive to stakeholder networks and partnerships in the cases where strengthen awareness for following rules and laws in the Group. this makes sense. Additional information on compliance within the scope of corporate governance is available in the Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017/18, pages 22-23. Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 Sustainability at Aurubis 13 Compliance management establishes the main targets, develops manager are the contacts responsible for data protection. We the corresponding organization, and identifies, analyzes, and overhauled our data protection management in 2018 and have been communicates significant compliance risks. Our compliance in the process of harmonizing it across the Group since then. We program introduces principles and measures to limit risks and also want to continue developing concepts to raise awareness of prevent violations. The Chief Compliance Officer reports regularly the topic of data protection within the company. (and as the circumstances may require) to the Executive Board and Audit Committee regarding the development of the compliance Employees and business partners can make anonymous reports management system, compliance violations, and complianceregarding legal violations and breaches of our codes and standards related measures. He works closely with the employees responsible via a whistleblower hotline. It is also open to all of our external for risk management and Internal Audit. Within our internal control stakeholders. This hotline is operated by external, independent system, the Chief Compliance Officer reviews potential compliance attorneys. The hotline operators follow up on any tips they receive, risks together with the Executive Board, the plant managers, and for example regarding possible cases of corruption, discrimination, the heads of corporate and central functions. or incidents in the supply chain. If any wrongful acts are actually proven, they can lead to warnings, dismissals, and/or damage claims. The company’s Chief Compliance Officer is the central point of The hotline is available in English, German, and Spanish. contact for all compliance-relevant questions and reports directly to the CEO. At the individual Group sites, local compliance officers RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS – THE FIRM are available as a point of contact for employees. FOUNDATION OF OUR ACTIONS GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 406-1, 408-1, 409-1, 410-1 Our compliance measures include prevention, monitoring, and sanctions. Preventive measures comprise internal policies, guidance, We respect human rights and advocate for their protection. We and particularly the training of employees. reject any form of discrimination, forced labor, or child labor and respect the rights of indigenous populations. Compliance with the One of the central topics in our compliance activities is preventing internationally recognized core labor standards of the International corruption in our business activities. The anti-corruption measures Labour Organization (ILO) are of fundamental importance. The are also established in our compliance management. The Corporate Executive Board is responsible for the issue of respect for human Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy and the Code of Conduct for rights as implemented in our business activities. employees, both of which apply Group-wide, are at the core of our anti-corruption efforts. Our compliance management system is used We have been committed to the United Nations Global Compact to assess our sites for any corruption risks. since 2014 and thus to working on implementing its ten principles related to human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. The Code of Conduct prescribes correct conduct for all of the These ten principles are derived from the Universal Declaration of employees in accordance with our concept of responsible corporate Human Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and governance. Every employee receives the Aurubis Code of Conduct Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Developand confirms that it has been received by signing the employment ment, and the United Nations Convention against Corruption. contract. We do not tolerate discrimination. We have firmly established equal Moreover, we regularly train our employees across the Group on opportunity and mutual respect in the Aurubis corporate culture. anti-corruption and antitrust law. All employees for whom these We call on all employees to report cases of discrimination to their topics are relevant due to their responsibilities are trained on HR departments or the Chief Compliance Officer. We investigate these topics about every three years, regardless of their level in the these tips and enact measures to correct any issues. Our employees company hierarchy. Over the past three years, for example, a total and business partners can report these cases anonymously through of 1,300 employees received anti-corruption training (about 20 % our whistleblower hotline. There were no instances of discrimination of the entire staff) and around 400 employees received antitrust during the reporting period. We train our own security staff on law training. We are not aware of any antitrust or corruption cases human rights issues. in the reporting period. Our efforts regarding respect for human rights focus on our We also pay attention to possible compliance and corruption risks supply chain. The due diligence review of our business partners when selecting our business partners. One significant step in this is at the center of our Business Partner Screening. Our gold process is our Business Partner Screening, which we use to review production is certified as conflict-free according to the standards our raw material suppliers for any corruption risks Responsible Supply of the London Bullion Market Association (LBMA). The LBMA’s Chain, pages 20-22. Responsible Gold Guidance standards are oriented to the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for conflict minerals and include an Data protection is another compliance issue we prioritize. The assessment of any human rights violations. In our contracts with Legal Affairs & Corporate Governance department oversees this raw material suppliers, we expect our business partners to follow issue. The department’s data protection officer and data protection UN conventions related to human rights, environmental protection, and safety. Responsible Supply Chain, pages 20-22. Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 14 ECONOMY Growth and Innovation INNOVATIVE AND INTERDISCIPLINARY – OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH Our Vision 2025 says it all: We will develop from a copper producer GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 and recycler to a multi-metal group www.aurubis.com/en/aboutaurubis/vision-2025. In the future, we want to extract more metals Internal innovations are very significant for us, as they help to beyond copper and process these metals into marketable products. secure our economic future. Our interdisciplinary Research, In addition to our main metal, copper, our metal portfolio also Development & Innovation department is part of the Technology includes the base metals gold, silver, lead, nickel, and tin. Moreover, division, which reports to the Chief Operating Officer. The we recover other metals from the following two groups: platinum international team is made up of employees from different group metals such as platinum and palladium, and minor metals like disciplines. It cooperates especially closely with the departments tellurium and selenium. overseeing environmental protection, production, quality, process technology, marketing, sales, and strategy. We also include external Our product portfolio offers a variety of possibilities for growth partners in innovation projects. In fiscal year 2017/18, we employed and innovation. After all, society needs our metals to tackle the big a total of 78 staff in our Research, Development & Innovation challenges of the modern age. Renewable energies, electric vehicles, department (previous year: 67 employees). They are located at digitalization, and urbanization are just four of the main trends. the sites in Buffalo, Finspång, Hamburg, Lünen, Olen, Pirdop, Furthermore, we can tap new potential with innovations on the Pori, Stolberg, and Zutphen, and communicate extensively among market. Generally speaking, the elements that accompany copper one another. concentrates increase the more that a mine is depleted. Our business partners are therefore becoming more and more interested The Aurubis Group’s R&D expenditures in fiscal year 2017/18 in solutions to extract copper and other metals from complex amounted to € 12 million, compared to € 11 million in the reporting starting materials. We act responsibly in doing so and are committed year 2016/17. to the highest quality standards when it comes to our processes and services. Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 Economy 15 Growth and Innovation R&D expenditures Global copper demand by sector in € million for 2018, in % 13 12 11 11 10 25 30 Consumer goods Construction sector 11 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 Transportation 10 24 Industrial machines Electricity supply We have set the target of growing in the processing of complex and plants raw materials. For this purpose, we utilize our expertise in smelting, refining, metal recovery, recycling, and copper processing to Source: Wood Mackenzie, 2018. generate the highest added value, along our entire value chain, from the various raw materials we process. Sustainability Strategy 2018–2023 – Action area “Growth and innovation” Key measures KPIs Status in 2017/18 Developing and implementing innovative 100 % increase in sales of metals besides Investment project Future Complex Metallurgy (FCM) metallurgical processes with which we copper by FY 2022/23 (base FY: 2016/17) with facilities in Hamburg and Olen. Production is can expand our raw material base, among scheduled to start in 2020/21. other things Establishing new sales channels for Implementation is an ongoing process. metals with strong demand growth Sustainably, successfully implementing » Improvement in earnings: project success » Efficiency improvement program with total project the efficiency improvement program of € 200 million by FY 2019/20 success of more than € 60 million in FY 2016/17 (base FY: 2014/15) and FY 2017/18 » Return on capital employed (ROCE): » Implementation of the Aurubis Operating System 15 % target (AOS), the management system for ongoing improvements in earnings » Operating ROCE was 14.8 % compared to 15.1 % the year before A MULTI-METAL RESEARCH FOCUS We will be able to process up to 270,000 t more input materials Our Research, Development & Innovation department develops each year thanks to FCM. In addition to complex concentrates, innovative projects and works on sustainable process and product these can also include recycling materials, e-scrap, intermediates improvements. We primarily concentrated on two key fields of work from copper, zinc, or lead smelters, metal-bearing slags, and during the reporting period: On the one hand, we worked on new materials containing precious metals. We have therefore developed process developments for complex materials in light of the new an innovative metallurgical process which, among other things, multi-metal strategy. On the other hand, multiple projects focused improves the recovery of copper and (precious) metals from on further optimizing existing core processes. intermediate products. FUTURE COMPLEX METALLURGY – CREATING MORE VALUE The FCM facilities will be constructed at both the Hamburg Future Complex Metallurgy (FCM) is one of our key strategic (Germany) and Olen (Belgium) sites. We plan to create over internal growth projects. With FCM, we will leverage the potential 180 new jobs as FCM is implemented. value from complex input materials in the future and thus become an even more crucial partner for our suppliers’ specific challenges. Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 16 Economy Growth and Innovation INNOVATIVE ALLOYS The quality policy is prescribed by the Executive Board and We also utilize our close contact with our customers to orient implemented by quality management at the individual sites. We our R&D work to the demands of the market. One example can subject all products to comprehensive quality inspections. We utilize be found at Aurubis Stolberg: Under the “BlueBrass” brand, the site modern process management and quality assurance systems to is developing a lead-free family of alloys that fulfills the current fulfill international standards, legal regulations, and customer standards of the electrical and automotive industries in terms of requirements. conductivity, machinability, and formability. In the meantime, nine alloy varieties from the BlueBrass family are successfully marketed Our quality management systems at all of the production sites are for wire. For strip products, the number of customer projects in the certified in accordance with ISO 9001:2015. The Segment Flat Rolled clock industry multiplied. Our product developments successfully Products sites in Buffalo, Stolberg, and Zutphen have also been made it through the approval process with some of our key accounts certified in accordance with the stricter rules of the standard IATF in this area. We expect to increase volumes of our BlueBrass 16949. This standard applies first and foremost to suppliers of the products significantly in the coming years. automotive industry. In the connector strip sector, we successfully expanded our Our quality approach is also evident in our services. We offer our sampling of low-alloyed, highly conductive copper alloys. Initial customers logistics services and commercial and technical customer product approvals by our customers led to developments being assistance, for instance. Our engineers support our customers on transferred from project status to the standard product portfolio. site upon request. Training, seminars, and workshops round off our service portfolio. R&D IN THE DIGITAL AGE We are using more and more sensor technology in our main Our customers’ needs and feedback are important to us. primary and secondary copper production processes. This helps us Consequently, we carry out customer surveys and record key figures to stabilize and monitor these processes to a greater extent – and for customer satisfaction, such as delivery reliability and quality. ultimately to boost metal recovery rates. In fiscal year 2017/18, we expanded our team in this specialized area. Our goal is to support Product safety has top priority for us. Safety data sheets are the complex operating processes with advanced analytics methods. available for copper and a number of other products. We can issue Only when we have a sufficient foundation of data can we an inspection certificate for every delivery showing the precise sustainably implement improvements. An example of this is the chemical composition of the products and other physical data-driven energy consumption forecast at the Hamburg site. The parameters. project will enable us to react more flexibly to fluctuating energy prices in the future. QUALITY AND SAFETY: A MATTER OF COURSE The Group-wide implementation of our new management system, AIMING FOR THE HIGHEST LEVEL OF QUALITY the Aurubis Operating System (AOS), helps us continuously and With over 150 years of experience, modern and efficient production sustainably improve our processes. The goals of AOS are to avoid processes, and close communication with our customers, we ensure operating losses, use technical facilities optimally, and establish that our products meet high requirements. We set standards in standardizations and best practices. Following a successful pilot recycling and generate copper of the highest quality from various phase, AOS is currently being introduced at all of the main and often complex raw materials. production sites and in the corporate functions. As a result, we achieve two things: the high value added previously We have already optimized processes at the Hamburg site in a mentioned and consistently high quality for all copper products. number of AOS improvement teams. For instance, we have reduced At the same time, our goal over the entire life cycle of our products production waste and material losses, minimized system outages, is to fulfill current and future environmental standards; to use raw and shortened the downtimes of important machines. Because materials, water, and energy as efficiently as possible; and to reduce AOS impacts the entire staff, we prioritize intensive communication our emissions continuously in the process. to support these measures. A two-day informational event was held in Hamburg with roughly 600 employees to kick off AOS. This will be followed up by twelve-week workshops centering on the individual focal points of the program in order to involve employees in the change process locally. Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 Economy 17 Growth and Innovation Aurubis Operating System (AOS) – Example from While a conventional car contains about 25 kg of the metal, electric the production sector cars, buses, and trucks include over three times more copper. It AOS is a management system designed to improve processes isn’t used just for batteries, electric engines, and power electronics, continuously and sustainably. In addition to the example for the however, but also for the necessary charging stations and their production sector, AOS can be applied to the supporting functions wiring. Today’s global copper demand of about 0.4 million t for with some adjustments, for example in administrative departments electric vehicles alone is expected to increase to nearly 3 million t (transversals). Annual Report 2017/18 Magazine, page 31. in 2030. In large offshore wind farms in the North Sea and Baltic Sea, up to 30 t of copper are used in each turbine. Our metals therefore make a considerable contribution to technologies that reduce CO2 emissions and promote climate protection. GOLD – CRUCIAL FOR THE DIGITAL WORLD Thanks to its ability to be shaped and processed, gold is not only attractive for the jewelry industry or dental technology, but is also an important precious metal for a number of industrial applications. Today, roughly 10 % of the world’s gold is in high-performance processors, connectors, and resistors in mobile phones, computers, and other electronic devices. Growing developments like digitalization and miniaturization increase demand further. Gold is found in two raw materials in particular, which Aurubis obtains from conflict-free sources: For one, it is found in copper concentrates, but we also recover it by recycling scrap and industrial residues, especially e-scrap. A NEW, DIVERSE APPROACH Many people associate us with copper first and foremost. That is SILVER – CRUCIAL FOR ELECTRICITY FROM SOLAR ENERGY still correct today, but we can do more and we are still developing. Silver is an important catalyst for the future of the industry and has As part of our multi-metal strategy, we are recovering more and high electrical and thermal conductivity. It is used in new conductor more non-ferrous metals besides copper, which enable a number of technologies, computers, and household appliances. Silver is also innovative applications for our customers. Platinum Group Metals and needed in the growth market of photovoltaics: A solar cell contains Minor Metals in the Annual Report 2017/18 Magazine, pages 18-19 about 120 mg of silver. Furthermore, silver is crucial for Industry 4.0, for instance in automated inventory control systems. COPPER – CRUCIAL FOR CLIMATE PROTECTION Copper is used as an excellent conductor of electricity and heat in Aurubis produces silver at the Hamburg site. Like most metals energy grids, mobile phones, and heat pipelines. It also drives future besides copper, it collects in the so-called anode slime of the copper low-CO2 mobility solutions and is key for the use of renewable tankhouse. We treat this anode slime and recover the silver it energies. contains. Annual Report 2017/18, pages 10-11 Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 18 Economy Recycling Solutions Recycling Solutions Our Commercial division is responsible for sourcing recycling materials in the Group. It is separated into the areas Recycling Aurubis is a world leader in recycling copper, precious metals, and Raw Materials, Product Sales & Marketing, and Customer Scrap other non-ferrous metals. We actively take part in the modern Solutions. This organization aligns with our recycling approach: circular economy, promote the efficient use of valuable resources, We use secondary materials as raw materials and, in the marketing and contribute to raw material security. Due to a higher level of of our products and in our customer relationships, consider the consumption and shorter product life cycles, the supply of recycling return of the metals at the same time. raw materials is also growing more quickly. In order to utilize the rising volume of secondary raw materials from the IT and The processing industry is part of both our customer base and telecommunications sectors, for instance, we are expanding the our supplier base. Production waste accumulates during these processing capacities for these types of e-scrap, working on companies’ production processes. This includes materials with very new technologies, and investing in state-of-the-art facilities. We high copper contents, such as Millberry scrap, which can be used process about 700,000 t of recycling materials every year. again immediately as input material in copper production. However, we also return other substances to the value cycle in a meaningful NEW IDEAS FOR END-OF-LIFE MATERIALS – OUR way. Stamping waste containing copper and precious metals, alloy MANAGEMENT APPROACH scrap, foundry slags, and other industrial residues are just a few GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 examples. In the metal industry especially, recycling is a prerequisite for As part of our “closing-the-loop” activities, we build up partnerships efficient and sustainable business activity. We are well positioned to take back valuable materials from our customers. Together within the metal sector with our main metal, copper, because with the specialist for zinc and sulfur Grillo Werke AG, we have copper can be recycled over and over again without any loss of developed a seamless material cycle for copper, zinc, and other quality. Our strategic reorientation to becoming a multi-metal valuable metals. The project enables the reuse and continued use company means that we are investing more in recycling processes of materials through a direct route between the Aurubis recycling for precious metals and non-ferrous metals. Consequently, we have center in Lünen and the Grillo location in Duisburg. The cycle set the target in both the company strategy and the Sustainability was awarded a prize in 2017 in the Responsible Care competition Strategy derived from it to extract many metals besides copper of the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI). through recycling, and to make these metals useful for society. In this way, we contribute to a circular economy and thus to the conservation of natural resources beyond our key expertise in copper recycling. We process complex recycling materials found in different consumer goods, for instance electrical appliances and vehicles. KRS OXIDE KRS-OXID These secondary raw materials are often components of e-scrap or material compounds that include plastic, ceramic, glass, or wood Zinksulfat in addition to gold, silver, nickel, and tin. Separating them into Zinc sulfate material and product streams by type in order to reuse them is a significant challenge. We utilize highly developed mechanical, physical, and metallurgical separating and refining processes in different combinations for this purpose. In the future, our growth project Future Complex Metallurgy (FCM) will help us process up to 270,000 t of additional input materials. Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 Economy 19 Recycling solutions Sustainability Strategy 2018–2023 – Action area “Recycling solutions” Key measures KPIs Status in 2017/18 Increasing the volume of complex recycling Direct sourcing of complex recycling materials Raw material sourcing and processing are changing due to materials sourced from collection points: 100 % volume growth the rising complexity of the raw materials; for example, by FY 2022/23 (base FY: 2016/17) more material has to be purchased to recover the desired volumes. Furthermore, buyers receive a wider spectrum of materials. Both the raw material purchasing and production departments are adjusting their processes to the changing conditions. Establishing and developing “closing-the-loop” Number of “closing-the-loop” systems with From 2013 to the end of fiscal year 2017/18, we set up systems as a result of new or intensified direct and indirect product customers from eleven new closing-the-loop projects. Our objective is to cooperation with original equipment the metal value chain: target increase of at establish at least ten additional closing-the-loop systems manufacturers (OEMs), retailers, or copper least 10 by 2022/23 (base FY: 2017/18) with direct and indirect product customers. product customers Analyzing market conditions and future Aurubis is intensifying its processing of complex recycling opportunities for sustainable products materials and positioning itself as a high-performing, (think tank for metals, products, and services) successful player in light of the increasingly demanding requirements placed on recycling. During the reporting period, we continued our work in the r­ elevant associations for a uniform sector solution for ­sustainability in the supply chain. Raw material input GRI 301-2 The plant in Lünen was certified by TÜV Nord in accordance with for the Aurubis Group in FY 2017/18, in million t the WEEE End Processor Standard in 2015 (WEEE = Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment). This is a voluntary standard for the 0.7 2.5 processing of WEEE materials containing copper and precious Secondary Primary metals, such as circuit boards. We helped develop the standard and raw materials raw materials thus support the installation of organized recycling and disposal processes through compulsory standards. Since December 2018, the plant has been certified through WEEELABEX in accordance with the related European series of standards EN 50625. By adhering to these standards, Aurubis AG actively helps customers and suppliers fulfill the recycling requirements that all stakeholders place on them as well as possible within the scope of the law and beyond. The Hamburg, Pirdop, and Olen sites also process recycling raw RECYCLING AS A LOCATION ADVANTAGE – materials to produce cathode copper and precious metals. Though IMPORTANT CONTRIBUTIONS OF THE COMPANY the primary smelters utilize copper concentrates as their main feed SITES TO THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY material, they also use copper scrap to a certain extent because Our recycling activities take place at multiple sites but are overseen it’s ideal for process cooling. centrally at Executive Board level. All site managers report to the Chief Operating Officer – and in the case of our subsidiaries CABLO Moreover, we have two companies with unique recycling expertise and Elektro-Recycling Nord (E.R.N.), to the head of the Commercial within the Group: Our subsidiary CABLO specializes in recycling division as well. We manufacture new products from recycling cable production waste and end-of-life cable scrap, while E.R.N. materials at different sites within the Group. Our sites in Lünen focuses on recycling electrical appliances and electronic devices (Germany) and Olen (Belgium) specialize in recycling. They convert of all kinds. the recycling raw materials, which generally contain copper, into high-purity copper and other valuable metals. Together with 22 national and international partners, we are participating in the European research project FORCE – Cities Recycling raw materials are the primary feedstock used to Cooperating for Circular Economy. The project is concerned with fabricate cathode copper at our largest recycling plant, the Aurubis developing new concepts to avoid and treat waste. Concretely, the recycling center in Lünen. Up to 450,000 t of recycling materials goal is to understand and improve the material streams related to are processed here annually. Tin-lead composite, nickel sulfate, and wood, plastic, biomass, and end-of-life electrical appliances. Our precious metals are drawn from recycling materials in addition to Hamburg site participates by sharing its expertise in recycling copper. electrical appliances: Together with the city’s sanitation department, it tested the manual pre-dismantling of end-of-life appliances. The insights from this test should help appliance designers account for future recyclability in their designs. Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 20 Economy Responsible Supply Chain Responsible Supply Chain use copper scrap and other metal-bearing recycling materials, as well as bought-in intermediates, as feed material. We primarily We take responsibility for our actions. As a company with a high source copper scrap and metal-bearing raw materials for recycling purchasing volume, we know that our suppliers have to work just as on the European market. Metal trading companies are the main responsibly as we do. This is all the more important because we actors on the supplier side, though some recycling materials also source raw materials from around the world for our business. In our reach us directly from product manufacturers. current Sustainability Strategy, we have therefore set the target of continuing to manage our supply chains responsibly. In the process, It is important to us to carefully select business partners in Germany we will take impacts on the social environment, the natural and abroad. We source our primary and secondary raw materials environment, and economic aspects into account. from a number of suppliers, which protects us from becoming too dependent on individual major suppliers and shields us from WE WANT TO KNOW WITH WHOM WE’RE WORKING – OUR regional fluctuations on the global market. MANAGEMENT APPROACH GRI 102-9, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 For primary raw materials, we value long-term relationships and strategic cooperation with our suppliers. We process copper concentrates that are obtained from ores and are offered by mining companies and trading companies on the We source most of our secondary raw materials from Germany and global market. We purchase the necessary raw materials for our two other EU countries. Compared to primary raw materials, secondary primary smelters in Hamburg and Pirdop. We don’t have our own raw materials are largely purchased on the basis of short-term mines or stakes in mines. Apart from copper concentrates, we also supply contracts. Sustainability Strategy 2018–2023 – Action area “Responsible supply chain” Key measures KPIs Status in 2017/18 Introducing the Aurubis Business Partner The process has started and is currently being Code of Conduct across the Group coordinated. (by FY 2018/19) Implementing Aurubis Business Partner Screening has already been expanded to Screening across the Group (by FY 2020/21) the key sites Olen and Pirdop. Including human rights, environmental Percentage of contracts with primary raw During the fiscal year, the percentage of contracts protection, and safety clauses in supply material suppliers including a human rights with primary raw material suppliers including the contracts for primary raw materials (by clause: 100 % target by FY 2022/23 corresponding clause was over 80 %. FY 2022/23) (base FY: 2016/17; base percentage > 80 %) Identifying a suitable sector solution During the reporting period, we continued our work in the relevant associations for a uniform sector solution for sustainability in the supply chain. Origin of primary raw materials1 GRI 301-1 Origin of recycling raw materials1 GRI 301-2 for the Aurubis Group in FY 2017/18 for the Aurubis Group in FY 2017/18 Other 10 % 1 % Other Australia 2 % Indonesia 3 % 22 % Peru 3 % Asia Germany 44 % Mexico 3 % 9 % Eastern Europe Argentina 4 % 12 % Americas Canada 5 % Georgia 6 % 20 % Chile 31 % Rest of Western Europe Brazil 12 % 13 % Bulgaria 1 Concentrate throughput in FY 2017/18 was 2.5 million t. 1 About 600,000 t, excluding volumes for Segment Flat Rolled Products. Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 Economy 21 Responsible Supply Chain GOOD SUPPLIER CONTRACTS FOR GOOD OUR BUSINESS PARTNER SCREENING COLLABORATION GRI 103-2, 103-3, 308-1, 414-1 GRI 412-3 Our due diligence in selecting suppliers has been supported by our In some cases, our raw materials come from countries with a higher Business Partner Screening since 2015 and applies to suppliers of risk of corruption, human rights violations, and non-compliance with both primary materials and secondary materials. Using this tool, we social and environmental standards. Responsibility in the supply analyze our business partners in a structured manner with regard to chain is therefore one of the central topics of the Sustainability their integrity relating to social and ecological criteria. Screening is Strategy. We respect human rights, advocate for their protection, guided by the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible and adhere to the recognized core labor standards set out by the Mineral Supply Chains. International Labour Organization (ILO). We have been a part of the United Nations Global Compact since December 2014 and are thus Our corporate policies on Business Partner Screening and committed to working on implementing its ten principles related to the processing of conflict-free gold raw materials establish human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. More responsibilities and processes within the Group. The Procurement information on respect for human rights is available in the section and Sales departments are responsible for implementing this Human Rights, page 13. screening. We use internally configured software for screening across the Group. It assesses risks according to financial, tax, and We have also pledged to comply with the OECD Due Diligence criminal law aspects, as well as risks relevant to sustainability. Guidance, which serves as an important international guideline for The result includes a profile that, in the case of increased risk, sustainable activities in the supply chain. This guidance regulates leads to additional research by the Commercial, Compliance, and responsible global supply chain management in the processing of Sustainability departments. conflict-free raw materials. Based on this assessment, management decides on possible We expect our business partners to follow all local laws. We also contracts or restrictions. The Compliance and Sustainability expect them to observe UN sanctions and trade restrictions, departments regularly repeat the review, with the time interval as well as UN conventions related to human rights, environmental depending on the risk level that has been determined. New protection, and safety. We have included a corresponding clause partners are reviewed before any contracts are signed. in our – usually long-term – supply contracts since 2013. In the meantime, this clause is a component of about 80 % of our supply Since 2013, we have been annually certified as conflict-free contracts for primary raw materials. This should increase to 100 % according to the standards of the London Bullion Market by fiscal year 2022/23. Association (LBMA). The certification verifies the effectiveness of our due diligence process related to gold production. The We source most of our copper concentrates from large global suppliers of other raw materials go through the same process mining companies. They regularly publish their environmental as those that supply gold-bearing raw materials. standards and commit to sustainable business activities. They all operate in accordance with the OECE Due Diligence Guidance. Furthermore, most of these mining companies are organized in the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and commit to sustainable raw material mining. We are convinced that all of the actors in the value chain – from the mine to the end user – bear responsibility for conscientious production and should work together on solutions. So far, there hasn’t been a corresponding initiative to cover the entire supply chain for non-ferrous metals. We are in talks with different initiatives and associations to identify a joint approach within the industry. This joint path has priority for us. Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 22 Economy Responsible Supply Chain Close communication with our suppliers is part of our company PRODUCTION ONLY WORKS WHEN THERE ARE policy. Our raw material purchasers routinely visit our suppliers. OPERATING SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS During these visits, they also observe the criteria that are relevant GRI 204-1 for the screening process. In addition to primary and secondary raw materials, we source Our compliance portal, also referred to as the whistleblower various operating supplies, investment goods, and services. The hotline, is publicly available online. The portal can be used to Hamburg and Lünen sites have roughly 4,100 active suppliers. At report violations in our supply chain and other issues to external, these two sites, which together make up Aurubis AG, 56 % of the neutral lawyers, either confidentially or anonymously. The purchasing volume is covered locally, i.e., within a radius of about whistleblower hotline is available in German, English, and Spanish. 100 km. The sites’ Procurement departments are responsible for processing purchases. All materials and services are purchased on Business Partner Screening: Risk assessment process the basis of a Corporate Procurement Policy. The corporate function Corporate Procurement & Logistics, which works across sites and divisions, is responsible for concluding framework contracts, for Collecting basic data process and organizational adjustments, and for overarching supplier management. Overarching topics are coordinated in regular Automatic risk assessment meetings of the sites’ procurement managers and corporate No risk Risk specialists. When it comes to environmentally relevant purchases at our German sites, we carry out an authorization process related to Department the purchases’ environmental compatibility. This is used for waste data collector disposal services, for example. We take a catalogue of questions about environmental protection, occupational safety, and social Collecting detailed data Answering issues into account when selecting suppliers and service providers. sustainability questions It is updated regularly and has to be answered by all new suppliers. Automatic risk assessment Suppliers that do not complete the questionnaire or that provide insufficient answers are not considered in the rest of the tendering Vote procedure. We annually review the documents from our suppliers Vote whose work is environmentally relevant to ensure that they are complete. Compliance When sourcing investment goods, additional detailed environmental Sustainability protection and safety requirements for the product and the supplier are defined and taken into consideration. The criteria include energy consumption, emissions, material input, prescribed disposal Vote/decision methods, the expected life cycle, and whether important test certificates are available, for example for material quality or employee qualifications. Department/management Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 23 ENVIRONMENT Protection from Environmental Impact CONSCIOUSLY LIMITING IMPACTS – OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH We secure our leading position in environmental protection by GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 steadily learning and improving. We assume Group-wide responsibility for environmentally friendly production. It is clear to In the interests of our environmental responsibility, we strive to us that the impact of our business activities on the environment conserve natural resources and maintain a clean environment for and humans should be kept as low as possible. Environmentally future generations. sound multi-metal production from primary raw materials, such as ore concentrates, and recycling form the foundation for a We achieved the emission reduction targets for 2018 in 2017, responsible and demand-oriented metal supply in Europe. With exceeding them significantly in some cases. More information about these two focuses, we safeguard our sites and create the basis the Sustainability Strategy 2013–2018 can be found at the end of for viable investments. the report on pages 48-49. Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 24 Environment Protection from Environmental Impact Sustainability Strategy 2018–2023 – Action area “Environmental impact” Key measures KPIs Status in 2017/18 Introducing the ISO 14001 standard for environmental 12 of 16 production sites are certified management across the Group (by 2022) in accordance with ISO 14001. Reducing specific metal emissions to water in 40 % emission reduction in copper Metal emissions to water amounted multi-metal production with site-specific projects production by 2022 (base year: 2012) to 1.0 g/t of copper output in 2017. and individual measures Reducing specific dust emissions to air in 15 % emission reduction in copper Dust emissions amounted to 56 g/t multi-metal production with site-specific projects production by 2022 (base year: 2012) of copper output in 2017. and individual measures Reducing specific SO2 emissions to air with SO2 emissions amounted to 4.9 kg/t site-specific projects and individual measures of copper output in 2017. Our strategy and our targets are established in the company’s Sites with certified management systems environmental protection guidelines and in our corporate policy. They are binding throughout the Group and contribute to the ISO ISO ISO Site EMAS 14001 50001 9001 current Sustainability Strategy. Hamburg, headquarters (DE) √ √ √ √ The main standards for our production are outlined in the permits Lünen (DE) √ √ √ √ issued by the governmental authorities. The baseline includes Pirdop (BG) √ √ European regulations on immissions, emissions, water, waste, and Olen (BE) √ √ disruptions, as well as their implementation in national law, plus Fehrbellin, CABLO (DE) √ √ √ the European chemical regulation REACH. Apart from our own Nersingen, Strass, CABLO guidelines, we are oriented to voluntary obligations from industry (DE) √ √ √ initiatives such as the chemical industry’s “Responsible Care” Hamburg, E.R.N. (DE) √ √ √ initiative and the non-ferrous metal industry’s “Metals pro Climate” Buffalo (US) √ campaign. Pori (FI) √ √ Avellino (IT) √ √ The Chief Operating Officer and Corporate Environmental Zutphen (NL) √ √ Protection management are responsible for the strategic positioning Stolberg (DE) √ √ of environmental protection in the Group. Environmental officers Emmerich, Deutsche Giessdraht (DE) √ √ √ carry out individual environmental duties at the separate production Stolberg, Schwermetall (DE) √ √ √ √ sites. Röthenbach, RETORTE (DE) √ Hamburg, Peute Baustoff (DE) √1 Most of our sites have environmental management systems in 1 For the sale of iron silicate granules used to produce blasting abrasives. accordance with ISO 14001/EMAS. During the reporting period, the certifications were confirmed through routine surveillance audits or recertification. At the Hamburg and Lünen sites, these systems are part of an integrated management system for quality, To achieve our Group-wide environmental targets, we implement environmental protection, energy, and occupational safety. different local measures at our production sites. We monitor and control these measures using key parameters that are regularly These management systems don’t just fulfill legal requirements, but recorded at the production sites and verified by external inspectors. considerably improve our environmental performance. They assist us in recognizing relevant topics, potential improvements, and, in Our employees’ attitude and motivation have a considerable the case of deviations from specified targets, in initiating corrective influence on the achievement of our environmental targets and on actions. the enhancement of energy efficiency. As a result, we continuously inform our employees about all environmental and energy-related topics and train them accordingly. Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 Environment 25 Protection from Environmental Impact We also carry out routine accident and emergency drills in The following site-specific projects and individual measures help coordination with the relevant authorities, documenting and reduce environmental impacts to the air: evaluating them afterward. At the individual sites, we have emergency, alarm, and hazard prevention plans in place to »» T o reduce fugitive emissions, a new facility is being built in effectively prevent environmental impacts and to protect our Pirdop to cool converter slag in pots. Commissioning is expected employees and the surrounding population. The environmental in late 2019. officers of all of the Group’s production sites have taken part in »» Other emission improvements are currently being reviewed meetings organized by Corporate Environmental Protection to after the smelter hall openings were closed in Lünen. exchange information twice a year since 2008. They present best »» To continue cutting fugitive emissions, a suctioning system for practices that the other sites can emulate, among other things. the ridge turrets in the Hamburg converter hall is being installed in connection with a flow improvement and developments in AIR – CLEAR TARGETS the existing auxiliary hood filter system. The permit for the GRI 305-7 project has been issued. Commissioning is scheduled for 2021. The dust emissions arising during copper production can contain Environmental protection investments in copper production metals and metal compounds. We have already achieved a great in € million deal in reducing dust emissions with the help of technical measures. 81.5 By consistently using the best available techniques, we have minimized specific dust emissions for primary and secondary copper 51.6 production by 96 % since 2000. One of the main focuses in the 1990s was the use of state-of-the-art filter technologies for all 29.6 34.4 27.5 27.4 directed emission sources from chimneys. Today, projects to reduce 19.6 17.9 15.2 16.1 so-called fugitive emissions have high priority. Such emissions can arise in areas near hall openings – such as gates, doors, or ridge turrets – and during material storage and handling, for instance. 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 Technical options for reducing directed dust emissions have been virtually exhausted. Nevertheless, avoiding fugitive emissions will continue to challenge us in the future. We want to overcome these Apart from copper, sulfur is one of the main components of the challenges by using innovative technology and training our copper concentrates used as feed. The gaseous sulfur dioxide employees. produced when concentrates are smelted is converted into sulfuric acid in the sulfuric acid plant using the modern double catalysis In 2012, we set a target as part of our Sustainability Strategy 2013– process. When compared internationally, Aurubis is a forerunner in 2018 to reduce dust emissions to air by 10 %. In the end, we lowered reducing sulfur dioxide emissions: We have reduced emissions per dust emissions from 72 (2012) to 56 g/t of copper output (2017) – ton of copper output by 86 % since 2000. This was due in part to a total of 22 %. Many individual measures have also played a role in the construction of the Sulfacid facility in Pirdop – a unique project this development, such as more modern filters, the optimization of in the non-ferrous metals industry. existing facilities, and the reduction of fugitive emissions. Reducing SO2 emissions (sulfur dioxide) was already a target in our Reducing dust emissions is one of our central targets in the previous Sustainability Strategy. We have continued this target in future as well, which is why we have included this area in the new the new strategy. With the 2018–2023 strategy cycle, we are starting Sustainability Strategy. We expect our total input to rise as a result with a new analysis and planning process for site-specific projects of our multi-metal approach, which will increase the total volume of and individual measures to reduce specific SO2 emissions to the air processed materials at a higher rate than the copper output. It will from multi-metal production. thus be a challenge in years to come to keep the ratio of calculated emission values to copper output at this low level. Our goal is to keep dust emissions under 61 g/t of copper output until 2022, despite the planned increase in total input, for a total reduction of 15 % since 2012. Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 26 Environment Protection from Environmental Impact Key figures related to nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur dioxide (SO2), and dust GRI 305-7 in g/t of copper output 2000 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Specific dust emissions 1 1,291 72 52 55 55 60 56 Specific NOx emissions1 – 0.55 0.66 0.53 0.62 0.63 0.54 Specific SO2 emissions2 34.8 5.6 5.6 4.7 5.1 5.1 4.9 1 Values based on copper production, i.e., at the Hamburg, Lünen, Pirdop, and Olen sites. 2 Values based on primary copper production, i.e., at the Hamburg and Pirdop sites. In 2018, for the first time since 2006, the Hamburg Environmental Water quality is crucial in the targets for water consumption. Authority determined that measurements taken at a public Consequently, we have set ourselves the target of reducing metal measuring station in the district of Veddel near our Hamburg plant emissions to water in multi-metal production with site-specific exceeded the target outlined in the 39th ordinance implementing projects and individual measures. the German Federal Immission Control Act (BImSchV) for arsenic in particulate matter in the ambient air. According to the data In the scope of the Sustainability Strategy 2013–2018, we worked released, the average for the year was about 1.8 ng/m³ over the toward a 10 % reduction in metal emissions. We lowered these legally defined target of 6 ng/m³. As in past years, our Hamburg emissions from 2.2 (2012) to 1.0 g/t of copper output (2017) – a total plant adhered to and fell significantly below the limits prescribed of 56 %. We achieved this reduction first and foremost by building for all of the emissions permitted for the operation of our facilities. and optimizing the water treatment plants in Pirdop and Lünen. Nevertheless, we will continue the extensive emission reduction programs of the last several years, minimizing emissions further We included this target again in the Sustainability Strategy 2018– and thus actively ensuring that the ambitious target at the Veddel 2023. We want to continue reducing specific metal emissions to measuring station is adhered to even under unfavorable climate water in multi-metal production. We expect our total input to rise as conditions. a result of our multi-metal approach, which will increase the total volume of processed materials at a higher rate than the copper REPURPOSING WASTE HEAT – WATER AND WATER output. It will thus be a challenge in years to come to keep the ratio POLLUTION CONTROL of calculated emission values to copper output at our low level. GRI 303-1, 303-3, 303-4, 303-5 Our goal is to keep metal emissions to water under 1.3 g/t of copper output until 2022, despite the planned increase in total input, for We use water in our production processes and for cooling purposes. a total reduction of 40 % since 2012. The sparing use of water resources and continuous improvement in water pollution control are included in our company guidelines. The following site-specific projects and individual measures help Furthermore, treating wastewater and thus avoiding environmental reduce environmental impacts to water: pollution is one of our responsibilities in industrial environmental protection since water may contain metals after use. »» W e extract industrial heat for the heat supply of the Hamburg urban development district HafenCity East. This industrial The relevance of water-related aspects is reviewed at the sites with heat is formed when sulfur dioxide – a by-product of copper the help of the environmental management systems and in the smelting – is converted to sulfuric acid. This prevents the use course of permit procedures. Inspections also include the influence of 12 million m³ of cooling water and Elbe River water each of production on bodies of water. The environmental management year, as the excess warmth is now used for heating purposes. systems are audited and certified annually. Incidentally, this industrial heat is nearly CO2-free. We focus on energy efficiency, page 30. »» To reduce the use of city water in Lünen, a facility for rainwater retention, preparation, and utilization was commissioned in 2014. The collected rainwater will cover a large proportion of the plant’s internal cooling and process water needs in the future. In the course of this project, the process wastewater, sanitary water, and precipitation have been fully separated from one another. We will continue to develop and modernize the canal network at the site. Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 Environment 27 Protection from Environmental Impact »» In November 2014, a new surface water treatment plant was commissioned at our site in Pirdop, Bulgaria. With a capacity of 250 m3/h and multiple retention basins, the plant cleans the rainwater and drainage water from the 4 km2 premises in order to achieve a further reduction in metal emissions to water. »» In Pirdop, there are plans to install a new sand filter in the existing treatment plant for industrial wastewater, which should reduce emissions from undissolved substances. »» A new pumping station for rainwater was installed in Avellino. We used a total of 70 million m³ of water in 2016 and 74.9 million m³ in 2017 in copper production, mainly as cooling water. We use river water wherever possible to conserve the natural potable water resources. The absolute potable water consumption was 1.1 million m³ in 2016 and 1.2 million m³ in 2017. We have reduced our specific potable water consumption in copper production by a total of 40 % since 2000. We achieved this reduction with more efficient facilities and the use of rainwater. Key figures related to water and wastewater GRI 303-1, 303-3, 303-4, 303-5 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Water Water consumption in copper production 1 million m3 79.7 72.2 77.2 73.8 70.0 74.9 Potable water consumption in copper production1 million m3 1.1 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.1 1.2 Specific potable water consumption m3/t of in copper production 1 copper output 0.8 0.9 0.8 0.9 0.8 0.8 Total water discharge 1 million m3 76.3 68.3 75.1 69.9 65.1 69.1 Quality of water discharge: in g/t of metal emissions to water 2 copper output 2.2 1.8 1.3 1.0 1.1 1.0 1 T he figures relate to the copper production sites, i.e., to primary and secondary copper production at the Hamburg, Lünen, Olen, and Pirdop sites. 2 In Lünen, wastewater is directed to the public sewer system after being treated on the plant premises. In our reporting, we refer to the copper production sites that discharge directly into water. These sites are Hamburg, Olen, and Pirdop. Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 28 Environment Protection from Environmental Impact WASTE – ENSURING PROPER DISPOSAL CONSERVATION AND PROTECTION – BIODIVERSITY GRI 306-2 GRI 304-1 Effective waste management is one of the central pillars of We are actively involved in creating and maintaining good industrial environmental protection for a company in the basic conditions for species conservation and biodiversity in our plants materials industry. A total of about 103,000 t of waste accumulated and their surroundings. Protecting biodiversity is one of our in Aurubis’ copper production processes in 2017. About 40 % of environmental targets. it, or roughly 39,000 t, originated from demolition work during our construction projects. A total of 42 % of the remaining productionThe aspect of biodiversity was also inspected by governmental related waste – 64,000 t overall, comprising 47,000 t classified as authorities as part of authorization procedures that included hazardous waste and about 17,000 t classified as non-hazardous environmental compatibility tests. If any impacts on biodiversity waste – was recycled. were expected, we implemented the required compensating measures. Furthermore, we conserve the habitats of animals and In addition, a fine-grained material – known as fayalite – is produced plants in the areas surrounding our sites with our extensive water at the Pirdop site through the flotation process used there to treatment, air emission reduction, and waste treatment methods. recover the copper contained in copper smelter slag. Fayalite is used as an additive for cement production, for instance. We are reviewing Conservation areas in close proximity to copper production sites additional options for reusing fayalite and are marketing it more GRI 304-1 actively. Distance in m Direction We transported olivine-pyroxene stone and slag material that we weren’t able to market as substitute building material from the Hamburg Hamburg site to landfills, reusing a large proportion of it as landfill Hamburger Unterelbe 200–600 Southeast construction material in the process. Holzhafen 600–1,000 East Heuckenlock/Schweenssand 3,600 South When transporting our products, we generally employ reusable pallets in order to avoid waste. We select recyclable material for Pirdop packaging foil and straps. Tsentralen Balkan – bufer (nature conservation area) approx. 1,000 North Tsentralen Balkan – bufer approx. 1,700 North Key figures related to waste GRI 306-2 (bird conservation area) approx. 2,300 East in t Sredna Gora approx. 2,300 South 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Lünen Total In den Kämpen, Im Mersche, and hazardous Langerner Hufeisen < 2,000 Northeast waste 43,157 38,606 36,928 40,300 37,349 47,246 Lippeaue < 5,000 Northwest Total nonLippe-Unna, Hamm, Soest, Warendorf < 2,500 Northwest hazardous waste 16,985 16,579 14,023 12,286 15,314 16,828 Olen Construction waste 58,929 50,523 28,983 42,698 51,002 38,725 Valleigebied van de Kleine Nete met haar brongebieden, moerassen en heiden approx. 1,000 North The figures relate to the copper production sites, i.e., to primary and secondary copper production at the Hamburg, Lünen, Olen, and Pirdop sites. De Vallei van de Kleine Nete Benedenstroom approx. 1,000 North Het Olensbroek-Langendonk approx. 1,000 North Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 Environment 29 Energy and Climate Wherever possible, we maintain or expand green areas on our In our company guideline entitled “Energy & Climate,” we plant grounds. For instance, we take part in the Hamburg initiative describe how we secure and optimize the energy supply and UnternehmensNatur to promote biodiversity at our site there. energy consumption at Aurubis, and we explain the roles and Due to long-time industrial use, soil contamination typical for responsibilities of the sites and Group departments in this area. industrial areas can appear, which we work to prevent from mobilizing and spreading. We commissioned a new sewer line at The Energy & Climate Affairs department coordinates the the Olen site to protect the nature conservation area Olens Broek development of the energy management and monitoring systems in late 2015. When we have to expand usable areas on our plant across the Group. In this way, they provide a uniform approach premises, we choose areas that naturally have limited biodiversity. and facilitate the exchange of expertise regarding best practice examples related to energy and CO2 reductions, for instance in the Additional measures are currently being devised to protect and form of an internal energy efficiency network. The management reinforce biodiversity. For example, we are planning to restore a of Energy & Climate Affairs is responsible for developing and fayalite landfill that was closed at the Pirdop site in late 2018. implementing the Group-wide energy strategy and reports directly After we receive the construction permit, we expect to finish the to the Executive Board. restoration efforts by the end of 2020. In Hamburg, the setup of a green facade (pilot) is being planned to promote biodiversity We have introduced energy management systems at our large and improve the ambient air. The project should be implemented production sites. Eight sites are currently certified in accordance in 2019. with ISO 50001. The plan is to introduce these systems across the Group to control energy consumption efficiently and identify energy savings potential. During the reporting period, the certifications Energy and Climate were confirmed through routine audits or recertification. The energy management system at the Hamburg and Lünen sites is part of the EFFICIENTLY COUNTERACTING EMISSIONS – integrated management system for quality, environmental OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH protection, energy, and occupational safety. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Beyond our involvement within the Group, we are in regular contact The individual production steps in our value chain are energywith external partners regarding energy and emissions issues. For intensive. As a result, it makes both economic and ecological sense example, in Germany, we participate in the Energy Efficiency to use energy efficiently. Energy consumption is also the main Platform led by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy, source of CO2 emissions in the Group. as well as the national Energy Efficiency Networks Initiative through the networks of the German Non-Ferrous Metals Association (WVM) Our production contributes to reducing CO2 emissions at the and the Hamburg Industrial Association. However, we also contribute same time, as our metals play a key role in electric cars and to climate and energy policy initiatives at regional level, such as the renewable energies such as wind energy. Electric cars contain innovation alliance NEW 4.0 – Northern German EnergieWende and significantly more copper than vehicles with combustion engines, the Energy Efficiency Network of the Aachen region. and connecting an offshore wind turbine to the energy grid requires up to 30 t of copper. Our metals therefore make the We also take part – both independently and through industry low-CO2 technologies of the future possible. associations – in political dialogue to counter the challenges that regularly arise from changes to regulatory requirements. During We report our CO2 emissions on a voluntary basis each year as part the reporting period, this dialogue addressed the German Energy of the climate change program of the Carbon Disclosure Project Collection Law, the EU’s Energy Efficiency Directive, and the reform (CDP). CDP gathers and evaluates data about companies’ emissions, of the EU Emissions Trading System (ETS) with CO2 certificates, climate risks, and reduction targets and strategies. More information which is intended to prevent the outsourcing of CO2-intensive about the risks related to climate and energy is available in the Risk processes to regions outside of the EU. More information about and Opportunity Report in the Annual Report 2017/18, page 88. our dialogue with stakeholders is available in the section “Active dialogue – Our stakeholder involvement” in this report. Active dialogue – Our stakeholder involvement, pages 10-11 . Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 30 Environment Energy and Climate Sustainability Strategy 2018–2023 – Action area “Energy and climate” Key measures KPIs Status in FY 2017/18 Introducing the ISO 50001 standard for energy Eight sites are currently certified in accordance management across the Group (by FY 2021/22) with ISO 50001. Increasing flexibility in electricity purchasing Flexibility in electricity use: 10 % target by FY Currently, 5 % of the power is flexible. A new 2022/23 project (an electrode boiler with 10 MW of power) is underway. Reducing CO2 emissions by 100,000 t through energy CO2 emissions: reduction target > 100,000 t Target achievement is at 73 %. efficiency projects and internal electricity projects by FY 2022/23 (base FY: 2012/13) Energy efficiency projects (such as increased heat The energy efficiency projects are extraction for supplying district heating, as well as implemented continuously through the action electricity projects within the company) plan within the scope of the energy management systems. Investigating processes and electricity consumption in A study on this topic has been commissioned. the context of the German Climate Action Plan 2050 and analyzing the requirements for new investments (starting FY 2018/19) WE FOCUS ON ENERGY EFFICIENCY – FOR LOWER COSTS We are participating in the project NEW 4.0, which is funded by AND LOWER ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS the German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy. The GRI 203-1, 203-2, 302-1, 302-3, 302-4 goal of the project is to supply the entire region of Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein with regenerative electricity in a safe, costThe effective and efficient use of energy is an ongoing topic at effective, and environmentally sound manner. This calls for a flexible Aurubis. In the meantime, we have reached a level where, despite and intelligent network of electricity producers and consumers. continued high levels of investment, we can only achieve relatively marginal improvements, as there are technological limits to reducing However, we also cover a portion of our energy needs with electricity energy consumption and emissions. For instance, the use of we generate internally using excess heat from our processes. We complex recycling raw materials with relatively low copper contents installed steam turbines for this purpose in Hamburg, Lünen, and requires more energy in relation to copper output, though other Pirdop. This allows us to prevent over 30,000 t of CO2 per year. valuable substances are drawn from the materials apart from copper. On top of that, we use waste heat from the production processes We believe it is important to align environmental protection, to secure the heat and process steam supply at the Pirdop, Lünen, resource conservation, and energy efficiency. This is why and Hamburg sites. Demand there is largely covered by waste heat. environmental protection already accounts for part of the energy consumption at Aurubis today. This includes the operation of At the Hamburg site, we found another use for the CO2-free waste filters with fans and other suctioning equipment. heat that hasn’t been used up to now: Together with the energy service provider enercity, we implemented the largest industrial Moreover, our long-term goal is to increase the proportion of heat project in Germany within two years. The excess heat from electricity from renewable energies that we use for our production our Hamburg plant is used in HafenCity East, a new urban district facilities. Fluctuation in the supply of renewable energies is located nearby. nevertheless a challenge for us, as a constant energy supply is crucial to our production processes. As a result, we are working on initiatives to make our energy needs more flexible to enable the use of renewables. Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 Environment 31 Energy and Climate Recovering the approximately 160 million kWh of nearly CO2-free Beyond the use of industrial heat, we do a great deal to continue heat – equivalent to the annual heat demand of 8,000 four-person enhancing our energy efficiency. Our Olen plant won second place households – prevents more than 20,000 t of CO2 emissions per in the environmental contest held by the city of Olen in June 2018 year. About half of the reduction results from avoiding the use of for its achievements in sustainable energy use. Aurubis Stolberg natural gas to produce steam on our plant premises; we save the is part of the Energy Efficiency Network for companies in the other half by delivering the waste heat to enercity. Furthermore, Aachen region, sponsored by the Aachen Chamber of Industry and our contact acid plant no longer has to be cooled with river water, Commerce. The site regularly informs its network partners about so we use about 12 million m3 less cooling water – the volume of the successful measures implemented during the past few years: around 4,800 Olympic-sized swimming pools. For example, the renovation of the flash smelter for strip reduced gas consumption by 20 % and shielding gas by 50 % last year. However, even smaller changes such as switching to LED lights have a positive impact on the energy balance. Projects and routine training sessions encourage employees to take energy issues into account in their conduct. The Industrial Heat project has already received a great deal of Energy-efficient burners are used at the Hamburg site. We are also recognition and several accolades among expert circles. The in the process of improving heat use at the plant by updating the German Energy Agency (dena) not only presented it as one of ten insulation and optimizing indoor cooling and heating. flagship projects for the energy-efficient use of waste heat, but also honored it with the internationally renowned Energy Efficiency These types of energy efficiency measures aren’t only taking place Award. Overall, the project has been granted the following honors: at our Hamburg plant, though. Other examples include our Stolberg site and the Deutsche Giessdraht GmbH plant in Emmerich. Using »» E nergy Efficiency Award 2018 from the German Energy Agency excess heat from air compressors, optimizing the heating and in the category “Energy Transition 2.0” cooling process (including heat use in the production facilities), »» German Renewables Award 2018 from the Hamburg Renewable and installing LED lighting and more efficient engines are a few Energies Cluster in the category “Project of the Year” developments that have saved energy at these sites. We will transfer »» Flagship Project for Energy-Efficient Waste Heat for the these efficiency measures to other sites such as Avellino, Pirdop, German Energy Agency since 2017 and Olen in the future. »» Ener.CON Europe Award 2019 from we.CONECT Our total energy consumption in 2017 totaled 3,536,114 MWh and The total potential heat volume that could be extracted at Aurubis thus increased slightly compared to the previous year, primarily amounts to up to 500 million kWh, which could cover more than due to the expansion of production in Pirdop and two large-scale a tenth of Hamburg’s district heating needs and prevent about shutdowns in Hamburg and Pirdop during the previous year, which 140,000 t of CO2. This is nearly equivalent to the amount that led to a lower output volume. Natural gas and electricity are our Hamburg industry wants to save annually starting in 2018. To main energy sources. The following table provides a detailed leverage this savings potential efficiently, there would have to be breakdown of our energy consumption. additional political measures in place – for instance, the allocation of free certificates for the EU emissions trading system for CO2 emissions that are prevented outside of the plant premises. Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 32 Environment Energy and Climate Key figures related to energy consumption GRI 302-1, 302-3, 302-4 2015 2016 2017 Total energy consumption within the organization MWh 3,463,566 3,366,552 3,536,114 Total energy consumption from renewable energies MWh 163,495 170,198 171,908 Total fuel consumption MWh 1,750,786 1,716,271 1,667,606 Total fuel consumption from non-renewable sources MWh 1,747,596 1,713,907 1,664,934 Natural gas MWh 1,256,308 1,199,773 1,154,935 Heating oil MWh 6,171 7,898 5,246 Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) MWh 46,235 34,579 40,210 Diesel MWh 32,772 48,024 51,723 Fuel oil MWh 281,280 303,430 286,568 Coke MWh 91,635 84,217 91,594 Butane gas MWh 33,195 35,986 34,658 Total fuel consumption from renewable sources 3,188 2,364 2,672 Wood and wood waste MWh – 377 – Landfill gas (LFG) MWh 3,188 1,987 2,672 Total electricity consumption1 MWh 1,712,780 1,650,281 1,825,472 Total bought-in electricity MWh 1,680,443 1,612,879 1,790,611 from non-renewable sources MWh 1,552,472 1,482,447 1,656,236 from renewable sources MWh 127,971 130,432 134,375 Consumption from internally generated renewable energies MWh 32,336 37,402 34,861 Consumption of bought-in steam MWh – – 43,036 Energy intensity2 MWh/t 2.0 2.1 1.9 Reduction in energy consumption MWh – – 15,822 Steam turbine in Pirdop MWh – – 12,049 Optimizations in Hamburg MWh – – 3,679 Optimizations in Olen MWh – – 94 1 I ncrease due to production expansion in Pirdop in 2017. The figures for 2016 are lower because of large-scale shutdowns in Hamburg and Pirdop in the same year. 2 These figures relate to the copper production sites, i.e., to primary and secondary copper production at the Hamburg, Lünen, Olen, and Pirdop sites. Key figures related to CO2 emissions1, 2 GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5 2015 2016 2017 Scope 1 and 2 t 1,715,718 1,669,129 1,634,694 Scope 1 (emissions produced as a direct result of burning fuels in internal facilities) t 518,376 519,823 529,239 Scope 2 (indirect emissions related to purchased energy, e.g., electricity) t 1,197,342 1,149,306 1,105,455 Scope 3 (other indirect emissions) 1,761,036 1,642,839 1,901,182 Emissions in t/t of copper output t/t 0.21 0.22 0.19 Emission reduction t – – 13,788 Wind turbine in Olen t – – 12,000 General process optimizations t – – 788 Process optimizations in rod plants t – – 1,000 1 Aurubis reports CO2 emissions for the production sites. This reflects most of the CO2 emissions because the emissions volume at the sales offices is negligible in comparison. Emissions from diesel vehicles are not included in the direct CO2 emissions because they are very low, relatively speaking. 2 Aurubis reports its CO2 emissions using the methods of the “European Union Emission Trading System (EU ETS): The Monitoring and Reporting Regulation (MMR) – General guidance for installations” and “The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition).” Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 Environment 33 Energy and Climate HOW WE CHOOSE OUR ROUTES – TRANSPORT AT AURUBIS One example of our transport optimizations is the Cu-Port project Our business involves transporting goods, whether this is the at our Olen site. The plant’s convenient location on the Bocholtdelivery of our raw materials, the exchange of goods between Herentals Canal makes it an ideal destination for water transports. our production sites, or the delivery of finished products to our As part of a public–private partnership between Aurubis and De customers. We try to optimize this transport traffic and to limit Vlaamse Waterweg, the operator of the canal system, the so-called the environmental impacts it causes. Cu-Port is now being developed at the site: a new container crane, together with a new quay wall and a connection to the existing Our suppliers of primary raw materials, which are mainly located railway network. Everything should be completed by fall 2019. This in South America, process mined copper ore with a copper project not only provides us with a long-term, cost-efficient solution content between 0.5 % and 4 % into copper concentrate on site. for our material flow on site, but also has a positive effect on traffic The concentrate, with a typical copper content of up to 30 %, is safety and quality of life in the region: It will reduce the number of then shipped to Europe and transported further by inland vessel or trucks on the roads by 13,000 annually. Aurubis Belgium’s water rail. We source over 80 % of our secondary raw materials directly transports are expected to rise from currently 10 % to 40 %. from Europe. Another area in which we are trying to improve transports is We select our carriers according to established criteria. Although inter-plant traffic. To limit this as much as possible, we continuously economic and timing aspects have priority, we favor the most review how we can optimize cargo loads and return trips. environmentally friendly carrier whenever possible. Accordingly, Furthermore, we maintain a dialogue with our suppliers and we prefer waterways over rail, and road transport is the last resort. customers to tap additional transport synergies. Of the freights and transports we oversee, about 50 % take place by waterway, 25 % by rail, and 25 % by road. Modes of transport Across the Group Water (container ships and inland vessels) 50 % Rail Road 25 % 25 % Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 34 Environment Energy and Climate OUR CO2 FOOTPRINT – SCOPE 1, 2, AND 3 EMISSIONS The graphic shows that at least half of the CO2 emissions arise from GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5 services performed by third parties. Of these Scope 3 emissions, about two-thirds originate from the activities of mining companies. Our Sustainability Strategy 2013–2018 included the target of The transport of the materials to and from our sites causes about reducing CO2 emissions by 100,000 t in the context of energy 20 % of them. A smaller proportion of emissions arises from our efficiency projects. So far, we have been able to prevent 73,000 t investments in new or modernized facilities, as well as from the of CO2. Nevertheless, we will continue to pursue our original production of our fueland energy-related input materials that are reduction target in our new Sustainability Strategy 2018–2023. not covered by Scope 1 and 2. Our employees’ commutes and business trips have a very limited impact. Direct and indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 1 and 2) within the Group amounted to roughly 1.63 million t in calendar year 2017. At 0.19 t Scope 3 emissions by activity GRI 305-3 of CO2 per ton of copper output, specific emissions from fuels were Calendar year 2017, in t of CO2 at a low level in 2017. Product-related emissions have even been reduced by 40 % since 2000. 1,262,986 Our Scope 3 emissions rose slightly to 1.9 million t in 2017 due to an increase in internal and external logistics. The breakdown of emissions according to Scope 1, 2, and 3 was as follows in calendar 218,982 184,340 134,313 82,794 10,577 2,003 year 2017: Purchased UpFuel and DownCapital Employee Business goods and stream energystream goods commuting travel CO2 emissions in the Aurubis Group GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 services transporrelated transporCalendar year 2017, in % tation activities tation and distriand distribution bution 54 15 Scope 3 – Scope 1 – company and direct energy supply chain activities 31 Scope 2 – purchased energy (market-based) Aurubis reports the emissions that are directly produced from burning fuels in its own facilities (Scope 1) and emissions that are connected to purchased energy, e.g., electricity (Scope 2). Furthermore, partially aggregated data was used to estimate emissions from services performed by third parties, for example transport, and purchased preliminary services (Scope 3). Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 35 PEOPLE Future-oriented Employer the Group and developed continuously. Our overarching goal is to provide qualifications to our employees and to promote their In many companies, employers are increasingly likely to react to development in order to ensure mutual success and motivation. the changing demands of the labor market due to demographic This objective is supported by the high-quality training offered at shifts. We believe that any company that wants to continue being Aurubis, as well as investments in our employees’ qualifications. an attractive employer in the future has to constantly review Training and Education, pages 39-41. what it offers and meet the requirements of today’s labor market. We have set the targets of creating a work environment for good, HOW WE WANT TO PRESENT OURSELVES TO APPLICANTS – close cooperation and promoting involvement and creativity. OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH We form a team that passionately works toward the company’s GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 progress. Skilled, productive, and enthusiastic employees form the basis of our future commercial success and the Group’s further development. Our HR strategy helps us address the staffing challenges of the future. It is embedded in the Group strategy and is guided by our corporate values. It is applied throughout Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 36 People Future-oriented Employer Sustainability Strategy 2018–2023 – Action area “Future-oriented employer” Key measures KPIs Status in FY 2017/18 Improving the “health” of the organization Organizational Health Index The Transformation and Business Improvement with strategically aligned HR instruments department was set up in early 2017. The department’s and services, as well as individual Business Improvement Guides support internal projects development tools and the implementation of the Aurubis Operating System (AOS) as internal consultants. Regularly identifying employees’ needs The flextime program was developed further during the with respect to working time arrangements reporting period. Furthermore, a new shift model was initiated. A new planning process for personnel placement enables better shift planning. The home office and mobile work options were expanded. Developing a diversity policy Diversity Index (age structure, international International teams are already working together as part quality, percentage of female employees; of the reorganization and AOS. The development of a index under development) diversity policy (including age structure, international character, and gender distribution) is planned for the coming years. All Group-wide activities related to our employees are managed In fiscal year 2017/18, Global HR Business Partners were introduced, by HR Group. This department is particularly involved with a strategic HR recruiting function was developed, and applicant implementing and monitoring strategic HR tools and services and management was harmonized Group-wide. Furthermore, our HR supporting change and internationalization processes. Direct work during fiscal year 2017/18 focused on: supervisors and the local HR departments at the sites are responsible for employee supervision, performance assessments, »» AOS implementation at all sites and development planning. Their on-site HR work is oriented »» Extensive recruitment as part of the new organization toward the standards of the central HR division. »» Defining and optimizing core processes in the international functional teams (e.g., HR) We take internal changes and trends on the labor markets and in »» Team developments in the newly created functions Operations, society into account. For example, this includes a lack of qualified Commercial, and Technology workers due to the demographic shift, as well as the search for apprentices. We take stock of these trends annually by discussing Good cooperation between our employees and the company them with employer associations and unions. management is the basis for the Group’s success. Consequently, we expressly support the principle of employee participation at all of To address these challenges, we offer our employees an attractive our sites. All employees are informed regularly and promptly about work environment and prioritize a balance between work and current developments. On the corporate level, the Executive Board free time, good cooperation between our employees and company and Supervisory Board, in which the staff is also represented, work management, and competitive, gender-neutral compensation. closely together as the highest governing bodies. On the plant level, the interests of the employees are represented by works councils/ unions according to country-specific regulations. An elected European Works Council has been in place at Aurubis since 2009 and covers all of the European sites. Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 People 37 Future-oriented Employer OUR STAFF IN FIGURES Employees with temporary/permanent contracts by GRI 102-8, 401-1, 405-1 gender and region1 GRI 102-8 Number Development of employee headcount Number Permanent Temporary 6,673 1 contracts contracts 6,359 1 6,454 1 6,494 1 6,321 1 Aurubis Group 6,159 (96 %) 227 (4 %) Female employees 729 (93 %) 53 (7 %) Male employees 5,430 (97 %) 174 (3 %) Employees in Germany 3,396 (97 %) 116 (3 %) Female employees 344 (93 %) 26 (7 %) 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 Male employees 3,052 (97 %) 90 (3 %) Employees in Europe (excluding Germany) 2,133 (97 %) 75 (3 %) 1 Excluding Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG. Female employees 331 (95 %) 18 (5 %) Male employees 1,802 (97 %) 57 (3 %) Employees in the US 611 (94 %) 36 (6 %) Employee turnover in the Aurubis Group Female employees 47 (84 %) 9 (16 %) (FY 2017/18 as at the reporting date 9/30/2018) GRI 401-1 Male employees 564 (95 %) 27 (5 %) Employees in Asia 19 (100 %) 0 (0 %) Female employees 7 (100 %) 0 (0 %) Newly employed staff and apprentices 544 Male employees 12 (100 %) 0 (0 %) Turnover rate (excluding apprentices)1 6.6 % 1 Apprentices not included. Average length of employment in the company1 15.3 years 1 P  ermanent and temporary employment arrangements. Excluding Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG, in which Aurubis holds a 50 % stake. In addition to the fully consolidated companies, this table includes the non-consolidated Age structure in the Aurubis Group1 GRI 405-1 companies Aurubis Metal Products (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Aurubis Rus LLC (St. Petersburg), Aurubis Middle East FZE (Dubai), and Aurubis Turkey Kimya Number Anonim Sirketi (Istanbul), which had a combined total of twelve employees 1,820 in FY 2017/18. It also includes eleven independent sales employees at 1,515 1,452 international sites. 984 585 Employee structure in the Aurubis Group GRI 102-7, 102-8, 401-1 14 16 (FY 2017/18 as at the reporting date 9/30/2018) <20 20–29 30–39 40–49 50–59 60–69 >69 Employees Female Male 1 Not including apprentices. Aurubis Group1 6,673 12 % 88 % Blue collar 4,130 4% 96 % GAUGING OUR HEALTH – THE ORGANIZATIONAL White collar 2,256 28 % 72 % HEALTH INDEX Apprentices (including Pirdop) 287 10 % 90 % Among the feedback tools used at Aurubis is the Organizational Temporary workers2 214 – – Health Index (OHI). The OHI allows us to measure the “health” of our company and provides information about how well Aurubis can 1  ermanent and temporary employment arrangements. Excluding Schwermetall P Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG, in which Aurubis holds a 50 % stake. In addition react to market changes and generate sustainable economic success. to the fully consolidated companies, this table includes the non-consolidated companies Aurubis Metal Products (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Aurubis Rus LLC (St. Key influencing variables include leadership skills, innovation, and Petersburg), Aurubis Middle East FZE (Dubai), and Aurubis Turkey Kimya Anonim willingness to learn, as well as company culture and climate. We Sirketi (Istanbul), which had a combined total of twelve employees in FY 2017/18. It also includes eleven independent sales employees at international sites. last carried out the OHI in 2016. In 2017, we started a 360° feedback 2 Personnel that are legally employed by an external service provider, regularly work program – a tool for constructive feedback for managers – based for Aurubis, and have been approved in the course of internal personnel and resource planning. External consultants and service providers are on the results. Personal developmental targets and measures are not included. derived from this program in order to sustainably improve managerial performance. Since then, the feedback culture and cooperation at peer level and between departments has improved. Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 38 People Future-oriented Employer For the future, we’re planning to expand feedback tools and to We want to continue raising enthusiasm among female applicants use the goal-setting process and annual performance reviews for working at Aurubis. We position ourselves accordingly in our more intensively for personnel development across all levels. We marketing at colleges and universities and work together with evaluate our managers based on their individually agreed targets schools for this purpose. Nevertheless, the challenge remains: in the context of our performance management system. To support Women generally tend to apply to Aurubis less frequently – possibly our managers, the professional development programs were due to the industry – and the number of female applicants in expanded to specific target groups up to foreman level. technical fields relevant to us remains low. WORKING TOGETHER WITH RESPECT – DIVERSITY We contribute to the integration of severely disabled individuals AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY and promote their employment. The proportion of severely disabled Annual Report 2017/18, pages 18-21 individuals at Aurubis AG (the Hamburg and Lünen sites) is 6.9 % GRI 405-1 and thus exceeds the legal quota of 5 %. Diversity in the employee structure is important to us. We consider GOOD COMPATIBILITY – OUR WORK–LIFE BALANCE diversity to include not only cultural aspects and international We strive to make flexible working time arrangements if desired, as representation but also diversity in terms of specialized skills and long as this is consistent with the individual work area. We regularly age groups, as well as a gender balance. Our cross-functional, ­ identify our employees’ needs to develop modern and sensible inter-site organization, for example in the Technology division, and working time models. For example, we developed the flextime the program ONE Aurubis zero in on diversity. Employees from program during the reporting period. On top of that, we introduced 38 different nationalities are working in Hamburg, for instance. a new shift model and a new planning process for personnel The Group Code of Conduct and our corporate values serve as placement to enable better shift planning. We also expanded the the basis for respectful cooperation. home office and mobile work options. Open positions are filled exclusively according to the applicant’s Full-time and part-time employees in the Aurubis Group qualifications and the requirements of the position. If we determine (FY 2017/18 as at the reporting date 9/30/2018) that there are any instances of discrimination, we employ labor law measures such as warnings or dismissal. Those who are affected Full-time Part-time can contact the Compliance Officer, HR, the works councils, or the Total employees 6,160 (96 %) 226 (4 %) anonymous whistleblower hotline. Female employees 654 (84 %) 128 (16 %) Male employees 5,506 (98 %) 98 (2 %) No instances of discrimination were reported during the period under review. One of our goals is to increase the proportion of female managers – To improve the balance of work and family and to reduce the independently of legal stipulations, which we fulfill by defining multiple burdens that young parents have during their training, concrete target parameters. we offer our apprentices with children part-time apprenticeships or enable additional childcare leave with a corresponding extension Proportion of female managers GRI 405-1 of the apprenticeship period. We also provide e-learning modules in % that can be completed at work or at home. Status as at Target by These efforts are recognized outside of the company as well: 9/30/2018 6/30/2022 For example, our Lünen site was recertified as a family-friendly company. In the Executive Board 0 25.0 1st management level 11.8 20.0 2nd management level 20.0 25.0 In the Supervisory Board 33.3 30.0 Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 People 39 Training and Education FAIR COMPENSATION – WAGES AND ADDITIONAL Training and Education BENEFITS GRI 102-41, 401-2 We view our employees’ training and continuing education as an investment in the future. We secure the foundation of our company’s Competitive salaries independent of gender, which are oriented to success by developing our employees both professionally and performance and qualifications, and comprehensive social services personally. At the same time, we offer our employees qualifications enhance our attractiveness as an employer and boost employee and support them by imparting them with knowledge and skills that motivation. A collective agreement related to working life and will be important in the future. demographic change applies to Aurubis AG and includes a variety of aspects. Extensive legal regulations apply when it comes CONTINUED DEVELOPMENT THROUGH QUALIFICATIONS – to social safeguards because our sites are mainly located in Europe OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH and the US. Furthermore, the wage contracts and company GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 404-2 agreements in place at all of our sites ensure minimum standards. All salaried employees at Aurubis are paid in accordance with a In order to achieve our vision and advance our strategy, we rely wage agreement. Altogether, 100 % of Aurubis AG employees on the principle of a learning organization. The targeted personal and 99 % of our employees across the Group fall under collective development of our employees therefore has high priority. We agreements. enable our employees to obtain new qualifications, continuously strengthen their skills, and promote their development to ensure In addition to the base salary, we also offer performance-related joint success and motivation. components and various additional company benefits. Performanceand success-oriented compensation is a central element of the The HR Development department is responsible for staff remuneration system. The performance of the individual is always development. It supports the other departments, in close viewed in connection with the performance of the team, the coordination with the local HR managers, in building employees’ department, or the production area. qualifications in a directed way tailored to their needs. The objective is to meet current and future requirements and challenges. HR All employees in Hamburg and Lünen have additional disability Development is part of the HR Group department. insurance, and all employees with an unlimited contract have a company pension. The options of a pension plan through the To fulfill future personnel requirements, we regularly assess German Chemical Industry Pension Fund and a long-term working personnel demand for specific skills and trades, and offer a sufficient hours account are becoming increasingly popular. More than 90 % number of apprenticeships accordingly. We also identify the demand of eligible employees under the wage agreement take advantage for employee qualifications and successors for different positions in of the pension allowance offered. The long-term working hours annual talks and in the yearly personnel planning process in order to account agreed on with the employee representatives has been develop and expand specialized skills and management expertise in introduced at all of the larger German sites. a purposeful way. Once again, we gave staff in Germany the opportunity to purchase Aurubis shares at a discount in fiscal year 2017/18. The number of participants increased compared to the previous year. Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 40 People Training and Education Sustainability Strategy 2018–2023 – Action area “Training and education” Key measures KPIs Status in FY 2017/18 Regularly identifying qualification needs to expand Training hours used for development In fiscal year 2017/18, a 360° feedback project, process, and management expertise in a measures: target of 18 per FTE (full-time process was introduced for the Executive targeted way (by FY 2022/23) equivalent) per year by FY 2022/23 Board and the first and second management levels, and a Group-wide performance management system was established for the employees. Group-wide introduction of the Aurubis Operating Employee participation in AOS: targets by During the reporting year, basic AOS System (AOS) pillar “training and education” FY 2022/23 (base year: 2017/18) courses were carried out and the pilot (by FY 2022/23) » Inclusion of employees in pillar activities: phase for AOS e-learning was prepared. target of over 90 % » Inclusion of employees in the performance management system: target of over 90 % » Active employee participation in improvement teams: target of over 20 % Ensuring Group-wide knowledge management The necessary personnel resources were to identify, preserve, transfer, and enhance provided during the reporting period. knowledge across functions (by FY 2022/23) A structured process was drafted and the pilot phase for Group-wide knowledge management started. THE MANAGERS OF TOMORROW – TRAINING AND Apprenticeship and apprentice retention rate in Germany YOUNG EMPLOYEES AT AURUBIS We are proud of our high training and retention rate. This helps FY 2017/18 ensure that we have a sufficient number of qualified employees. At Apprenticeship rate in Germany 6.3 % our site in Pirdop, Bulgaria, we implemented a vocational training Apprentice retention rate in Germany 80 % program based on the Swiss training model. Excluding Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG, in which Aurubis holds a 50 % stake. Apprentices in the Aurubis Group Number of apprentices in fiscal year 2017/18 Aurubis Hamburg has participated in the internship model AV 10-Plus since 2007. The model supports young people from a range 298 283 287 269 274 of occupational groups, helping them to gain the qualifications required to begin apprenticeships. In 2017/18, we took on five of the eleven participants as apprentices. The remaining participants started external apprenticeships or went on to pursue higher education. 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 In Hamburg, we are becoming more involved in fairs and school events to raise young people’s interest in Aurubis. At these events, Excluding Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG, in which Aurubis holds our apprentices report on their everyday work to the potential a 50 % stake. In addition to the fully consolidated companies, this table includes the employees of the nonconsolidated companies Aurubis Metal Products (Shanghai) Co., applicants. Our sites in Lünen and Stolberg participated once again Ltd., Aurubis Rus LLC (St. Petersburg), Aurubis Middle East FZE (Dubai), and Aurubis in the “Night of Apprentices.” Many interested young people were Turkey Kimya Anonim Sirketi (Istanbul), which had a combined total of twelve employees in fiscal year 2017/18. able to receive information about our trades and apprenticeship options from the exhibits and information stands, and to participate in plant tours. Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 People 41 Training and education Recently, we invested in the construction of two modern vocational We developed and adjusted the training offerings in our leadership training centers in Lünen and Hamburg. In Lünen, the Occupational and qualification program according to the Group’s needs. In Safety and Technology departments will share the building with particular, options for managers at foreman level were a top priority. the Training Workshop. In Hamburg, the Innovation and Training We also offer employees a number of technical training measures. Center will house the Training department and Research & Development (R&D), with the shared building emphasizing the even Average training hours GRI 404-1 stronger linkage between R&D and vocational training in the future. Hours of training per Furthermore, we cooperate with partner universities, offer employee1 internships to students in Germany, and provide thesis projects and scholarships. Aurubis Group 11.52 Blue collar 9.69 It is important to us that even apprentices contribute to the agreed White collar 15.07 measures and targets of the Aurubis Sustainability Strategy. 1 Permanent and temporary employment arrangements. Excluding Schwermetall Sustainability should become a fixed element of the apprenticeship Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG, in which Aurubis holds a 50 % stake. In addition to the fully consolidated companies, this table includes the non-consolidated program. Consequently, there has been a separate Sustainability companies Aurubis Metal Products (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Aurubis Rus LLC (St. Petersburg), Aurubis Middle East FZE (Dubai), and Aurubis Turkey Kimya Anonim Week for apprentices each year since 2015. During the Sustainability Sirketi (Istanbul), which had a combined total of twelve employees in FY 2017/18. Week in February 2018, a total of 25 participants analyzed Aurubis’ It also includes eleven independent sales employees at international sites. contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In addition to the apprentices, many experts from different departments We evaluate our managers based on their individually agreed targets were fully involved in this sustainability event, discussing the topic in the context of our performance management system. To support intensively with the young participants. our managers, we expanded the professional development programs to specific target groups up to foreman level. EXPANDING EXPERTISE – EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND CONTINUING EDUCATION In addition to qualification and development programs geared to GRI 404-2, 404-3 necessary skills, for example in the areas of AOS and project management, we rely on platforms for networking and discussing Developing our current employees continuously – regardless of best practices (e.g., expert panels and online learning groups). their number of years with the company or level in the company We established a variety of new qualification offers during the hierarchy – is just as important to us as training the younger reporting period: In our oneto two-hour micro-learning units called generation. We have different instruments to support us in this “Learning Nuggets,” participants learn and test new skills. The target. “Aurubis Essentials” series of short seminars presents important overarching topics to interested employees to promote a Every Aurubis Group employee has an annual talk with his or comprehensive understanding of the company. her manager. Apart from a review and a performance assessment, the talk helps the participants identify development potential, provide feedback, and coordinate targets. We take the results of the employee talks into consideration in our annual personnel development planning and the corresponding budgets. During the reporting year, we held talks with 100 % of our production and office employees. Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 42 People Health and Safety Health and Safety The site managers play a central role in occupational health and safety. They are responsible for complying with applicable laws and OUR EFFORTS TO MAKE WORK SAFE – OUR MANAGEMENT ordinances on occupational health and safety, the relevant corporate APPROACH policy, and the current process instructions. Furthermore, they GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 403-1, 403-4, 403-9 gather and evaluate health risks and help implement suitable measures to protect employees. We live up to our responsibility of creating a working environment for our employees that enables a working life without accidents, injuries, The sites are in contact with each other via an organized network or illness. We don’t distinguish between our own employees, external facilitated by C-OHS. In this way, existing specialist knowledge can employees, or visitors in this respect. We follow all local laws as a be used across the Group. Moreover, employee representatives are matter of course. In many cases, our internal standards extend included in the topic of occupational health and safety: Through the beyond these legal requirements. reporting line to the Executive Board, C-OHS also reports to the general Works Council committee and the European Works Council. The department Corporate Occupational Health and Safety C-OHS is directly invited to these committee meetings. (C-OHS) manages on-the-job safety and health. The department is responsible for creating conditions that prevent all work-related Occupational health and safety management at the sites is based on accidents and illnesses. It reports directly to the Executive Board. OHSAS 18001 and corporate policy and is currently being adjusted The corporate department establishes minimum occupational safety to fulfill ISO 45001. standards for the entire Group by issuing process instructions in addition to the Corporate Policy on Occupational Health and Safety. Our occupational safety approach applies to our employees, temporary workers, and external service providers. Sustainability Strategy 2018–2023 – Action area “Health and safety” Key measures KPIs Status in FY 2017/18 Preparing all sites for the introduction of the LTIFR (Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate): » This project kicked off during the Health & Safety ISO 45001 standard for occupational health reduce this to ≤1.0 by FY 2021/22 Group Meeting in Sofia in 2018. and safety (by FY 2019/20) » Our site in Avellino was certified in accordance with ISO 45001 in early 2019. » A pre-audit was carried out in Pirdop in 2018 and certification is scheduled for 2019. The site is already certified in accordance with OHSAS 18001. » An internal gap analysis is currently underway at the other sites, and the first internal audits are scheduled for 2019. Introduction of behavior-based safety (BBS) » Behavior-based safety was initiated at our sites across the Group (by FY 2020/21) in Emmerich, Hamburg, Pori, and Stolberg in the reporting period. » The introduction of the “10 Golden Rules” planned for 2019 will support us in the process. Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 People 43 Health and Safety ACCURATELY EVALUATING HAZARDS – MINIMIZING RISKS – OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY OUR RISK ASSESSMENT AT AURUBIS GRI 403-2, 403-7, 403-9, 403-10 GRI 403-2, 403-6, 403-9 In-depth risk assessment is essential for responsible activities in Our conduct is guided by Vision Zero, meaning that we strive to our industry. Our evaluation of risks covers both current and future avoid all work-related accidents, injuries, and illnesses. Our internal work processes in the company, including maintenance and repair reporting requires all sites to report accidents involving Aurubis procedures in addition to operations. Our risk assessments cover employees or third parties to Group headquarters immediately or hazards in normal operations, special work assignments, and within 24 hours, depending on the severity of the incident. The abnormal incidents. accident investigations have to be sent to the headquarters within seven days. There, they are processed and distributed in the Group Health hazards and individual requirements in the work areas are as part of a “learning from incidents” approach. In 2018, we systematically collected, evaluated, and documented. The risk expanded the obligation to report to Group headquarters to include assessment is guided by the current knowledge available, taking the less demanding work areas, medical treatments, first aid measures, type, extent, and probability or duration of the effect into account. and near-misses for all individuals working at the sites. The following have to be recorded and evaluated: Our goal for the medium term is to reduce the number of work»» Legal standards and supplementary Aurubis standards related accidents with at least one lost shift per one million hours »» Hazards in normal operations, special work assignments, and worked (Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate, LTIFR) to ≤1.0 by 2022. abnormal incidents »» Substances in the work area, their concentrations, and In fiscal year 2017/18, the number of accidents increased compared their effects on health to the two previous years. The “10 Golden Rules” that will be »» Physical impacts introduced in fiscal year 2018/19 will help us reinforce the topic of »» Biological impacts individual conduct, from employee to CEO. Our hope is that this »» Physical and psychological strain in the work area will provide new momentum to achieve our goal. »» Strain from the surrounding area and from personal protective equipment Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate GRI 403-9 All accidents are systematically investigated to determine their 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 technical, organizational, and conduct-based causes. The causes LTIFR (1-n)1 7.8 6.3 4.6 4.8 6.1 and preventive measures derived from them are communicated LTIFR (4-n)2 6.5 5.3 4.4 4.2 4.6 throughout the Group. Furthermore, we strive to report and Absolute number of investigate every incident, even those that don’t result in injury accidents (1-n)3 80 63 45 47 60 (near-misses). Number of work-related Smelter operations (heat, metal melt), hazardous substances in fatalities3 0 0 0 0 0 the production process, industrial machines, and internal logistics Number of work-related theoretically present the greatest risks. However, analyses show fatalities of that production-specific accidents are rare. The most common third parties at our sites 0 0 1 0 0 causes of accidents are stumbles, slips, falls, and working with hand1 Accidents with lost time of at least one full shift. operated tools. Measures to avoid these accidents are incorporated 2 Accidents with lost time of more than three full shifts. more and more into our behavior-based safety (BBS) approach, in 3 Permanent and temporary employment arrangements. Excluding the sales offices in Chicago, Lyon/Septème, and Barcelona, which have a total of nine employees, addition to continuous improvements in overall working conditions. and excluding Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk GmbH & Co. KG, in which Aurubis holds a 50 % stake. In the context of risk assessments and workplace analyses, we record potential health risks and derive measures from these We offer external companies working for us on our premises the insights. The effectiveness of these steps is reviewed in routine option to take part in biomonitoring. As required, we provide workplace measurements. Nevertheless, 19 suspected occupational employees of external companies with our industry-specific illnesses were reported in 2018, including noise-induced hearing personal protective equipment (PPE), for instance respiratory impairment, respiratory illness, skin conditions, and spinal devices or fall protection. complaints. Recurring emergency and evacuation drills are carried out at the sites. We include our neighbors in the emergency drills and evacuation plans if they could potentially be affected. Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 44 People Societal Engagement HEALTH SERVICES – PREVENTION AND SUPPORT Societal Engagement GRI 403-3, 403-6 GRI 203-2 Internal company doctors are available at three sites. At all of the Societal engagement is a fixed component of our corporate identity. other sites, freelance occupational physicians are commissioned We fulfill our responsibility within society – as an employer, as a with carrying out obligatory and optional checkups. business partner, as a neighbor, and as a member of society, throughout the entire value chain. Health checkups are offered when new employees are hired, with routine occupational health checkups provided thereafter. In THE RIGHT ATTITUDE TOWARD SOCIETAL ENGAGEMENT – addition, we support employees in taking preventive measures to OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH maintain their health. Our offerings extend from flu shots and GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 203-1, 413-1 preventive checkups to individual healthcare options, such as support to stop smoking or exercise programs. As an international group, we are in contact with many people every day. And not just in our business activities, but also as an All health data is subject to medical confidentiality and is only actor within society. It is important to us to fulfill the demands that accessible to medical personnel. Data can only be transferred society places on us – and to make a contribution to society that with the employee’s written consent. extends beyond the minimum requirements. As a result, we view the action area “Societal engagement” as essential for the Group ALWAYS UP TO SPEED – QUALIFICATIONS AND TRAINING and for our Sustainability Strategy. We establish the organizational GRI 403-4, 403-5 conditions to effectively improve social conditions. We also offer concrete financial support at local, national, and, in the future, Our occupational safety experts, company doctors, and medical international level. personnel are all qualified specialists with experience in occupational health and safety. The representatives of C-OHS regularly participate We have set the target of contributing to a livable environment in committees for occupational health and safety and in employee for future generations. In the process, we focus on areas of action training, in addition to advising the management. that are linked with Aurubis’ key areas of expertise. We want to promote enthusiasm for our company and for our work and to Occupational health and safety issues are regularly discussed with the present ourselves as a responsible, committed company. employees or their representatives in the safety steering committees at site and Group level. Strategies to continuously improve our health and safety performance are developed jointly. Training and safety talks sensitize employees to occupational safety topics. Moreover, at appropriate intervals and at least once per year, employees receive verbal instruction related to health hazards in the workplace and the necessary preventive and protective measures. The type and content of this instruction draws on the legal regulations, risk assessments, and operating guidelines. All external service providers are instructed about hazards, protective measures, and rules of conduct at the specific site before they start working. Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 People 45 Societal Engagement Sustainability Strategy 2018–2023 – Action area “Societal engagement” Key measures KPI Status in 2017/18 Developing and implementing a strategy – The presentation of the concept is scheduled for for societal engagement at Group level FY 2018/19. Initial projects have been identified (by FY 2018/19) and partnerships have been established. The communication concept is currently in development. Objectives of our societal engagement: PARTICIPATION »» We assume social responsibility: Social involvement is part of »» We are active in many countries and regions, and we employ our corporate identity. people from a variety of backgrounds. As a result, we know »» We are a reliable and trustworthy partner. If we agree to provide that the conditions for social participation aren’t the same support, we fulfill our commitments. We are transparent about everywhere. We want to reduce this imbalance, for instance what type of societal engagement we pursue, and we ensure by supporting socially disadvantaged people and regions and that the support we provide is visible. by promoting projects for better integration and inclusion. »» We want to raise interest for our company and our work, attracting qualified employees. We don’t see it as a given that Our involvement in society is often linked to donations or our employees would necessarily support our company so sponsoring projects. Donations refer to supplies, monetary strongly. On the contrary: Their identification with Aurubis contributions, or services for which we don’t expect anything in reflects our obligation to remain a good employer in the future return. In the case of sponsoring projects, we present ourselves as well. Dedicated employees will only work for us if they accept to the public as a project partner. our actions and our values. This will only become more important in light of demographic change. In both cases, projects and partners are selected based on »» We want to be a good neighbor at our sites. As a company with established criteria outlined in our Sponsoring Policy, which also large industrial facilities, we are a fairly conspicuous neighbor. defines responsibilities in the Group. The Event Management & It is that much more important to us that the people living in Sponsoring department is responsible for our societal engagement our neighborhood know what happens on our plant premises, and reports to the Vice President Investor Relations & Corporate that we are interested in their well-being, and that we will Communications. This function then reports directly to the advocate for them. Executive Board so that they are included in our social activities and the related budget decisions. With the new sponsoring strategy, we are now focusing our involvement on the areas of knowledge, the environment, and A Sponsoring Committee made up of appointed members from participation, which align with our company strategy. Event Management & Sponsoring, Communications, Sustainability, and Corporate Compliance makes decisions about project support KNOWLEDGE that exceeds a certain level set internally. To determine the need »» In focusing on knowledge, we want to help people optimally use for our involvement, we talk with our neighbors, our international their potential – by promoting education, science, and teaching; partners (e.g., chambers of commerce, local and international by providing special offers for young people; and by imparting NGOs), and political representatives. When it comes to project values. requests related to education, our HR and Training departments also participate. They are in contact with schools, universities, and ENVIRONMENT other educational institutions. »» As an industrial company, we have to budget resources and keep our environmental impacts to a minimum. Resource efficiency For current projects, we inquire about what our funding is used and environmental protection are therefore topics we take very for and in what amounts, as well as what objectives have been seriously. We promote projects related to the aspects of the achieved. In addition, our project partners regularly inform us circular economy, energy efficiency, and nature conservation in about their current measures and plans. Wherever possible, we particular. participate in activities together with the projects we support. Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 46 People Societal Engagement Apart from projects at Group level, our sites also get involved at OUR PROJECTS IN GERMANY local level using their own budgets. Our Sponsoring Policy applies In Hamburg and North Rhine-Westphalia, we have started to these projects as well, which, in addition to the three Group-wide sponsoring the national education initiative “Das Haus der kleinen focuses, also concentrate on culture, sports, or our core business. Forscher” (The Little Scientists’ House). This non-profit organization For example, this link could be in artworks made of copper alloys pursues the goal of providing better STEM education (science, and other non-ferrous metals, as well copper roofs or projects that technology, engineering, and mathematics) for preschool and make our materials’ versatility come to life. The sites regularly elementary school children. To provide qualified support for the communicate with the Event Management & Sponsoring children in discovering, researching, and learning, networks in the department about current developments in this area. German states train educational specialists and teachers and facilitate knowledge transfer. We have supported the organization We want our sponsoring activities to share an even stronger since fiscal year 2017/18 (strategic focus: KNOWLEDGE). common foundation in the future. To that end, we are planning to introduce a Group-wide sponsoring concept called “together we care” in fiscal year 2018/19. Initial projects and partnerships within this concept are already in different planning stages. Total expenditures for societal engagement and regional distribution GRI 203-1, 413-1 FY 2017/18, in % 4 US 38 58 Eastern Western Europe Total expenditures Europe We started supporting the Lünen “Schulticker” project during the € 1.2 million reporting year. Schulticker is a media project that strengthens the competent use of print and online media among students in grades one to three and guides them in forming their own opinions. At the same time, the project promotes reading and writing skills and thus the conditions for social participation. We are currently supporting Schulticker for the school year ending in 2019 (strategy focus: KNOWLEDGE). “Joblinge Hanse” is a Hamburg initiative that we started supporting in fiscal year 2017/18. The initiative’s goal is to reduce unemployment among young people in Germany by placing youth in difficult circumstances in job training. The idea is to close the gap between the young people’s backgrounds and their futures. An apprenticeship spot is crucial for these individuals so that they can acquire new knowledge and, at the same time, participate in society and the economy. We are supporting Joblinge for the next three years (strategic focus: KNOWLEDGE and PARTICIPATION). Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 People 47 Societal Engagement In Hamburg, we also support the project Bridge & Tunnel. A key OUR INVOLVEMENT IN EUROPE AND THE US aspect of this project is the recycling of reusable materials. Old Aurubis supported a two-year study by the Basel Action Network textiles and excess material are used to create accessories, clothing, (BAN) in which GPS trackers were installed in 314 old electric and home textiles in the Hamburg district of Wilhelmsburg. This appliances. The objective of the study was to track the appliances’ project is thus a good example of efficient resource use. Bridge & routes to determine whether they were exported illegally outside of Tunnel furthermore creates permanent jobs for people who aren’t the EU. The study was published in February 2019 and is available employed on the primary labor market due to various reasons. Here, online at www.ban.org/news/2019/2/6/gps-trackers-discover-illegal-e-wastethey can contribute their crafting abilities, strengthen their skills, exports-to-africa-and-asia . In this way, the BAN researches the impact of and gain new knowledge. We have supported Bridge & Tunnel since the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements 2016 and will continue for another two years starting in October of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal (strategic focus: 2019 – and this support is clearly visible, as Bridge & Tunnel ENVIRONMENT). products carry a sewn-on Aurubis logo (strategic focus: KNOWLEDGE, ENVIRONMENT, and PARTICIPATION). Aurubis Bulgaria supported the renovation of a convent in Zlatitsa during the reporting period. The support provided is part of Aurubis Starting in fiscal year 2017/18, we have cooperated – initially for Bulgaria’s local sponsoring strategy of helping restore cultural and three years – with the non-profit Hamburg association Hanseatic historic places in the region in order to develop a local network of Help. It supports refugees, homeless people, women’s shelters, tourist destinations to promote regional development (strategic and children’s homes with free clothing and other items for daily focus: PARTICIPATION). use. The organization isn’t only active throughout Germany, but is involved in crisis regions abroad as well. Hanseatic Help’s Aurubis Buffalo (US) supports The Teacher’s Desk, a local program contribution isn’t limited to providing items – more importantly, of Buffalo Public Schools that supports needy children with school the association creates spaces for interaction, dialogue, knowledge materials. The organization primarily provides items such as pencils, transfer, and social participation with its efforts. Furthermore, paper, notebooks, and backpacks, enabling the basic conditions for Hanseatic Help demonstrates that resources that don’t seem to knowledge transfer (strategic focus: KNOWLEDGE and have value in one place can be used to benefit others somewhere PARTICIPATION). else. Aurubis Bulgaria and Teach for All have worked together since 2010 to offer students at schools in Zlatitsa and Pirdop a good education. Teach for All supports lessons at four schools by dispatching nine of the organization’s own teachers. The main goal on all sides is to enhance the academic results and motivation to learn among every child in the region (strategic focus: KNOWLEDGE and PARTICIPATION). Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 48 Sustainability Strategy 2013–2018 Sustainability Strategy 2013–2018 Action area Targets and measures Date Status in FY 2017/18 ECONOMY Economic » Achieve a return on capital 2018 ROCE in FY 2017/18 was 14.8 %, slightly lower than the level of 15.1 % stability employed (ROCE) of at least in the previous year and below the target. 15 % Innovation » Increase efficiency of copper 2018 An example of increasing the efficiency of copper in applications is copper use in highin applications by 15 % performance alloys. RD&I tested different alloys that strengthen signal cable for cable harnesses. This can save up to 30 % of the material. In the past several years, moreover, various surface coatings have been developed to improve heat management in systems (e.g., switchgear). The potential material savings in this area amount to around 20 %. With the help of CAD (computer-aided design) tools, we developed hollow profiles that save more than 10 % of the material used – with no change in performance. » Conduct 15 projects with 2018 We were able to fulfill the targets we set. To optimize production, we developed various original equipment ideas and started to implement some of them. One idea is the model-based optimization of manufacturers (OEMs) with charging pauses in the Peirce-Smith converters in Hamburg in order to increase throughput. new applications of copper The Modeling & Advanced Analytics team is currently developing the model together with » Generate and implement 2018 Operations. We increasingly use sensors to optimize our key processes in primary and 18 developed ideas from secondary copper production. These sensors help us use resources more efficiently and Innovation Management monitor our processes better. At the moment, different sensors are being jointly tested by the plants in Hamburg, Lünen, and Pirdop so that the optimal sensors can be chosen. ENVIRONMENT Resource » Increase the quantity of 2018 In FY 2017/18, we processed about 700,000 t of recycling raw materials (FY 2012/13: efficiency and processed complex recycling around 680,000 t), and the proportion of complex materials rose considerably compared recycling materials (e.g., electronic scrap) to FY 2012/13. by 20 % » Audit and certify Aurubis 2016 Aurubis Lünen was successfully certified for the first time in 2015. In December 2018, pursuant to the WEEE End the plant was recertified with a WEEELABEX/CENELEC certificate. Processor Standard (WEEE: Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) » Establish a “closing-the-loop” 2018 From 2013 to the end of FY 2017/18, we set up eleven new closing-the-loop projects. system with a minimum of five customers Energy » Reduce CO2 emissions by 2018 Energy efficiency projects and internal electricity projects reduced CO2 by 73,000 t (73 %). 100,000 t through energy The target hasn’t been fully achieved yet, so it will be continued. efficiency projects and internal electricity projects (base year: 2013) Water » Reduce metal emissions to 2018 We lowered metal emissions to water from 2.2 (2012) to 1.0 g/t of copper output (2017) – and air water by 10 % (base year: a total of 56 %. 2012) » Reduce dust emissions to air 2018 We lowered dust emissions from 72 (2012) to 56 g/t of copper output (2017) – by 10 % (base year: 2012) a total of 22 %. » Reduce SO2 emissions in 2015 We lowered SO2 emissions in primary copper production by 86 % by primary copper production by the end of 2017 compared to 2000. over 80 % compared to 2000 Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 Sustainability Strategy 2013–2018 49 Action area Targets and measures Date Status in FY 2017/18 PEOPLE Health and » Reduce LTIFR (lost time of at 2018 We achieved the target in certain periods of 2016 and 2017. Unfortunately, the LTIFR safety least one full shift) to 4.3 at the end of FY 2017/18 was 6.1, above the target. The 10 Golden Rules that will be introduced in fiscal year 2018/19 will help us reinforce the topic of individual conduct, from employee to CEO. We hope this will provide new momentum for achieving this target. » Introduce measures to make 2018 The flextime program in Hamburg was developed further, and a new shift model was working times more flexible initiated. We expanded the home office and mobile work options. A new company with respect to different life agreement on home office and mobile work arrangements has been in place at Aurubis phases Lünen since 2016. Training and » Develop measures to increase 2018 For example, Aurubis Hamburg is involved in the project mint:pink, whose purpose is to education interest among girls and increase the number of girls in scientific and technical school courses and thus to increase women for technical education the proportion of young women in the corresponding degree programs and occupations. and professions Another example: At the Lünen site, we support future female managers as part of an EU project in the Unna region. During this project, targets and measures were arranged to increase the number of female employees by 2020. These measures haven’t paid off yet; interest among female applicants for apprenticeship spots hasn’t changed. Responsible » Develop and expand 2016 Screening has been developed; since 2015, the identity and integrity of Aurubis AG’s supply chain systematic supplier screening business partners have been reviewed before entering into contracts. Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 50 About this Report About this Report GRI 102-45, 102-46, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-54, 102-56 The Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 is the sixth report on our DATA COLLECTION AND KPIS activities in the three areas of People, Economy, and Environment. The reporting period is fiscal year 2017/18. Activities with We use the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as a special relevance were included up to the editorial deadline of guide. This report was prepared in accordance with the “Core” March 2019. The Aurubis fiscal year starts on October 1 and option of the GRI Standards. In order to provide rating agencies ends on September 30. However, all environmental KPIs reported and other stakeholders with the information they need, we report refer to calendar year 2017. beyond these requirements and publish a more extensive GRI Content Index. GRI has been informed about our application of When not stated otherwise, the report refers to the entire Aurubis the GRI Standards and the publication of this report. Group. There is no Group-wide data for a few of the KPIs. This is expressly stated for the relevant figures. The report simultaneously serves as the Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact (UNGC). When the report mentions copper production, this refers to primary and secondary copper production at the Hamburg, Lünen, Olen, The report is based on the principles of Sustainability Context, and Pirdop sites. This is the case for the environmental KPIs and is Materiality, Completeness, and Stakeholder Inclusiveness. indicated as such where these KPIs are reported. The content of the report was selected based on the action areas of The employee figures refer to the headcount and – if not otherwise the Sustainability Strategy and thus the materiality analysis carried indicated – the reporting date of September 30, 2018. These figures out for it. The topics of compliance and human rights were added to include the employees of the fully consolidated sites, including the action areas, as they were identified in the materiality process apprentices, if not otherwise indicated in the tables. In addition to for the Non-Financial Report issued in accordance with the German the fully consolidated companies, the numbers include the nonCSR Directive Implementation Act. Detailed information is provided consolidated companies Aurubis Metal Products (Shanghai) Co., in the section “Sustainability at Aurubis” in this report and in the Ltd., Aurubis Rus LLC (St. Petersburg), Aurubis Middle East FZE Non-Financial Report of the Annual Report 2017/18, pages 36-37. (Dubai), and Aurubis Turkey Kimya Anonim Sirketi (Istanbul), which had a combined total of twelve employees in fiscal year 2017/18. Some of the information in this report was already included in the They also include eleven independent sales employees at Non-Financial Report of the Aurubis Annual Report 2017/18, which international sites. The employees of Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk was reviewed by an external auditor. The Non-Financial Report GmbH & Co. KG, in which Aurubis holds a 50 % stake, are not and the Auditor’s Report are available in the Annual Report 2017/18, included in the figures. pages 34-39. The last Sustainability Report was released in early 2016, while the The language we use when referring to employees, customers, Non-Financial Report for fiscal year 2017/18 was published in the stakeholders, and other groups in this report is intended to be Aurubis Annual Report. These publications are supplemented by gender-inclusive. the annual Aurubis AG Environmental Statement. This report contains forward-looking statements based on current assumptions and forecasts. Various factors, risks, and uncertainties could have the impact that the actual future results differ from the estimates given here. Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 About this Report 51 Management Approaches GRI 102-47, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 GRI 103: Management Approaches 103-1 103-2 103-3 Relevance Relevance within the outside of Material topics Page reference Group the Group Page reference Page reference Compliance and human rights Compliance – Acting in accordance with our values • • Compliance – Acting in accordance with our values Compliance – Acting in accordance with our values and the law, pages 12-13 and the law, pages 12-13 and the law, pages 12-13 Respecting human rights – The Respecting human rights – The Respecting human rights – The firm foundation of our actions, firm foundation of our actions, firm foundation of our actions, page 13 page 13 page 13 ECONOMY Growth and innovation Innovative and interdisciplinary – Our management approach, • • Innovative and interdisciplinary – Our management approach, Innovative and interdisciplinary – Our management approach, pages 14-15 pages 14-15 pages 14-15 Recycling solutions New ideas for end-of-life materials – Our management • • New ideas for end-of-life materials – Our management New ideas for end-of-life materials – Our management approach, pages 18-19 approach, pages 18-19 approach, pages 18-19 Responsible supply chain We want to know with whom we’re working – Our • • We want to know with whom we’re working – Our We want to know with whom we’re working – Our management approach, page 20 management approach, page 20 management approach, page 20 Our Business Partner Screening, Our Business Partner Screening, pages 21-22 pages 21-22 ENVIRONMENT Environmental impact Consciously limiting impacts – Our management approach, • • Consciously limiting impacts – Our management approach, Consciously limiting impacts – Our management approach, pages 23-25 pages 23-25 pages 23-25 Energy and climate Efficiently counteracting emissions – Our management • • Efficiently counteracting emissions – Our management Efficiently counteracting emissions – Our management approach, pages 29-30 approach, pages 29-30 approach, pages 29-30 PEOPLE Future-oriented employer How we want to present ourselves to applicants – Our management • • How we want to present ourselves to applicants – Our management How we want to present ourselves to applicants – Our management approach, pages 35-36 approach, pages 35-36 approach, pages 35-36 Training and education Continued development through qualifications – Our management • • Continued development through qualifications – Our management Continued development through qualifications – Our management approach, pages 39-40 approach, pages 39-40 approach, pages 39-40 Health and safety Our efforts to make work safe – Our management approach, page 42 • • Our efforts to make work safe – Our efforts to make work safe – Our management approach, page 42 Our management approach, page 42 Societal engagement The right attitude toward societal engagement – Our management • • The right attitude toward societal engagement – Our management The right attitude toward societal engagement – Our management approach, pages 44-46 approach, pages 44-46 approach, pages 44-46 Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 52 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index GRI disclosure Title Reference Comments UNGC UNIVERSAL STANDARDS GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Organizational profile 102-01 Name of the organization Company Profile, page 4 102-02 Activities, brands, products, and services A variety of metals – Our business model, page 4 102-03 Location of headquarters Company Profile, page 4 102-04 Location of operations Europe, the US, and Asia – Our sites and employees, page 5 102-05 Ownership and legal form Company Profile, page 4 Annual Report 2017/18, pages 170-171 102-06 Markets served Innovative and interdisciplinary – Our management approach, pages 14-15 102-07 Scale of the organization Europe, the US, and Asia – Our sites and employees, page 5 Employee structure in the Aurubis Group, page 37 102-08 Information on employees and Our staff in figures, page 37 6 other workers Employee structure in the Aurubis Group, page 37 Employees in temporary/permanent contracts, page 37 102-09 Supply chain We want to know with whom we’re working – Our management approach, page 20 102-10 Significant changes to the organization Annual Report, page 106 and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach How we control our activities – 7 Our sustainability management, page 10 102-12 External initiatives Active dialogue – Our stakeholder involvement, pages 10-12 102-13 Membership of associations Active dialogue – Our stakeholder involvement, pages 10-12 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Foreword, pages 2-3 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Annual Report 2017/18, pages 86-90 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, Compliance – Acting in accordance with 10 and norms of behavior our values and the law, pages 12-13 How we control our activities – Our sustainability management, page 10 Active dialogue – Our stakeholder involvement, pages 10-12 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and Compliance – Acting in accordance with 10 concerns about ethics our values and the law, pages 12-13 Governance 102-18 Governance structure How we control our activities – Our sustainability management, page 10 Annual Report 2017/18, pages 18, 20 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Active dialogue – Our stakeholder involvement, pages 10-12 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Fair compensation – Wages and additional 3 benefits, page 39 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Active dialogue – Our stakeholder involvement, pages 10-12 www.aurubis.com/en/investor-relations/news-and-reports/annual-reports Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 GRI Content Index 53 GRI disclosure Title Reference Comments UNGC 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Active dialogue – Our stakeholder involvement, pages 10-12 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Active dialogue – Our stakeholder involvement, pages 10-12 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated About this Report, page 50 financial statements Annual Report 2017/18, page 172 102-46 Defining report content and topic About this Report, page 50 Boundaries Annual Report 2017/18, pages 36-37 102-47 List of material topics Management Approaches, page 51 102-48 Restatements of information There were no restatements of information compared to previous Aurubis Sustainability Reports. 102-49 Changes in reporting About this Report, page 50 102-50 Reporting period About this Report, page 50 102-51 Date of most recent report About this Report, page 50 102-52 Reporting cycle About this Report, page 50 102-53 Contact point for questions Imprint, page 58 regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance About this Report, page 50 with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index 102-56 External assurance About this Report, page 50 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Management Approaches, page 51 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components Management Approaches, page 51 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Management Approaches, page 51 TOPIC-SPECIFIC STANDARDS GRI 200: ECONOMIC STANDARDS GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated Annual Report 2017/18, page 106 and distributed 201-2 Financial implications and other risks https://www.aurubis.com/cdp and opportunities due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations Annual Report 2017/18, page 109 and other retirement plans GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments and Total expenditures for societal engagement and services supported regional distribution, page 46 The right attitude toward societal engagement – Our management approach, pages 44-45 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts We focus on energy efficiency – For lower costs and lower environmental impacts, pages 30-31 Societal engagement, pages 44-47 GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Production only works when there are operating supplies and materials, page 22 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks Compliance – Acting in accordance with our 10 related to corruption values and the law, pages 12-13 Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 54 GRI Content Index GRI disclosure Title Reference Comments UNGC 205-2 Communication and training about ­ Compliance – Acting in accordance with our 10 anti-corruption policies and procedures values and the law, pages 12-13 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption Compliance – Acting in accordance with our 10 and actions taken values and the law, pages 12-13 GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, Compliance – Acting in accordance with our anti-trust, and monopoly practices values and the law, pages 12-13 GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Origin of primary raw materials, page 20 7, 8 301-2 Recycled input materials used Origin of recycling materials, page 20 8 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within We focus on energy efficiency – For lower costs 7.8 the organization and lower environmental impacts, pages 30-31 Key figures related to energy consumption, page 32 302-3 Energy intensity We focus on energy efficiency – For lower costs 8 and lower environmental impacts, pages 30-31 Key figures related to energy consumption, page 32 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption We focus on energy efficiency – For lower costs 8, 9 and lower environmental impacts, pages 30-31 Key figures related to energy consumption, page 32 GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 303-1 Interactions with water Repurposing waste heat – Water and water as a shared resource pollution control, pages 26-27 Key figures related to water and wastewater, page 27 303-3 Water withdrawal Repurposing waste heat – Water and water 7, 8 pollution control, pages 26-27 Key figures related to water and wastewater, page 27 303-4 Water discharge Repurposing waste heat – Water and water 7, 8 pollution control, pages 26-27 Key figures related to water and wastewater, page 27 303-5 Water consumption Repurposing waste heat – Water and water 7, 8 pollution control, pages 26-27 Key figures related to water and wastewater, page 27 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or Conservation and protection – Biodiversity, 8 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high pages 28-29 biodiversity value outside protected areas Conservation areas in close proximity to copper production sites, page 28 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Our CO2 footprint – Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions, 7, 8 page 34 Key figures related to CO2 emissions, page 32 Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 GRI Content Index 55 GRI disclosure Title Reference Comments UNGC 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Our CO2 footprint – Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions, 7, 8 page 34 Key figures related to CO2 emissions, page 32 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Our CO2 footprint – Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions, 7, 8 page 34 Key figures related to CO2 emissions, page 32 Scope 3 emissions by activity, page 34 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Our CO2 footprint – Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions, 8 page 34 Key figures related to CO2 emissions, page 32 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Our CO2 footprint – Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions, 8, 9 page 34 Key figures related to CO2 emissions, page 32 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Ozone-depleting substances 7, 8 don’t play a significant role in our processes. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), Key figures related to nitrogen oxides (NOX), 7, 8 and other significant air emissions sulfur oxides (SO 2), and dust, page 26 Air – Clear targets, pages 25-26 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination This is covered by the updated 8 GRI Standard 303 (2018). 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Waste – Ensuring proper disposal, page 28 8 Key figures related to waste, page 28 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/ This is covered by the updated 8 or runoff GRI Standard 303 (2018). GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and At our Buffalo site, we had to regulations pay a fine of US$ 35,500 to state regulators. The site agreed on measures with the regulators, and most of these measures have already been implemented. GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened Our Business Partner Screening, pages 21-22 8 using environmental criteria GRI 400: SOCIAL STANDARDS GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Our staff in figures, page 37 6 Employee structure in the Aurubis Group, page 37 Employee turnover in the Aurubis Group, page 37 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Fair compensation – Wages and additional that are not provided to temporary or benefits, page 39 part-time employees GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding All legal requirements were 3 operational changes fulfilled. GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-1 Occupational health and safety Our efforts to make work safe – Our management management system approach, page 42 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, Accurately evaluating hazards – Our risk and incident investigation assessment, page 43 Minimizing risks – Occupational safety at Aurubis, page 43 403-3 Occupational health services Health services – Prevention and support, page 44 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, Our efforts to make work safe – Our management and communication on occupational approach, page 42 health and safety Always up to speed – Qualifications and training, page 44 Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 56 GRI Content Index GRI disclosure Title Reference Comments UNGC 403-5 Worker training on occupational Always up to speed – Qualifications and training, health and safety page 44 403-6 Promotion of worker health Minimizing Risks – Occupational safety at Aurubis, page 43 Health services – Prevention and support, page 44 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational Accurately evaluating hazards – Our risk health and safety impacts directly linked by assessment, page 43 business relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational 100 % of our employees are health and safety management system covered by an occupational health and safety management system. 403-9 Work-related injuries Our efforts to make work safe – Our management approach, page 42 Accurately evaluating hazards – Our risk assessment, page 43 Minimizing Risks – Occupational safety at Aurubis, page 43 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate, page 43 403-10 Work-related ill health Accurately evaluating hazards – Our risk assessment, page 43 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Average training hours, page 41 6 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and Continued development through qualifications – transition assistance programs Our management approach, pages 39-40 Expanding expertise – Employee development and continuing education, page 41 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Expanding expertise – Employee development and 6 performance and career development reviews continuing education, page 41 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and Working together with respect – Diversity and 6 employees equal opportunity, page 38 Our staff in figures, page 37 Age structure in the Aurubis Group, page 37 Annual Report 2017/18, page 19 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration At Aurubis, compensation 6 of women to men depends on the job performed, the quality of the work, and the level of professional experience. No other distinctions are made. GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and Respecting human rights – The firm foundation corrective actions taken of our actions, page 13 GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the None of Aurubis AG’s business 3 right to freedom of association and activities endanger the freedom collective bargaining may be at risk of association or the right to collective bargaining. We expect our business partners on the supplier side to follow UN conventions related to human rights, environmental protection, and safety. GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk Respecting human rights – The firm foundation 5 for incidents of child labor of our actions, page 13 GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk Respecting human rights – The firm foundation 4 for incidents of forced or compulsory labor of our actions, page 13 Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 GRI Content Index 57 GRI disclosure Title Reference Comments UNGC GRI 410: Security Practices 2016 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights Respecting human rights – The firm foundation 1 policies or procedures of our actions, page 13 GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights Indigenous peoples are not 1 of indigenous peoples affected by the company’s activities. GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human 100 % of our business sites were rights reviews or impact assessments audited to ensure that they respect human rights. At our own production sites, most of which are located in Europe, we didn’t identify an increased risk of human rights violations. Consequently, our efforts focus on our suppliers. 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies No training took place during 1 or procedures the reporting period. Every employee receives the Code of Conduct with his/her employment contract. 412-3 Significant investment agreements and Good supplier contracts for good collaboration, 2 contracts that include human rights clauses or page 21 that underwent human rights screening GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, The right attitude toward societal engagement – 1 impact assessments, and development Our management approach, pages 44-46 programs Total expenditures for societal engagement and regional distribution, page 46 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using Our Business Partner Screening, pages 21-22 2 social criteria GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions Active dialogue – Our stakeholder involvement, 10 pages 10-12 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning There were no incidents of nonproduct and service information and labeling compliance concerning product and service information and labeling. GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations There were no significant fines 1 in the social and economic area or non-monetary sanctions in FY 2017/18. Sustainability Report 2017/18 Aurubis 58 Imprint Imprint GRI 102-53 For more information, please contact: Aurubis AG Concept, consultation, and design Hovestrasse 50 Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany 20539 Hamburg, Germany responsibility@aurubis.com Photos www.aurubis.com Aurubis AG Angela Seidler Legal disclaimer Vice President Investor Relations & Corporate Communications This information contains forward-looking statements based on Phone + 49 40 7883-3178 current assumptions and forecasts. Various known and unknown a.seidler@aurubis.com risks, uncertainties, and other factors could have the impact that the actual future results, financial situation, or developments differ Kirsten Kück from the estimates given here. We assume no liability to update Sustainability Manager forward-looking statements. Phone + 49 40 7883-3270 k.kueck@aurubis.com Nienke Berger Sustainability Officer Phone + 49 40 7883-2231 n.berger@aurubis.com Aurubis Sustainability Report 2017/18 aurubis.com EN_19/04 Metals for Progress Aurubis AG Hovestrasse 50 20539 Hamburg, Germany Phone +49 40 7883-0 Fax +49 40 7883-2255 info@aurubis.com
