Surface Logging Services Sustainability Report: Communication on Progress 2019 Guide to Contents Sustainability Report: Communication on Progress 2019 2 05 Message from the CEO 12 Human Right Principles Charity Contributions and Social Responsibilities 06 Mission Statement Safe work conditions and incidents prevention HSE milestone 4 years loss time incident (LTI) free 07 Company Overview HSE Initiative 2018 GEOLOG HSE Leadership Award 08 Company History 17 Labour Principles 09 Client References 18 Environmental Principles 10 HSE & Quality 20 Anticorruption Principles HSE Capabilities QUALITY Capabilities 22 GEOLOG in the world 3 Message from the CEO “GEOLOG is proudly committed to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and recognizes the importance of social and economic development of society, as well as safeguarding the global environment by conducting sustainable and responsible growth. In 2019, we will continue to embrace the universal principles whilst implementing our business objectives and goals.” GEOLOG has been a member of the UNGC since 2009 and is Our goal this year is to maximise the investments we have constantly contributing with charitable initiatives to the local made throughout the industry crisis, and keep promoting communities where we live and operate around the world. good practices to guarantee better solutions to solve global Working together with organizations, in 2018 GEOLOG organized challenges with higher standards of integrity, quality, safety and and participated in several activities to support projects that transparency. benefit institutions worldwide. We will keep supporting the ten universally guiding principles We are very proud of our commitment and HSE and quality with respect to human rights, labour, environment and antistandards exhibited in 2018. Over the past 4 years, GEOLOG HSE corruption across the countries we are present and we are performance has been remarkable. With the last LTI recorded committed to make them part of our strategy and culture by in November 2014, we have achieved 4 LTI FREE YEARS. Our operating our business in a responsible manner. challenge for 2019 is to sustain and go beyond this milestone. Antonio Calleri President & CEO The result of our strategy in 2018 was clearly visible, with major GEOLOG Oil and Gas selecting GEOLOG for R&D collaborations and March 2019 bespoke projects, underlining the very high reputation we have now achieved in the international arena and the trust clients place in us thanks to our independence and focus on Surface Logging. 05 Mission Statement Our Mission To help our clients make quantified, To constantly build a leading edge To respect and improve the highest informed, substantial improvements service company that attracts, safety and environmental standards in their drilling efficiency, develops and retains exceptional whilst actively participating in the hydrocarbon detection and reservoir people. development and know-how of the characterization. countries in which we operate. 06 Company Overview The leading independent surface logging company GEOLOG International (“GEOLOG”) is a leading global oilfield and interpretation from drilling mud thanks to its advanced services company that provides surface logging services to a technologies in integrated rock and fluid characterization. substantial and diversified client base. Founded in 1982 in Milan, Italy, the firm maintains offices in most major oil producing GEOLOG´s products and services are focused on 3 key industry countries. GEOLOG operates at the forefront of technology and requirements: its services are focused on the optimization of the overall drilling process and reduction in costs of each well in addition to the • To reduce overall drilling costs acquisition of quality data for formation characterization. • To improve rig safety • To characterize reservoirs GEOLOG services national and international oil companies and integrated service providers, both onshore and offshore across GEOLOG is the largest independent international surface logging more than 45 countries and is presently involved in exploration, company in the world and presents itself as the only solution to development, deep and ultra deep water offshore, HP/HT, clients seeking an independent surface logging company versus geothermal and unconventional reservoir wells. GEOLOG’ s one of the integrated service providers. significant growth since its inception over 35 years ago is to be attributed to, amongst others, its technological leadership GEOLOG’s surface logging services provide answers which in surface logging and its strong focus on proprietary research are critical for the drilling, geology and reservoir teams of our and development. As such, GEOLOG invests heavily in R&D clients. GEOLOG delivers services which include the acquisition, (up to 5% of annual turnover) with a target to produce a analysis and interpretation of (i) geological data obtained by new patent, on average, every six months. In line with its physical evaluation of cuttings; (ii) hydrocarbons data obtained strategy to be the leading global supplier of choice, GEOLOG from analysis of gases in and out and (iii) drilling data (including is already a leading supplier for highly technological surface mechanical, hydraulic and engineering variables) obtained using logging services to the energy industry, where its leadership technologically advanced sensors and enhanced real time and innovation is recognized to bring value and reduce analysis. GEOLOG provides key information to evaluate the well drilling costs. These projects typically include deep-water, HPin terms of hydrocarbon content and origin, pressure balances HT operations, horizontal/extended reach and/or extensive and relative positions of its lithological layers. GEOLOG’s services development drilling as well as drilling in areas with complex also provide early notification and analysis of events to ensure reservoirs. In particular, GEOLOG is now a world leader in well integrity, safety and to prevent formation damage for hydrocarbon characterization through its gas extraction, analysis optimum data acquisition and field productivity. 07 Company History Over thirty five years of field experience Houston Office GEOLOG was founded in Italy in 1982 to provide mud logging national oil companies worldwide. Whilst retaining its R&D services to AGIP on geothermal, oil and gas wells. From its early and production facilities in Milan, Italy, in 2016 the company years, GEOLOG´s strong technological and R&D culture led to reorganized its corporate structure under GEOLOG Surface the development of a number of innovative solutions and highly Logging DMCC, based in Dubai, UAE. technological patents in the mud logging arena. The Italian crisis of 1994, during which the company moved abroad, Under current management, GEOLOG has consistently grown opening bases in Tunisia, Congo and Venezuela, servicing AGIP’s organically by delivering value, expanding its operations from international operations, acted as a catalyst for the company’s its established footholds in Europe, North and West Africa and international expansion. Current management acquired the Central America and by opening new bases in the Middle and Far company in 2001 and has been able to develop its innovative East, South America, the North Sea, USA and Australasia. Today, solutions and technological patents into commercial products GEOLOG remains privately owned and has grown to become and services, thereby significantly growing the customer base the largest international independent mud logging company across not only international oil companies but also across in the world. 08 Client International Oil Companies include: References GEOLOG’s experience covers over 8,000 wells globally and includes national and international oil companies across multiple continents. Our services are in demand with traditional oil & gas operators and extend to small and large integrated service providers. Our services have been performed both onshore and offshore for: • Exploration Wells • Development Wells • Geothermal Wells • Unconventional Reservoirs • Extended Reach Drilling • Narrow Mud Weight Windows • Underbalanced-Managed Pressure Drilling GEOLOG has logged over 500 wells in Deep and Ultra-Deep Water operations in: • Angola • Mauritania • Australia • Mozambique • Brazil • Namibia • Congo • Sri Lanka National Oil Companies include: • Egypt • Tanzania • Ghana • Timor Leste • Gulf of Mexico • Togo • Guyana • Trinidad • India • Tunisia • Italy • Turkey PERTAMINA • Malaysia • Venezuela HP/HT Well Experience includes: • Argentina • Kuwait • Austria • Mexico • Bolivia • Mozambique • Brazil • Netherlands • China • Norway • Ghana • Romania • Italy • Sri Lanka Integrated Service Providers include: • Kurdistan • Turkey Extreme Weather Environments: North Africa +55°C Arctic -50°C 09 HSE & Quality Health, safety, the environment and quality are fundamental to everything we do. HSE Capabilities GEOLOG’s vision on Health, Safety and Environment is to make locations of Amsterdam and Dubai (headquarters), Luanda measurable improvements in all HSE aspects of the services (main operational base of Sub-Saharan Africa) and Ijmuiden provided and to do so continuously. (operational base for the North Sea region). GEOLOG main HSE goals are: • No personal injuries These certifications are integrated with the ISO 9001:2015 • No accidents (Quality Management System) both for office/base and rig site • No environmental damages activities. To ensure the achievement of these Some of the major benefits of having an integrated certified objectives and expectations, GEOLOG has system are: in place a complete HSE Management • To provide effective and consistent operational service to System which sets out GEOLOG’s our clients approach in identifying and managing • To provide efficient and consistent support to our rig site Health, Safety and Environmental aspects operations related to the service provided. • To have standardized planning and procedures worldwide, GEOLOG HSE Management System is certified under the enabling GEOLOG to work with the highest standards international standards ISO 14001:2015 (Environmental • To involve and encourage the participation of both office Management System) and OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational and rig site personnel Health and Safety Management System) by DNV-GL at its main • To have an active system for continuous improvement Executive management is fully committed to HSE vision through constant personal involvement, including HSE review meetings, audits and allocation of resources for the improvement of the Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Policy HSE Management System. Geolog International (“GEOLOG”) is a leading global oilfield services company, the largest independent international surface logging company in the world. Furthermore, GEOLOG corporate HSE Policy statement is issued directly by the President, Mr. Antonio Calleri. The policy GEOLOG recognises the importance of protecting all aspects of Health & Safety and the Environment in which it operates. GEOLOG therefore pro-actively works with employees, clients, contractors, public and government agencies in order to achieve the highest possible standards of Health, Safety and Environmental protection. GEOLOG is committed to implement sustainable development principles in its activities, knowing that sustainable development is states GEOLOG’s main HSE objectives and guidance for their achievement. the responsibility of all individuals of the company. GEOLOG’s HSE objectives: • To comply with client’s HSE standards, policies and procedures • To comply with relevant legislation, codes, guidelines and standards provided by international organizations, as well as to apply more stringent standards where considered appropriate • To attain international Health, Safety and Environment Management System certiﬁcations GEOLOG constantly monitors and evaluates the effectiveness • To protect the health and safety of its employees and of those who may be aﬀected by its operations • To continuously improve the prevention of possible damage to the environment • To prevent risk exposure in all areas of its operations considering that all incidents are preventable of its HSE Management System in order to comply with • To prevent absences from work due to accidents and illnesses • To maintain a valid HSE Management System at all times international standards and clients’ requirements. For this reason, GEOLOG seeks to achieve these objectives by: • Ensuring an appropriate level of employee’s training in relation to HSE protection in all areas of operations several KPIs are evaluated and regularly reported to senior • Supporting and implementing incident prevention, including implementation of the Stop Work Authority program • Assessing HSE risks and taking appropriate and timely actions to control these risks management, such as the man-hours worked, the number of • Using an eﬀective communication system for all HSE issues • Providing adequate human, technical and ﬁnancial investments in HSE • Clearly deﬁning the HSE roles and responsibilities of all employees Lost Time Injuries (LTI), the LTI Frequency Rate (LTIFR), the Total • Setting objectives and targets for measuring and improving HSE performance. • Continually reviewing and improving its HSE Management System in line with industry and international standards Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) and all statistics related to minor GEOLOG Management is committed to continuosly maintain the highest possible HSE standards and improve the Health, Safety incidents and environmental spills. and Environmental performance of the company. The application of this policy is the direct responsibility of both GEOLOG Management as well as all GEOLOG employees. In 2018, GEOLOG worked almost 2 million man-hours with zero fatalities, zero lost time injuries, and zero environmental spills. Antonio Calleri President January 2019 Document Ref: G-45-008-PHU-19 Version: 01.00 Date: 01-Jan-2019 The leading independent surface logging company [1] A Lost Time Injury (LTI) is a work-related injury occurred to an employee in which a physician or licensed health care professional recommends day(s) away from work. [2] The Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) is calculated as the number of Lost Time Injuries per million hours worked in the period analyzed. 010 [3] The Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) is calculated as the number of Fatalities, Lost Time Injuries and Medical Treatment Cases per million hours worked in the period analyzed. QUALITY Capabilities GEOLOG’s Quality Management System, certified ISO 9001:2015, Maintaining outstanding QHSE performances and complying and is founded on the belief that continuous improvement of with international QHSE standards are core value for GEOLOG. the quality of our services shall be pursued. GEOLOG involves Our successful QHSE performance and the continuous all its employees in this process, from field staff to senior improvement of our QHSE Management System have been management. made possible through strong leadership and teamwork of all employees and managers of the company. The integrated certification of the QHSE Management System (ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 and OHSAS 18001:2007) guides the company in achieving excellence in QHSE performance and ensures that GEOLOG’s operations are managed efficiently and responsibly, providing reliable, safe and environmentally Quality Policy respectful services to its clients. To ensure the QHSE Management System is in place, GEOLOG Geolog International (“GEOLOG”) is a leading global oilfield services company, the largest independent international surface logging company in the world. uses a team of internal auditors trained in the ISO & OHSAS GEOLOG is committed to adopt a worldwide Quality Management System represented by an organized structure with responsibilities, procedures, processes and resources for quality management. standards in which GEOLOG is certified. GEOLOG encourages participation and promotion amongst all employees to continuously improve the company’s performance and the quality of service provided to its clients. GEOLOG Quality Policy, also issued by GEOLOG President, GEOLOG’s quality objectives: • To improve client’s satisfaction and exceed client’s expectations defines the main quality objectives of the company and gives • To provide clients with accurate quantiﬁed data and interpretation • To attain international Quality Management System certiﬁcations the guidelines about how to achieve them. • To maintain a valid Quality Management System at all times • To ensure the application of the quality procedures and implement additional procedures when required • To increase the eﬃciency of the company’s organization through clearly assigned responsibilities GEOLOG seeks to achieve these objectives by: • Ensuring activities are compliant with client’s expectations and requirements In addition to its ISO & OHSAS certificates, GEOLOG QHSE • Ensuring an appropriate level of employee’s competencies • Promoting technological innovation • Increasing eﬃciency and productivity Management System is also verified and approved as per Achilles • Establishing and reviewing on a yearly basis its corporate objectives • Continually reviewing and improving its Quality Management System in line with industry and international standards requirements, a system used by major organizations to qualify GEOLOG Management constantly strives for success through client’s satisfaction and the continuous improvement of its internal eﬃciency. suppliers and consequently reduce the risks in the supply chain. The application of this policy is the direct responsibility of both GEOLOG Management as well as of all GEOLOG employees. GEOLOG is registered in several Achilles communities, such as FPAL, Connexio Achilles JQS, and Repro. This is a further confirmation of GEOLOG’s commitment and adherence to relevant industry standards. Antonio Calleri President January 2019 Document Ref: G-50-008-PHU-19 Version: 01.00 Date: 01-Jan-2019 The leading independent surface logging company PL AN Plan Implement • QHSE goals and • Training awareness and IM P objectives competence • Field risk analysis • Document control LEMENT Continuous R E V IE W • Client requirements • Emergency planning Improvement • Operational control Verify Review • Audits • Management review • Records • Recommendations VERIFY • Incident investigation and analysis 11 Human Rights Principles Ethical and responsible actions in the areas where we operate Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. GEOLOG is devoted to the protection of Human Rights. For this reason, we strive to conduct our business based on ethical and responsible actions in the areas where we operate. We encourage our local representatives to sponsor, support and actively participate in projects that positively affect communities. In this way, we look forward to supporting and improve local conditions. Charity Contributions and Social Responsibilities In line with our strategic vision, we continue to support remarkable charity initiatives worldwide. The GEOLOG Foundation actively supports and promotes local charities, focusing on the education and quality of life of young children. GEOLOG managers and personnel are directly involved in all local charity and social activities, such as organizing entertainment for children in hospitals and orphanages and visiting elderly people in hospices. We pride ourselves on engaging and working together with local communities in the countries where we operate. UK Lizard Festival Sponsorship GEOLOG sponsored the Lizard Festival 2018, an event held in the Tufted Duck Hotel, in Scotland, with local bands playing a variety of music to raise money for charities and organizations such as Charlie House, St Combs Toddlers and St Combs Over 50s. 12 Indonesia Donation to PMI (Red Cross) In 2018, the cities of Palu and Donggala in Central Sulawesi (Indonesia), as well as the surrounding areas, were both hammered by a massive 7.4 earthquake and a 3-meter tall tsunami leaving more than 2,100 dead, 10,000 injured and at least 80,000 homeless. In support to those involved in the tragedy, GEOLOG Indonesia joined the Palang Merah Indonesia (“PMI” Indonesian Red Cross) to help the families affected by the disasters by making an important donation to the institution. Angola Congregation Of The Missionary Benedictine Sisters Of Tutzing GEOLOG Angola organized a social initiative to support the Congregação Das Irmãs Beneditinas Missionárias De Tutzing (Congregation Of The Missionary Benedictine Sisters Of Tutzing) by donating a number of goods and supplies including a new multifunction photocopy/fax device to their center in Kuando Kubango, located in the remote city of Menongue, southwest of Angola, over 1.000 kilometers from Luanda. The action was hugely appreciated by the institution which focuses on bringing better education to young people and women. Argentina Merendero Copa de Leche GEOLOG Argentina organized a great initiative to support the institution “Merendero Copa de Leche” in Neuquén. Our team provided construction material to help build the institution in about 4 months, which nowadays can serve up to 50 meals a day to children who do not have regular access to food at home. The official opening of the venue was held with a special show for the children. All GEOLOG Argentina employees also participated in the inauguration. 13 UAE Donation to the needy families during Eid al-Fitr GEOLOG UAE employees worked together to prepare gifts boxes containing basic items to donate to the needy families for Eid al-Fitr, a religious holiday that is celebrated by Muslims around the world. The boxes were distributed around diverse mosques in the UAE. Angola Donation of Material for agriculture and minibus For the last few years, GEOLOG has been supporting the Dom Bosco Institute in Angola, which has the mission of helping improve the living conditions of the most vulnerable children, adolescents and young people in Luanda creating actions that promote social reintegration. This time, GEOLOG helped the institute by purchasing material for agriculture and also by donating a minibus to transport the children to their schools. Funding UNICEF We believe that investing in initiatives that advocate for education, health conditions and respect of children rights is a key element to building a better society in the future. Therefore, GEOLOG also funds programs that contribute to giving better opportunities for children. In line with this, GEOLOG made a monetary contribution to the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF). 14 Safe work conditions and incidents prevention GEOLOG’s QHSE Management System is built on the belief that most workplace injuries, illnesses and incidents are preventable. Hazards leading to these events are often known prior to their occurrence, making prevention the most effective tool to safeguard our personnel and third party people. In order to properly manage the risks related to the activities performed, GEOLOG has in place a proper risk assessment procedure that helps to identify and assess the risks associated with our operations, considering the likelihood and the magnitude of potential hazards. This helps us to identify the mitigation and control measures needed to ensure the activities are safely executed. GEOLOG focus its attention not only on occupational safety (conventional safety risks, e.g. slips or trips) but also on process safety (major hazards risks). The interaction between the two safety levels has led GEOLOG to achieve its great HSE performance. Below some GEOLOG’s key performance indicators for the year 2018, followed by the graphic overview of the trends man-hours worked versus Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR). Total Lost Time LTI Frequency Man-Hours Recordable Environmental Year Fatalities Injuries Rate Gravity Rate Worked Incidents Rate Spills (LTI) (LTIFR) (TRIR) 2018 1,807,516 0 0 0.00 0.00 1.66 0 Manhours Vs. LTI Frequency Rate Hours Worked LTI Frequency Thousand Rate 3.000 2,792 1.8 2,481 1.6 2.500 2,454 1.4 2.000 1,797 1,933 1,810 1,808 1.2 1,593 1 1.500 1,315 0.8 1.000 0.6 500 0.4 0.2 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Hours Worked LTIFR 15 GEOLOG HSE MILESTONE 4 YEARS LOSS TIME INCIDENT (LTI) FREE Over the past 4 years, GEOLOG HSE performance has been remarkable. With the last LTI recorded in November 2014, we have just achieved 4 LTI FREE YEARS. This historical 2 0 1 5 2 0 1 6 2 0 1 7 2 0 1 8 4 YEARS safety milestone could not have been achieved without the exceptional teamwork and crew’s careful attention to safety practices and a positive attitude. LTI figure is very important in the Oil and Gas Industry and is considered a LT I F r e e M I L e s T o n e testimony to the high standard of safety practice followed in GEOLOG. Our next challenge is to sustain and go beyond the milestone. Without being complacent, we need to report actively all unsafe events, near misses and Hi-Pos and embrace learning from minor incidents so we can continuously improve as stated in our QHSE policy. The beyond milestone goal of GEOLOG is to achieve ZERO INCIDENT. C o n g r at u l at i o n s f o r t h i s o u t s ta n d i n g p e r f o r m a n C e ! W W W. g e o lo g . C o m GEOLOG HSE Leadership Award In 2018, GEOLOG recognized four employees for their continuous and outstanding commitment and contribution to HSE. Their efforts have been identified to be critical to setting up a positive safety culture and actions in GEOLOG and at their work sites which have prevented undesired events, and in return were also commended by the clients for their HSE leadership. All four employees were awarded GEOLOG HSE Leadership Certificate and a bonus. GEOLOG believes that such leadership is key in developing a culture where every day each person performs tasks that demonstrate their active care for Health, Safety and Environment. Merouane Tebbal Razvan Muntianu Base Manager Offshore Engineer Manager of Congo operations Assigned to UK projects, Razvan was Merouane was instrumental in multiple times awarded by the client detecting correctly and putting with the STOP Card of the week. out a fire at the rig. Jude Perera Sofien Echeikh QHSE Coordinator Field Engineer Assigned to Kuwait projects, Jude was appreciated by the client for Assigned to Angola projects, innovative ideas (Reducing Plastic Sofien was multiple times awarded Waste and Safe Driving Use of N2 to by the client with the STOP stop tire blow-out in a hot climate) Card of the week. shared during HSE events. 16 Labour Principles Guarantee gender equality to all its employees GEOLOG, through its internal policies and procedures, is committed and strives to respect the labour rights and to guarantee gender equality to all its employees with the objective to ensure no discrimination. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation The employment of children, underage youths or any type of use of local providers. For instance, 63% of GEOLOG’s employees abuse and forced labour is not acceptable to GEOLOG under any are local. circumstances and is viewed as being a serious infringement of our Code of Conduct. All GEOLOG employees are older than 18 Flexible work arrangement is provided by GEOLOG for its years and over 65% are university graduated. employees, especially for women with families and young children in order to fit work and family needs. GEOLOG gives GEOLOG does not tolerate illegal or unethical behaviour or special attention to pregnant women, allowing them to work any kind of discrimination among others, race, religion, colour, from home in the final stage of pregnancy and making work gender, for its employees. We conduct our services according arrangements for the post-delivery. to the principles of respect and dignity, always providing a fair working environment. GEOLOG embraces diversity in the In order to promote social and economic development by workplace. creating more job opportunities, involving local stakeholders and minimizing indirect environmental aspects of our business, For example, there are 74 different nationalities among the total GEOLOG, whenever possible, acquires services and materials of GEOLOG employees. from local suppliers that comply with its standards. In this way, we extend our scope of influence and our commitment to our We are also committed to supporting the development in the business community. areas where we provide services by local empowerment and the 17 Environmental Principles We encourage our employees to develop the business in an environmentally responsible manner Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. One of the keystones of GEOLOG’s HSE Management System is our HSE Policy. Through the commitment of achieving remarkable performance regarding Health, Safety and Environment, we encourage our employees to develop the business in an environmentally responsible manner. GEOLOG, in line with ISO 14001:2015 standard, tries wherever possible to use environmentally friendly products and to avoid environmental incidents. To do so, we identified all our potential environmental impacts in order to define all measures and actions needed to prevent, minimize and control them. 18 Environment-friendly solutions for GEOLOG Milan Office produced about 25,000 KWH each month. Of course this depends on weather and seasonal conditions, but in general overall GEOLOG production facility in Milan, Italy, has been designed production is slightly better than expectation. considering environmentally friendly solutions, such as the use of renewable energy sources. The thermal station of the new building These initiatives reinforce the commitment of GEOLOG towards is powered by two geothermal wells, one for water production at solutions that help to reduce our carbon footprint and the impact a depth of 50 meters, and one for water reinjection at a depth of on the environment. 40 meters. GEOLOG installed photovoltaic panels (680 modules) in order to produce electric energy needed for the daily activities by using solar energy. The photovoltaic plant is an important investment made by GEOLOG in renewable energy. The system is working since March 2016. In 2018, the system produced about 155,000 KWH, corresponding to more than the 20% of the entire power request in the site. Production peaks have occurred in June and July when we 19 Anticorruption Principles Highest ethical and legal standards Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery GEOLOG is strongly committed to the highest ethical and legal standards. Each company within GEOLOG has been provided with the internal Code of Business Conduct and Anti-Bribery and AntiCorruption Policy both aimed at raising awareness of the relevant national and international laws, standards and principles in order to ensure compliance by GEOLOG as a whole, and all directors, officers and employees with the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption business principles accepted worldwide. In particular, GEOLOG fully adhered and implemented all AntiBribery and Anti-Corruption principles set forth in the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions, UK’s Bribery Act 2010 and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). 20 In light of the above, GEOLOG developed and implemented a • Recruitment procedures have been updated to be fully compliant specific Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption plan through the actions with relevant Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption principles and described below: regulations. • Set up of whistleblowing facilities and compliance helpline and • Conducted a risk assessment to identify potential exposure to other reporting procedures. bribery and corruption. • All GEOLOG personnel at risk of bribery and/or corruption behaviors • Involved its top management and Board members to (i) clearly and practices is being trained either via face-to-face individual communicate the core values of the Group and (ii) devote meetings or online seminars, e-learning tools etc. to understand appropriate time and internal resources to anti-bribery compliance how bribery and corruption situations can arise and which are the issues and to monitor the effectiveness of anti-bribery programs procedures and/or remedies to avoid that. and controls. • GEOLOG is also starting to apply risk-based compliance due • Issued a detailed Code of Business Conduct and Anti-Bribery and diligence checks on third parties the company works with such Anti-Corruption Policy covering all anti-bribery and corruption as agents, sales representatives, external counsels, etc. to ensure aspects and explaining which procedures each department should their compliance. put in place and which rules should be followed, both at a Group level and locally, to avoid forbidden and/or unethical behaviours and business practices. 21 GEOLOG in the World NORTH SEA AMERICAS EASTERN EUROPE & CIS &MEDITERRANEAN ARGENTINA (Buenos Aires & Neuquén) ALGERIA (Algiers & Hassi Messaoud) AZERBAIJAN (Baku) geolog.argentina@geolog.com geolog.algeria@geolog.com geolog.azerbaijan@geolog.com BOLIVIA (Santa Cruz de la Sierra) DENMARK (Esbjerg) KAZAKHSTAN (Almaty) geolog.bolivia@geolog.com geolog.north-sea@geolog.com geolog.kazakhstan@geolog.com BRAZIL (Río de Janeiro & Macaé) EGYPT (Cairo) KURDISTAN (Erbil) geolog.brazil@geolog.com geolog.egypt@geolog.com geolog.kurdistan@geolog.com COLOMBIA (Bogotá) FRANCE (La Défense) ROMANIA (Bucharest) geolog.colombia@geolog.com geolog.france@geolog.com geolog.romania@geolog.com CHILE (Punta Arenas) ITALY (Milan) RUSSIA (Moscow & Sakhalin) geolog.chile@geolog.com geolog.italy@geolog.com geolog.russia@geolog.com GUYANA (Georgetown) LIBYA (Tripoli) TURKEY (Ankara) geolog.guyana@geolog.com geolog.libya@geolog.com geolog.turkey@geolog.com MEXICO (Villahermosa) MALTA (Birżebbuġa) UKRAINE (Kiev) geolog.mexico@geolog.com geolog.malta@geolog.com geolog.ukraine@geolog.com PERU (Lima) NETHERLANDS (Amsterdam & geolog.peru@geolog.com Ijmuiden) geolog.north-sea@geolog.com TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (San Fernando) geolog.trinidad@geolog.com NORWAY (Sandnes) geolog.north-sea@geolog.com USA (Houston & Odessa) geolog.usa@geolog.com TUNISIA (Tunis) geolog.tunisia@geolog.com VENEZUELA (Maturín) geolog.venezuela@geolog.com UNITED KINGDOM (Aberdeen) geolog.north-sea@geolog.com 22 Head Office Office Suite 21B, Gold Tower Jumeirah Lakes Towers, Dubai PO Box 336 542 United Arab Emirates Manufacturing and R&D Center Via Monte Nero 30 San Giuliano Milanese, Milan 20098 Italy SUB-SAHARA AFRICA MIDDLE EAST FA R E A S T ANGOLA (Luanda) INDIA (Haryana) AUSTRALIA (Perth) geolog.angola@geolog.com geolog.india@geolog.com geolog.australia@geolog.com CONGO (Pointe Noire) KUWAIT (Mangaf ) CHINA (Beijing) geolog.congo@geolog.com geolog.kuwait@geolog.com geolog.china@geolog.com EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Malabo) QATAR (Doha) INDONESIA (Jakarta & Balikpapan) geolog.gnq@geolog.com geoperations.qatar@geolog.com geolog.indonesia@geolog.com GABON (Port Gentil) SAUDI ARABIA (Al Khobar) MALAYSIA (Kuala Lumpur) geolog.gabon@geolog.com geolog.middle-east@geolog.com geolog.malaysia@geolog.com GHANA (Accra) SRI LANKA (Narahenpita) PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Port Moresby) geolog.ghana@geolog.com geolog.sri-lanka@geolog.com geolog.png@geolog.com KENYA (Nairobi) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (Dubai) THAILAND (Bangkok) geolog.kenya@geolog.com geolog.uae@geolog.com geolog.thailand@geolog.com MAURITANIA (Nouakchott) geolog.mauritania@geolog.com SOUTH AFRICA (Cape Town) geolog.south-africa@geolog.com 23 www.geolog.com
