Annual and Sustainability Report 2018/19 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 1 Contents 2 This is Clas Ohlson 4 – Markets 6 The year in review 10 CEO’s statement BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT 14 Drivers and trends 16 Stakeholder expectations STRATEGY & TARGETS 18 Strategic framework 21 Targets and target fulfilment OUR WAY OF WORKING 24 Business model 26 Governance and responsibility 32 Co-workers OPERATIONS 38 A unique customer offering 44 – Purchasing 46 – Ambitious quality approach 48 – Our products and services 50 Outstanding customer service 51 – Available sales channels 60 Smart and simple 61 – Distribution 67 – Organisation and competence mix ANNUAL REPORT 72 Directors’ Report 77 – Appropriation of earnings 78 – Risks and uncertainties 82 – Chairman’s statement 83 – Corporate governance 92 – Board of Directors 94 – Group management 96 Consolidated financial statements 99 Parent Company financial statements 102 Notes 122 Certification of the Annual Report 123 Auditor’s report 126 Sustainability report 128 Supplementary sustainability information 128 – Eight current target areas 130 – Our value chain 132 – Clas Ohlson’s contributions to the SDGs ABOUT THE ANNUAL REPORT Clas Ohlson presents financial and non-financial 136 – Sustainability risks information integrated in a single report. The report includes standard and specific 138 – GRI Index disclosures based on the GRI guidelines, Standards. The scope of the statutory 142 The share sustainability report is stated on page 126. The statutory annual report encompasses the Directors’ Report and the financial statements on pages 72-122. 146 Quarterly data 147 Key ratio definitions and glossary 148 Alternative performance measures Clas Ohlson is a Swedish company and is subject to Swedish law. All values are 150 Ten-year overview stated in Swedish kronor (SEK). Values in millions of SEK are abbreviated MSEK 152 Store overview and thousands of SEK as SEK 000. Unless otherwise specified, figures in paren154 History thesis pertain to 2017/18. Data regarding markets and competition reflect Clas 156 Annual General Meeting and reporting calendar Ohlson’s own assessments if a specific source is not quoted. These assessments are based on the best and most recent factual data from published sources in the public sector and the consumer goods industry. This Annual Report has been prepared in Swedish and translated into English. In the event of any discrepancies between the Swedish and the English version, the former shall have precedence. 2 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 THIS IS CLAS OHLSON OUR MISSION To help and inspire people to improve their everyday life by offering smart, simple and practical solutions at attractive prices. Welcome to Clas Ohlson! In 1918, the entrepreneur Clas Ohlson founded attractive prices. We also urge our value chain to a mail order business in Insjön, Dalarna, Sweden, become more resource-efficient and we respect to which he gave his name. Today, Clas Ohlson is people and the environment in all parts of our a retail company with customers in five markets, operations. Our corporate culture, the Clas Ohlabout 5,000 co-workers, and sales of approxison spirit, is based on an approach inspired by our mately 8.8 billion SEK. A lot has happened since founder regarding how we treat our customers the beginning, but one thing has been the same and each other. all these years: every day, we want to help and inspire people to improve their everyday life by The Clas Ohlson share has been listed on Nasdaq offering smart, simple and practical solutions at Stockholm since 1999. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 3 THIS IS CLAS OHLSON | MARKETS Clas Ohlson locations Stores Online We have 232 stores in four countries and our entire affordable product range for solving everyday practical problems is available around the clock at clasohlson.com. Employees NORDIC REGION NORWAY SWEDEN Percentage of total sales 90 97 Finland, 12% Online Online Sweden, 44% 1,668 2,598 Norway, 41% FINLAND 42 Online 538 OUTSIDE NORDIC COUNTRIES Outside Nordic countries in one segment Clas Ohlson reports operations in the UK and Germany in one segment: “Outside Nordic countries.” Percentage of total sales UK GERMANY Outside Nordic countries, 3% 3 Online Online 6 113 CHINA (PURCHASING OFFICES) 63 4 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 THIS IS CLAS OHLSON | MARKETS More information about Clas Ohlson’s markets can be read at about.clasohlson.com. ONLINE SWEDEN NORWAY FINLAND Percentage of total sales Start year: 1918 Start year: 1985 Start year: 2002 97 stores 90 stores 42 stores Online 6% 7 new stores, net, 2018/19 1 new store, net, 2018/19 3 new stores, net, 2018/19 Development during the year Development during the year Development during the year After some 20 years of positive The Norwegian market was The 2018 retail year in Finland growth in the consumer durables characterised by a rapid rate of featured relatively stable sales retail area, the industry is showing change and customers apprefor the industry as a whole with signs of slowing down. Growth ciate new initiatives as Click & variations i different segments. has shifted from stores to online Collect, which is rising in popuA large percentage of sales still shopping, which has contributed to larity month by month. The new take place in traditional stores, Stores 94% higher price and margin pressure fix-it counter service concept, although large growth is taking for the industry as a whole. With a launched to date in two stores, place online. Clas Ohlson has a sustained strong customer base, for offers a new shopping experience solid position in the market with example with 2.3 million Swedish and service level for Clas Ohlson favourable opportunities to be Club Clas members, Clas Ohlson customers. Four stores were even more relevant to Finnish retains a very strong position in the refurbished during the year and customers. Sales in 2018/19 Swedish market. Sales increased Clas Ohlson retained its strong rose 7 per cent (SEK). a total of 5 per cent (SEK) in the position in the market with a 9 financial year. per cent (SEK) sales increase for the year. Sales Sales, MSEK Sales, MSEK Sales, MSEK online, MSEK 3,853 3,571 1,064 432 3,588 3,658 998 3,483 3,190 3,287 913 3,295 2,934 2,928 819 747 284 268 372 299 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 UK GERMANY Start year: 2008 Start year: 2016 3 stores Online sales only 4 stores were closed in 2018/19 4 stores were closed in 2018/19 Sales, MSEK Development during the year Development during the year During the financial year, the UK retail marThe German retail market continued to ket was marked by changes in consumpchange in 2018 in line with consumption 284 tion patterns, resulting in store closures and increasingly moving online. During the 372 a higher share of online shopping. During year, Clas Ohlson announced a new 354 the year, Clas Ohlson announced a new direction for the company’s international 299 268 direction for the company’s international presence, which resulted in the four market presence, entailing that the store stores in Hamburg being closed during network in the UK will be successively the financial year. Going forward, Clas closed to instead concentrate the customer Ohlson will concentrate its focus on offering on online shopping. online shopping in the German market. 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 5 Digital in-store solutions enhance the customer experience. 6 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 THE YEAR IN REVIEW An eventful year DURING THE 2018/19 FINANCIAL YEAR, Clas Ohlson launched a new growth strategy and took many concrete steps following this new strategy. Total sales of 8.8 billion SEK represent a 7 per cent increase on the preceding year and sales growth online rose by 47 per cent, which is in line with the overall growth target of doubling online sales every second year. In the past year, sales increased to a total of 8,772 have been initiated to create long-term profitable MSEK. This corresponds to an organic sales growth in an action programme that we have growth of 4 per cent and an increase of 1 per named CO100+. cent in comparable units and local currency. Operating profit for the year amounted to 94 Growth in stores and online MSEK (468), impacted by non-recurring costs All of our sales channels contributed to growth corresponding to 405 MSEK associated with during the year. While online sales increased 47 CO100+, the business system that was launched per cent to 432 MSEK (295), while the in-store through the sCORE project, and the closure of sales growth was 1 per cent. During the year, we the store networks in the UK and Germany. Acopened eleven stores and closed eight stores. Of cordingly, underlying operating profit amounted the new stores, six were in the smaller Lab Store to 497 MSEK. The operating margin amounted and Compact Store formats. All store closures to 1.1 per cent and earnings per share to 1.13 were made in the UK and Germany, where we SEK. decided in the autumn to close stores in favour of a business model focused entirely on online sales. An organisation with its sights set on As a result, there was a net addition of three new the future stores. During the year, we strengthened the organisation in several areas, while we reduced our perNew growth strategy sonnel numbers in others, mainly as a result of Since our new growth strategy was launched in our new strategic approach to markets outside the May 2018, a large number of specific projects Nordic region. The number of employees was approximately 5,000 at the end of the financial year. Sales, MSEK Operating profit, MSEK No. of employees 8,772 4,986 7,602 7,990 8,211 4,848 5,021 4,743 596 610 7,330 506 4,612 468 94 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 7 THE YEAR IN REVIEW Events during the year QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER 01 02 03 04 • New growth strategy, 100 • Screen-free time with Make & • Click & Collect was launched • Clas Ohlson presents a plan more years, with digital focus Play launched in selected and immediately became a to create a more efficient and new service offering stores in the form of activity highly popular delivery alterorganisation to ensure suslaunched at a Capital Markets spaces for children, together native for our online customtainable profitable growth. Day. with a digital activity hub. ers. • Clas Ohlson Smart Bulb • Clas Ohlson was named • Clas Ohlson initiated a part• Clas Fix it, a practical DIY was launched as a new addi2018 Sustainable Store Chain nership with storage comservice, was launched, starttion to Clas Ohlson’ product of the Year at the Retail pany Vinden. ing in Stockholm, Sweden. range for smart homes. Awards in Sweden. • Attendance record and 100th • A new self-optimised • Decision to discontinue sales • The new member magazine anniversary celebrations at search engine was impleof single-use plastic items, Classe was launched in AGM, held this time at Tegera mented on Clas Ohlson’s and a decision to phase out the Swedish market. Arena in Leksand, Sweden. website for better accuracy. disposable barbecues were announced. • New smart alternatives for • Clas Ohlson’s first Lab Store • Klarna Checkout was implehome deliveries were launched was opened in Helsinki, mented for Clas Ohlson’s • Clas Ohlson begins new in collaboration with Budbee Finland. Shortly afterwards, online shopping. partnership with World and Porterbuddy. a second Clas Ohlson Lab Childhood Foundation. Store opened, this time in • Decision on new strategy for • Clas Ohlson turned 100 Stockholm, Sweden. market presence in the UK • New store was opened in years on 27 June, which was and Germany with a focus Kungälv, Sweden. celebrated with customers in • New stores were opened in on online sales. stores and online. Espoo and Helsinki in Finland. • Batterijakten (Battery Hunt), In Sweden, Gothenburg • New store was opened in a recycling competition • A new type of service station gained its first Compact Store Kristianstad, Sweden. for children, was arranged was premiered at Clas Ohlson and a new Compact Store in the Norwegian and when the fix-it counter was was also opened in StockSwedish markets. launched at the Torggata store holm. in central Oslo, Norway. • New stores were opened in Ljungby, and Tyresö in Sweden, as well as in Sortland, Norway. In Oslo, a pop-up store was also opened, Hemma hos Clas Ohlson. Partnerships with A FOCUS ON CHILDREN’S RIGHTS During the year, a three-year collaboration was initiated with the World Childhood Foundation in Sweden, Norway and Finland. The collaboration aims to train Clas Ohlson’s employees to become “Important adults” – children’s rights ambassadors who will have the knowledge and means to take action against violence and sexual abuse of children. The initiative includes internal training, and at a later date we will also sell products with the proceeds going to Childhood. 8 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 THE YEAR IN REVIEW Clas Ohlson launches NEW IN-STORE SERVICES During the year, Clas Ohlson launched a new type of service station in selected Clas Ohlson stores. In Sweden, the concept is called Service bar and in Norway, it is called Fiksedisk. This is a place where customers can receive assistance with small items that need to be repaired or receive tips and advice. Examples of services on offer are key cutting, exchanging ink cartridges, photo printing, mobile phone charging and the tool lending or hire. The concept was first launched in Oslo in July 2018 and has since been taken to Malmö in Sweden and Ålesund in Norway. CLAS FIX IT to make everyday life easier With Clas Fix it, Clas Ohlson’s customers can get help with tasks that may be too small to bring in traditional help but a little too difficult or daunting for customers to do on their own. This may involve, for example, the installation and assembly of products, repairs and electrical and plumbing services. The service can be easily booked using the Clas Fix it app or in store. Clas Fix it was launched in Stockholm in November. The service was well received and more than 80 per cent of customers would recommend the service to a friend or colleague. Clas Ohlson FOCUSES ON RE-USABLE PRODUCTS Clas Ohlson is phasing out the sale and use of several single-use plastic items in 2019. We have already decided to replace drinking straws and cups with alternative products made of paper. In 2020, all single-use items for food will be made of bio-based materials that are not defined as plastic. In the same year, freezer bags and waste disposal bags will be made of bio-based or recycled materials, and all packaging materials must be recyclable. During 2019, we will also be phasing out disposable barbecues from our product range and instead focus on smart, portable alternatives. SWEDISH DESIGN AWARD and Red Dot Award for Clas Ohlson In August 2018, Clas Ohlson, together with the Daresay digital agency, won the international design prize, the Red Dot Award, for the Clas Ohlson Home app. In October of the same year, it was time once again, when the app won the Gold first prize in the Swedish Design Awards’ “Digital Smartphone” category. Clas Ohlson Home allows the user to remotely control smart home products from Clas Ohlson’s own product series of the same name. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 9 CEO’S STATEMENT Growth in both stores and online. 10 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 CEO’S STATEMENT High activity in our change During the past year, we at Clas Ohlson met milA good start lions of customers in our various sales channels. We amassed a large amount of energy during Online is growing strongly, but our stores still the preceding financial year by celebrating 100 account for about 94 per cent of our total sales. years as a company with our customers and our It is therefore gratifying that we are actually also co-workers. In addition to highlighting what we increasing sales in our stores. This in a market in have achieved together as an organisation over which essentially all growth occurs online. I bethe years, we had many opportunities to talk lieve that it says something about the strength of about how the company has changed since it our store network and customer interaction, and was founded in 1918 and how we will work to it affirms my perception that the stores will play remain relevant for our customers in the future. an important, but different, role in a digitalised In this way, the celebrations became a way to world. lay the foundation of the journey of change on which we have embarked. Obvious highlights At the same time as we deliver products and were our birthday in June, which was celebrated services each day to our millions of customers, with all of our customers in all of our stores and we are implementing major changes throughout online, as well as the jubilee festival in Tällberg Clas Ohlson’s value chain, so that, under the new that involved the participation of 3,500 co-workmarket conditions that prevail, we will be able to ers. Undoubtedly a memory for life! continue developing the company in line with the concept that our founder once had: to help Strengthened position in our home people improve their everyday life by offering markets smart, simple and practical solutions at attractive Sales in the 2018/19 financial year increased by 7 prices. per cent and reached 8,772 MSEK, with an operating profit of 94 MSEK. Looking at the results, We have already made substantial progress and one should also take into account that we, in we will continue the high pace of implementing accordance with our plan, invested around 1-2 our plans. Our organisation is energised and is per cent of the operating margin in our strategic working on some 20 projects simultaneously initiatives. During the year, we strengthened that are all aimed at either delivering on the our position in our Nordic home markets with customers’ new expectations of service levels, organic growth of 4 per cent through improveaccessibility and convenience, or adapting our ments in stores and online shopping. Among cost structure. All of this is defined in our ‘100 other actions, we have made the process simpler more years’ growth strategy and the CO100+ for the customer through new payment solutions action programme, which we launched to realise and improved user experiences at clasohlson. our strategy and our targets for shareholder value com, while giving customers new, convenient in the form of sustainable profitable growth. delivery alternatives, such as Click & Collect, CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 11 CEO’S STATEMENT meaning that the customer can order MatHem customer bags contains a Clas A key step was taken in December, when their items online and collect them in Ohlson product. While we are increasthe Board resolved on a new strategy for any of our 232 stores. Click & Collect ing accessibility and convenience for our our market presence outside the Nordic was launched full-scale in December customers through partnerships, we also countries. This decision entails that we 2018 and immediately became a very see a major advantage in the co-transwill focus on online sales in the UK and popular delivery alternative that already port of products for home delivery beGermany in the future, and will thererepresents approximately 30 per cent cause of the reduced impact on traffic fore close our stores in these markets. of our total online shopping business. and the climate. At the end of the financial year, we had This is positive for several reasons. Apart closed all of the German stores and the from demonstrating that the customers Another opportunity to come all the closure of UK stores was continuing in find it easy and convenient to visit our way home to the customer is offered by line with the agreements with the propstores, in-store collection is by far the Clas Fix it. Clas Fix it is our new service erty owners. The reason is that, despite most cost-effective method of delivery for fixing things in the home, which was several attempts and extensive efforts for us, since it enables us to use our exlaunched in the Stockholm area in the by our local employees, we understood isting supply chain to the stores. It also autumn. The reception from customers that we did not have the conditions to generates customer traffic to our stores. to date has been very positive and we achieve profitability in the store operaAll of this combined led to our online will continue to roll out the service to tions using our previous business model. sales increasing by 47 per cent, which is more geographic areas. By closing the stores in Germany and in line with our ambitious targets. the UK, we will save approximately 75 A simpler and more efficient MSEK annually. We have also initiated a To your door with MatHem and organisation major review of all our rental agreements Clas Fix it In addition to all initiatives for an imin the Nordic region with the aim of Our collaboration with Sweden’s leading proved customer experience, we are also ensuring that the terms and conditions online food retailer, MatHem, has been conducting a major project throughout better match retail conditions today and developed to include both more effithe organisation to create the right conin the future. cient inventory management and ditions for the journey of change, both shared customer activities, particularly in terms of our competence mix and to We announced the second major deciduring Christmas trading, when many ensure that our costs do not restrict our sion regarding our future organisation customers chose to purchase Christlong-term competitiveness. In the prein February 2019. 150-200 roles will be mas decorations and Christmas gifts vailing situation in the retail market and affected by a change to become a more from Clas Ohlson, while buying their in light of rapidly changing customer efficient organisation, primarily at our Christmas food from MatHem. We have demands, we needed to make several offices and at our distribution centre in successively increased the number of difficult decisions during the year, which Insjön. The measures are necessary to Clas Ohlson products for sale through have already affected many employees, reduce costs and to create an organisaMatHem’s online shopping platform so with more set to be impacted during the tion with the right competence mix that that these now comprise about 2,000 current financial year. is better equipped to capitalise on the products and approximately one in ten opportunities offered by digitalisation, automation and the changed behaviour of customers in the retail sector. The right mix of skills very much applies to Our costs must not restrict our long-term competitiveness. 12 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 CEO’S STATEMENT our Group Management as well, where better from a sustainability perspective. During the course of our 100-year hiswe have a strong team in place after apThe target is for our products for a more tory, we have encountered new market pointing internal and external expertise sustainable lifestyle to represent 25 per conditions on several occasions and to such key functions as purchasing and cent of sales by 2020. During the year, successfully adjusted and turned them to digital during the past year. we achieved a share of 19 per cent. We our advantage. In the same manner, Clas are also seeing continued large interest Ohlson will now secure the opportuBut our focus on costs is not only a in our rental range and, like few others nities in the transition that we are now matter of organisational changes. It is in the industry today, we also offer spare seeing and we have already made some also a question of working smarter here parts for the products we sell. Clas Fix progress with this. and now in existing processes, such as it, which is based on resolving a problem purchasing, both in terms of the goods for the customer by providing a service I would like to take this opportunity to we sell and goods and services we buy rather than a product, is another feature thank all of our customers and sharefor internal use. We have taken a major of our offering that enables a more susholders with whom we have had the step in both of these areas during the tainable everyday life for our customers. honour to build relationships over the year and we will see positive effects of years. I also want to give extra special this work successively, since the lead The Clas Ohlson spirit – an thanks to all employees who resolve our times are relatively long in purchasing important support in the change customers’ problems on a daily basis and processes. Our overall goal is to achieve process by doing so ensure that the customers cost-savings of 200-250 MSEK per year With great respect for the challenges return again and again. The trust that and we are leaving no stone unturned in we face, I am now looking ahead to our we have created together is one of our the quest to achieve our goal. continued journey. I often look to our foremost strengths and a competitive rich history and strong corporate culture advantage in this transition. We will facilitate a more sustainfor support when I think about what able everyday life we need to do moving forward. It is an With the skills and inquisitiveness that Although we are streamlining our operenormous benefit to gain inspiration exists in the organisation, I am fully ations, I want to make it clear that this from an entrepreneur such as Clas Ohlconvinced that we will achieve our tardoes not mean that we are reducing our son, who constantly sought new ways gets, deliver shareholder value and will demands on quality and sustainability in to satisfy the customer. Accordingly, I continue to play an even greater role in all dimensions. Clas Ohlson’s customers am also pleased that, during the year, we our customers’ lives in the future. must be confident that the products simplified our internal work on our corthat sell are safe to use, were produced porate culture, or what we call the Clas under good working conditions and Ohlson spirit. In brief, we have engaged transported with as low environmental a large number of employees to define and climate impact as possible. Our the behaviours that are at the core of sustainability work is ambitious and we the Clas Ohlson spirit. The behaviours are conducting, for example, projects to are related to how Clas Ohlson himself Lotta Lyrå reduce the use of plastic in packaging acted and is a clear and simple way for and by phasing out certain products us to carry our proud heritage forward. President and CEO from our range, such as single-use items A strong corporate culture is always imInsjön, June 2019 in plastic. Quite simple, we are removportant, but perhaps even more importing products that are poorer for the enviant in times of change. ronment and adding new ones that are CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 13 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT | DRIVERS AND TRENDS A new retail landscape THE WORLD IS CHANGING BEFORE OUR VERY EYES. Being aware of the driving forces and trends in our business environment and responding to them in a smart way are basic prerequisites for continued growth. There has been an explosion in the quantity of data available to retailers and the tools for analysis are more refined; for those who know how to capitalise on this, the potential is enormous. Demographic CHANGES The population continues to age, urban density is increasing and single-person households remain a typical feature of Nordic society. The average life expectancy in the Nordic countries has increased by an average of 1.5 years in the past decade. Consumers are increasingly concerned with the way in which the modern lifestyle affects their health and well-being. FOR CLAS OHLSON, THIS MEANS we seek to gain deep understanding of the individual customer’s circumstances and needs regardless of where they live or the type of home they have. Clas Ohlson’s offering must always be relevant and accessible by people in all kinds of homes. 14 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT | DRIVERS AND TRENDS Convenience versus ENTERTAINMENT With online retail as a driving force, shopping will become increasingly divided into convenience and needs versus entertainment and leisure. Accordingly, customers will also assess their shopping experience according to benefit or stimulation, depending on the situation in which they find themselves. FOR CLAS OHLSON, THIS MEANS that we add value to the customer journey in the form of inspiration and convenience by optimising the customer experience in various ways, both online and in stores, based on what the customer needs and wants. We are investing in our online operations and in our store network, which we regard as a vital feature of being able to offer convenience. Low price versus PREMIUM In the retail sector, the low-price chains’ market share has grown, while at the same time there is now a trend towards an increase in the consumption value of premium products. Retailers not classified as low-price or premium are pressed in the middle segment. FOR CLAS OHLSON, THIS MEANS that we are raising the efficiency of the organisation by making our business processes smarter and simpler, and we are investing in primary data and advanced analyses to improve our ability to meet our customers’ needs and be able to provide the market with a stronger offering with clear value for money. Advance of CIRCULAR ECONOMY Consumption is becoming successively less of an ends in itself, as thoughts of sustainability grow and the circular economy advances. Reduced use of plastics, lead and other materials will continue, at the same time as companies seek new business models to facilitate the transition to a circular economy, where consumers become users, products become functions and waste becomes a resource. FOR CLAS OHLSON, THIS MEANS that we will phase out all single-use plastic items, improve our packaging and products in the design process and continue to place high demands on quality, materials and chemicals. We also lease or lend tools and offer repairs and spare parts to prolong the life of the products we sell. THE SMART home The smart home is still advancing. The products thought to have the greatest attraction among consumers are remotely controlled devices for heating and lighting, as well as voice-controlled assistants, while other areas have still not gathered momentum. The market for smart homes is expected to grow by 80 per cent by 2023. FOR CLAS OHLSON, THIS MEANS that we are expanding our range of products for the smart home, since we regard the smart home as part of our natural territory – as part of our long history of offering smart solutions for the home and as part of our strategic focus on simplifying life in the home. Battle for TALENT Attracting and retaining highly skilled employees is a strong competitive advantage, while lacking the right skills is one of the greatest threats to a company’s success and growth. The young, digital generation places high demands on what is the right workplace environment for them. They want to be able to contribute and evolve without losing their work-life balance. FOR CLAS OHLSON, THIS MEANS that we are working for increased flexibility and diversity and that we become clearer about what we offer our employees. Clas Ohlson aims to be an attractive workplace in which to grow and we support our employees on their journey forward. Our leadership, skills development and belief in our employees equips us for the future and cultivates an organisation prepared to shoulder new challenges. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 15 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT | STAKEHOLDER EXPECTATIONS In close dialogue with our stakeholders A MEANINGFUL AND TRUSTED BRAND and company that delivers sustainable profitable growth must be aware of and capitalise on stakeholder requirements and expectations. We maintain a close dialogue with our customers, employees, suppliers, owners and various players in society to understand their view of the future, which helps us set our strategy. The 2018 AGM in Tegera Arena, Leksand, attracted 1,804 participants. 16 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT | STAKEHOLDER EXPECTATIONS CUSTOMERS Understanding our customers and their needs and expectations is vital to succeed in a competitive market. We interact with our customers every day in our stores and our customer service. The 2.7 million members of our Club Clas loyalty programme also provide valuable information and important insight into how we can improve our offering. Our regular customer survey shows that we have very high customer satisfaction in all markets and that customers are very likely to recommend us to their friends and acquaintances. Our customers want relevant, innovative products and services with superior environmental performance. We also see that availability is increasingly critical to making a purchase. This applies to both the physical stores and online. EMPLOYEES Approximately 5,000 co-workers in six countries work to give our customers the very best service and the best offering. Committed and goal-oriented employees are fundamental to our growth and development, so is leadership, diversity, skills development, flexibility and a focus on health and well-being. We carry out a survey every other year and ask employees about their opinion of Clas Ohlson, our strengths and areas for improvement. The most recent employee survey from autumn 2018 shows a healthy work climate and good leadership. More than 80 per cent of employees are proud of working at Clas Ohlson, and the majority would recommend us to others as an employer. SHAREHOLDERS Clas Ohlson Series B shares have been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since 1999 and the company now has about 42,000 shareholders. Many shareholders have been with us for many years. Stable, engaged owners are pivotal for long-term profitability and sustainable development. We meet our shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, at shareholders and investor meetings, and at Capital Markets Days. Important information about shareholder value is obtained via the Nomination Committee and the Board. Shareholders value long-term sustainable and profitable growth as one of the most important issues. SUPPLIERS We have close and trusting working relationships with about 730 suppliers in Europe and 630 manufacturers in Asia. A strong supplier network is a prerequisite for an affordable, innovative and sustainable offering. We are constantly moving towards products under our proprietary brands and suppliers expect a long-term partnership and scope in return for meeting the robust requirements that we impose. Important issues are discussed during regular contact with suppliers, on various training courses and as part of audits. Increasing numbers of suppliers want to move away from only supplying goods and to move towards entering strategic partnerships based on jointly established targets. SOCIETY We influence, and are influenced by players in society at global, national and local levels that encourage companies to assume a broader responsibility. The launch of the UN 17 Sustainable Development Goals gives businesses a more prominent role in solving the challenges faced by society. It increases expectations that we understand our impact along the value chain, manage it accordingly, and comply with the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Clas Ohlson expects to assume increased responsibility for the company’s indirect impact and to make use of innovation to promote more sustainable development. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 17 STRATEGY & TARGETS | STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK Clas Ohlson delivers on its growth targets CLAS OHLSON’S AMBITION is to simplify the customer’s everyday life. We do this by providing a unique customer offering, outstanding customer service and by conducting operations in a smart and simple manner. The three strategic areas, together with our sustainability work, are intended to contribute to meeting our overall target for the business: We will be a meaningful and trusted brand and company that is recognised for being “passionate about simplifying life in all kinds of homes.” We will deliver sustainable profitable growth. 18 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 STRATEGY & TARGETS | STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK Clas Ohlson’s growth strategy CO100+ and strategic areas With the aim of meeting Clas Ohlson’s targets, Clas Ohlson implemented the CO100+ action programme during the year. 1-2 per cent of the Clas Ohlson will grow on the Nordic market, focusing on simplifying people’s everyday lives underlying operating margin is investat home through a combination of products, guidance and supplementary services. A develed in sales growth and cost savings oped online business model, unique offering, outstanding service and simplified, streamlined for a two-year period. operations are key parts of the company’s growth strategy. Leveraging the strength of our In addition to investments intended large, loyal customer base, we will play a greater and more important role in every home. to drive growth, efficiency-enhancing measures equivalent to approxiTo achieve this, Clas Ohlson has identified three strategic areas. Within the CO100+ action mately 200–250 MSEK have been programme, the strategy is converted into some 20 projects aimed at achieving the strategy. identified, which will have an effect during the two-year period 2018/192019/20 and full effect as of full-year 2020/21. Cost-savings have been primarily identified in a more efficient organisation, optimised product range and increased systematisation in purchasing and logistics. The growth initiatives that are exCO100+ pected to have the greatest impact on the target of 5 per cent organic growth mainly involve increasing sales per square metre, increasing sales per customer and doubling online sales every other year. 1. 2. 3. A unique customer Enhanced availability and Smart and simple – we are offer outstanding customer service simplifying and streamlinClas Ohlson will become even more We are strengthening our customer relationing our operations relevant to the customer by offering ships and increasing added value by offering We are investing in change, building a more focused product offer where even better availability and personalised guidbetter systems and streamlining the we clearly define the home as our ance both in stores and online. The store is operations throughout the chain, arena while adding a supplementary the hub of our operations and online shoppers by focusing on product developrange of smart services for practical will be able to choose to collect their purment, purchasing and distribution to problem-solving. chases in their local store or have the product enhance cost efficiency and enable delivered to a parcel depot or directly home to even quicker delivery to customers. We are increasing the share of their door. proprietary brands by strengthening An important factor in this is the design and product development We will optimally leverage our store network roll-out of our new business system and adding speed, sustainability and and ensure flexible leases so that we can through the sCORE project (Systems uniqueness. reassess location, size and range when cirfor Clas Ohlson Retail Efficiency) that cumstances change. Collaboration between was implemented in the entire orstores has increased and some stores have ganisation at the start of the 2018/19 been and will be assigned the role of “feeder financial year. The business system store” and will deliver products to other stores allows us to, for example, steer the and home to customers. range in each store towards what customers are purchasing in that specific area. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 19 STRATEGY & TARGETS | TARGETS AND TARGET FULFILMENT Clas Ohlson’s operational targets CLAS OHLSON HAS ADOPTED OVERALL OPERATIONAL TARGETS to support the growth strategy. Clas Ohlson will be a meaningful and trusted brand and company that delivers sustainable, profitable growth. 20 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 STRATEGY & TARGETS | TARGETS AND TARGET FULFILMENT TARGET: SUSTAINABLE PROFITABLE GROWTH Clas Ohlson’s financial targets include organic growth of 5 per cent and an operating margin of 6–8 per cent. In addition, net debt in relation to EBITDA is to fall below two (2) times and the dividend is to comprise at least 50 per cent of earnings per share after tax*. 1. 2. 3. 4. TARGET/ FRAMEWORK TARGET/ FRAMEWORK TARGET/ FRAMEWORK TARGET/ FRAMEWORK Sales will increase organically an Operating margin will amount to 6–8 Net debt in relation to EBITDA to fall The dividend is to comprise at least average of 5 per cent annually over per cent within a five-year period. below two (2) times. 50 per cent of earnings per share a five-year period. after tax, considering the company’s • Proprietary brands will increase • Investments are being planned financial position. • Sales per customer increase. as a share of sales as regards financial position, • Sales per square • The organisation and retail space cash flow and strategic • Over the first two years, metre increase will be streamlined activities 2018/19 and 2019/20, the • Online sales to at least double • Development of product range, ambition is that the dividend will every other year purchasing and logistics will be be maintained on a level with systematised the 2016/17 financial year, in absolute terms During the 2018/19 and 2019/20 financial years, approximately 1-2 per cent of the underlying operating margin is expected to be invested in strategic initiatives. TARGET FULFILMENT TARGET FULFILMENT TARGET FULFILMENT TARGET FULFILMENT Sales increased 7 per cent to The operating margin was Net debt in relation to EBITDA The Board of Directors proposes 8,772 MSEK (8,211). Organic 1.1 per cent (5.7). During the amounted to 0.5 times. that a dividend of SEK 6.25 sales increased 4 per cent year, the operating margin was per share (6.25) be paid for the compared with the preceding impacted by costs of 405 MSEK 2018/19 financial year. year. Sales in comparable units related to the CO100+ action and local currency increased 1 programme, the business system per cent. Online sales increased (sCORE) and store closures in 47 per cent. the UK and Germany. Organic sales growth, % Operating margin, % Net debt/EBITDA Payout ratio, % 553* 5,0 10 2,0 8.1 7.6 8 4,0 4.0 1,5 6 5.7 3,0 1,0 6.7* 0.5 2,0 4 0,5 1.1 72 96 82 110 1,0 2 0,0 0,0 0 -0.2 -0,5 18/19 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 17/18 18/19 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 Target 5% Target 6-8% Target 50% * Excluding non-recurring items * Proposed dividend * Since the key indicators for the Group’s financial targets and frameworks pertaining to the operating margin and leverage (net debt in relation to EBITDA) will be affected by IFRS 16, recognition will initially include and exclude these effects. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 21 STRATEGY & TARGETS | TARGETS AND TARGET FULFILMENT TARGET: A MEANINGFUL AND TRUSTED BRAND AND COMPANY Clas Ohlson’s operational targets include targets for brand preference, a loyal customer base, brand position and skills development. Our customers Our people 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. TARGET TARGET TARGET TARGET TARGET Brand preference Number of active Brand position Skills development Brand position The target is that our customers The target is to be perThe target is for our The target is for our emcustomers spontaneously The target is to build a ceived as a meaningful employees to develop ployees to perceive that we prefer and choose Clas large and loyal customer and trusted brand and the right skills to realise live up to our position both Ohlson ahead of other base in the countries we company recognised for our new strategy. externally and internally. alternatives. serve. being passionate about We will advance in: simplifying life in all kinds • commitment of homes. • efficiency • diversity DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT We measure the customWe regard ourselves as a We measure the extent We work continuously to In the most recent emers’ preference for Clas key player in everyday life to which the customers develop our employees’ ployee survey, conducted Ohlson compared with in the Nordic countries. associate Clas Ohlson skills. The number of training in autumn 2018, we saw other brands that have Based on data and statiswith what we are passioncourses conducted in our an increase from 78 been identified as relevant tic modelling during the ate about – simplifying digital training tool, Clas(2016) to 80 (2018) in the for our customer group. year, we estimate that life in all kinds of homes. room, increased to 93,779 engagement index among We measure the extent more than 7.5 million peoWe also measure our in 2018/19 (62,332). Among our employees, with the to which customers will ple in the Nordic countries customers’ perception of other initiatives, 30 training percentage of highly think of Clas Ohlson and shop at Clas Ohlson each Clas Ohlson with 12 difcourses were conducted in engaged employees at 32 how they perceive and feel year. ferent attributes, such as our sales coach programme, per cent (external benchabout the brand. We do quality, sustainability and leading to about 10,000 mark 26 per cent). this to determine whether competitiveness across training occasions in-store. customers have us top15 different product of-mind when they make categories. purchasing decisions. 22 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 STRATEGY & TARGETS | TARGETS AND TARGET FULFILMENT SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS Clas Ohlson’s sustainability agenda is a key component in achieving the company’s operational targets. It guides how the company integrates environmental and social aspects into its strategy and the organisation through a sustainable value chain and a sustainable customer offering. 1. 2. 3. TARGET TARGET TARGET The percentage of products for a more Reduced CO2 emissions from transportation 98 per cent of our supplier are to comply with sustainable lifestyle is to represent at least in relation to our sales. the requirements of our Code of Conduct as 25 per cent of sales by 2020. regards working conditions, human rights and environment, with no serious deviations. During the year, the target was adjusted to 100 per cent. TARGET FULFILMENT TARGET FULFILMENT TARGET FULFILMENT The percentage of products for a more susThe CO2 emissions from transportation reWe focus on efficient monitoring processes, tainable lifestyle amounted to 19 per cent of duced by 6 per cent in relation to our sales training and proactive development activities total sales for the financial year, up during the financial year. Clas Ohlson has with strategic suppliers. 98 per cent of our 3 percentage points year-on-year. joined the Fossil Free Sweden government suppliers complied with the requirements in initiative. 2018/19. Products for a more sustainable CO2 emissions, grams of CO2 Percentage of suppliers lifestyle, share of sales, % relative to our sales meeting the requirements of the Code of Conduct with no serious deviations, % 98 19 1.63 96 98 98 96 16 2.25 14 1.73 10 6 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 Target 25% Target: Reduced CO2emissions from Target 98% * transportation in relation to our sales. * The target was adjusted to 100% during the year. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 23 OUR WAY OF WORKING | OUR BUSINESS MODEL How we create value for our stakeholders RESOURCES OPERATIONS STRUCTURAL CAPITAL • Slightly more than 230 stores and online shopping in five countries B LE BUSINESS NA • Distribution centre in Insjön as a hub for efficient distribution AI spir it on FINANCIAL CAPITAL A SU O hl s A unique • 1,947 MSEK in equity ST Cl as customer offer he T The HUMAN CAPITAL customer • A strong company culture, the Clas Ohlson spirit • About 5,000 competent and passionate employees Outstanding Smartness and customer simplicity service RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL • A strong brand • 42 million customers • 2.7 million members of our Club Clas loyalty programme • Close partnership with about 730 suppliers in Europe and 630 manufacturers in Asia NATURAL RESOURCES • Efficient use of natural resources for Clas Ohlson’s business model is ultimately focused on the customers. production and distribution We base everything on our customers and their needs, and offer smart, simple and practical solutions at attractive prices that help make and inspire a simpler everyday life and a more sustainable lifestyle. Our operations are smart, simple and effective, and are based on a unique customer offering and outstanding customer service. We work to integrate sustainability aspects throughout our value chain and everything we do is permeated by our values and our strong corporate culture – what we call the Clas Ohlson spirit. 24 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 OUR WAY OF WORKING | OUR BUSINESS MODEL Our mission is to help and inspire people to improve their everyday life by offering smart, simple and practical solutions at attractive prices. CREATES VALUE CUSTOMERS Economic value by stakeholder group 2018/19 • High availability of an affordable and attractive offering • Confidence that products purchased meet high quality, safety, sustainability and environmental requirements • Products and services for a more sustainable lifestyle EMPLOYEES • A reliable and long-term employer who offers a stimulating, developing and safe work environment • Our recruitment process seeks to increase diversity at every workplace SUPPLIERS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS We create value for our customers, but also for other stakeholders • Favourable and beneficial business relationships such as employees in the form of salaries, suppliers for purchases • Training in responsible business of products and services, owners in the form of dividends and society in general by taxes and fees. Suppliers and business partners, 85% SOCIETY • Contribution to economic development Employees, 7% • Job opportunities • Involvement in the local community Shareholders, 4% • Contribution to higher resource efficiency and circular adjustment • Contribution to reducing environmental and climate impact Society, 3% SHAREHOLDERS • A long-term, sustainable investment that yields solid returns and value growth CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 25 OUR WAY OF WORKING | GOVERNANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY At the core of our way of working is a strong company culture. 26 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 OUR WAY OF WORKING | GOVERNANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY Sustainable and effective governance of operations CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BASED ON CLEAR RULES AND A STRONG COMPANY CULTURE helps us to optimise the efficiency of our processes and integrate ethics, the environment and social issues into our strategic decisions and our way of working. Clas Ohlson regards sustainable and effective description of the Clas Ohlson spirit during the corporate governance as a prerequisite for confinancial year. We involved many employees in tinued growth and achieving our goals of being this work, which resulted in five stories about perceived as a meaningful and trusted brand and the founder Clas Ohlson’s own approach, which company by our employees, our customers and serve as illustrations of the way in which we other stakeholders. A strong company culture is within the company are to treat each other and at the core of our approach and our way of workour customers. The stories about Clas Ohlson ing. What we call the Clas Ohlson spirit has been are being rolled our in the organisation through present in the company ever since it was founded internal training that encourages dialogue on in 1918. To ensure that we can carry this culture how Clas Ohlson’s approach can be applied forward to new generations and that we work in the company today and it encompasses all on it constructively, we clarified and updated the employees. Customer Welcome Keep it One Clas Be like Clas first home simple Ohlson – Be yourself The Clas Ohlson spirit is based on how our founder Clas Ohlson himself regarded the interaction with employees and customers. His behaviour is described in five short stories with the above headings. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 27 OUR WAY OF WORKING | GOVERNANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY POLICIES AND GUIDELINES approved by our Board • Code of Conduct • Code of Business Ethics • Financial policy • Information policy • Information Security policy • Insider policy • IT policy • Diversity policy • Security policy Our most important policies, guidelines, instructions and manuals are regularly updated and communicated. General guidelines and instructions are published on our intranet and policies that include partners are available on the website. Governance based on laws, Our Code of Business Ethics and our CODE OF CONDUCT rules and our own guidelines Code of Conduct, which are adopted Clas Ohlson’s Code of Conduct applies The governance of Clas Ohlson is based annually by the Board of Directors, are to all parts of our operations and conupon Swedish legislation, primarily the included in all purchase agreements and tains guidelines for employees, suppliers and business partners with regard Companies Act, Nasdaq Stockholm’s we strive to include them in all major to human rights, labour standards, Rule Book and the Swedish Corporate contracts. We are clear that violations of health and safety, the environment and Governance Code. All business activities the Code of Business Ethics could lead anti-corruption. are to be conducted in accordance with to consequences under labour law and The Code is based on international the applicable legislation of the countries criminal law, or lead to the termination conventions and national legislation in which we operate. In addition, our of the partnership. and regulations, including the UN Code of Conduct and our Code of BusiDeclaration on Human Rights, the UN’s ness Ethics describe our commitment to Read more about the governance of Clas Children’s Rights and Business Principles, the ILO core conventions and the maintain high ethical norms when active Ohlson in the Corporate Governance OECD guidelines. in the market in general and when doing Report on pages 83-91. business. CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS Unannounced audit of the purOur Code of Business Ethics describes Clas Ohlson’s commitment to maintainWe place demands on each individual chasing offices in China ing a high standard of ethics, making employee and strategic partner to mainOur largest risk of corruption is in the sound business decisions without tain the same high level regarding a zero purchasing process, when signing major consideration for personal or third party tolerance of corruption and conflicts agreements and the geographical region gains, not accepting, offering or paying bribes, and complying with applicable of interest, while ensuring observance where the risk of corruption is greatest laws and regulations. of competition laws. We have zero is in Asia, where approximately 70 per tolerance of corruption and bribery cent of our products are manufactured. Clas Ohlson also follows the Swedish in all markets in which we operate, in Therefore, we conduct regular training Anti-corruption Institute’s (IMM) Code on Gifts, Rewards and Other Benefits both the Nordic countries and Asia. The for all employees who work with purin enterprise (the “Code of Business Code of Business Ethics also includes chasing and high-value contracts and for Conduct”). our focus on children’s rights, which is a our agents in Asia. key part of our sustainability agenda. 28 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 OUR WAY OF WORKING | GOVERNANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY In the autumn of 2018, unannounced with our requirements, with no serious audits were conducted at our offices in deviations, during the financial year. Shenzhen and Shanghai with the help of external experts. Among the aims of this Read more about the requirements we were the analysis of the operations and place on suppliers on pages 44-45. finding risks relating to irregularities, including in the area of business ethics. Governance for greater sustainWe will continue to carry out unanability nounced audits in the future. One result We integrate key sustainability issues of the initiative was a tightening of the into our strategy, business model and rules for interaction with our suppliers governance. Sustainability issues are a in Asia. A similar tightening of rules was basic part of our operations and every also made in the “Staff Handbook” and employee and function works with further training measures were implesustainability as a natural feature of all mented regarding our values, Code of of the work that we do. Our strategy, Business Ethics and zero tolerance of 100 more years, entails that we will be a New tool for corruption. meaningful and trusted brand and company and we can only achieve this if we reporting on Supplier audits drive sustainability in all of our channels DEVIATIONS For many years, Clas Ohlson has had Our audit teams that are stationed in and dimensions. It is the responsibility procedures for reporting suspected deChina perform regular audits of our of each function to drive and pursue this viations from the Code of Business Ethsuppliers to check compliance with our work in accordance with our company ics and Code of Conduct. During the high demands on working conditions, culture, our Code of Conduct and our year, a new external tool was launched for anonymous reporting called Whisthuman rights and the environment as sustainability targets. All employees are leB, which is entirely separate from Clas defined in the Code of Conduct. There also informed continuously about our Ohlson’s other IT systems. was 98 per cent supplier compliance sustainability work, have access to trainCLAS OHLSON 2018/19 29 OUR WAY OF WORKING | GOVERNANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY From Here to Sustainability, symbolised by the green speech bubble, attracts attention to our sustainable offering. ing, both digitally and in seminar form, and are Group Management and reports directly to the involved in various initiatives during the financial President and CEO. Continuous follow-up of year. We believe this is the way to achieve the the operations and collaboration across the funcbest results, nurture a business that is sustainable tions are conducted in the Sustainability Forum, in all areas and create strong commitment from which holds monthly meetings. The Board of our employees. Directors is updated regularly regarding sustainability work being conducted in the company Our sustainability targets and our level of ambiand the sustainability risks are reported not less tion for our sustainability work are established than twice a year within the framework of risk annually by the Board of Directors. The responsireviews. bility for the follow-up of the established strategy, targets and initiatives resulting from the sustainThe reporting that we do, such as GRI reporting ability agenda lies with Group Management and and that to CDP, also comprises an important the Head of Sustainability, who is a member of part of the governance of our sustainability work. h ip w ards l ste nm enta viro ard s en tow ess Leadership P rogr Management A Awareness B CDP Climate Change, international investors’ climate initiative, evaluates and ranks companies’ Disclosure C climate work and emissions. Clas Ohlson has made climate reports to the CDP since 2015 and D has gone from C to B, which means that we have gone from being aware of our environmental impact Illustration of scoring levels to managing the impact, risks and opportunities related to this. 30 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 OUR WAY OF WORKING | GOVERNANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY Materiality analysis Focus on risk management Strategic risks primarily comprise risks The materiality analysis constitutes Risk management is a high priority and associated with changes in the business the basis for our way of working on we are continuing to develop our tools environment and increased competition, sustainability. It contributes to identifyfor identifying and managing risks, shifts in technology and in customers’ ing the issues that are most relevant for as well as making risk an integrated purchasing habits, as well as market delivering long-term value creation to part of our operating activities. When positioning, product range and offering. our most important stakeholders. It also managed correctly, risks may lead to Operational risks are associated with enables identification of the impacts of opportunities and add value to the product sourcing, sustainability, IT our business model on the environment business. We continuously update the systems, logistics, key employees and and society and the most important Group’s risk situation by conducting leases. Risks of a financial nature consist contributions to our overall operational a documented process in which risks primarily of changes in the economy, targets, and to building Clas Ohlson are identified, measured, managed and currency exposure, transport costs, as a meaningful and trusted brand and reported to Group Management and the raw material prices and wage inflation. company. Board twice a year, or more frequently if In accordance with a Board decision, required. the company had no internal control The materiality analysis was updated in function for the 2018/19 financial year. spring 2018 to identify the areas with The risks are compiled in risk charts that The issue will be reviewed and decided the greatest relevance based on our provide a clear overview of the total risk annually. new strategy presented at the start of exposure and priority action to take. 2018/19. During the year, we reworked Each function is responsible for moniRead more about risks and risk managethe targets for 2020 into a format that toring and managing existing risks and ment in the Directors’ Report on pages corresponds to the strategy. Read more identifies new risks. The Group’s Risk 78-81. Read more about sustainability about the new targets on pages 128-129. Committee compiles, coordinates and risks on pages 136-137. develops risk management, and reports Our long-term ambition is to contribute to Group Management, the Audit Comto a more resource-efficient value chain. mittee and the Board. Based on the materiality analysis, three important priorities in the strategy were prepared that will take us closer to this ambition: • Develop the sustainability aspect of our product offering. • Develop and market resource-efficient service offerings that promote a circular economy. • Create opportunities to reduce the Our role in society By acting as a positive force in the communities in which we operate, we improve the impact of carbon emissions from confidence that our owners, employees, customers, and other local stakeholders have in online shopping and home deliveries. us. We focus our social responsibilities on initiatives that are close to operations, including the rights of children and support for the UN Children’s Rights and Business Principles. Our focus on children’s rights is directly connected to our commercial arena, the home, Read more on about.clasohlson.com. with all children’s rights to a secure home and childhood. Viewing the impact that we have from the perspective of future generations promotes our long-term agenda. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 31 OUR WAY OF WORKING | CO-WORKERS Unique co-workers – one Clas Ohlson CLAS OHLSON IS DRIVEN FORWARD by all our unique co-workers, who resolve challenges, meet customers and see opportunities every day. The employees are the key to successful growth. Clas Ohlson is to be an attractive employer that Clas Ohlson’s history and corporate culture, our can develop and retain competent and commission and our sustainability work to carry with mitted employees, while attracting new compethem when dealing with customers, employees tencies. Clas Ohlson currently has about 5,000 and other stakeholders. employees in six countries. We live in a constantly changing business enviCo-workers who want to grow with us ronment and we need to be constantly up-to-date In the recruitment process, we seek employees for the times in which we operate. We believe who want to be a part of Clas Ohlson’s culture that we learn every day in our daily work duties, and who want to grow with us. We offer great and we support development through tailored, opportunities for personal and professional deformal training and by facilitating the sharing of velopment. We strive for increased diversity and the skills that are present within the company. we are sure that a variety of competencies and We use career planning and internal development backgrounds is incredibly important for creating to ensure that the Clas Ohlson spirit will live on. an innovative, creative climate and profitable growth. Having a service mindset, commitment, During the financial year, we focused on devela business-oriented approach and a willingness oping the skills in our products and services, as for constant improvement are important prereqwell as improving our customer interaction in all uisites to enjoy working with us. channels. Leadership is an ongoing focus area, in which we continuously find new ways to develop Skills development and career paths and prepare leaders in accordance with prevailing Our induction programme ensures that all new needs. employees receive a broad understanding of 32 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 OUR WAY OF WORKING | CO-WORKERS We will attract, develop and retain the right competence for the development of Clas Ohlson moving forward. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 33 OUR WAY OF WORKING | CO-WORKERS New competencies for a new Diversity helps us to develop business environment We endeavour to ensure that every At the same time as we work on skills workplace has employees with different development internally, we are also rebackgrounds, skills and experience. cruiting new expertise to strengthen our Greater diversity boosts creativity and long-term competitiveness. For example, innovation. This helps us to understand during the financial year we build up a and interact with our customers in the new department for customer insights best possible way. Clas Ohlson is to be and market analysis that will help us an inclusive workplace, where we respect create an even more relevant customer each other and follow Clas Ohlson’s coroffering by better capitalising on the porate culture. We have a zero tolerance opportunities presented by data analysis. policy for all forms of discrimination and harassment. All employees have the same rights, opportunities and obligations. 34 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 OUR WAY OF WORKING | CO-WORKERS We work to increase diversity through in the organisation. Several interesting recruitment and focused skills develinitiatives were started. opment. We work on the basis of our Group-wide diversity policy and follow We also worked to clarify our approach up on how we develop in relation to on this issue internally and externally. targets and key ratios in this area. We joined networks and partnered with the Stockholm School of Economics, The focus in the financial year included which surveyed, for example, our Group the implementation of workshops in Management’s approach to diversity and our management groups to enhance looked at how increased diversity can knowledge and create dialogue on the help to develop the work in the stores. significance of diversity, and encouragThe recruitment process for our stores ing local initiatives to increase diversity was also updated to include a thorough diversity perspective. More DIVERSITY IN NUMBERS The gender division in the entire Group is 45 per cent women and 55 per cent men. 32 per cent of managers were women during the financial year. The gender division in Group Management is 50 per cent women and 50 per cent men. The gender division on the Board is 37.5 per cent women and 62.5 per cent men. The target is that neither men nor women will account for less than 40 per cent of each individual professional category. During the year, our international* diversity was 9 per cent. The target is to have 15 per cent international diversity in the next financial year, with 20 per cent in the long term. We also strive for an increased balance of ages and to recruit older employees. Employees by country, % Age distribution, (%) Managers, proportion of women/men, % Germany, 0% China, 1% UK, 2% 50 years and older, 12% Between 30-49 years Finland, 11% Sweden, 52% old, 47% 34 34 34 34 32 68 66 66 66 66 Under 30 years Norway, 33% old, 41% 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 Men Women * The proportion of employees with their background in a country other than the one in which they currently work. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 35 OUR WAY OF WORKING | CO-WORKERS Focus on well-being positive psychosocial work environment. Employees who are contented and Managers, health and safety represenhappy are committed, stay longer and tatives and team leaders participated in are important ambassadors for Clas the Health & Safety and Management Ohlson. It is important to us to be able training course. We held workshops and to offer a stimulating and healthy work presentations on the subject of stress Employee attendance, % environment, where employees enjoy management, as well as offering support physical and mental well-being, and feel for employees in the form of coach94 a sense of confidence, security and being, with the aim of providing tools to 94 94 94 95 longing. Clas Ohlson works actively and better handle organisational changes preventively to improve the company’s that occurred during the financial year employee attendance, through initiatives and which will also continue in the such as leadership, work environment coming year. Our goal is for employee and preventive healthcare. attendance to exceed 96 per cent on an annual basis. Employee attendance for 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 In 2018/19, we worked to increase the 2018/19 financial year was 94 per Target 96% knowledge of the importance of a cent. 36 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 OUR WAY OF WORKING | CO-WORKERS 80 Leadership survey from the autumn of 2018, 76 per Excellent leadership creates personal cent of all of our work groups said that and corporate growth. At Clas Ohlson, they have good or excellent leadership, leadership involves leading the culture compared with 73 per cent in 2016. and creating trust among our employees to be themselves and be able to use During the financial year, we began the engagement their strengths in their daily work. Our work to reformulate the content internal leadership training courses aim of our leadership programme and index to support our employees and managers make the content more accessible for all in their development. of our employees. Engagement is high among Clas Ohlson’s employees and the index increased from 78 to 80 in the most recent employee survey, Clas Ohlson’s leadership development We also supported our managers by which was conducted in autumn 2018. has led to the number of working groups a number of measures to increase that regard themselves as having a good knowedge and preparedness ahead of the or excellent leadership has increased company’s reorganisation. steadily. In the most recent employee CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 37 OPERATIONS | A UNIQUE CUSTOMER OFFER Products and services for a simpler everyday life. 38 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 OPERATIONS | A UNIQUE CUSTOMER OFFER A unique customer offer CLAS OHLSON OFFERS SMART, simple and practical solutions that make everyday life a little easier. In a time of global competition and increased industry consolidation, we are working even harder to create a distinctive and attractive product range. This is the first building block of our strategy – a unique customer offer. Clas Ohlson’s arena is the home, and to help and stores and in customer service. For those custominspire customers to better everyday life, we have ers who would also like us to solve the practical a broad selection of smart products that are conparts such as installation, repair or other services tinually being developed and changed based on for a simpler everyday life, then we can fix that our customer demands and wishes. We carefully for them as well. We often talk about our offering monitor trends and consumption patterns and as a pyramid, with the product range at the base. adapt our offering to local markets. Moreover, we Above that base we offer guidance, and up at the provide our customers with good advice and tips top there are supplementary services. through our knowledgeable employees in our FULL SERVICE GUIDANCE PRODUCTS CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 39 OPERATIONS | A UNIQUE CUSTOMER OFFER THE BATTERY HUNT During the year, we worked on informing children in our home markets in the Nordic countries, and involving them in activities around important environmental issues such as recycling by arranging the annual Battery Hunt contest. Nearly 169,300 schoolchildren in Norway and Sweden took part in the 2019 Battery Hunt and collected 162 tonnes of batteries for recycling. Five categories of products a positive sustainable impact. Actively Clas Ohlson has a broad product striving to offer more products that offering in the categories of Hardware, contribute to a more sustainable lifestyle Electrical, Multimedia, Home and is therefore a priority as we develop our Leisure. The product range includes product range. This is also something both proprietary brands and other wellthat we know our customers are requestknown brands. In addition, we offer ing, and we are convinced that it will spare parts and accessories that prolong have an increasingly significant impact the service life of products. About 10 on purchase decisions in the future. Proprietary brands, share of per cent of last year’s product range has sales, % been replaced, and our customers see We increased the percentage of prod36 new products every week in our stores ucts for a more sustainable lifestyle 35 36 and online. It should be easy to find the during the 2018/19 financial year to 19 30 29 right product for your needs, but we also per cent of sales. Our objective is that want to inspire customers to discover the percentage of products for a more new solutions and a more sustainable sustainable lifestyle will amount to 25 lifestyle. We are also working to continper cent of sales by 2020. We updated 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 ually develop our product range under our criteria during the financial year our proprietary brands, which during and developed a new model for assessthe year represented 36 per cent of our ing products for a more sustainable total sales. lifestyle. During the year, we will also Products for a more sustainable develop criteria for products that are not lifestyle, share of sales, % Products for a more sustainable compatible with our product range due 19 lifestyle to their sustainability performance being Enabling a more sustainable everyday too low. life is our greatest opportunity to create 16 14 10 6 WEAR but not waste Our range of spare parts is good business for both us and our customers, while it helps us to 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 save resources and extend the service life of products. Target 25% 40 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 OPERATIONS | A UNIQUE CUSTOMER OFFERING Updated criteria for any product whatsoever, and is built on sustainable products a comparison with the age in which we Clas Ohlson puts in thorough groundlive. Our starting point is that the level work as regards compliance, product of knowledge in sustainability and techdevelopment, quality assurance and nology is continually improving, which product information. That is why we means that products need to be assessed know that our product range maintains again after a certain period of time. a high level of quality, and we can focus on finding improvements to sustainabilProducts for a more sustainable lifestyle ity above and beyond the basic requiremust meet our general requirements and ments. The starting point is the circular show improvement in at least one of the life cycle perspective, which put simply following criteria: shows the path of a product from raw • Materials materials to “waste” with the aim of be• Chemicals coming raw materials again. Even if it is • Production, energy, water, seldom possible to make the exact same transportation product again, since a certain amount of • Use, reuse, recycling and waste. degradation always occurs, the principle in itself is important. In determining the order of priority of which products we want to be more What is special about the model is that sustainable first, the focus is on the it is relative; it is applicable to everything products we sell in high volumes and and focuses on continual improvement. that will result in the highest This means our model can be used for sustainability improvement. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 41 OPERATIONS | A UNIQUE CUSTOMER OFFER Smart products for the SMART HOME Together with its Home app, Clas Ohlson’s Smart Plug and Smart Bulb products are a good start for people who want to make their homes a little smarter and more energy-efficient. The app makes it easy to control power outlets and lamps, wherever you are. ORGANISE more Organising the home was a major area of focus during the year, in which storage solutions for the refrigerator from SmartStore were a natural element. The Compact series is modular, which means that the drawers can be stacked in and on each other if they are supplemented with lids. Popular products DESIGNED IN INSJÖN The coffee maker from our own Coline brand was one of many products designed by our own team in Insjön. A trendy exterior, practical functions and a five-year warranty made it a very popular product this year. 42 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 OPERATIONS | A UNIQUE CUSTOMER OFFER Employee INTERVIEW Our customers have welcomed the changes enthusiastically. Hello! Store manager, Kamppi Shopping Centre, Helsinki, Finland TARU VARTINEN A number of strategic initiatives are underproducts and tools sections this week, and it isn’t selling well in our store, it’s better to send way at Clas Ohlson, involving every part of will be great to see our customers’ responses it to another store that has better opportunithe company. Category Reset deals with to that as well. ties to sell it. This way, we also free up more customising the product range in every store space for products that our customers here in order to better match our customers. We What kind of changes have you implein Kamppi are more interested in. Just after analyse each store at an entirely new level, mented? this first step alone in the reconstruction, in which demography, competition and local The product range is presented in a more we’ve seen a significant increase in sales. The conditions are included in the calculations to inspiring way. We expose a larger number entire Clas Ohlson product range is available a greater extent than before. of bestsellers so it’s easier for customers to to customers online, and with Click & Collect find what they’re looking for, and we now – where the customer orders online and can Taru’s store has just completed the first step also have inspirational images that promote a pick their order up a few hours later, at the of Category Reset and rebuilt a number of better customer experience. These changes store of their choice – we offer customers an sections. give us more time to help customers who easy shopping experience that is capitalising need it. We also save time replenishing in the on our various sales channels. Tell us a little about how you’ve worked mornings because it’s easier to pick up larger on Category Reset in your store this far. amounts of the same product. Just think I think this change is great. We have to listen The Category Reset team came into our store what it will be like when all the areas in the to our customers, and change and improve like a whirlwind and rebuilt our image, sound entire store have been rebuilt under Category as a store and a company. I want to have a and telephony categories; they simplified the Reset! close relationship with our customers, and I product range and reduced the numbers welcome with open arms every initiative that of different products. It looks fantastic. It’s What advantages do you see with Catgives me more time with the customers. easier for us to work with, but in particular our egory Reset, for both Clas Ohlson and customers have welcomed the changes encustomers? thusiastically. We are rebuilding the bathroom The optimised exposure is great. If a product CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 43 OPERATIONS | A UNIQUE CUSTOMER OFFER Stringent requirements for suppliers 70% Products that carry our proprietary brands, or which are unbranded, are bought directly from the manufacturing plants or through agents in Europe and Asia. We do not own any manufacturing plants. manufacBoth we and our customers place strict demands on function and quality, as suppliers. We also conduct a technical review at the manufacturing plant in tured in Asia well as price, and on respect for people question of the supplier’s conditions and and the environment throughout the ability to deliver in line with our quality supply chain. That is why we invest in requirements. We are also on site before Approximately 70 per cent of our products are manufactured in Asia. close, long-term relationships with our each delivery to conduct quality checks suppliers and have built a strong suppliin line with an established procedure. er network over time. This enables us to Integrating sustainability and responsireduce our purchasing costs and allows ble purchasing is a fundamental part of Regions of origin us to exert more influence over product quality assurance in the production and design, quality and price, but also leads purchasing processes. We have internal Others, 1% to greater delivery reliability and speed. auditors in China who conduct both Sweden, 7% Clas Ohlson buys products from apannounced and unannounced audits. Rest of Europe, 22% Asia, 70% proximately 730 suppliers in Europe and A total of 229 audits were conducted 630 manufacturers in Asia. Close to 70 during the financial year, compared per cent of all our products are manuwith 249 in the preceding year. Of these factured in Asia — primarily in China, audits, 57 were of new suppliers. The our largest purchasing market, where we interval between re-audits of suppliers also have our own purchasers. We conwas previously 24 months, but owing to tinually review our existing purchasing changes in the product range and thus Regions of purchase markets and evaluate new ones. a high influx of new suppliers, we have prioritised initial audits on these. That Others, 0% Supplier audits is why we have extended the re-audit Rest of Europe, 6% Before we enter into a partnership with period for existing suppliers by three Asia, 39% Sweden, 55% a new supplier in a high-risk country, we months. 98 per cent of suppliers fulfil conduct an audit to check compliance the requirements of the Code of Conwith our Code of Conduct as regards duct without serious deviations. The working conditions, human rights and target was revised during the year from the environment. This applies to all new 98 per cent to 100 per cent. 44 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 OPERATIONS | A UNIQUE CUSTOMER OFFER Partnership for INCREASED TRANSPARENCY We have been affiliated with Sedex since 2017, a partnership for increased transparency regarding responsible purchasing that has now been integrated into our supplier programme in Asia and Europe. The focus during the financial year has been on training purchasing offices and suppliers in the new standard. The Sedex partnership enables increased efficiency and transparency in our supply chain, which allows us to concentrate our resources on high-risk areas. Supplier training module in QuizRR during the financial During the year, we continued our year. The module comes from Save the training project with QuizRR, a digital Children Centre for Child Rights and tool for training in working conditions Corporate Social Responsibility, CCR as well as health and safety, among our CSR, and is specifically targeted to suppliers in China. By using measurabilmigrant-worker parents. By building ity and transparency in the supply chain, up strong relationships with strategic we train workers and managers at all levsuppliers – for example, through this els about their rights and responsibilities. type of training efforts – we improve Since early 2016, nearly 5,500 workers Clas Ohlson’s opportunities for longhave been trained in 12,500 training term profitability while contributing to sessions. We also added a training positive change and improved working conditions in the supply chain. Deviations from the Code of Conduct when audited, % Discrimination Child labour Forced labour Compensation Freedom of association Authorized minors Audit accesss denied Environment Laws and regulations Social ensurance One challenge we continue to work on is achieving lasting Health and security change in the supply chain. Deviations regarding working Working hours hours increased during the financial year. This is due in part to increased transparency among our suppliers, but also to many suppliers lacking reliable attendance systems. 2017/18 2018/19 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 45 OPERATIONS | A UNIQUE CUSTOMER OFFER Ambitious quality approach Both we and our customers place strict demands on quality. We are particularly diligent with products that carry our proprietary brands and these undergo numerous tests before being approved as products in our product range. The first inspection takes place when our techniments that we impose on our suppliers. These cians conduct advanced tests for quality, funcrequirements include the selection of materials tion, safety and durability on sample products. and design, where we strive to avoid unnecessary We do not place orders until the technicians have packaging materials, particularly for products deemed the product to be up to standard, and that we sell in high volumes. We select recyclable until we have checked that the product fulfils plastics and are diligent in ensuring that different Clas Ohlson’s requirements – including applicamaterials can be separated. We avoid coloured ble legal requirements – and that the supplier is plastics and printing on plastic packaging, since in compliance with our Code of Conduct. this reduces the possibilities for recycling them. Continuous monitoring is an important part of Our store employees are affected to a great extent our quality work and we consistently monitor by the packaging that comes into our stores on a claims statistics and customer assessments to daily basis, and they are heavily involved in these continue developing and improving the entire issues. For this reason, we have created easily product range. accessible digital channels for store employees to provide tips on where to make improvements. We also work to minimise the use of hazardous chemicals in the company’s product range, and So far, feedback from employees in stores has enwe have imposed stricter requirements than those abled a constructive dialogue with our suppliers set by legislation for products used by children in which we have successfully eliminated hunand products that come into contact with skin dreds of thousands of plastic bags from packagor food. ing, and we have a target of achieving a reduction of one million plastic bags in our packaging by Smart, sustainable packaging December 2019. We routinely update the packaging requireClas Ohlson’s PLASTICS STRATEGY During the year, Clas Ohlson took a position on phasing out plastics. This commitment means that by 2020, we will stop selling single-use plastic items, which is earlier than the impending legal requirements demand. We have, for example, already stopped selling plastic straws and replaced them with variations in metal and paper. We will be removing all single-use plastic items from staff rooms by 2020. By 2020, it will also be possible to recycle all packaging. 46 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 OPERATIONS | A UNIQUE CUSTOMER OFFER Employee INTERVIEW We continue to invest in digital platforms. Hello! Business Analytics & Insights Manager, Sweden PATRICK FINCH It is becoming increasingly important to There are many insights to gather in order to What trends do you see right now that are understand the business environment and our understand the everyday life of our customrelevant for Clas Ohlson? customers, in order to get as close to them ers. In Sweden and Finland, we have learned There are a number of things, but one interestas possible and to hone our offering. Patrick a great deal so far through Club Clas — our ing thing we’re seeing is that low-price chains Finch is leading our newly formed Business loyalty programme. offering major discounts are doing really well Analytics & Insights team, which is working while shopping for premium-segment items precisely with this issue. Another aspect we are focusing on is what is is becoming more and more popular. We fall happening in the industry. As you know, retail a bit in the middle, which can be a challenge. What is it you do, exactly? is undergoing major changes right now, and We need to hold our ground, pricewise, but Something we are investing a great deal of there is a lot happening regarding, for examalso offer a higher level of both affordability and time and resources in is getting to know our ple, shopping experiences, payment solutions shopping experience. We can achieve this by customers more so that we understand them and delivery alternatives. We are also trying to understanding our customers even better. and their needs. We want to know what keep track of what our competitors are doing, they’re doing, what they want and need, and even if we obviously have our own plan for How do we act on what we know? how we can satisfy them. It’s a matter of folwhere we’re going and we won’t let others We’ve been better at predicting peaks and lowing and understanding consumer trends, control that. troughs in demand. We can also make a seand especially understanding which challenglection and ask specific customer groups how es they face in their everyday life in the home. It’s also a question of making use of all the they in particular perceive the products. If we can offer a product that solves these know-how and data, and analysing it in order challenges in a convenient, neat and practical to make the right decisions around our comWe are also continuing to invest in digital platway, then we’ve succeeded. One thing is mercial offering. forms, to be able to gather and manage more certain: there are few Nordic homes that look data and thus learn more. We are basing more like the ones we see in elegant magazines and more of our decisions on data, and it will and catalogues. be even more important in the future. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 47 OPERATIONS | PURCHASING Our products and services Clas Ohlson offers products and services that make everyday life easier, with high demands placed on function, price, quality, product safety and sustainability. Our smart SERVICE OFFERING In November, Clas Ohlson launched Clas Fix it, its new DIY project service, in Stockholm. Based in a home store, Clas Fix it receives assignments to visit customers who need help with jobs that are a bit too small VINDEN for traditional help but a little too difficult or daunting for customers to do During the financial year, Clas Ohlson entered into a partnership with the storage provider themselves. They could be smaller electric or plumbing jobs, or installVinden. With just a few clicks, customers can ing a shelf or a robotic lawn mower. The service can be easily booked order collection of their belongings and safe through an app or in a store, and our capable customer service staff storage. Linked with the purchase of moving handles confirmation and checks before the visit. The reception from our boxes and other storage boxes at Clas Ohlson, the service is available in large parts of customers has been positive, and the service will continue to be rolled the Stockholm region; the plan is to develop out in a larger geographic area during the year. In addition to Clas Fix a concept that can be rolled out in several it, Clas Ohlson offers a number of other services such as tool hire, knife cities over the long term. sharpening, developing photographs and storage solutions in collaboration with Vinden. 48 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 OPERATIONS | A UNIQUE CUSTOMER OFFER Our five PRODUCT CATEGORIES Hardware Electrical In the Hardware category, we sell tools, Clas Ohlson has many smart, safe and fittings and materials that make it easier energy-efficient solutions for an electriand more enjoyable to renovate, build, cal-smart home or office. The degree paint and repair. We focus on smaller of innovation is high and the design of projects. Clas Ohlson has the tools to the products has been given an increasget the job done, the paint to paint with ingly important role. Clas Ohlson offers and everything else needed to renovate products to transmit, charge, monitor, and make home repairs. measure, light, heat, link, install, drive and ventilate. Multimedia Home Leisure Our Multimedia range uses simple and We have thousands of affordable The Leisure category contains products smart solutions to connect networks, products that make everyday life easier for outdoor living, the garden, sports and music, films, printouts and much more. and more enjoyable. The product range exercise, travel and games. Carefully Large parts of the range are replaced includes products for the living room, selected products contribute to active frequently due to new needs and the kitchen, broom cupboard, wardrobe, leisure for children and adults, both outrapid pace of technological developlaundry room and bathroom. Large parts door and indoor, all year round. ment, but we also supply products of the range are changed each year to from older generations of technology. follow prevailing trends. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 49 OPERATIONS | OUTSTANDING CUSTOMER SERVICE We want to be proactive, meeting our customers with commitment and knowledge. 50 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 OPERATIONS | OUTSTANDING CUSTOMER SERVICE Outstanding customer service SHOPPING AT CLAS OHLSON should be simple and convenient, as well as inspiring and affordable. Throughout the years, we at Clas Ohlson have been proud of putting the customer first; now, we are translating our recognised excellent service into an online world where we can inspire, guide and help our customers, making their everyday life easier to an even greater extent, on their terms. This is the second building block of our strategy: outstanding customer service. A personal experience in all channels A good customer experience is fundamental to creating satisfied return customers. We want to be proactive, meeting our customers with commitment and knowledge. Our entire service concept is based on the passion and skills of each of our co-workers. A fundamental part of the experience with the customer is borne by the company culture at Clas Ohlson. What we call the “Clas Ohlson spirit” describes how our founder – Clas Ohlson himself – viewed the customer experience, which we are continuing to build on throughout our organisation. We are also working on specific training courses to develop our store staff and to create confidence in the interactions with our customers. During the financial year, we implemented a sales Club Clas coach programme – aimed at regional managers, FOR LOYAL CUSTOMERS Club Clas is our loyalty programme, with 2.7 million members. Membership includes store managers and team leaders at Clas Ohlson discounts, special offers and invitations to various store events. Purchase histories are – whose purpose was to provide them with new saved and customers appreciate receiving more relevant offerings. Stores with many tools for developing their employees in the cusclub members have a higher average ticket value and a higher conversion rate. Club tomer experience. Clas is currently available in Sweden and Finland. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 51 OPERATIONS | OUTSTANDING CUSTOMER SERVICE 42 An accessible store network with a focus on online sales that meant Clas Ohlson offers accessibility and we closed eight stores in these markets. service through a combination of various Our stores are attractively located in city sales channels. Our extensive store centres or popular shopping centres. network is our most important sales We work continually on developing our million channel, and we regard the store as a valuable part of offering convenience to stores, and they are continually changing with new solutions and ideas. It should customers our customers. Our shops are located where people move about in their be easy for customers to find their way around, and we place great importance everyday lives, and we also regard our on product display and navigation store network as a major strength in the to save time for both customers and digitalisation the industry is undergoing. employees. We also routinely review our In total, we expanded our store network store locations and contracts, striving by three stores, net, since the preceding for a high degree of flexibility, and at financial year. We are focusing our store the expiration of every store contract we investments on the Nordic market where review the location of the store and the we opened 11 new stores during the floor area or transform the store into year. We also decided on a new strategy another, more suitable format. for the markets in the UK and Germany, 52 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 OPERATIONS | OUTSTANDING CUSTOMER SERVICE 39% have LED lighting At the end of the financial year, 39 per cent of our stores had installed energy-saving LED lighting. Climate-smart stores by an average of 38 per cent, and the enEnergy use and related CO2 emissions from indirect and direct energy consumption We strive to reduce the environmental ergy savings is 35 kWh per square metre. impact of our stores through enhanceElectricity consumption in our stores ments to energy efficiency and by decreased from 110 to 106 kWh/m2. CO2-emissions, tonnes GWh increasing the use of renewable energy 5,000 50 sources. We place strict requirements on One target in energy efficiency enhance4,000 40 sustainability when we build new stores ment was set during the year, in accor3,000 30 or renovate older ones. These requiredance with the EU’s current energy and ments include LED lighting, movement climate goals for 2030. Clas Ohlson’s 2,000 20 detectors, and PVC-free floors and catarget is 30 per cent by 2030 with 2014 1,000 10 bling as well as eco mode for escalators. as a base year; this is somewhat more 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 stringent than the EU’s target, which At the end of the financial year, 39 per currently states at least 27 per cent. Emissions Energy consumption cent of our stores had LED lighting. At present, Clas Ohlson has achieved More cost and energy efficient LED enhancements of 15 per cent in energy Stores account for 84 per cent of total energy consumption and 97 per cent of CO2 emissions. Energy use and CO2 emissions lighting reduces electricity consumption efficiency. also include the stores in Germany for 2017-2018. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 53 OPERATIONS | OUTSTANDING CUSTOMER SERVICE Employee INTERVIEW Fast, convenient and simple solutions in everyday life. Hello! Store Manager, Drottninggatan, Stockholm, Sweden MARCEL SÖDERQVIST Click & Collect is a delivery alternative that Clas Ohlson at the service desk, we decided to move the pick-up has offered its customers in all markets since late 2018. point to the multimedia section further into the store. This lets customers order goods online, have them There were several advantages to this – one is that we picked out free of charge in the store of their choice, bring customers into the store and avoid queues at the and then pick them up at the store after only four service desk. But we also ensured that customers were hours. met with inspiration, products and volumes on the way to the pick-up point, giving them the chance not to Tell us about the changes that Click & Collect has miss a product they might need. meant for your store. Most of all, it has meant that we are bringing in more How has this delivery alternative been received by visitors to the store! Gradually, we’ve also improved and your customers? refined our procedures for looking after them so they Positively. We have noted that this is a service function have an even better customer experience. that has been in demand for a while and that it has been missing. It was actually a rather comprehensive From a purely practical perspective, we needed to orprocedure to introduce, but it has been working fine ganise space for the handling and delivering of goods, from the start and it has gradually become smoother and naturally it also meant many new work procedures and smoother. for our employees. We also needed to think differently as regards staffing, in order to ensure that we mainWhat advantages do you see Clas Ohlson obtaintained a high level of service for our customers. ing by offering Click & Collect to customers? Our customers want fast, convenient and simple soluHow have you improved handling at your store? tions in everyday life. And the opportunity to place an It was introduced in December 2018, right in the middle order in peace and quiet, and then have the products of Christmas shopping. We built two shelves for Click picked out and ready to collect at the store is one way & Collect orders at the service desk by the entrance. At we make it easier for our customers to save time. So the start there was a great deal of new things to learn, from a competition perspective, offering this to customso the assistant store manager and I established rouers is enormously important. tines for our store and handed over a finished concept to the other store employees. It’s also the case that customers who shop on online and pick up their order at a store actually buy more We realised fairly quickly that we needed more floor than those who “just” visit a store, so clearly we’re space. But since we didn’t think we could find that increasing sales with Click & Collect. 54 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 OPERATIONS | OUTSTANDING CUSTOMER SERVICE Clas Ohlson LAB STORE In the 2018/19 financial year, we launched the Clas Ohlson Lab Store as an entirely new store format. Lab Store is a concept store that offers customers a completely new experience of Clas Ohlson. New digital solutions that provide customers with a new shopping experience are tested here; in addition, products and services are tested with customers before they are included in the regular product range. Improved customer experience options and new delivery alternatives. online Our online sales increased 47 per cent Our online shopping is an increasingly during the 2018/19 financial year, and important sales channel; during the traffic on our website also contributes to 2018/19 financial year we implemented increased visits and sales in our stores. a new search engine to provide customers with improved precision in our Our aim is to manage all sales channels broad product range. Other examples of as one whole, minimising differences how we improve the customer experibetween physical and digital stores. ence online are new flexible payment CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 55 OPERATIONS | OUTSTANDING CUSTOMER SERVICE Speed and options Regarding delivery alternatives, our customers are constantly demanding more flexible and individually tailored solutions, where customers shopping online can choose to have the products sent to their homes or to a drop-off point, or pick them up at a Clas Ohlson store. During the financial year, we introduced Click & Collect as a delivery alternative – customers can order the products online and pick them up at a store shortly afterwards – and it quickly became a popular delivery alternative. Customers shopping at a store can also choose to order products from Clas Ohlson’s broader product range online while still in the store and have them delivered to the store or to their homes. Home delivery in particular is increasingly in demand. For customers in Sweden’s larger cities, MatHem is an alternative. Selected parts of Clas Ohlson’s product range are available for sale at MatHem, and we see great potential for increasing sales volumes of consumables under our own brand via the MatHem platform. We also consider deliveries with MatHem to be an efficient way of co-loading and co-transporting products to customers, thus reducing the total number of goods transports. We are also partnering with Postnord, BudBee and Porterbuddy on home deliveries. 56 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 OPERATIONS | OUTSTANDING CUSTOMER SERVICE Employee INTERVIEW Option of ordering in the evening for next-day delivery. Hello! Store Manager, Bromma, Sweden RAMIN ROODKHANE Parts of our product range are also offered via Ohlson products online. So they can order a cordless mathem.se, an online grocery store. This means our screwdriver in the evening and have it delivered the products can be delivered to customers’ homes along next day – which is something our competitors can’t with deliveries from MatHem. Most of these products match. are already found at MatHem’s central warehouses, but those with slightly smaller volumes are taken from Of course, it’s easier for customers to receive a packneighbouring Clas Ohlson stores. Our store in Bromma age from a delivery driver in the same delivery instead serves as a logistics hub, where every morning we pick of two, despite perhaps ordering two widely differing out products that are delivered to MatHem’s central products such as a cordless screwdriver and whipping warehouse for onward transport to customers in the cream. And customers clearly appreciate the partnerStockholm region the same day. ship, since one out of every ten MatHem packages contains a product from Clas Ohlson! Tell us about what our partnership with MatHem means in practice at your store. How can Clas Ohlson benefit from the partnerBy 6:00 a.m. at the latest, the orders from MatHem ship? customers appear in the system, and we can start First, we come extraordinarily close to our customers picking. We do this straight from the shelves in the thanks to the MatHem logistics network – all the way to store, right into Clas Ohlson bags. It’s an intense hour their door. It’s also an excellent opportunity for us to be until the MatHem truck comes and picks up the prodseen in channels other than our own, as a result of beucts at 7:00 a.m. ing available on mathem.se. Third, we have the chance to study their knowledge of logistics and learn more. We were part of developing and evaluating proceWe see what they’re doing, but we’re also learning a dures and means of assistance, so we’ve established lot together about how we can make things even better a good working method that suits us. Issues such as for our customers by joining forces. schedules and staffing are also things we’ve reviewed and adjusted to create the best possible conditions for Finally, could you tell us which Clas Ohlson prodmanaging orders from MatHem customers. ucts available on mathem.se are the best sellers? It differs over time, actually, but in general it’s products What customer benefit do we see in this partnersuch as tea lights, toothbrush heads and batteries. ship? And around Christmas time, many customers took the MatHem has an excellent logistics network that cusopportunity to conveniently order a battery-operated tomers can benefit from even when they order Clas Christmas wreath for home delivery! CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 57 OPERATIONS | OUTSTANDING CUSTOMER SERVICE Internally, there are a number of initiaThrough Clas Fix it, the home has also tives underway — automating online been opened up as a meeting place in an shopping deliveries at our distribution entirely new way. Here, as in our other centre, for example — to create the best channels, we want to provide our cusconditions for rapid and flexible flows of tomers with reliable outstanding service. goods. One example of how this has an More information about Clas Fix it can effect on the customer experience is that be found on page 48. customers who ordered products before midnight on 23 December in Norway’s Eastern region could receive deliveries home on Christmas Eve. Satisfied customers RECOMMEND US For the second year in a row, Clas Ohlson was an industry winner when Norwegian customers were surveyed on customer satisfaction and loyalty in the Norwegian Customer Satisfaction Barometer survey, conducted by the BI Norwegian Business School. 58 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 OPERATIONS | OUTSTANDING CUSTOMER SERVICE Employee INTERVIEW With the fix-it counter, we go the extra mile for our customers. Hello! Store Manager, Ålesund, Norway JOHNNY ROVDE The fix-it counter is a relatively new What services do you offer at the fix-it stalling screen protectors for mobile phones. concept found in a few of our stores. Tell counter? It will be exciting to see what customers think us more about it. There are several different services. Knife of that! You could say there are two reasons the sharpening and key cutting are two of the fix-it counter came into being. One is that we services we work with while the customer is What advantages do you see in the fix-it want to test out new things and see how we waiting, and it’s great to be able to show that counter? can help our customers in new ways, thus we can do more besides selling and serving Above all, it gives us the chance to offer finding new customer groups. The other has customers in the store. Things happen and excellent customer service and a positive to do with something we at Clas Ohlson see there is a little action, which is fun. While experience for our customers. And we also as self-evident, namely taking an extra step customers wait for us to finish sharpening have the opportunity to meet new customers for our customers. With the fix-it counter, we knives or cutting keys, they also have the we haven’t reached earlier. Right now there’s have the opportunity to take it to the next opportunity to charge their phone or PC at no real money in the services themselves, level. the charging dock we have set up. but they attract customers to the store who then go shopping, so in that way it creates The fix-it counter is the first thing customers And then they can also print out photos. profitability for us. see just inside the entrance to the store. In That is more self-service, but we are happy addition to the fix-it services themselves, we to help customers out — if they need it, of One goal we have with our fix-it counter is to also have the Click & Collect point here — course. We also have tools for lending, which be a destination for cutting keys. There aren’t where customer can pick up the products is perfect for customers who want to do small many places you can have that done nowathat they have ordered online. repair jobs at home once in a while. It’s such days, so there is absolutely a need to be met! a smart idea, especially from a sustainability We have had the fix-it counter for two perspective. months now, and it has been well received by both customers and employees. The key Another service we’re working on launching cutter and photo printing in particular have in the future, which we firmly believe in, is indone really well. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 59 OPERATIONS | SMART AND SIMPLE Smart ways of working and an efficient organisation are a condition for growth. 60 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 OPERATIONS | SMART AND SIMPLE Clas Ohlson simplifies and streamlines operations SMART AND SIMPLE is part of Clas Ohlson’s strategy to strengthen the company’s position in the market. We are investing in change, enhancing the efficiency of systems and simplifying operations along the value chain, all to enhance cost effectiveness and to ensure fast deliveries to our customers. Smart distribution and logistics aimed at increasing automation of operations. Our distribution centre in Insjön is the heart of Automated guided vehicles and packing maClas Ohlson’s operations and hub of our districhines will enable efficiency enhancements. The bution network. All product deliveries come here packing machine is an important element in the for repackaging and further distribution to one switch from manual handling of online orders of Clas Ohlson’s more than 230 stores, or directly to quickly managing growing volumes. Over to customers. An efficient flow of goods to and the coming financial year, the solutions that from the distribution centre is one of our most have been put in place will be refined and new important success factors. solutions implemented. Two automated guided vehicless are now running in Insjön, and an Enhancing distribution centre efficiency additional 20 to 30 will be put into operation by Since 1 January 2019, operations at the distrithe autumn of 2020. bution centre have been carried out seven days a week. This is an initial step in optimising use of Great value can be found in ongoing investments the facility, and ensuring faster deliveries to cusinto enhancing the efficiency of distribution tomers. Clas Ohlson’s customers shop online the operations. The investments are essential for most at the weekend, which is why operations achieving our ambitions of doubling online sales at the distribution centre are organised so that every other year. At the same time, security of products can be packed and start their journey to deliveries is a central part of maintaining a high end customers more quickly. level of service, which is facilitated by efficient logistics and distribution. Additionally, we launched several projects at the distribution centre during the year that were CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 61 OPERATIONS | SMART AND SIMPLE The distribution centre has a goal of sending the products the same day the order is received. Delivering online orders home to customers on the same day or the day after an order is placed is now possible through the partnerships with BudBee and Porterbuddy. In addition, Clas Ohlson is partnering with MatHem that has approximately 2,000 products from Clas Ohlson’s product range available on its online shopping THE DISTRIBUTION CENTRE by the numbers platform, and delivering the products together with its own. Partnerships like • 77,000 square metres these are examples of how we are finding • 290,000 pallets delivered to stores annually new ways to help customers and also to make use of existing expertise and infra• 630,000 mail dispatches delivered per year structure to quickly fulfil our customers’ new demands. • 400,000 pallet and storage spaces 62 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 OPERATIONS | SMART AND SIMPLE Employee INTERVIEW It is important to dare to challenge our current situation. Hello! Process Optimisation Specialist at the distribution centre, Insjön, Sweden CARINA ÄHDEL-FRANZÉN Carina started at Clas Ohlson in August 2018, Can you give us a few specific examples along to the next stage into the crane store and works on making use of employee’s of simplifications or improvements you’re don’t have to crowd with the forklifts setting suggestions for improvements to daily work in working on, or have implemented? pallets aside. In doing so, we have simplified a structured manner. Together, they find soluOne example is clarifying what people need the path the pallets take into the high-bay tions and create continual small improvements at their work stations. There should be no warehouse, and forklift traffic has become in order to work smarter, and to streamline and more and no less than what people need to safer. simplify the flow at the distribution centre. perform their jobs. We achieve this through visualisation, using boards where everything is How else are we working with simplificaTell us, in general, what your job involves. hanging in its place. This makes it easy to see tion at the distribution centre? It deals largely with creating clarity. If we have if something is missing, both when arriving at In our process descriptions, we started a good structure to our ways of working, we and leaving the workplace. It is a procedure explaining and describing why different procan work more efficiently and more safely, but we want to have for every work station. cedures are good for our flow, and what the it also creates clarity for our co-workers as to consequences would be in the next step if we what is expected of them so they can do a Another thing is that we realised that we used don’t follow the procedures. This has created good job. We want all our employees to know to devote a lot of time to looking for scanners awareness of the next stage. For example, what quality is, in their work duties. Simply for the forklifts near to where we build pallets if products are placed incorrectly on a pallet put, it should be easy to do the right thing. for goods to be delivered to our stores. so that they get stuck in the automated Previously the scanners could be found pretty warehouse flow, it could mean that co-workIn taking steps to simplify, it is also important much anywhere, but now there is a scanner ers would have to climb into the warehouse to dare to challenge our current situation and for every forklift. It may sound like a simple to pull out or clean up whatever is stuck. This think about whether the way in which we work and obvious measure, but it is important that entails hazards and a poor work environment today is the smartest. We as a company simthe routine is clear to everyone. for them, which everyone naturally wants to plify life in all kinds of homes; the distribution avoid. All our employees want to do a good centre is our ‘home’ and we should simplify it. Another simple example is that we changed job, and we’re working on clarifying what is the layout for how we set aside pallets from good! containers, so that the forklifts that take them CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 63 OPERATIONS | SMART AND SIMPLE The role of the stores additional component in this work is The store also plays a central role in Clas our strategic Category Reset initiative, Ohlson’s logistics system, and we are which you can read more about on page continuing to switch operations in order 43. In brief, Category Reset involves for our stores to play a different, larger methodical, data-driven evaluations of role in future. For example, Clas Ohlson our entire product range, optimising has developed five “feeder stores,” which it according to actual customer needs are stores that serve as smaller warehousand to profitability down at the product es where we have the opportunity to level. After having conducted tests in pick, pack and deliver products closer to a smaller number of stores, we began our customers. These stores are localised rolling out the initiative in our store netin Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö, work during the financial year. We could Helsinki and Oslo. see from our multimedia department – which was first in the project – that we With our new business system in place, increased sales with a reduced number we are also developing the option of of articles. The customer offer improved customising our offering in accordance and was more clear while at the same with local conditions for each store. time we reduced the value of inventories. This is an important part of renewing the stores, and in attracting and Clas Ohlson’s green journey retaining the customers who visit us. An Clas Ohlson works continually on our transportation to achieve higher delivery reliability, lower costs and a reduced environmental impact. We take responsibility for reducing our climate impact by reducing the use of flights and more rapidly increasing deliveries by train, as well as choosing transport companies that have the same sustainability agenda as Clas Ohlson. Clas Ohlson’s target is to reduce carbon emissions in relation to our net sales over time. Over the financial year, emissions relative to our sales decreased by 7 per cent, which is a lower reduction than in the preceding year (23 per cent). One reason for this is that the calculation policies in marine shipping changed from the preceding year. Since a full 93 per cent of Clas Ohlson’s transportation is by sea, the figures from shipping companies have a marked effect on our environmental reporting. Another reason is that the flow of rail transportation decreased. 64 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 OPERATIONS | SMART AND SIMPLE Disruptions decrease rail transConsolidation of freight from portation Asia Almost all goods arriving from Asia One of our targets for marine transporcome to Gothenburg by sea and are tation is increasing the fill rate in our transported from there by rail to Insjön. containers from Asia from 90 per cent to The majority of goods arriving from 92 per cent by 2020*. If each container Europe is consolidated and transported is filled more efficiently, we can ship by rail from Helsingborg to Borlänge. fewer containers and reduce our indirect From Borlänge, the goods are transemissions from purchase of goods and ported by truck to Insjön. During services such as logistics and materials the financial year, the proportion of consumption. We are proud of the fact overland freight by rail decreased to 31 that we are beginning to witness the per cent (38). An ongoing strike in the effect of many years of work regardPort of Gothenburg in 2018 meant that ing consolidation of goods from Asia. during the first part of the financial year, Instead of sending an empty container freight was received in the Port of Gävle to our suppliers for loading, we bring in and transported by truck to Insjön. freight to consolidation terminals and Moreover, during the financial year we load the containers there. The freight is needed to suspend rail transportation loaded onto pallets made of millboard from Insjön to Oslo due to excessively instead of being placed loose in the frequent interruptions in rail traffic that container, which results in a significant negatively impacted our delivery times. improvement in the work environment However, we are continuing to distribfor our employees at the distribution ute products to all our stores outside centre who receive the delivery. Oslo by rail, as we have been doing over the last six years. *Target revised during the financial year owing to new calculation policies. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 65 OPERATIONS | SMART AND SIMPLE Employee INTERVIEW Saving money and making an effort for the environment. Hello! Internal Purchasing Manager, Insjön, Sweden MARKUS KARLBERG One of the building blocks of our strategy This is something we’ll be working on in make reservations more in advance. No stone entails making things smarter and simpler. Of future as well. should be left unturned when looking for course this also applies to purchasing goods opportunities! and services for internal use. Markus Karlberg Can you provide some examples of is conducting a project in which he is optimisgoods or services where we make purHow has the project been received in the ing our internal purchasing in several different chases in a different way now? organisation? ways. One excellent example of where both we and It has been well received. We have been the environment win is that we’ve switched careful in saying the project does not involve Briefly, what is the aim of your project? the plastic we wrap our loading pallets in taking things away, and instead it is about One of the main purposes is optimising costs when they’re transported from the distrioptimising the costs of what we buy through and saving money. In purchasing, we are bution centre to stores. When we reviewed better purchasing with less money. Reviewing creating transparency and obtaining a clear the cost of the plastic, we understood there and challenging our needs is also important picture of how we spend money in the comwas money to be saved here, but we also in order to ensure that we’re not purchasing pany. We are also finding ways in which we saw that if we chose another type of plastic costlier products with superior performance can change purchasing patterns; for example, then savings could also be made as regards or capacity than required to meet the need. we sometimes have several different suppliers consumption of materials. The material costs for similar products, and then it could pay to a little more per kilogramme, but since 20 And we also talk widely internally about the reduce the number of suppliers. In addition to per cent less is used per pallet, we still save savings on internal purchases that we’re often being more cost-efficient, it also results money in total plus we’re making an effort for making together. This reinforces the feeling in a smaller impact on the environment since the environment. and the knowledge that, regardless of the transportation becomes more efficient – division or geographical area you belong to, instead of receiving several smaller deliveries Another example is reviewing the way we we are all striving towards the same goal: in different parcels from several suppliers, we travel on business. We have always travelled optimising the company’s costs. So far, we optimise it into larger deliveries. in a cost-efficient manner at Clas Ohlson, but have jointly managed to reduce costs by with small adjustments and new thinking we 70 MSEK. And we also routinely receive many The project will then transition into becoming can save even more. For example, we can excellent suggestions for further savings from an organisation and remain in the operations. bring costs down if we try to plan travel and the organisation. 66 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 OPERATIONS | SMART AND SIMPLE A simpler organisation with the right competencies Clas Ohlson is in the midst of a process of change. For some time, work has been underway to change our operations in accordance with our strategy and in pace with changed customer behaviour. By working strategically with skills supply, we will ensure that Clas Ohlson has the right competencies along the entire value chain to meet future challenges. New skills Clas Ohlson are interested in being part There is a need to supply the company of this journey of change. The external with new skills, which comes from the image of Clas Ohlson as a great place to difference between the skills we have work, with a high degree of employee today and what we want to do in the satisfaction, has been of the utmost imfuture. That is why we are focusing inportance in our recruitment efforts. We tensely on ensuring that the roles in our are also working on training initiatives new recruits are designed according to in order to strengthen existing compethe company’s current and future needs tencies. For example, this involved shadand that they fill in the competence owing other employees in order to learn gaps. In terms of office staff, a number from each other. In other parts of the of positions were added as a result of organisation, we have gained help from the need for new functions. In addition, external resources who contributed with existing roles have changed; for example, their skills during the transformation, afthey have become increasingly data-drivter which Clas Ohlson could then build en. Clas Ohlson has succeeded to a great up its skills internally. One example of extent in attracting the competences the how we worked this way is changing our company needs, and believes that many internal purchasing. talented people who have applied to CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 67 OPERATIONS | SMART AND SIMPLE Decrease complexity, and a that is better prepared to leverage the lower cost base opportunities presented by changed cusIn parallel with the work on recruiting tomer behaviour. Clas Ohlson has also new skills to the company, we needed to scaled back its operations in the areas make several decisions during the finanwhere we see there is no intrinsic value cial year that impacted many employin performing such duties ourselves. In ees. Closing our stores in the UK and those cases, we outsource the assignment Germany had the single greatest impact or enter into a partnership with another on the organisation. At the same time company. as it generated cost savings, it also meant reduced complexity in operations, which Leading in change entailed that we could focus more on It can be challenging to be a leader in a developing our Nordic markets where time of great change. To strengthen our we have a stronger market position. leaders, we are adding various forms of support for change leadership and addRedundancy notice for 80 office staff ing more data for better decision-makroles in the organisation meant that ing. The company has long-standing many employees have left the company; experience and know-how that we are we will continue to work on organnow building on and in particular there isational changes during the current is a forward-looking attitude of curiosfinancial year with the goal of creating a ity from the leaders of the operations, more efficient and flexible organisation which will continue to be an important characteristic in a rapidly changing industry. Learning from one another is an important element in an organisation that needs to move quickly. For the past year, Clas Ohlson has been using Workplace by Facebook, which has become an important and fast channel for exchanging know-how among our employees. 68 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 OPERATIONS | SMART AND SIMPLE Employee INTERVIEW To meet our customers’ needs, we need to review how we work. Hello! HR Business Partner, Insjön, Sweden MARIA THULEMARK What does a smart and simple organisawant to create even better conditions for our and solutions to the employees affected. Our tion mean, and how are you working on co-workers in the stores to generate the best managers are key players in pursuing this our change in the HR department? customer interactions possible. work, and we support them in the initiatives In brief, it concerns adapting our organisafor change from an HR perspective. tion at the head office as regards both ways Naturally we also have to reduce our costs. of working and competencies. From our The money we save opens up opportunities Can you provide some examples of analyses, we can see that we have too large for us to invest in strategic initiatives to develchanges? an organisation, and our overheads are thus op the company further in future. One area in which we have invested in new too high as well. Another conclusion we were skills is, for example, how we get to know able to draw is that in some respects we are Can you say more about how you’re our customers better and analyse their needs working on the ‘wrong’ things – that is, things going about this? based on actual data. We also have employwe should completely stop doing or we could We are conducting a structured review of ees who work with business intelligence and perhaps purchase from an external party that Group functions and country organisations to analyses of the competition and have an eye makes it more cost-efficient. The analysis can survey and analyse processes and working on trends in retail, which helps us make the also help us identify double work in the organmethods. The conclusions of the analyses right decisions in the areas we are developing isation, meaning several functions performing sometimes lead to the need to make some at Clas Ohlson. These are important skills for the same duties without knowing what the othkind of change such as a new working methhoning our customer offering even further. er is doing, which is inefficient. Simply put, we od or discontinuing a number of activities, or should use our resources in the right places to requiring new skills. To work in the best way Another specific change we’re making is in add value for our customers. possible, the functions concerned will receive central customer services functions, where support from our internal project managers. we have ended a number of activities that Why are these changes happening now? did not achieve the profitability we had hoped Retail is an industry undergoing major changThe company’s goal is for the changes – for. Instead, we’re investing and contributing es, with changed customer behaviour and which can sometimes be complicated ones resources to Clas Fix it, which is a strategic purchasing patterns. To meet our customer in which difficult decisions must be made service initiative through which we can reach needs, we need to review what we are working that affect our co-workers and could lead to a broader target audience and create high on, and how we work. With the changes redundancies – to take place in the best posprofitability. we’re making for the Group functions, we sible way. As a company, we will offer support CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 69 Annual report 2018/19 70 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 Contents ANNUAL REPORT Director’s Report 72 Proposed allocation of earnings 77 Risks and uncertainties 78 Chairman’s letter 82 Corporate governance 83 Board of Directors 92 Group management 94 Consolidated financial statements 96 Parent Company financial statements 99 Notes 102 Note 1 Accounting and valuation policies 102 Note 2 Financial risks 107 Note 3 Other operating income and op. expenses 108 Note 4 Depreciation 108 Note 5 Expenses by type of cost 109 Note 6 Expenses for employee benefits 109 Note 7 Remuneration to auditors 112 Note 8 Financial income and expenses 112 Note 9 Income tax 113 Note 10 Earnings per share 113 Note 11 Dividend per share 113 Note 12 Non-current assets 114 Note 13 Inventories 115 Note 14 Accounts receivable 115 Note 15 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 115 Note 16 Cash and cash equivalents 115 Note 17 Forward contracts 115 Note 18 Proposed allocation of earnings and Equity 115 Note 19 Pension obligations 116 Note 20 Financial instruments 116 Note 21 Accrued expenses and deferred income 117 Note 22 Other provisions 117 Note 23 Inter-Group transactions 118 Note 24 Participations in Group companies 118 Note 25 Securities held as fixed assets 118 Note 26 Appropriations 119 Note 27 Cash and bank balances 119 Note 28 Untaxed reserves 119 Note 29 Pledged assets 119 Note 30 Contingent liabilities and commitments 119 Note 31 Related-party transactions 119 Note 32 Average number of employees 120 Note 33 Segment reporting 120 Note 34 Events after the end of the year 120 Certification of the Annual Report 122 Auditor´s report 123 Sustainability report 126 Supplementary sustainability information 128 Eight prioritised areas 128 Our value chain 130 Materiality analysis 132 Sustainability risks 136 GRI Index 138 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 71 DIRECTOR’S REPORT Director’s report The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Clas Ohlson AB (publ), with registered office and head office in Insjön, in the Municipality of Leksand, Sweden, hereby present the annual accounts for the financial year 1 May 2018 to 30 April 2019. Unless otherwise stated, the figures relate to the Group. Figures in parenthesis pertain to the preceding year. All figures are stated in millions of Swedish kronor (MSEK) unless otherwise stated. Operations “100 more years”, Clas Ohlson’s new strategy, was launched in Clas Ohlson works to help and inspire people to improve their May. The strategy work is concretised in the CO100+ action everyday life by offering smart, simple, practical solutions at programme, which will be ongoing until the end of the fiscal attractive prices. Our customer offering comprises a base of year 2019/20. hardware, electrical, multimedia, home and leisure products as well as a supplementary offering of services that simplify custoDuring the financial year, the company decided to create a mers’ daily lives at home. Operations are conducted in Sweden, more efficient organisation to ensure long-term profitable Norway, Finland, the UK and Germany via stores and online growth. A total of 150–200 roles are estimated to be affected by shopping and via purchasing offices in China. A decision was the change, primarily at the company’s head office and distrimade during the financial year to discontinue the store network bution centre in Insjön. The decision is part of the CO100+ in the UK and Germany. action programme, which is expected to reduce the company’s annual costs by 200–250 MSEK, with full effect from the The product range includes approximately 15,000 articles that 2020/21 financial year. are purchased from a large number of suppliers in some 30 countries. The products are delivered to the distribution centre Clas Ohlson acquired during the fiscal year 2017/18 all of the in Insjön, Sweden, and from there distributed via stores, or newly issued shares corresponding to 10 per cent of MatHem via mail order/Internet directly to the customers. The number i Sverige AB. The total investment amounted to 224 MSEK. of stores at the end of the year was 232, of which 97 were in In February 2019, Kinnevik became a new owner of MatHem Sweden, 90 in Norway, 42 in Finland and three in the UK. The through an investment of around 900 MSEK in a new share number of forthcoming, contracted store openings amounted issue and the purchase of existing shares. Following the transto four stores. action, Clas Ohlson’s shareholding in MatHem was 8 per cent (10). The partnership is progressing as planned with unchanged Significant events during the financial year terms. During the fiscal year, the store network has been expanded with three new stores net compared to the same period last year Clas Ohlson’s implementation of the new IT platform is a stra(13), seven in Sweden, one in Norway, three in Finland and a tegically important initiative and a programme that ran from reduction of four stores in the uk and four in Germany. the 2013/14 financial year until 2018/19. Our new business system – modern, scalable and flexible – creates the preconDuring the financial year, a new direction was decided for the ditions for better forecasts and planning, and simplifies and international market presence. This decision entails that the enhances the efficiency of processes and working methods. store network in the UK and Germany will be discontinued and that, in line with the new direction, Clas Ohlson’s presence Sales and profit in these markets will be concentrated to online shopping. The Sales increased 7 per cent to 8,772 MSEK (8,211). Organic saclosure of the store network outside the Nordic region entailed les increased 4 per cent compared with the preceding year. Sales a restructuring cost of 210 MSEK and is expected to generate in comparable units and local currency increased 1 per cent. a positive earnings effect of approximately 75 MSEK per year, with full effect after the second quarter 2019/20. Closure of Online sales increased 47 per cent to 432 MSEK (295). the store network is proceeding to plan. At the end of the quarter, we had closed all of the German stores and the closure of UK stores was continuing in line with Clas Ohlson’s agreements with the property owners. 72 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 DIRECTOR’S REPORT Sales were distributed as follows: Earnings for the year were affected by non-recurring costs, costs linked to the CO100+ action programme and implemenSales area, MSEK tation of the business system (sCORE ) of approximately 195 MSEK (70), as well as the costs for the closure of the store Percentage network in the UK and Germany totalling about 210 MSEK (0). Percentage change, local Countries 2018/19 2017/18 change curr. The gross margin was 39.8 per cent (40.0). Compared with the Sweden 3,853 3,658 5 5 year-earlier period, the gross margin was negatively impacted Norway 3,571 3,287 9 4 by increased commercial investments, higher sourcing costs Finland 1,064 998 7 1 and negative currency hedging effects (NOK), comprising both Outside Nordic currency. forwards and exchange-rate effects related to delays in countries* 284 268 6 0 inventory. This was somewhat offset by a strong sales currency Total** 8,772 8,211 7 4 (NOK) and a weaker purchasing currency (USD). *Effected by store closure in Uk and Germany. **Of which 432 MSEK (295) for the fiscal year comprises online sales. The share of selling expenses increased 2.1 percentage points to 33.5 per cent (31.4). In addition to costs related to the The sales increase of 7 per cent from stores was distributed as CO100+ action programme, the share was affected by comfollows: mercial initiatives and the costs of building up capacity and capability. Distribution of sales increase The strategic review had an impact on administrative expenses Comparable units in local currency 1% of approximately 20 MSEK (30), which is included in the New stores 3% approximately 195 MSEK (70) described at the start of this Exchange-rate effects 3% section. Total 7% Operating profit amounted to 94 MSEK (468). Operating profit was affected by costs totalling approximately 405 MSEK Distribution of sales, % Gross margin, % Share of selling expenses, % Operating profit, MSEK Outside Nordic countries, 3% 33.5 Finland, 12% 39.8 Sweden, 44% 32.2 31.7 31.1 31.4 42.9 42.4 41.2 40.0 596 610 506 468 94 Norway, 41% 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 73 DIRECTOR’S REPORT (70) as described at the start of this section. Underlying operaThe average 12-month value of inventories was 2,049 MSEK ting profit amounted to 497 MSEK (538). The operating mar(1,869). Over a rolling 12-month period, the stock turnover gin was 1.1 per cent (5.7). Profit after financial items totalled rate at the distribution centre was 5.9 times (6.5). At the end of 92 MSEK (467). Depreciation for the period amounted to 237 the period, the value of inventories was 1,987 MSEK (2,038). MSEK (226). The Group’s net debt at the end of the period, meaning inteSpot exchange rates for key currencies averaged 1.08 for NOK rest-bearing liabilities less cash and cash equivalents, amounted and 9.03 for USD, compared with 1.03 and 8.31, respectively, to 178 MSEK (net cash holdings last year 116). Credits granted in the year-earlier period. Currency hedging was undertaken and loan commitments amounted to 750 MSEK, of which in USD and NOK. The company’s policy is to hedge 50 per 283 MSEK had been utilised at the end of the period. The cash cent of the expected flow in each currency every month, with dividend paid to Clas Ohlson’s shareholders in September 2018 six-month maturities. totalled 395 MSEK (395). The company’s financial position remains strong. The equity/assets ratio was 49 per cent (54). Prospects for the next financial year When closing the books for the 2018/19 financial year, we note Investments that Clas Ohlson has reached the halfway point of the change During the financial year, investments amounted to 211 MSEK period. In the first phase of the CO100+ action programme, we (preceding year 497 MSEK, including the acquisition of prioritised initiatives for long-term growth, but we also initiated MatHem of 224 MSEK). Of this amount, investments in and completed savings alternatives in purchasing and adminisnew or refurbished stores accounted for 51 MSEK (82). Other tration to secure an enhanced and more flexible cost structure. investments were primarily IT and replacement investments. We expect full effect during the fiscal year from the important During the financial year, investments in IT systems amounted steps taken in indirect purchasing, which account for one third to 105 MSEK (124). of total cost savings or approximately 70 MSEK. As previously announced, the goal is to reduce annual costs by 200–250 The share and share capital MSEK, with full effect from the 2020/21 financial year. Clas Ohlson B shares are listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm. The share capital totals 82 MSEK, comprising 5,760,000 series A The second phase of our change, and four of eight quarters shares and 59,840,000 series B shares, each with a quotient remain of CO100+. As previously communicated, operating value of 1.25. Each series A share carries ten votes, while each margin is estimated at about 4–6 per cent for the full-year series B share carries one vote. All shares carry equal rights to 2019/20. Non-recurring costs, primarily pertaining to redunpayment of dividends. Holders of series A shares can request dancies, will impact the start of the year. Clas Ohlson continues that their A shares be converted to series B shares. The share to actively pursue a high pace of change to create profitable capital is unchanged compared with the preceding year. growth in line with our long-term goals. On 30 April 2019, the company had a total of 42,336 shareFinancing and liquidity holders, according to the register of shareholders maintained by Cash flow from operating activities during the financial year Euroclear Sweden, compared with 34,717 on 30 April 2018 The totalled 312 MSEK (373). After investing and financing activiten largest shareholders at that time held 55 per cent of the capities, cash flow for the period was -11 MSEK (-514). tal and 76 per cent of the votes. For the summary see page 145. Sales, MSEK Cash flow from operating Operating margin, % activities, MSEK 8,772 3.5* 705 699 8,211 8.1 7,990 647 7,602 8.1** 7.6 7,330 312 5.7 373 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 *Excluding restructuring costs for closure of store network outside the Nordics. ** Excluding restructuring costs for closure of stores in the UK. 74 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 DIRECTOR’S REPORT The Articles of Association contains no post-sale purchase rights is significantly lower than from the transportation of products. clause or other restrictions for the transferability of series B Another activity to reduce environmental impact is the compashares. Apart from authorisation pertaining to the repurchase of ny following an energy efficiency program that aims to convert shares stated on page 120, there are no other circumstances of existing lighting to more energy effective LED lighting. the kinds the company is obligated to disclose under the provisions of Chapter 6, Section 2a (4-11) of the Annual Accounts Sustainability work covers all areas of activity and is described Act. The number of registered shares is 65,600,000 unchanged under the respective area, on pages 38-69, as well as in the compared with the preceding year. On 30 April 2019, the chapter on governance and responsibility on pages 26-31. For company held 2,382,206 shares (2,391,865), corresponding to more information, see the company’s sustainability report on 4 per cent of the total number of registered shares (4 per cent). page 126-141. The number of shares outstanding, net after repurchase, was 63,217,794 (63,208,135) at the end of the financial year. The Guidelines for remuneration of senior executives entire LTI 2018 undertaking can be secured by using shares The following principles were adopted at the most recent Annuthat were bought back to secure previous LTI plans where the al General Meeting (”AGM”) and are proposed to remain unneed has been recalculated. (previous year bought back 21 changed until the next AGM. The general principles of remuneMSEK) ration for senior executives are to be based on the position held, individual performance, the Group’s financial results and the Employees remuneration being competitive in the country of employment. The number of employees in the Group amounted to more The combined remuneration of senior executives is to consist of than 5,000 which converted to full time employees averaged basic salary, variable salary in the form of a short-term incentive 3,099 (2,951). Further information about employees is found based on annual performance objectives, long-term incentives in Notes 6 and 32 in the Annual Report. based on multi-year performance, pension and other benefits. In addition, notice of termination and severance pay are subject Social responsibility to terms and conditions. Continuous work is conducted at Clas Ohlson with respect to sustainability including follow-up activities relating to our Code Clas Ohlson aims to offer a competitive total level of remuneraof Conduct. This work is mainly described on pages 28-29. tion, focusing on payments based on performance. This means that variable remuneration may comprise a significant portion Environmental impact of the total remuneration. The aim is for basic remuneration The company has a duty of notification with respect to the activito be in line with the median of the comparable market, while ty relating to the temporary storage of electronic waste. This duty total remuneration, when Clas Ohlson meets or exceeds its of notification applies to any Swedish municipality in which Clas objectives, is to be in the upper quartile of the market. Ohlson has a store. The company does not otherwise have any operations for which there is a duty of notification or for which it Basic salary is mandatory to obtain a permit under the Environmental Code. The fixed salary shall constitute the basis for total remuneration. With regard to electrical and electronic waste, the company The salary is to be related to the relevant market and reflect the cooperates with the Elkretsen organisation in Sweden, which extent of the responsibilities included in the position. The deis the joint company owned by the electrical industry for waste velopment of basic salary is to depend on how well work is perdisposal. The company is affiliated to the recycling organisation formed and how well the employee develops his/her expertise to REPA. In Norway, the company is affiliated to the recycling orgaassume future work assignments involving greater responsibility. nisations Renas, Batteriretur and Grønt Punkt. In Finland, there The basic salary is to be reviewed annually to ensure that it is is equivalent cooperation with Serty, in the UK with Valpak and market-based and competitive. in Germany with Der Grüne Punkt. Variable salary (Short Term Incentive, STI) Environmental impact related to transportation of products is In addition to basic salary, senior executives are to qualify for one of Clas Ohlson’s most important environmental aspects. STI for performance that exceeds one or several predetermined For this reason, enhanced transportation efficiency is a focus performance levels during a financial year, designed to promote area throughout the Group. During the financial year, both the company’s long-term value creation. Clearly defined perrelative and absolute CO2 emissions declined year on year. Enformance targets are to be decided annually by the Board or by vironmental impact from the store network and own operations individuals elected by the Board. The performance targets may be connected to operational, financial or personal results. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 75 DIRECTORS REPORT’S Remuneration from the STI plan is subject to a ceiling, which Period of notice and severance pay means that Clas Ohlson can calculate maximum remuneration Senior executives will be offered terms in accordance with the levels from the beginning. Insofar as performance does not legislation and practices applicable to the country in which the match the lowest performance level, no STI will be paid. STI person concerned is employed. A senior executive will be prewill depend on the position held and may not exceed 50 per vented from working in a competing business during the period cent of salary if the ceiling is achieved, which also represents the of notice. In certain cases, prohibition of competition in return maximum outcome of STI. STI remuneration is also conditiofor continued remuneration may be applied for a maximum nal upon the performance on which earnings are based being period of 24 months following expiry of the period of notice. sustainable over time, and that Clas Ohlson is able to reclaim such remuneration that was paid due to information that later Authorisation for the Board to depart from the guidelines turned out to be obviously erroneous. The Board will be able to depart from these guidelines if there are special reasons for doing so. In the event of a major deviaLong-term incentive, LTI tion, the shareholders will be informed of the reasons for this at The objective of LTI programs is to generate conditions for rethe next AGM. For more information about remuneration see taining and recruiting competent employees to the Group. The Note 6. programs were designed to encourage participants to become shareholders in the company, which is expected to have a posiParent Company tive impact on their long-term work performance. Connecting During the financial year, Parent Company sales amounted to participants’ rewards to the company’s profit and value deve6,788 MSEK (6,444) and profit after financial items totalled lopment will continue to promote company loyalty and thus 247 MSEK (298). sustainable value growth in the company. Investments during the financial year totalled 170 MSEK Long-term incentive programs that entitle employees to acquire (403). Contingent liabilities for the Parent Company amounted share are subject to AGM approval. The qualification period to 237 MSEK (273). for LTI 2016, LTI 2017 and LTI 2018 were in effect during the financial year. The qualification period for LTI 2016 was Events after the end of the year concluded after the close of the financial year and LTI 2019 After the end of the financial year, the company signed an was launched. All incentive programs are share matching and agreement for an external credit facility corresponding to 100 profit-based employee stock option plans. MSEK to meet the company’s financing requirements. The company’s total credit facility thereafter amounts to 850 MSEK. Pension Pension agreements will, if possible, be defined-contribution The qualification and performance periods for the LTI 2016 and formulated in accordance with levels and practices applicalong-term incentive plan ran from 1 May 2016 until 30 April ble in the country in which the senior executive is employed. 2019. After the end of the reporting period, a total of 2,636 shares were allotted on 2 May in accordance with the AGM’s Other benefits resolution regarding share matching of one share per share Other benefits may occur in accordance with the terms applipurchased to those participants who remained employed after cable in the country in which the senior executive is employed. the three-year qualification period. However, such benefits may not constitute a major portion of the combined remuneration. The established performance criteria regarding average sales growth and increased earnings per share for the period 2016– 2019 were not achieved, meaning that no options were allotted to the participants and, accordingly, the LTI 2016 has been concluded. 76 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 DIRECTOR’S REPORT In May 2019, the long-term incentive plan LTI 2019 was Proposed allocation of earnings introduced under the same structure as LTI 2018. Senior The following earnings (SEK 000s) are at the disposal of the management will purchase shares in LTI 2019 in mid-June. Annual General Meeting: The exercise price for the conditional employee stock options Profit brought forward 268,033* has been set at SEK 77.50 per share, with exercise possible, Profit for the year 285,564* following the three-year qualification period between June 2022 and April 2026. Total 553,597* On 8 September 2018, the Annual General Meeting of Clas The Board and Chief Executive Officer propose: Ohlson AB authorised the Board of Directors to acquire a maximum of 860,000 shares during the period until the next Dividend payable to shareholders 6.25 SEK per share 410,0001 Annual General Meeting to secure the company’s commitment Carried forward to new account 143,597* in connection with the introduction of a share-based incentive Total 553,597* programme, LTI 2019. The total number of shares required to Dividends are based on the number of shares outstanding on the record date. 1 secure the undertaking for LTI 2019 is estimated at 780,000. The entire LTI 2019 undertaking can be secured by using shares The record date for the first payment of the dividend is prothat were bought back to secure previous LTI plans where the posed as 10 September 2019, the second record date for the need has been recalculated. payment is proposed as 14 January 2020. It is anticipated that the dividend decided upon by the Annual General Meeting will As per 30 April 2019, the company’s holding of Clas Ohlson be despatched on 13 September 2019 and 17 January 2020. treasury shares amounted to 2,382,206 shares, corresponding to 4 per cent of the total number of registered shares. With reference to the information presented above and what has otherwise come to the knowledge of the Board, the view Dividend of the Board is as follows: A comprehensive assessment of the Clas Ohlson’s dividend policy is that the dividend is to comprifinancial position of the Parent Company and Group indicates se at least 50 per cent of earnings per share after tax, taking into that the dividend is justifiable with reference to the demands account the company’s financial position. made by the nature, size and risks of the operation on the equity and liquidity of the Parent Company and Group. The The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of 6.25 SEK Group’s equity/assets ratio is 49 per cent before payment of per share (6.25) be distributed for the 2018/19 financial year, dividend and 39 per cent after payment of dividend. This is comprised of two separate payments of 3.13 SEK per share judged to be an adequate equity/assets ratio, even when the and 3.12 SEK per share. The first payment is proposed to be strategy implementation has been taken into account. in September 2019 and the second payment in January 2020. The proposed dividend amounts to a total of 410 MSEK (410), Regarding the company’s earnings and position in other representing 573 per cent (115) of the financial year’s profit respects, reference should be made to the following income after tax. statements and balance sheets and the accompanying notes to the accounts. Dividend per share, SEK 6.25* 6.25 6.25 5.75 5.25 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 *Proposed dividend CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 77 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risks and uncertainties To develop an attractive and relevant customer offering and to ensure our future competitiveness, we must understand how our business environment is changing. The operations that Clas Ohlson carries on entail risks that could negatively impact the Group to varying extents. These risks can be divided into strategic, operational and financial risks. The Group’s risk scenario can change quickly, and we work continually to update the risk situation and to ensure quick, efficient risk management. Strategic, operational and financial risks impact our opportunities for achieving our strategic and business-related goals. CreaRisk map (example) ting awareness of the risks in the operations means they can be Extremely high controlled, limited and managed. When handled correctly, risks may lead to opportunities and add value to the business. Very high IMPACT Risk management process Clas Ohlson works continuously to update the Group’s risk High situation through a systematic process in which risks are identified, evaluated, managed and reported. Priority is assigned to Medium the risks assessed as having the greatest negative impact in terms of likelihood and conceivable effects on operations. Classification is also made on the basis of how well the implemented Low countermeasures correspond with the desired level. This work is Very Unlikely Possible Likely Very likely performed in each function based on the composition of Group unlikely Management. Internal reports on measures implemented and Countermeasures implemented PROBABILITY changes in risk assessments are issued twice a year and on a Countermeasures partly implemented continuous basis when necessary. The risks are compiled in risk Countermeasures required maps to clarify overall exposure and where measures should be RISK MANAGEMENT THE BOARD The Risk Committee compiles, SENIOR MANAGEMENT coordinates and develops the Group’s risk management, and submits a report to Group Management and the Board. RISK COMMITTEE Governance Finance & Administration Marketing Communications Assortment & Purchasing Reporting Business development Information & IR Digital & Online Store operations Supply chain Each function monitors and manages IT HR existing risks, identifies any new risks and submits a report to the Risk Committee. Sustainability 78 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES prioritised. Maps are compiled at Group level and are a key comSensitivity analysis ponent of the company management’s and the Board’s strategic and Currency effects excluding hedging operational governance. Impact on profit Currency Change, % before tax, MSEK Clas Ohlson’s Risk Committee performs the work involved in comNOK +/5 +/96 piling, coordinating and developing risk management. Our operaUSD +/5 -/+ 79 tions are impacted by rapid changes, and these efforts remain a high HKD +/5 -/+ 6 priority as the company continues to grow and develop. EUR +/5 +/5 GBP +/5 +/1 Strategic risks The purpose of strategic risks is to ensure that the company’s business model is properly adapted in both the short and the long term to our customers and the needs of the various markets. In addition, The two diagrams below show the SEK trend against the Group’s prinstrategic risks are intended to indicate changes in the business cipal currency for purchasing (USD) and the Group’s principal currency environment with potentially significant effects on Clas Ohlson’s for sales (NOK). operations and business goals. Risks of a strategic character primarily comprise risks associated with changes in the business environment Monthly average, SEK/USD and increased competition, shifts in technology and in customers’ purchasing habits, market positioning, and product range and offe10.00 ring, growth as well as strategy implementation. 9.00 2018/19 8.00 Operational risks 2017/18 Operational risks are directly attributable to business operations with 7.00 a potential impact on earnings and the financial position. Opera6.00 tional risks can normally be influenced and are often linked to the M J J A S O N D J F M A organisation’s processes, working methods and skills. Operational USD is our most important purchasing currency. At the beginning of risks are mainly risks associated with purchasing of products, sustaithe financial year, on 2 May 2018, the exchange rate for USD was 8.83. Overall, the exchange rate has increased during the financial nability, IT systems, logistics, key employees, leases, shrinkage and year. It was noted at 9.51 SEK on 30 April 2019, an increase of regulatory risks. about 8 per cent. The highest exchange rate was 9.52 SEK noted in April 2019, while the lowest exchange rate was 8.58 SEK noted in May 2018. Financial risks Financial risks are risks with a potential impact on earnings and the financial position. Risks of a financial nature consist primarily of Monthly average, SEK/NOK risks associated with changes in the economy, currency exposure, transport costs, raw material prices and wage inflation. 1.13 1.11 1.09 1.07 Currencies, currency hedging and currency fluctuations 1.05 2018/19 The company’s currency exposure is high, primarily due to sales in 1.03 2017/18 1.01 Norway and the Group’s purchasing. About 50 per cent of the com0.99 pany’s purchases are made in currencies other than SEK. The table to 0.97 0.95 the right shows how earnings are impacted by changes in currencies, M J J A S O N D J F M A excluding hedging. The graph shows the trend for the SEK/NOK currency pair. At the beginning of the financial year, on 2 May 2018, the exchange rate for NOK Futures hedging is performed monthly in USD and NOK, with a was 1.09 versus SEK. The NOK has increased during the financial year versus the swedish krona. It was noted at 1.10 SEK on 30 April 2019, up maturity of six months, against half of the expected flow in each 1 per cent. The highest exchange rate was SEK 1.10 noted in October 2018, while the lowest exchange rate was 1.02 SEK noted in December currency. In this way, the company is guaranteed the forward rate on 2018. Källa: Riksbanken a major proportion of its currency exchanges, but also has the opportunity/risk of making the remaining payments at the prevailing rate. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 79 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Strategic risks RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MANAGEMENT CHANGES IN The retail landscape is changing at an increasingly rapid pace The purpose of Clas Ohlson’s new strategy for long-term, profitable growth THE BUSINESS owing to changes in, for example, consumer behaviour, purchasis to develop operations online, to offer a more unique and focused product ENVIRONMENT ing patterns and technology. Online traffic is increasing at an ever offering and simultaneously to add a supplementary service offering to meet AND greater rate, at the cost of foot traffic in physical stores. increased competition. COMPETITION We are also seeing increased competition from both new and This means continued work on strengthening our digital platform and on existing players. Global e-retailers and other digital players are developing our product range and our service offering. We also enter into always expanding their business and challenging existing busipartnerships with others to develop a relevant and competitive customer ness models. Many are competing for the same customers with offering that inspires and helps our customers in their everyday lives. similar offerings, and it is easier than ever to make comparisons. CUSTOMERS’ Constantly connected consumers want to buy when, where and Clas Ohlson continues to focus on integrating and developing various PURCHASING how they want, and regardless of the sales channel they use, they sales channels and delivery options, and on our capacity to interact with PATTERNS expect a simple and consistent shopping experience tailored to customers through digital channels to further improve our availability and AND MARKET their needs. service level. POSITION The rising trend of online shopping means that the physical Digitalisation provides us with tools to enhance understanding of customer store is increasingly becoming a meeting place and an arena for behaviour, drive sales, build loyalty and easily serve customers throughout experiences. Customers expect quick, reliable and convenient the entire decision-making and purchasing process, with respect for their deliveries, and want to choose the best option for them at that privacy (GDPR). specific time. PRODUCT The company’s most important task is to offer customers a releClas Ohlson works on detailed market and competitor assessments in RANGE, vant, attractive and affordable product range. If Clas Ohlson were order to create good conditions for designing an attractive and affordable OFFERING AND to misjudge new trends in both products and communication, this product range. COMMUNICAcould entail lower growth and profitability. TION Clas Ohlson works continually to maintain a clear and inspiring store and online concept, the right pricing and world-class service. GROWTH Clas Ohlson will grow its operations and strengthen its brand in Clas Ohlson conducts detailed market and competitor analyses before markets where we conduct operations. In addition, our customer decisions on strategic investments in our customer offering and sales chanoffering, our sales channels and a supplementary service offering nels, and capitalises on the experiences gained from previous ventures. are being developed. The risk is that these investments in growth will not generate the intended results. Operational risks RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MANAGEMENT PURCHASING OF Clas Ohlson currently purchases just over 40 per cent of the Clas Ohlson’s Code of Conduct and ethical guidelines apply to all our PRODUCTS company’s products in Asia, the majority from China. The suppliers and contracts. We have our own audit teams in China that proportion of purchasing from Asia will increase through the conduct inspections and monitor compliance with the requirements of company’s own purchasing company in China. This will boost our Code of Conduct. Since the start of 2017, Clas Ohlson has been part the company’s competitiveness. There is a risk of bribes and of Sedex in order to further increase transparency regarding responsible corruption in the purchasing process, and suppliers in low-wage purchasing. Clas Ohlson works continuously on evaluating new potential countries entail increased risk of shortcomings in working conpurchasing markets in both Europe and Asia. ditions and respect for human rights. Increased single-country exposure entails greater risk (political risk, transport risk, currency risk and so forth). SUSTAINABILITY Our business model constitutes a potential negative impact on Sustainability is an integral part of our business model and governanRISKS people, the environment and society. ce. The foundation of this work is our Code of Conduct and our ethical guidelines. Even if these risks lie outside our direct operations, the consequences of not addressing them could impact Clas Ohlson’s For a further description of the company’s risk in the field of sustainability, reputation as a meaningful, trustworthy brand. They can also refer to pages 136–137. impact the confidence employees have in us as an employer and our market position, disrupt production and deliveries, incur unforeseen costs and cause violations of the law. IT SYSTEMS Clas Ohlson’s operations are highly dependent on IT support. As During the financial year the new business system was implemented a result, it is essential that IT systems provide effective support (sCORE). for the company’s day-to-day operations and maintain a high level of reliability. It is also important to ensure efficiency and Clas Ohlson has an IT policy and an information security policy. In the provide support in the decision-making process. event of new legislation or new regulations, the actions to be taken will be decided well in advance. There are standardised processes for implemenInfringements or deficiencies in processing customer informating new systems, for changing existing systems and for daily operations. tion, employee information or business-critical data can lead to decreased confidence and entail a negative impact on the Clas Ohlson works actively to ensure that personal data is processed Group’s earnings. securely pursuant to the applicable regulations and a comprehensive work with GDPR has continued during the year. LEASES Clas Ohlson leases the premises where shops have their operaClas Ohlson endeavours to have flexible leases with the opportunity for tions. Contract periods vary, depending on the market. re-negotiation during the lifetime of the contract. SHRINKAGE Clas Ohlson is exposed to shrinkage – shoplifting, for example – The Group implements long-term preventive measures to reduce shrinkaon a daily basis. ge, using such methods as training initiatives and technical equipment. In addition, security efforts are continually monitored, evaluated and adapted Clas Ohlson invests continually in further enhancing the efficiency of its logistics and the work in the distribution centre. 80 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MANAGEMENT LOGISTICS Clas Ohlson’s distribution centre in Insjön is the hub of the We are working on maintenance and inspection of systems, fire protection Group’s distribution chain. Goods from suppliers in Europe and and security systems, etc. manufacturers in Asia come here to be distributed to all our shops and our online customers. Collecting the logistics in one location The Group also works continuously with inspection of the distribution chain carries certain risks, for example, disruptions to communications to ensure efficiency. and infrastructure, as well as fire and strikes. A large proportion of the company’s carbon dioxide emissions are associated with transportation of products. EMPLOYEES Clas Ohlson must have motivated and skilled employees in order Clas Ohlson works for diversity and increased flexibility. Clas Ohlson is a to achieve the set goals and strategies. The geographic location workplace where employees can develop and grow with the company. of the main office and large parts of our operations at Insjön could Leadership, skills development and the company’s belief in individual result in difficulties in recruiting employees with the right expertise. employees equips the company for the future and cultivates an organisaOur growth also places great demands on recruitment, skills tion prepared to shoulder new challenges. development and internal mobility. We have a zero tolerance policy for all forms of discrimination and harassClas Ohlson’s new strategic orientation entails a certain adaptament. tion of competence, which could impact our employees and our ability to attract new employees with the right skills. REGULATORY The company operates in a context where laws and regulations Clas Ohlson has an ethical approach and well-functioning internal controls. RISKS undergo continual change, becoming more complex. DeficienIn the event of new legislation or regulations, the actions to be taken will be cies in interpretation or compliance can damage the company’s decided well in advance of the regulations being implemented. reputation and result in fines or other sanctions. Financial risks RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MANAGEMENT ECONOMIC The retail market in general is adversely affected by a weak ecoOur broad and affordable product range is less sensitive to cyclical fluctuaCLIMATE nomy and although Clas Ohlson sells products for everyday use, tions than that of many other competitors. a weak retail market will have a negative impact on sales. More than 80 per cent of our products are priced at less than SEK 300. Clas Ohlson’s broad product range, with five different product categories, entails lower risk since demand in one product category could increase while demand in another category falls. CURRENCIES The company’s currency exposure is high, primarily due to sales Futures hedging is performed monthly in NOK and USD, with a maturity of in Norway and the Group’s purchasing. About 50 per cent of the six months, against half of the expected flow in each currency. company’s purchases are made in currencies other than SEK. The principal currencies for purchasing are the US dollar (USD), In this way, the company is guaranteed the forward rate on a major proHong Kong dollar (HKD) and euro (EUR). Movement of the SEK portion of its purchases, but also acquires the opportunity/risk of paying for against the Norwegian krone (NOK) is also important for the the remaining purchases at the current rate. Group, since Norway accounts for approximately 40 per cent of sales. Net exposure to EUR is low, since the company brings in currency through sales in the Finnish and German markets. The Group is also exposed to the pound sterling (GBP) via sales in the UK. The table on page 79 shows how profit is affected by changes in principal currencies, excluding hedging. TRANSPORTAFreight shipping prices can vary considerably depending on the Clas Ohlson handles changes in freight shipping prices by actively monitoTION COSTS global market price, and currency fluctuations. ring and assessing the market. RAW MATERIAL Purchase prices for the company’s products are largely determiClas Ohlson has a broad portfolio of products and is therefore less impacPRICES ned by the price of individual raw materials in global markets. ted by changes to a specific raw material. This applies particularly to electronics (copper), batteries (zinc), lighting (aluminium) and plastic products (oil). Hedging against raw Some of Clas Ohlson’s suppliers purchase commodities/materials at fixed material prices is not carried out directly by the company. This contract prices, which entails some indirect hedging. entails a risk since the purchase price of the products concerned is affected by the price trend for raw materials. WAGE Clas Ohlson is affected by wage-level changes in countries Clas Ohlson works continuously to find new purchasing markets, both in INFLATION where the company’s products are manufactured. This can vary Europe and Asia. between products depending on how much labour is involved in the manufacturing process. FINANCING AND Liquidity in the group follows the given structure for seasonal payA continuous work is performed in order to govern and balance the cash LIQUIDITY ments, resulting in lower levels of liquidity during fall in connection flow to the set goals through sales, purchase, costs, capital balance etc. with stock build-up for Christmas sales and dividend payment. Dividend for the financial year 2018/19 is proposed to the AGM in 2019, to be split into two separate occasions. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 81 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CHAIRMAN’S LETTER Chairman of the Board KENNETH BENGTSSON A good start to the journey of change I cannot think of a more exciting industry to work in right now Over the past year, the Board has focused primarily on the inithan retail. Along with our customers, we are in the midst of tiatives for change in the company. Working with management, a journey of change, where new behaviours and expectations through both challenging and supporting in the implementation demand that we challenge the prevalent business models and of our shared plan, has been inspirational. There have been many tackle global competition. And the best way to meet these productive and wide-ranging discussions, with a strong sense of challenges is to put ourselves in the driver’s seat and formulate commitment to the company’s best interests. When the business ourselves what we want to be and how we want to act. We have environment and the company are changing at a rapid pace, we a robust plan that not only looks forward and outward, but must be able to decide when we need to accelerate and when to moreover has broad support internally, with its starting point in brake, or – as in the case with the UK and Germany – review our mission and what we in the company call the Clas Ohlson earlier decisions in order to create the best conditions possible spirit. It is with pride that, after just over a year with the new for a strong Clas Ohlson in the long term. None of us – the strategy in place, I can state that we as a company are making Board of Directors, company management, or all our fantastic rapid strides into the future. co-workers – have avoided these decisions. For that, I want to thank everyone who has been involved. The primary task of the Board of Directors is, through our work, to utilise the opportunities available to the company I would also like, on behalf of the entire Board of Directors, to while at the same time balancing these opportunities against thank all our employees for the tremendous work they put into strategic, operational, financial and legal risks in accordance the daily business. This is what creates the platform for everywith our corporate governance. The Board’s activities take place thing we want to achieve going forward, and the journey is off to in various committees, as well as in regular meetings where we a solid start. The company’s financial position is strong; we have benefit from our various skills to make Clas Ohlson stronger. a strong brand and if we continue to follow our plan, I believe On the Board, we have a favourable mix of people with experithat we have every possibility to deliver even greater value for ences from various consumer-centric operations, digitalisation our customers, our co-workers and our owners in the future. and finance. Experiences that, in particular, are of great advantage in today’s rapidly changing business climate. Our corporate Kenneth Bengtsson governance is based on such international norms as the UN Chairman of the Board Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, Insjön, June 2019 labour, environment and anti-corruption. This is also reflected in our policies, guidelines and how we build relationships with our stakeholders. 82 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance Good corporate governance is a prerequisite for maintaining confidence among shareholders, customers and other external stakeholders and is built on the company’s strategies, targets and values permeating the entire organisation. The governance of Clas Ohlson is based upon Swedish legislaber. The Notification, which is normally prepared about four tion, primarily the Companies Act, the listing agreement with weeks prior to the AGM, is published in Postoch Inrikes Nasdaq Stockholm and the Swedish Corporate Governance Tidningar, as well as on the company’s website. All shareholders Code (the Code). In addition, governance follows the Articles who are registered in the share register on the fifth day prior of Association, internal instructions and policies and recomto the AGM and registered in time are entitled to participate. mendations issued by relevant organisations. The corporate Registration can be made by telephone, e-mail, letter or the governance report has been prepared in accordance with the company’s website. Code. Each year, the AGM appoints the Board, the Chairman of the The Swedish Corporate Governance Code Board and the auditors for Clas Ohlson. In addition, the AGM The Swedish Corporate Governance Code is applicable to all decides how profits are to be allocated. Other issues that arise companies listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. The aim is to improve are mandatory items under the Companies Act and Clas Ohlcorporate governance in listed companies and foster trust in son’s Articles of Association (available at about.clasohlson.com). companies among the general public and in the capital market. Clas Ohlson’s AGM is very well attended, the latest with about The Code is based on the “comply or explain” principle, which 1,800 participants, making it one of the largest in Sweden. means that it is possible to deviate from the Code if an explanation is provided as to why the deviation has been made. During On 30 April 2019, the company’s largest shareholders, each the financial year it has not been any deviations versus the code representing at least 10 per cent of the votes, were Helena Ek within Clas Ohlson. Tidstrand (16.9 per cent), Björn Haid (12.6 per cent), Johan Tidstrand (12.4 per cent), Peter Haid (11.8 per cent) and Compliance with applicable regulations Claus-Toni Haid (11.5 per cent). for stock exchange trading Neither the Swedish Securities Council nor the Stockholm Nomination Committee Stock Exchange’s Disciplinary Committee reported infringeThe Nomination Committee’s task is to submit proposals for ments of good stock exchange practices or of the application of Board members and auditors, as well as fees to Board members stock exchange regulations. (including committee work) and to auditors, to the next AGM at which the Board and auditors are due to be elected. The NoAnnual General Meeting mination Committee also proposes the Chairman of the AGM. Shareholders exercise their influence through participation in the company’s Annual General Meeting (the ordinary annual At Clas Ohlson, a nomination process is applied for electing the general meeting). The AGM is the ultimate decision-making Nomination Committee. The Chairman of the Board is a membody and since the initial public offering in 1999, has always ber of the Nomination Committee, along with representatives been held in Insjön, Sweden, on a Saturday in early Septemfor the four largest registered shareholders or otherwise known CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 83 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE shareholders (record date 30 September). If a shareholder does Nomination Committee prior to the 2019 AGM not elect a member, the next largest shareholder will be asked. Prior to the AGM held on 7 September 2019, a Nomination The Nomination Committee elects a Chairman from within Committee was elected comprising Jonas Bergh, Chairman the Committee, which, according to the Code, shall not be the of the Nomination Committee representing the owner-family Chairman of the Board or another Board member. Haid, Göran Sundström representing the owner-family Tidstrand, Ricard Wennerklint representing If Skadeförsäkring During the year, an internal evaluation of the Board’s work AB, Erik Durhan representing Nordea Investment Funds and and Board composition was carried out. The evaluation was Kenneth Bengtsson, Chairman of the Board of Clas Ohlson. performed as an internal written evaluation. The results of the evaluation were presented verbally and in writing by the Board The composition of the Nomination Committee is based on Chairman Kenneth Bengtsson. The assessment is that the Board the owner relationship at 30 September 2018. The Nomination worked well during the year. Reporting took place in order to Committee represents slightly more than 70 per cent of the enable the Nomination Committee to make as thorough an total number of company shares (votes). The above Nominaassessment as possible of the Board’s combined expertise and tion Committee will serve until a new Nomination Committee experience. has been elected. The Nomination Committee fulfills the guidelines pertaining to The basis of the Nomination Committee’s work is that the Boindependence as stated in the Code. The Nomination Commitard is to have the expertise, experience and background required tee represents broad experience of work in boards of directors by the assignment. The degree of diversity in the Board was and nominating procedures. also taken into account and efforts are made to achieve an even gender balance. Factors including the company’s diversity policy were considered by the Nomination Committee in its work. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN CLAS OHLSON Nomination Committee ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING BOARD OF DIRECTORS Members and Chairman elected at the AGM Auditors Two members and two deputies appointed by unions Remuneration Strategies Audit Committee Committee Targets Reports Members from the Board Members from the Board President and CEO Senior Management Clas Clas Clas Clas Clas Clas Targets, Forecasts, Ohlson Ohlson Ohlson Ohlson Ohlson Ohlson activities AB AS Oy Ltd Ltd (Shanghai) GmbH reports Internal control instruments External control instruments 84 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Particular emphasis was placed on the company’s strategies and elected by the AGM. In addition to these members, the Board targets, as well as on the demands that the company’s future includes two representatives and two deputy for the trade-unifocus will place on the Board. The Nomination Committee also on organisations in the company. These individuals are elected discussed the Board’s long-term composition on the basis of by their own organisations. future competency requirements, diversity and succession. The Board fulfils the independence requirement of the Code. The committee worked on the nominating procedure for Clas All members, with the exception of Mathias Haid and Göran Ohlson’s AGM and held five meetings that were recorded, Sundström, are deemed independent in relation to the compawhere the Board’s composition was evaluated, considered and ny, executive management and major shareholders. Clas Ohlson discussed. strives towards diversity, compricing to over time have an equal distribution of men and women in the Board. Gender distribuThe Nomination Committee’s work during the mandate period tion in the Board among the members elected by the AGM in included the following: the past financial year was five men (62.5 per cent) and three • Report on the Board’s work from the Chairman of the Board women (37.5 per cent). In the preceding year, the correspon• Evaluation of the Board’s work ding distribution was four men (50 per cent) and four women • Nomination of the Chairman of the Board and Board (50 per cent). Margareta Lehmann and Håkan Lundstedt was members elected to the Board of Directors at the 2018 AGM. • Position concerning the independence of Board members and candidates Board meetings • Preparation of proposals for fees to the Board and committees Immediately following the AGM, the statutory Board meeting • Preparation of proposals for the Chairman of the AGM is held, at which the rules of procedure for the Board and • Nomination of auditors instructions to the company’s CEO are approved. The members of the Board’s Audit and Remuneration Committees and auThe Nomination Committee’s complete proposals are presented thorised signatories for the company are also appointed at this 11 June 2019. meeting. In addition to this meeting, the Board holds at least seven further meetings during the financial year. These are held Auditors quarterly in conjunction with the publication of the compaThe AGM appoints auditors for the Parent Company each year. ny’s financial reports and once in June prior to concluding the The AGM held on 8 September 2018 appointed Deloitte the Annual Report, once in connection with the AGM and once auditors of the company, with Kent Åkerlund as Auditor in during the autumn for strategic discussions. The strategy meCharge. Kent Åkerlund is an Authorised Public Accountant at eting usually takes place over two days, while other meetings are Deloitte. Deloitte was elected up to the 2019 AGM. held on one day. The strategy meeting mainly discusses issues relating to the Group’s targets and strategies, product range, Payment for audit engagements in the Group in the past three store establishment strategy, major investments and so forth. years totalled 2.3 MSEK, 2.2 MSEK and 2.1 MSEK, respectiOther meetings primarily deal with the usual Board issues, the vely. Remuneration for other assignments in the past three years company’s reports and reporting by the Board committees. totalled 0.4 MSEK, 0.6 MSEK and 0.4 MSEK, respectively. Work in addition to auditing relates primarily to issues pertaiThe company’s auditors attend three of the Board meetings ning to consultation on tax issues and IFRS accounting rules. to report on what has emerged during the audit. The Board meets the auditors once annually without the presence of senior The independent position of the auditors is ensured firstly by management. The Board held ten Board meetings during the the internal policies of the auditing firm and secondly by the financial year. The Board assesses its work annually. Board’s guidelines indicating what engagements the auditing firm may undertake in addition to auditing. How the Board works The rules of procedure for the Board of Directors stipulate Board of Directors which items on the agenda are to be fixed and which may vary. Clas Ohlson’s shareholders elect the Board of Directors annualEach Board meeting is normally to be devoted to a specific ly at the AGM. The Board comprises eight members, who are topic so that the Board can gain more in-depth knowledge and CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 85 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE understanding of the various parts of the company’s operations. The Audit Committee is responsible for the quality assurance There are also presentations on these topics by employees of the of financial reporting. In addition, the Audit Committee is company. responsible for supervising the effectiveness of risk management and internal control of the financial reporting. The issues that the Board dealt with during the year included strategic direction, monitoring of the business plan, a review of The members of the Audit Committee met the auditors on risk management, significant business processes, development two occasions during the financial year to be informed about of current markets and expansion. the focus of the audit and discuss views on the risks faced by the company. In addition, the auditors attended several of the The work of the Board’s committees is an important element of committee’s other meetings. Important tasks for the Audit the Board’s work. The Board has prepared instructions for the Committee are to serve as a communication link, between the committees’ work. The Remuneration Committee and Audit Board and the company’s auditors and to establish what services Committee discuss issues that fall within the committees’ remit. over and beyond auditing can be procured from the company’s Issues that have been addressed in the committee meetings are auditors. The auditing effort is evaluated annually, after which minuted and notified to the other Board members at the Board information is passed to the Nomination Committee on the meetings. outcome. The rules of procedure also state that the Board must meet with The Audit Committee held ten meetings during the financial the company’s auditors at least twice per year. In addition, the year. Attendance is shown in the table on page 87. The merules of procedure also regulate certain formal matters, such as etings are minuted and reported at the next Board meeting. rules for the notification of meetings and secrecy. Representatives of the company’s management attended the committee’s meetings as co-opted members. The meetings Audit Committee addressed issues aimed at quality assuring risk management and At its first meeting following the AGM, the Board established internal control of the financial reporting. Moreover, the Audit an Audit Committee comprising Göran Sundström (ChairCommittee dealt with issues regarding the company’s interim man), Charlotte Strömberg and Håkan Lundstedt. The Board reports, annual report, accounting, liquidity and other issues. has issued instructions for the committee work. THE BOARD’S WORKING SCHEDULE May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb March April Annual report AGM Monthly updates of the business operations, results, KPIs, etc. Operations planning • Dividend proposal • Strategy meeting • Interim report, Q2 • Interim report, Q3 • Year-end report • Financial reporting • Financial reporting • Interim report, Q1 • Financial reporting • Monitoring of the • Monitoring of the • Financial reporting business plan/forecast business plan/forecast • Monitoring of the business plan/forecast • Monitoring of the • Risk reporting • Forecast for future • Annual Report for the business plan/forecast • Meeting with auditors financial years preceding financial year • Annual General Meeting • Decision on business plan • Risk reporting • Statutory Board meeting • Decision pertaining to • Meeting with auditors remuneration issues 86 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration Committee investments and matters of principle relating to the governance In accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the of subsidiaries, as well as the election of Board members and AGM of a limited liability company whose shares are listed for the CEO. The Board is also responsible for the quality of the trading on a regulated marketplace is to decide on guidelines financial reporting. for remuneration of senior executives. The Code also stipulates that the Board is to establish a Remuneration Committee. The CEO in turn is responsible for ensuring that the company is managed in accordance with Board’s guidelines and instrucThe Clas Ohlson Board decided in September 2018 that the tions. In addition, the CEO is responsible for forecasting and Remuneration Committee was to comprise Kenneth Bengtsson planning the company’s operations so that specified targets are (Chairman), Göran Näsholm and Mathias Haid. The Board has attained. The CEO ensures that the control environment is issued instructions for the committee work. favourable and that the Group’s risk-taking at any time is compatible with the Board’s guidelines. Any deviations have to be The Remuneration Committee submits proposals for guidelines reported to the Board. The Board also receives regular informapertaining to basic salary and variable remuneration for senior tion from the CEO through a monthly report. management. The process regarding variable remuneration for all staff works in a similar way. The Committee met three CEO and Senior Management times during the financial year. Attendance is shown in the Clas Ohlson’s CEO leads the senior management’s work and table below. The meetings are minuted and reported at the makes decisions pertaining to the operations in consultation next Board meeting. The Remuneration Committee addressed with others in the senior management. At the end of the finansuch issues as fixed and variable remuneration and prepared the cial year, senior management comprised eleven individuals and suggestions to long-term incentive program (LTI). meetings were held monthly and as otherwise necessary. The meetings focus primarily on strategic and operative monitoring and Distribution of work between the Board and CEO development, as well as results follow-up. In addition to these The Board appoints the CEO of the company. The distribution meetings, there is close daily cooperation within management. of work between the Board and CEO is indicated in the Board’s rules of procedure and in the instructions to the CEO. These Governance of subsidiaries state that the Board is responsible for the governance, superviThe five wholly owned subsidiaries Clas Ohlson AS in Norway, sion, organisation, strategies, internal control, forecasts and poClas Ohlson Oy in Finland, Clas Ohlson Ltd in the UK, Clas licies of the company. In addition, the Board decides on major Ohlson GmbH in Germany and Clas Ohlson Ltd (Shanghai) Composition of the Board and attendance during the financial year 1 4 5 9 Member 2, 3 Elected Independent Independent Board meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee 6 6 Kenneth Bengtsson 2013 Ja Ja 10/10 3/3 2/2 7 Ros-Mari Grusén 2016 Ja Ja 8 3/10 Mathias Haid 2015 Ja Nej 9/10 2/3 7 Cecilia Marlow 2007 Ja Ja 5/10 7/7 Göran Näsholm 2015 Ja Ja 8 9/10 2/3 6 Göran Sundström 2014 Ja Nej 10/10 10/10 2/2 Anne Thorstvedt Sjöberg 2017 Ja Ja 10/10 Charlotte Strömberg 2017 Ja Ja 10/10 10/10 7 Margareta Lehmann 2018 Ja Ja 5/10 7 Håkan Lundstedt 2018 Ja Ja 5/10 2/3 1 The trade-union organisations have had four representatives on the Board. For further information on Board members, see pages 92-93. The work of the Board and its committees is described on pages 85-87 2 For information on date of birth, work experience, assignments and shareholdings, see pages 92-93. 3 Remuneration of Board members is stated in Note 6, see page 109-110. 4 Independent in relation to the company and executive management according to the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. 5 Independent in relation to major shareholders of the company according to the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. 6 Chairman. 7 At the 2018 Annual General Meeting, Margareta Lehmann and Håkan Lundstedt where elected to the Board as Board members. Ros-Mari Grusén and Cecilia Marlow declined re-election. 8 Are, or represents, major shareholders, see page 145. 9 For the Nomination Committee, only those members who are also Board members are presented. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 87 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE in China are governed by their own boards in the country concerned, principally consisting of representatives of Clas Ohlson AB in Sweden. The Board in Sweden receives continuous information about the subsidiaries through the CEO’s monthly reports on the subsidiaries. These reports also include the results of operations and financial position of the company concerned. External and internal control instruments Clas Ohlson’s governance occurs within the framework for external control instruments, such as Nasdaq Stockholm’s rules and regulations, the Swedish Companies Act and the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. Furthermore, there are internal control instruments consisting of the Articles of Association, the Board’s rules of procedure, Severance pay instructions for the CEO, policies, guidelines, as well as Clas Under the contract of employment with the CEO, the mutual Ohlson’s values and corporate culture. period of notice is six months. Six months’ salary is payable in the event of termination by the company. Applicable basic Clas Ohlson’s corporate culture salary, variable remuneration and benefits are payable during The Clas Ohlson spirit encapsulates how we treat each other the period of notice. and our customers and it has in essence been the same since the company was founded in 1918. Read more about the Clas Pension Ohlson spirit on page 24 and page 27. The members of the Board do not receive any pension benefits for their Board engagements. The retirement age for the Remuneration CEO and for other senior management is 65. The CEO has a Fees paid to the Board during the financial year totalled 3.4 defined-contribution pension into which 1.7 MSEK was paid MSEK, in accordance with the resolution by the AGM. Of during the financial year. Other members of senior managethe fees paid, 0.5 MSEK pertained to remuneration for work ment receive pension entitlements based on their applicable on the Board’s Remuneration and Audit Committees. Of the ITP plan, which also covers other salaried staff in Sweden. Board’s total fee, 0.8 MSEK was paid to the Chairman of the Board. No remuneration is paid to members of the Nomination Remuneration principles Committee. The general principles of remuneration for senior executives are to be based on the position held, individual performance, the Remuneration as CEO amounted to 8.3 MSEK, of which 1.6 Group’s financial results and the remuneration being competitiMSEK amounted to variable remuneration (STI). Variable remuve in the country of employment. The combined remuneration neration pertaining to the expensed but not definite portion of of senior executives is to consist of basic salary, variable salary the long-term incentive program (LTI 2017 and LTI 2018) was a in the form of a short-term incentive based on annual perforcost reduction of 0.1 MSEK for the CEO. mance objectives, long-term incentives based on multi-year performance, pension and other benefits. The principles also Remuneration to the other ten senior executives totalled 23.7 regulate the terms and conditions for termination of employMSEK, of which 3.1 MSEK was in the form of variable remument and for severance pay. Clas Ohlson strives to offer a neration. Variable remuneration pertaining to the expensed but competitive total level of remuneration, focusing on payments not definite portion of the long-term incentive programs was based on performance. This means that variable remuneration a cost reduction of 0.2 MSEK. (Last year the corresponding may comprise a significant portion of the total remuneration. figure was a total cost of 1.9 MSEK). All eleven of senior maThe aim is for basic remuneration to be in line with the median nagement receive the additional benefit of a company car. The of the comparable market, while total remuneration, when Clas 2018 AGM decided on guidelines for remuneration to senior Ohlson meets or exceeds its objectives, is to be in the upper management pertaining to the 2018/19 financial year. quartile of the market. 88 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Risk management Internal control of the financial reporting The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s risk effort. The Board has overall responsibility for the company’s systems The risk situation in Clas Ohlson is updated and analysed repertaining to internal control. The responsibility is regulated by gularly. This is done by means of a systematic process in which the Swedish Companies Act, which also states that the Audit risks are identified, valued and assessed, managed, monitored Committee has a specific responsibility for monitoring quaand reported. Using an overall assessment, priority is given lity assurance in risk management and internal control of the to those risks whose impact and probability are deemed to financial reporting. represent the most negative effect. A key aspect in this work is the measures undertaken to avoid (control activities), reduce or The company’s work on internal control follows the framework shift the risk to another party (insurance). The risks are entered developed by The Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of in risk maps in order to clarify the overall risk exposure. the Treadway Commission (COSO). The framework consists of Mapping is done at the Group level and represents a tool for five individual areas: control environment, risk assessment, conoperational and strategic governance by the Board and the trol activities, information and communication and follow-up. company’s senior management. By means of risk mapping, the focus can be aimed at reducing the company’s risk exposure Control environment and reducing the consequences of any risks emerging. The Risk The control environment comprises the organisational structure Committee pursues the work involved in compiling, monitoand the values, guidelines, policies, instructions and so on, acring and developing the risk management process. Reporting cording to which the organisation works. Effective Board work of the Group’s overall risk status is made internally to the Audit forms the basis of good internal control and the Board of Clas Committee and the Board twice annually. Ohlson has established rules of procedure and clear instructions for its work. This also includes the Board’s Remuneration and Sustainability Audit Committees. For Clas Ohlson, it is important to protect and assume responsibility for people and the environment impacted by our Part of the Board’s work involves drawing up and approving operation. Our sustainability agenda is an integrated part of the policies that govern the Group’s work on internal control. Clas Ohlson’s operation and is described under the respective Another part involves creating the necessary conditions for an area, on pages 38-69, as well as in the chapter on governance organisational structure with clear roles and responsibilities, and responsibility on pages 26-31. For more information, see leading to effective management of the risks in the operation. the company’s sustainability report on page 126-141. RISK MANAGEMENT Decision on overall The Board policies Monitoring Audit Committee Reporting Governance Implement, delegate Senior Management Establish guidelines and instructions, educate, compile Risk Committee reports Monitor existing risks, identify new risks, Head of function report CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 89 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Group has regulations governing decision-making and An assessment is then made of whether the controls that take authorisation levels that parallel the Group’s organisational place are adequate. If there is a need, further compensatory structure. The focus is on clarifying who has a mandate to controls are introduced to reduce the risk to an acceptable level. decide on investments, activities, signing of agreements and so The subsidiaries have accounting managers and controllers who forth in each function and the limits in terms of the amounts ensure that financial reporting is correct and complete. In addiinvolved. In the event that the amount exceeds the function’s tion, they ensure that legislation is observed and that financial mandate, the decision is assigned to the next level in the orgareporting is completed within the time frames to senior mananisation. This is done in order to maintain a good corporate gogement and to the Group accounting function. Moreover, there vernance and awareness at the various levels in the organisation. are controllers at major Group functions and on the Group The regulations governing decision-making and authorisation finance function with equivalent working tasks. constitute the basis for decision-making at Clas Ohlson. The Group finance function has a close and well-functioning The senior management is responsible for implementing cooperation with subsidiaries as regards reporting and closing guidelines for the maintenance of good internal control. An accounts. Each month, all subsidiaries report complete closing ongoing work is being done in developing and improving accounts, which constitute the basis for the Group’s consolidainternal control. The senior management and the Audit Comted financial reporting. mittee report continuously to the Board according to approved procedures. Information and communication Major policies, guidelines, instructions and manuals that are All activity is undertaken in accordance with the ethical guideliof significance to internal control are regularly updated and nes drawn up in the Group’s Code of Conduct. communicated to employees concerned. General guidelines and instructions are also available on the company’s intranet. Risk assessment and control activities Inom Clas Ohlson arbetas kontinuerligt med de områden som There are both formal and informal information channels to bedöms mest prioriterade baserat på väsentlighet och risk. the senior management and the Board for information from staff. The Board receives regular feedback from the operations The Group’s income consists of sales in stores and online on questions that relate to internal control through the Audit shopping where payment is principally made by credit card Committee. For external communication, there are guidelines or in cash. This income is documented in its entirety in bank that support the requirement to provide the equities market accounts which are reconciled daily. The risk of errors in the with correct information. reporting of income is limited. Group expenses primarily comprise goods-related expenses, freights, salaries and social Follow-up of internal control security contributions, rental expenses and marketing. Income Senior management and the Audit Committee regularly report and expenses are forecasted for each store and department. The to the Board on the basis of established procedures. The Board outcome is checked monthly against both the forecast and the receives regular information from the CEO every month preceding year. through a monthly report for the Group. This monthly report also contains information on the results and financial positions About 90 per cent of Clas Ohlson’s assets consist of inventories of the subsidiaries. and non-current assets. Accordingly, particular emphasis has been placed on preventing and detecting deficiencies in these Each interim report is analysed by the Audit Committee with areas when designing internal controls. regard to the correctness of the financial information. The Audit Committee also plays a key role in monitoring to ensure The processes and the control structure are documented in a that there are sufficient control activities for the most essential separate financial manual, which is updated regularly. Work is areas of risk pertaining to the financial reporting and commucontinuously in progress to evaluate the most essential processes nicating material issues to the senior management, Board and in the Group. The greatest risks in each process are documented. auditors. An important aspect is to ensure that any viewpoints from the auditors are rectified. 90 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Three times a year, the entire Board meets the company’s auditors to be informed of the external audit and discuss relevant issues. On the basis of the auditors’ reporting, the Board forms a picture of the internal control and the correctness of the financial information. The CEO does not take part in any issues that relate to company management. Internal audit Following evaluations in the financial year and preceding years, the Board has not found it necessary to date to establish an internal audit function. The company’s Group-wide controller function has instead been adapted to also deal with work regarding internal control. The question of whether to establish a separate internal audit function is re-examined annually. Furthermore, the company has a Risk Committee that continuously evaluates material risks and control activities. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 91 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board of Directors Kenneth Bengtsson Mathias Haid Margareta Lehmann Chairman of the Board since 2014, Member of Member of the Board since 2015 Member of the Board since 2018 the Board since 2013 Born in 1970. Born in 1958. Born 1961. Professional experience: Pilot at Lufthansa Professional experience: Senior Advisor at Professional experience: CEO and various Cargo AG, training officer at Lufthansa’s Essity. Former President, Health and Medical executive positions in ICA for more than 30 years. airline operations and several senior positions Solutions, at Essity (part of SCA until 2018) Other significant directorships: Chairman in Lufthansa’s airline operations in 1998-2015. and has previously held a number of leading of the Board of Diaverum, Ersta diakoni, Lyko, Member of the Board of Clas Ohlson AS and positions within SCA and Mölnlycke and Systembolaget and World Childhood Foundation. Clas Ohlson Oy 2002-2005. been a board member of Sanitec. Board member of Herenco, Synsam and Virtual Other significant directorships: Board Other significant directorships: Board Stores AB. member of Clas Ohlson Foundation. member of Essity Hygiene and Health AB. Independent in relation to the company, executive Dependent in relation to major shareholders Independent in relation to the company, exemanagement and major shareholders according according to the Swedish Code of Corporate cutive management and major shareholders to the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. Governance. Independent in relation to the according to the Swedish Code of Corporate Shareholding*: 15,000 series B shares own holcompany and executive management. Governance. ding and 42,000 series B shares via a legal entity. Shareholding*: 11,610 series B shares. Shareholding*: 4,500 series B shares. Håkan Lundstedt Göran Näsholm Charlotte Strömberg Member of the Board since 2018 Member of the Board since 2015 Member of the Board since 2017 Born in 1966. Born in 1955. Born in 1959. Professional experience: CEO and Mechanical engineer and Master of Business Master of Business Administration, Stockholm managing director of Synsam and has Administration. School of Economics. previously been the CEO of Mekonomen Professional experience: CEO of Ahlsell AB Professional experience: Has previously and Lantmännen, and held a number of 1999-2015. Executive Vice President of Ahlsell AB, been the CEO for Jones Lang LaSalle Nordics, senior roles with Orkla. Division Manager of Ahlsell AB, President of Jirva held a number of roles with Carnegie InvestOther significant directorships: Board AB, Purchasing Director of Calor Celsius AB and ment Bank, Alfred Berg/ABN Amro, Consensus member with Carl Edmond and the various purchasing-related positions in Alfa Laval. and Robur Capital Management. Venue Retail Group. Other significant directorships: Chairman of Other significant directorships: Chairman of the Board of Fresks Holding AB and Malef Holding the Board of Castellum AB and Board member Independent in relation to the company, AB. Board member of Martin & Servera AB and of Kinnevik AB, Founding Partner DHS Venture, executive management and major sharePegroco Invest AB. Sofina S.A., Skanska AB and member of the holders according to the Swedish Code Swedish Securities Council. of Corporate Governance. Independent in relation to the company, executive Shareholding*: 0. management and major shareholders according to Independent in relation to the company, the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. executive management and major shareholders Shareholding*: 50,500 series B shares. according to the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. Shareholding*: 5,000 series B shares. * Own and related parties´shares as of 15 June 2019. 92 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | BOARD OF DIRECTORS Göran Sundström Anne Thorstvedt Sjöberg Freja Aleman Member of the Board since 2014 Member of the Board since 2017 Member of the Board since 2018 Born in 1962. Born in 1965. Born in 1979. Master of Business Administration, Lund University. Master of Business Administration, University of Deputy employee representative Professional experience: Founder and CEO of Gothenburg. (Handels) Sundström & Partners, various senior positions in Professional experience: Global Vice PresiShareholding*: 0. Corporate Finance at Alfred Berg Fondkommission dent Marketing, Electrolux AB. Previously GloAB, Aros Securities AB and Nordea Securities. bal Director, Consumer, Analysis and Business Other significant directorships: Chairman of the Development at Mondelez International. Several Board of Logitall AB and Board member of Parks & years of international experience in leading posiResorts Scandinavia AB, Sundström & Partners AB tions at companies such as Kraft Foods and and Clas Ohlson Foundation. Procter & Gamble. Dependent in relation to major shareholders accorIndependent in relation to the company, ding to the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. executive management and major shareholders Independent in relation to the company and executiaccording to the Swedish Code of Corporate ve management. Governance. Shareholding*: 2,400 series B shares own holding Shareholding*: 4,200 series B shares. and 1,600 series B shares via a legal entity. Joe Erikson Caroline Östning Lasse Zwetsloot Member of the Board since 2017 Member of the Board since 2018 Member of the Board since 2012 Born in 1987. Born in 1978. Born in 1976. Deputy employee representative Employee representative (Unionen) Employee representative (Handels) (Handels) Shareholding*: 0. Shareholding*: 1,485 series B shares. Shareholding*: 0. * Own and related parties´shares as of 15 June 2019. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 93 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | GROUP MANAGEMENT Group management Lotta Lyrå Peder Apelgren Eva Berg President and CEO Chief Digital Officer Director of Purchasing and Product Employed in 2017. Employed in 2019. development Born in 1975. Born in 1971. Employed in 2010. Master of Business Administration, Stockholm MSc in Engineering, KTH Royal Institute of Born in 1965. School of Economics. Technology. Textilinstitutet Borås, Köpmannainstitutet Professional experience: Head of DeveProfessional experience: Head of CustoStockholm. lopment & Expansion at IKEA Group and mer Service globally and several other leading Professional experience: Assortment several other leading positions at IKEA Group. positions at IKEA Group. Various positions Manager Clas Ohlson, Category Manager Various positions within Södra Skogsägarna within Icon Medialab, Ericsson and Hewlett Clas Ohlson, Production office manager H&M and McKinsey & Co. Packard. Hong Kong and other leading positions with Shareholding*: 17,093 series B shares. Shareholding*: 1,272 series B shares. H&M. Shareholding*: 3,607 series B shares. Pär Christiansen Tina Englyst CFO Head of Legal and Sustainability Employed in 2018. Employed in 2011. Born in 1973. Born in 1976. MSc in Engineering, Faculty of engineMaster of Law, Uppsala University and ering, LTH, BSc in Business administraUniversity of Cambridge (LLM). tion and Economics, Lund University. Professional experience: Associate Professional experience: CFO at Gant Mannheimer Swartling Advokatbyrå, Senior and several leading positions with TransLegal Counsel MTV Networks AB and Head com, MTR and SAS. of Legal MTV Networks AB. Shareholding*: 13,788 series B shares. Shareholding*: 7,558 series B shares. * Own and related parties´shares as of 15 June 2019. 94 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | GROUP MANAGEGeir Hoff Jesper Smith Jacob Sten Director of New markets and Expansion HR Director Chief Growth Officer Employed in 1994. Employed in 2017. Employed in 2018. Born in 1972. Born in 1970. Born in 1967. Master of Arts, law, political science and social Behavioural science, language and business, Business Administration, Lund University. economics, University of Oslo. University of Lund. Executive Master in Professional experience: CEO at InspiProfessional experience: Country Manager Leadership and Organisation, Nyenrode randa and several leading positions at Sony Clas Ohlson Norway, Marketing Manager Clas Business School. Mobile, Ericsson Mobile and Orkla Foods. Ohlson Norway and various other positions Professional experience: Director of HR Shareholding*: 3,223 series B shares. within Clas Ohlson Norway. and Internal Communications at Telekom Shareholding*: 12,629 series B shares. Austria Group and different roles within HR at Ericsson, Sony Ericsson, and Tieto. Shareholding*: 2,767 series B shares. Stine Trygg-Hauger Fredrik Uhrbom Virpi Viinikainen Country Manager Clas Ohlson Norway Country Manager Clas Ohlson Sweden Country Manager Clas Ohlson Finland Employed in 2009. Employed in 2017. Employed in 2019. Born in 1982. Born in 1971. Born in 1973. Marketing & Communications, HandelshøysMSc in Business and Economics, Stockholm MSc in Economics, University of Jyväskylä. kolen BI. University, Regensburg FH and Dalarna Professional experience: A number of Professional experience: Head of CommuUniversity. leading positions at the Finnish retail group nications & Customer Interaction and other Professional experience: Director Market Kesko. Chain Director of K-Rauta Finland. positions within marketing and communicaOperations at Hultafors Group, part of InvestShareholding*: 2,057 series B shares. tions at Clas Ohlson Norway, Brand Manager ment AB Latour, Trade Commissioner/Counat Validus. try Manager at Swedish Trade Council. Shareholding*: 2,910 series B shares. Shareholding*: 11,183 series B shares. * Own and related parties´shares as of 15 June 2019. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 95 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group Income statement Cash flow statement 1 May 2018 1 May 2017 1 May 2018 1 May 2017 MSEK Note –30 Apr 2019 –30 Apr 2018 MSEK –30 Apr 2019 –30 Apr 2018 1, 2 Operating activities Sales 8,772.3 8,210.7 Operating profit 94.0 468.3 Cost of goods sold 4,5,6 -5,277.5 -4,926.6 Gross profit 3,494.8 3,284.1 Adjustment for non-cash items – depreciation 236.9 225.6 Selling expenses 4, 5, 6 -2,939.0 -2,579.7 – loss from sale/disposal of Administrative expenses 4, 5, 6, 7 -253.2 -237.1 non-current assets 56.5 1.4 Other operating income 3 25.1 24.3 –o  ther non-cash items 38.7 -18.4 Other operating expenses 3 -233.7 -23.3 Interest received 1.1 0.7 Operating profit 94.0 468.3 Interest paid -3.3 -1.9 Tax paid -104.5 -131.8 Financial items Cash flow from operating activities before Financial income 8 1.1 0.7 changes in working capital 319.5 543.9 Financial expense 8 -3.3 -1.9 Cash flow from changes in working capital Profit before tax 91.9 467.1 – accounts receivable -5.1 -1.8 Income tax 9 -20.3 -109.3 – inventories 57.7 -361.8 Profit for the year 71.6 357.8 – other receivables 153.7 -109.3 Number of shares at the end of – accounts payable -244.6 243.6 the period, millions 63.2 63.2 –o  ther current interest-free Earnings per share operating liabilities 30.7 58.3 before dilution, SEK 10 1.13 5.66 Cash flow from operating activities 312.0 372.8 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 10 1.13 5.65 Investing activities Proposed dividend per share, Investments in intangible assets -104.9 -124.0 SEK 11 6.25 6.25 Investments in tangible assets -105.8 -148.8 Statement of consolidated comprehensive income Investments in securities held as fixed assets -0.8 -224.5 Sale of equipment 0.1 0.1 1 May 2018 1 May 2017 MSEK –30 Apr 2019 –30 Apr 2018 Cash flow from investing activities -211.4 -497.2 Profit for the year 71.6 357.8 Financing activities Change in current liabilities, interest-bearing 283.1 0.0 Other comprehensive income, net after tax: Repurchase of own shares 0.0 -20.9 Items that can later be reversed in the Sales of own shares 0.0 26.1 consolidated income statement: Capital contribution from minority 0.5 0.0 Exchange-rate differences 1.3 54.3 Change in longterm assets -0.6 0.0 Cash-flow hedging 7.0 -9.3 Dividend to shareholders -395.1 -395.0 Items that cannot later be reversed in Cash flow from financing activities -112.0 -389.8 the consolidated income statement: Remeasurement of defined-benefit pension obligations 0.0 0.0 Cash flow for the year -11.5 -514.2 Other comprehensive income, Cash and cash equivalents net after tax 8.3 45.0 at the start of the year 115.8 625.1 Comprehensive income for the year 79.9 402.8 Exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents 0.6 4.9 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 105.0 115.8 (Of the above profits is 72.7 MSEK attributable to owners of the Parent and -1.1 MSEK is attributable to the minority. Of the above Comprehensive income is 81.0 MSEK attributable to owners of the parent and -1.1 MSEK attributable to the minority.) 96 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group Balance sheet Balance sheet MSEK Note 30 Apr 2019 30 Apr 2018 MSEK Note 30 Apr 2019 30 Apr 2018 Assets Equity and liabilities Non-current assets 12 Equity 18 Intangible assets Capital and reserves attributable to Parent Company shareholders , , IT and software costs 476.9 428.2 Share capital, 65,600,000 shares with a Total intangible assets 476.9 428.2 quotient value of 1.25 SEK 82.0 82.0 Tangible assets Other contributed capital 90.4 90.4 Land and buildings 358.1 386.8 Other reserves -36.6 -44.9 Equipment, tools, fixtures and Profit brought forward including profit for fittings 553.5 654.6 the year 1,804.9 2,136.4 Total tangible assets 911.6 1,041.3 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 6.6 0.0 Securities held as fixed assets Total equity 1,947.3 2,263.9 Securities held as fixed assets 12 225.3 224.5 Non-current liabilities Total securities held as fixed assets 225.3 224.5 Deferred tax liabilities 9 187.1 210.1 Other non-current liabilities 5.0 5.0 Non-current receivables Deferred tax assets 9 19.4 13.4 Other non-current provisions 22 12.7 12.3 Other non-current receivables 19 2.0 1.5 Total non-current liabilities 204.8 227.4 Total non-current receivables 21.5 14.9 Current liabilities Current assets Accounts payable 20 637.3 881.6 Inventories 13 1,987.3 2,038.0 Tax liability 43.1 35.3 Accounts receivable 14 39.0 33.7 Other current liabilities 20 198.6 180.8 Tax assets 53.1 61.3 Current liabilities. interest-bearing 283.1 0.0 Other receivables 9.6 35.4 Accrued expenses and deferred income 17, 21 545.7 536.5 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 15, 17 147.8 206.6 Other provisions 22 116.9 74.2 Cash and cash equivalents 16 105.0 115.8 Total current liabilities 1,824.8 1,708.4 Total current assets 2,341.7 2,490.7 Total equity and liabilities 3,976.9 4,199.7 Total assets 3,976.9 4,199.7 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 97 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group Consolidated statement of changes in equity (Note 18) Income attributable Other to nonShare contributed Translation Hedging Profit brought controlling MSEK capital capital difference reserve forward interests Total Opening balance at 1 May 2017 82.0 90.4 -95.0 5.1 2,168.2 2,250.7 Comprehensive income Profit for the year 357.8 357.8 Other comprehensive income Cash-flow hedging after taxl -9.3 -9.3 Exchange-rate differences 54.3 54.3 Remeasurement of defined-benefit pension obligations Total other comprehensive income 54.3 -9.3 45,0 Total comprehensive income 54.3 -9.3 357.8 402.8 Transactions with shareholders Repurchase of own share -20.9 -20.9 Sales of own share 26.1 26.1 Employee stock options plan: value of employees’ service 0.2 0.2 Dividend -395.0 -395.0 Total transactions with shareholders -389.6 -389.6 Closing balance at 30 April 2018 82.0 90.4 -40.6 -4.3 2,136.4 2,263.9 Opening balance at 1 May 2018 82.0 90.4 -40.6 -4.3 2,136.4 2,263.9 Comprehensive income Profit for the year 72.7 -1.1 71.6 Other comprehensive income Cash-flow hedging after tax 7.0 7.0 Exchange-rate differences 1.3 1.3 Remeasurement of defined-benefit pension obligations Total other comprehensive income 1.3 7.0 8.3 Total comprehensive income 1.3 7.0 72.7 -1.1 79.9 Transactions with shareholders Change in minority share, attributable to non-controlling interests 7.1 7.1 Acquisition of minority share, attributable to non-controlling interests 0.0 0.0 Employee stock options plan: value of employees’ service -2.7 -2.7 Change in share, attributable to non-controlling interests -6.4 -6.4 Capital contribution from minority 0.5 0.5 Dividend -395.1 -395.1 Total transactions with shareholders -404.2 7.6 -396.6 Closing balance at 30 April 2019 82.0 90.4 -39.3 2.7 1,804.9 6.6 1,947.3 98 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent company Income statement Cash flow statement 1 May 2018 1 May 2017 1 May 2018 1 May 2017 MSEK Note –30 Apr 2019 –30 Apr 2018 MSEK –30 Apr 2019 –30 Apr 2018 1, 2 Operating activities Sales 23 6,787.8 6,444.1 Operating profit -32.1 186.8 Cost of goods sold 4,5,6 -4,978.5 -4,817.6 Gross profit 1,809.4 1,626.5 Adjustment for non-cash item – depreciation 161.1 151.5 Selling expenses 4,5,6 -1,433.4 -1,244.9 – loss from sale/disposal of Administrative expenses 4,5,6,7 -207.5 -195.8 non-current assets 8.1 0.9 Other operating income 3 25.1 24.3 – other non-cash items -3.5 4.9 Other operating expenses 3 -225.7 -23.3 Interest received 2.4 1.3 Operating profit -32.1 186.8 Interest paid -5.1 -2.7 Tax paid -64.0 -82.9 Financial items Cash flow from operating activities Dividend from subsidiaries 282.2 112.7 before changes in working capital 66.9 259.6 Interest income 8 2.4 1.3 Cash flow from changes in working capital Interest expense 8 -5.1 -2.7 – accounts receivable -2.6 1.7 Profit after financial items 247.4 298.0 – inventories -36.6 -265.6 Appropriations 26 41.2 12.8 – other receivables 116.6 -145.1 Profit before tax 288.7 310.8 – accounts payable -239.3 251.0 Income tax 9 -3.1 -45.7 – other current interest-free operating liabilities -95.3 74.6 Profit for the year 285.6 265.1 Cash flow from operating activities -190.4 176.2 Investing activities Proposed dividend per share, SEK 11 6.25 6.25 Investments in intangible assets -104.9 -124.0 Investments in tangible assets -54.7 -54.7 Investments in securities held as fixed assets -0.8 -224.5 Investments in subsidiaries -10.0 0.0 Comprehensive income. Parent Company Sale of equipment 0.1 0.1 1 May 2018 1 May 2017 Cash flow from investing activities -170.4 -403.1 MSEK –30 Apr 2019 –30 Apr 2018 Financing activities Profit for the year 285.6 265.1 Change in short term debt interest bearing 283.1 0.0 Change in other long term receivables -0.8 0.0 Other comprehensive income, Change in long term receivables Group comnet after tax: panies 187,9 0 Items that can later be reversed in the Repurchase of own shares 0.0 -20.9 consolidated income statement: Sales of own shares 0.0 26.1 Profit/loss from hedging of net Repayments/Lending from subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 investments in foreign operations -8.2 11.3 Dividend from subsidiaries 282.2 112.7 Comprehensive income for the year 277.4 276.4 Dividend to shareholders -395.1 -395.0 Cash flow from financing activities 357.3 -277.1 Cash flow for the year -3.4 -504.0 Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 36.9 540.9 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 33.4 36.9 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 99 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent company Balance sheet Balance sheet MSEK Note 30 Apr 2019 30 Apr 2018 MSEK Note 30 Apr 2019 30 Apr 2018 Assets Equity and liabilities Non-current assets 12 Equity 18 Intangible assets Restricted equity IT and software costs 476.9 428.2 Share capital, 65,600,000 shares Total intangible assets 476.9 428.2 with a quotient value of 1.25 82.0 82.0 Statutory reserve 106.8 106.8 Tangible assets Development fond 22.4 15.8 Land and buildings 358.1 386.8 Total restricted equity 211.2 204.6 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 297.3 327.0 Non-restricted equity Total tangible assets 655.4 713.8 Fair value fund -6.6 -17.5 Financial non-current assets Profit brought forward 274.7 433.1 Deferred tax assets 3.5 4.0 Profit for the year 285.6 265.1 Receivables, Group companies 0.0 165.2 Total non-restricted equity 553.6 680.7 Securities held as fixed assets 25 225.3 224.5 Total equity 764.8 885.3 Non-current receivables 0.8 0.0 Participations in Group companies 24 39.3 29.3 Untaxed reserves 28 994.5 1,035.7 Total financial non-current assets 268.9 423.0 Total non-current assets 1,401.2 1,565.0 Provisions Other provisions 22 49.9 50.7 Current assets Total provisions 49.9 50.7 Inventories Merchandise 13 1,364.2 1,327.6 Total inventories 1,364.2 1,327.6 Non-current liabilities Other non-current liabilities 5.0 5.0 Total non-current liabilities 5.0 5.0 Current receivables Accounts receivable 14 20.6 18.0 Current liabilities Tax assets 52.9 60.5 Accounts payable 20 590.0 829.2 Receivables from Group companies 139.1 113.6 Liabilities to Group companies 0.0 126.5 Other receivables 0.8 29.0 Current liabilities, interest-bearing 283.1 0.0 Other current liabilities 82.7 32.8 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 15 82.7 127.4 Accrued expenses and deferred Total current receivables 296.1 348.5 income 21 324.9 312.8 Total current liabilities 1,280.7 1,301.4 Cash and bank balances 27 33.4 36.9 Total equity and liabilities 3,095.0 3,278.1 Total current assets 1,693.7 1,713.1 Total assets 3,095.0 3,278.1 100 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent company Change in Parent Company equity Total nonStatutory Development restricted MSEK Share capital reserve fund equity Total equity Opening balance at 1 May 2017 82.0 106.8 7.9 801.7 998.5 Dividend -395.0 -395.0 Repurchase own shares -20.9 -20.9 Sales of own shares 26.1 26.1 Employee stock options plan: value of employees’ service 0.2 0.2 Change of development fund 7.9 -7.9 Other comprehensive income 276.4 276.4 Closing balance at 30 April 2018 82.0 106.8 15.8 680.7 885.3 Opening balance at 1 May 2018 82.0 106.8 15.8 680.7 885.3 Dividend -395.1 -395.1 Repurchase own shares Sales of own shares Employee stock options plan: value of employees’ service -2.7 -2.7 Change of development fund 6.6 -6.6 Other comprehensive income 277.4 277.4 Closing balance at 30 April 2019 82.0 106.8 22.4 553.6 764.8 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 101 NOTES NOTES Accounting policies and Notes Amounts are in MSEK unless stated otherwise Note 1 Accounting and valuation policies Compliance with standards and legislation financial instruments is based on the business model applied for holding the The consolidated financial statements for Clas Ohlson have been prepared in assets and the characteristics of the contractual cash flows generated by the accordance with the Annual Accounts Act, RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting assets. IFRS 9 did not entail any changes in measurement for the Group. In the Rules for Groups and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and case of financial liabilities, there were no major changes compared with IAS 39. interpretations from IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC) as approved by the EU. The financial statements were prepared in accordance with the cost The new impairment rules entail that all financial assets measured at method, apart from financial assets and liabilities (including derivative instruments), amortised cost are to have a reserve for expected credit losses (“loss measured at fair value. allowance”) as early as the date on which the asset is recognised in the balance sheet. One of the purposes of this new model is to allow The accounting policies for the Group indicated below have been applied for provisions for credit losses at an earlier stage. The effect of the new consistently to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements, loss allowance model did not total a material amount on transition. unless otherwise stated. The Group’s accounting policies have been applied consistently to the reporting and consolidation of the Parent Company and Regarding hedge accounting, IFRS 9 requires expanded disclosures subsidiaries. on risk management and the effect of hedge accounting. Estimates and assumptions The Group has decided not to restate comparative figures for the 2017/18 Preparing the financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management financial year in accordance with the standard’s transitional rules. to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that impact upon the application of the accounting policies and the carrying amounts for assets, liabilities, income IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and expenses. These are based on historical experience and a number of other The new revenue standard, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, factors that appear reasonable under the prevailing conditions. The estimates and took effect on 1 January 2018. Where Clas Ohlson is concerned, the assumptions are reviewed regularly and are not judged to entail any significant standard replaced both IAS 18 Revenue and IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty risk of material adjustment of carrying amounts for assets and liabilities during the Programmes. The Group applies IFRS 15 from 1 May 2018 and has decided next financial year. Any changes to estimates are recognised in the period in which not to restate the comparative year 2017/2018. The transition approach the change is made if the change has only impacted upon this period, or in the entails that the total effect of the amended accounting policy is recognised period in which the change is made and future periods if the change impacts upon in equity as per 1 May 2018. The transition did not have any effect on the both the current period and future periods. Further information on estimates and date of Clas Ohlson’s income recognition since the date for when control of assumptions made is presented in Notes 9, 13 and 22. the goods or services was passed to the buyer is the same as the date that Clas Ohlson recognised income under IAS 18. The majority – approximately For the Group, the estimates and assumptions made in conjunction with 94 per cent – of all Clas Ohlson’s sales are store sales. Variable payments impairment testing of intangible assets not yet utilised were deemed of material attributable to store sales, such as discounts and price reductions, were not significance. This means that if the estimates and assumptions made were to impacted by the introduction of the new standard. Regarding the remaining significantly differ from the actual outcome, the effect on the financial statements 6 per cent of income relating to online shopping, the introduction of the new could be considerable. In connection with the impairment testing of intangible standard did not impact revenue recognition concerning these portions. assets, the carrying amount is to be compared with the recoverable amount, The introduction of IFRS 15 had no effect on equity on 1 May 2018. which is the highest of the asset’s net selling price and value in use. After testing and assessing the value in use, it was deemed that there were no impairment New and amended standards that have not yet come into effect requirements regarding the company’s investment in intangible assets not yet The Group has not yet started to apply the new or amended standards and utilised. new interpretations that have been published, but that come into effect for financial years beginning on or after 1 May 2019. The standards and interpretations that are Securities held as non-current assets are measured at fair value according to deemed to impact the consolidated financial statements for the period in which level 3 of the fair value hierarchy since they are based on the adjusted value of a they are applied for the first time are described below. transaction on a non-active market. To be applied to financial years Restructuring costs include the necessary impairment of assets and other items Standards beginning: that do not affect cash flow, as well as estimated costs for redundancies and other direct expenses related to the discontinuation of operations. Restructuring costs are classified as non-recurring items. Cost estimates are based on detailed IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 or later action plans that are expected to improve the Group’s cost structure and productivity. Historical outcomes from similar events in previous action plans are IFRS 16 Leases normally used as the basis for the calculations to minimise the uncertainty factor. IFRS 16 Leases was published by the IASB in January 2016 and adopted by Reserves for restructuring amounted to 49.3 MSEK (17.7 MSEK) at year-end of the EU on 31 October 2017. The standard replaces the previous standards on which 12.7 MSEK (12.3) was classified as long term. the recognition of leases, IAS 17 including the SICs and IFRICs that address recognition of leases. The new standard entails extensive changes to the The following new and amended IFRSs and interpretations came recognition of leases for the lessee and differs materially from the current IAS 17. into effect and impacted the Group in the 2018/19 financial year. The standard comes into effect on 1 January 2019 and applies from the financial A description of new or amended standards and new interpretations that had year beginning closest to this effective date. Clas Ohlson will apply the standard an impact on the Group’s 2018/19 financial statements is provided below. from 1 May 2019. The transition has resulted in extensive preparatory work within the Group, where a project group has been tasked with the assignment of compiling all lease contracts, implementing system solutions, the analysis of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments contract data and outcomes together with external accounting specialists, and IFRS 9 entered force on 1 January 2018 (2018/2019 financial year for arranging workshops and training courses together with affected parties in the Clas Ohlson) and replaced IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and Group. Measurement in its entirety. The major changes are found in the three areas of classification and measurement, impairment and hedge accounting. The new standard primarily impacts the lessee’s recognition of operating leases and entails that most leases are to be recognised in the balance sheet instead of The new standard requires that financial assets be classified into three different being expensed straight-line over the lease term. Recognition by the lessor will measurement categories: amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive essentially remain unchanged under IFRS 16. A contract is, or contains, a lease income or fair value through profit or loss. Classification and measurement of under IFRS 16 if it conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for 102 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 NOTES a period of time in exchange for a consideration. IFRS 16 removes the current The consolidated financial statements include the wholly owned subsidiaries distinction between operating and finance leases for the lessee and instead the Clas Ohlson AS, Clas Ohlson Oy, Clas Ohlson Ltd (UK), Clas Ohlson GmbH, standard requires that an asset (right-of-use asset) and a financial liability are to be Clas Ohlson Ltd (Shanghai) and the partially owned C/O P investments AB recognised for all leases that fulfil the definition of a lease. (owned share 30.5 per cent). Impact Segment accounting The main impact on the Group’s reporting derives from the recognition of leases Clas Ohlson has the following segments: Sweden, Norway, Finland and Outside for premises. The effect is deemed to be material. The effect in the small number Nordic countries as well as Group-wide. The Group-wide segment pertains to the of cases in which the Group is the lessor is not deemed to be material. The Group-wide functions in Sweden that assist sales organisations with purchasing, previous rental expenses will change and instead be recognised as depreciation of distribution, marketing, management and other support. A large portion of the the right-of-use asset and as interest on the lease liability. Group’s value is generated in the Group-wide segment. The Group’s internal pricing was adapted to these prerequisites. At the transition date, 1 May 2019, the Group will apply the modified retrospective approach whereby the lease liability will be measured at the present value of Translation of foreign currencies future lease payments and the right-of-use asset will be measured as if IFRS a) Functional currency and reporting currency 16 has been applied since commencement. In accordance with the standard, Items included in the financial statements for the various units in the Group comparative figures will not be restated. The cumulative effect of the transition are measured in the currency used in the financial environment where each will be recognised as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings company is most active (functional currency). The consolidated financial as per 1 May 2019. The Group applied the following voluntary exemptions in statements use Swedish kronor (SEK), which is the reporting currency for the transition calculations. Leases with a remaining term of a maximum of 12 the Group. All sums, unless otherwise stated, are rounded to the nearest months from the date of initial application were excluded from the calculation of million Swedish kronor plus one decimal point. lease liabilities and right-of-use assets, as are low-value assets. These leases are expensed straight-line over the lease term. Furthermore, initial direct expenses b) Transactions in foreign currency were excluded from the measurement of right-of-use assets on initial application  Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency and assessments were subsequently made on measurement on the date of initial at the exchange rates that apply on the transaction date. Exchange-rate application. gains and losses arising from the payment of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency at the An assessment indicates an opening balance adjustment as of 1 May 2019, with rate prevailing on the balance-sheet date are recognised in profit or loss. the following estimated balance-sheet effects, without taking into consideration An exception is when transactions represent hedging that fulfils the any adjustments of interim items related to right-of-use assets on the transition. conditions for hedge accounting of cash flows, in which case gains/losses are recognised in other comprehensive income. For derivatives, refer to the Right-of-use assets 2,100 MSEK section on financial instruments. Deferred tax assets 50 MSEK Lease liabilities 2,300 MSEK c) Group companies Retained earnings -170 MSEK  Results and financial position for all Group companies, translated to the Group’s reporting currency as follows: Given the 2018/19 Group structure and exchange rates, Clas Ohlson expects a) assets and liabilities for each of the balance sheets translated to the rate the transition to result in an increase in operating profit for 2019/20 compared on the balance-sheet date: with application of the previous accounting policies. The expected increase in b) income and expenses for each of the income statements translated to operating profit results from a portion of the lease expenses being recognised as the average currency rate and an interest expense. EBITDA is expected to increase as a result of a portion of c) all exchange-rate differences that arise are recognised in other the lease expenses being recognised as depreciation. Cash flow is expected to comprehensive income. increase from operating activities and decrease from financing activities due to the recognition of the principal repayment portion of lease payments as payments Non-current assets under financing activities. Non-current assets are recognised at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Cost includes the purchase price Subsequent measurement and expenses directly attributable to the asset in order to bring it into the All leases are measured after the transition in accordance with the cost method, position and condition necessary for it to be utilised in accordance with which entails that the right-of-use assets are measured at cost less accumulated the purpose of the acquisition. Depreciation is based on the cost and depreciation and impairment and any adjustments due to remeasurement estimated useful life of the assets. Straight-line depreciation is used for all of the lease liability that reflects a revision or modification of the lease. The assets. Land is not depreciated. The Group applies component depreciation, remeasurement amount is recognised as an adjustment of the right-of-use asset. which means that depreciation is based upon the estimated useful life of the components. The following depreciation periods are applied: Consolidate financial statements The consolidated financial statements pertain to the Parent Company and Intangible assets 5-10 years all companies over which the Parent Company directly or indirectly has conEquipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 5-15 years trolling influence. The Group controls a company when it is exposed to or Buildings 20-33 years is entitled to variable return from its holdings in the company and has the Land improvements 20 years opportunity to impact the return through its influence in the company. Leashold improvements 10 years The purchase method has been applied in preparing the consolidated financial New acquisitions and replacements are capitalised, while maintenance and repair statements. Inter-Group transactions, balance-sheet items, as well as unrealised costs are expensed. The assets’ residual value and useful life are tested at the gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. end of each reporting period and adjusted as needed. An asset’s carrying amount Whenever appropriate, the accounting policies have been amended to guarantee is immediately impaired to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount consistent application of the Group’s policies. exceeds its assessed recoverable amount. As assets are sold or disposed of, the cost and appurtenant accumulated depreciation are written off. Any profit or loss is recognised. All of Clas Ohlson’s properties are owner-occupied properties. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 103 NOTES Intangible assets The Group applies the hold to collect business model for all financial assets, except Costs for the maintenance of software are expensed when they arise. for securities held as non-current assets which are measured at fair value through Development costs directly attributable to the development and testing of profit or loss. The Group’s financial assets are initially measured at fair value and identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group are recognised subsequently at amortised cost by applying the effective interest method, less any as intangible assets when the following criteria have been fulfilled: provision for depreciation. • It is technically possible to complete the software so that it can be used Financial liabilities are measured at fair value through profit or loss unless they are • The company’s intention is to complete the software and use or sell it held for trading or if they are initially identified as liabilities measured at fair value • The conditions for using the software exist through profit or loss. Other financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost. All • How the software generates probable financial advantages can be proven of the company’s financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost. • Adequate technological, financial and other resources for completing the development and for using or selling the software are available, and Fair value of financial instruments • The costs attributable to the software over the course of its development can The fair value of financial assets and liabilities traded in an active market is be reliably calculated determined based on the quoted market prices. The fair value of other financial assets and liabilities is determined in accordance with generally accepted Directly attributable costs are capitalised as a portion of the software and include measurement models, such as discounting of future cash flows and the use of costs for employees and a reasonable share of indirect costs. information obtained from current market transactions. Other development costs, which do not meet these criteria, are expensed when The carrying amount of all financial assets and liabilities is deemed to be a good they arise. Development costs that were previously expenses are not recognised approximation of their fair value, unless otherwise specifically stated. as an asset in subsequent periods. Amortised cost and effective interest method Development costs for software recognised as an asset are amortised of the Amortised cost for a financial asset is the amount at which the financial asset is software’s estimated useful life. measured on initial recognition less the principal amount, plus the accumulated depreciation with the effective interest method of any difference between the Impairment of non-financial assets principal amount and principal amount outstanding, adjusted for any impairment. Intangible assets with an indeterminable useful life or intangible assets not ready The recognised gross amount for a financial asset is the amortised cost of a for use, are not impaired but are tested annually for any impairment requirements. financial asset before adjustments for any loss allowance. Financial liabilities are Depreciable assets are assessed to determine any decrease in value resulting from recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method or at fair value events or changes in circumstances indicating that the carrying amount might through profit or loss. not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised in the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable The effective interest is the rate that on discounting all future expected cash flows amount is the higher of the fair value of the asset less selling expenses and value in over the expected term results in the initial carrying amount of the financial asset or use. In assessing impairment loss, assets are grouped at the lowest levels at which the financial liability. there are separate identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units). For assets that have been previously impaired, testing is conducted on each balance-sheet date Impairment on whether reversal should be done. The Group recognises a loss allowance for expected credit losses on financial assets measured at amortised cost. On each balance-sheet date, the Group Financial instruments, IFRS 9 recognises the change in expected credit losses since initial recognition in profit or The Group has applied IFRS 9 Financial Instruments since 1 May 2018, which loss. For all financial assets, the Group measures the loss allowance at an amount replaced IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. The corresponding to the 12-month expected credit losses. For financial instruments standard is divided into three parts: classification and measurement, hedge for which the credit risk has significantly increased since initial recognition, a accounting and impairment. The Group will not restate comparative figures for the reserve is recognised based on full lifetime expected credit losses (general 2017/18 financial year in accordance with the standard’s transitional rules. approach). A financial asset or a financial liability is recognised in the balance sheet when the Simplifications are permissible for accounts receivable entailing that the Group Group becomes party to the contractual terms of the instrument. A financial asset directly recognises expected credit losses for the remaining lifetime of the assets is derecognised from the balance sheet when the contractual right to receive cash (simplified approach). Cash and cash equivalents and receivables from Group flows from the asset cease, are regulated or when the Group loses control of the companies are encompassed by the general approach for impairment. The asset. A financial liability, or portion of a financial liability, is derecognised from the exception for low credit risk is applied to cash and cash equivalents. balance sheet when the contractual obligation is met or extinguished in another manner. The Group’s accounts receivable encompassed by the simplified approach for impairment. The expected credit losses on accounts receivable are calculated Classification and measurement using a reserve matrix based on past events, current conditions and forecasts of Financial assets are classified based on the business model under which the asset future economic conditions. is held and the characteristics of the cash flows generated by the asset. If the financial asset is held under a business model whose objective is to collect the The Group defines default as if it is deemed improbable that the company will meet contractual cash flows (hold to collect) and the contractual terms of the financial its obligations due to such indicators as financial difficulties and missed payments. asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of Regardless of this, default is deemed to exist when payment is more than 90 days principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding, the asset is recognised late. The Group writes off a receivable when no possibility of collecting further cash at amortised cost. flows is deemed to exist. If, instead, the objective of the business model is to both collect the contractual Cash-flow hedging cash flows and sell financial assets (hold to collect and sell) and the contractual The effective portion of changes in the fair value for a derivative instrument terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely identified as the cash-flow hedge portion and which meets the conditions for payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding, the asset hedge accounting is recognised in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss is recognised at fair value through other comprehensive income. attributable to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss. All other business models (other) for which the objective is speculation, held for trading or where the cash flow characteristics exclude other business models entail recognition at fair value through profit or loss. 104 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 NOTES Hedging of net investments Borrowing The hedging of net investments in foreign operations is recognised in a similar Borrowing is initially measured at fair value, net after transaction expenses. manner as in the case of cash-flow hedging. Borrowing is thereafter recognised at amortised cost and any difference between the amount received (net after transaction expenses) and the repayment amount The portion of gain or loss attributable to a hedging instrument viewed as an is recognised in profit or loss distributed over the borrowing period, applying the effective hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss effective interest method. attributable to the ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss. Accumulated gains and losses in equity are recognised in profit or loss when nonCharges paid for credit facilities are recognised as transaction expenses for borroSwedish operations are partly or totally divested. wing insofar as it is probable that the credit will be utilised in full or in part. In such cases, charges are recognised when the credit has been utilised. When there Receivables is no evidence that the credit will be utilised in full or in part, the charges will be Receivables with a due date more than 12 months after the balance-sheet date recognised as advance payment for financial services and distributed over the are recognised as non-current assets, while others as regarded as current assets. term of current credit facilities. Receivables are recognised at the amount expected to be paid after individual testing. Borrowing is classified as current liabilities if the Group is not unconditionally entitled to defer payment of the debt for at least 12 months after the balanceAccounts receivables are initially measured at fair value and then at amortised cost sheet date. applying the effective interest rate method, less any provision for depreciation. A provision for depreciation is posted when there is objective evidence that the Loan expenses Group will not be able to receive all sums due according to the original terms of General and specific loan expenses that are directly attributable to purchasing the receivables. The amount of the provision is recognised in profit or loss. or what is known as qualified assets, which are assets that necessarily take a significant amount of time to complete for intended use or sale are recognised as part of the cost of these assets. Capitalisation ceases when all activities required Cash and cash equivalents to complete the asset for its intended use or sale have been completed. There are Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and immediately available balances at currently no qualified assets. Other loan expenses are charged to profit during the banks and equivalent institutions, as well as short-term investments with a term of period they arise. less than three months from the time of acquisition. Current and deferred income tax Accounts payable Tax expenses for the period include current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised Accounts payable are the obligation to pay for products or services that were in the profit or loss except when the tax pertains to items recognised in other acquired in the operating activities from suppliers. Accounts payable are classified comprehensive income or directly in equity. In such cases, the tax is also as current liabilities if they fall due within one year or earlier. If not, they are recognised in other comprehensive income and equity. recognised as non-current liabilities. The current tax expense is calculated based on the tax regulations established Accounts payable are initially measured at fair value and thereafter at amortised or established in practice on the balance-sheet date in the countries in which the cost applying the effective interest method. Parent Company and its subsidiaries are active and generate taxable income. Management regularly evaluates the statements made in the income tax return Financial instruments, IAS 39 pertaining to situations where applicable tax rules are subject to interpretation. Purchases and sales of financial instruments are recognised on the trade date When deemed suitable, management makes provisions for amounts that will the date when the Group binds itself to purchase or sell the asset. Financial probably be paid to the tax authority. instruments are initially measured at fair value plus transaction expenses, which applies to all financial assets not measured at fair value through profit or loss. Deferred tax is recognised for all temporary differences arising between the taxable If the market for a financial asset is not active (and for unlisted securities), the value of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated Group will establish the fair value by applying such valuation methods as the financial statements. use of information concerning recently completed transactions on an armslength basis, reference to the fair value of another instrument that is essentially Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that future taxable equivalent, analyses of discounted cash flow and options valuation methods. surplus will be available, against which the temporary differences can be utilised. In this connection, market information is widely used while company-specific information is used as little as possible. Financial instruments are derecognised Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there are legal offsetting rights from the balance sheet when the right to receive cash flows from the instrument for the particular tax assets and liabilities and when the deferred tax assets and has expired or been transferred and the Group has transferred virtually all the risks liabilities pertain to taxes by the same tax authority and pertain to the same tax and benefits associated with right of ownership. subject or different tax subjects and for which there is a plan to settle the balance through net payments. Securities held as non-current assets Investments in participations in other types of companies than Group companies, Employee benefits joint ventures and associated companies are recognised as securities held as nonGroup companies have different plans for remuneration after retirement, including current assets. These are measured at fair value. Changes in value are recognised defined-benefit and defined-contribution pension plans. in other comprehensive income. When assets available for sale are divested, the accumulated profits or losses are transferred to profit or loss. a) Pension obligations  A defined-contribution pension plan is a pension plan according to which Inventories the Group pays set amounts to a separate legal entity. The Group has no Inventories have been valued at the lower of cost and net selling price on the legal or informal obligations to pay additional amounts if this legal entity balance-sheet date, applying the “first in, first out” principle. Net selling price is the does not have sufficient assets to pay all remuneration to employees estimated selling price in operating activities less selling expenses. Inter-company corresponding to the employees’ service during the current or previous profits arising from delivery between companies forming part of the Group are periods. A defined-benefit pension plan is a pension plan that is not a deducted. Necessary provision for obsolescence has been made. Inventory defined-contribution plan. expenses include transfers from other comprehensive income of any gains/losses  A typical defined-benefit plan stipulates the amount of the pension benefit from cash-flow hedging fulfilling the conditions for hedge accounting, attributable an employee will receive after retirement, usually based on one or more to purchases of goods. factors such as age, service period and salary.  In the Parent Company, there are both defined-contribution and definedbenefit pension plans. However, in accordance with statement UFR 10, the defined-benefit ITP pension plan (Alecta) is treated as a defined-contribution pension plan. Defined-benefit pension plans are available in the Norwegian subsidiary. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 105 NOTES  Regarding defined-benefit pension plans, the cost of the pension benefit Provisions is determined based on actuarial calculations according to the so-called Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet among current and non-current Projected Unit Credit Method. Revaluations, including actuarial gains and liabilities when the Group has a legal or informal obligation resulting from an losses, effects of changes in the asset ceiling and the return on the plan event that has occurred and it is likely that an outflow of resources will be assets (excluding the interest components that is recognised in profit required to discharge the commitment and a reliable estimate can be made of or loss) are recognised directly in the balance sheet with income or the amount.Provisions are made for open buy, unredeemed gift cards, estimated cost corresponding to the change for the period in the statement of future guarantee commitments, bonus points to club members as well as for other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. Revaluations restructuring of the store network in the UK, which is described in more detail in recognised in other comprehensive income affect profit brought forward recognition of income. For further information see note 22. and are not reclassified to the income statement. Service costs from prior periods are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which the plan Revenue, IFRS 15 is changed. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the The Group conducts retail operations, whereby a large share of all sales (about start of the period to the defined-benefit net liability or asset. The defined94 per cent) are made through store sales. Income from sales of goods is benefit costs are divided into the following categories: recognised when the Group company sells a good to a customer in a store. The • service costs (including service costs for the current period, service costs transaction price falls due for payment immediately when the customer purchases in prior periods and gains and losses pertaining to reductions and/or the good and receives the good in the store. Regarding the remaining 6 per cent regulations) of income relating to online shopping, income is recognised when control of the • net interest expense or net interest income goods is passed to the customer, which takes place on the delivery date. Variable • revaluations remuneration, such as discounts and price reductions, are recognised in both cases through deductions from the selling price directly when the transaction The first two categories are recognised in profit or loss as personnel takes place in store or as a deduction on the invoice for online shopping. Retail costs (service costs) and net financial items (net interest expense). Gains sales usually take place using cash or via invoice with payment terms of 30 days. and losses related to reductions and regulations are recognised as service costs from prior periods. Revaluations are recognised in other compreClas Ohlson’s customers can choose to become a member of the Club Clas hensive income. loyalty program where customer collect points on their purchases. Earning  The defined-benefit pension obligation is recognised in the balance bonus points means that customers have the opportunity to utilise points saved sheet corresponding to current surplus or deficit related to the Group’s in the form of bonus cheques as payment in the future. A contract liability for defined-benefit obligations. Any surplus is recognised only to the extent that the points is recognised at the time of sale. Not all issued bonus cheques are it corresponds to the present value of future repayments from the respective redeemed which is why each sale in the loyalty program is reduced by the fair pension plan or future reductions in premium payments to the plan. value with respect to future redemption of bonus cheques, considering the current degree of redemption. The member’s probable redemption of bonus b) Remuneration in the event of termination of employment cheques in the future is also taken into account. Earnings are recognised  Remuneration in the event of termination of employment is paid when an through a reduction in income during the earnings period with a corresponding employee’s employment is terminated by the Group before the normal provision in the balance sheet. Provisions for open purchases and gift vouchers pension date or when the employee accepts voluntary redundancy are based on historical data. Clas Ohlson also has sales of other services in exchange for such remuneration. The Group recognises redundancy for which income is recognised when the service has been completed. remuneration when the Group no longer has the opportunity to withdraw The portion of such services of Clas Ohlson’s total sales is not material. the offer of remuneration. In cases where the company has issued an offer to encourage voluntary redundancy, redundancy remuneration is calculated based on the number of employees expected to accept the offer. Benefits Income that mature more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period are The Group’s income is generated through the sale of products to consumers in discounted to the present value. accordance with the terms of sale. Sale income is recognised net less VAT, returns, reservations for open buy and discounts. A combined experience is used to assess and reserve for returns and open purchase at the time of sale ncome is recognised Share-based payments at the time of sales/delivery to the customer, when material risks and benefits The Group has a number of share-based remuneration plans that are settled with associated with ownership of the goods have been transferred to the purchaser. shares and whereby the company receives services from the employees in return for the Group’s equity instruments (matching shares and options). The fair value Clas Ohlson’s customers can choose to become a member of the Club Clas loyalty of the service period that entitles employees to allocation of matching shares and program. Sales are conducted in accordance with IFRIC 13 in order to take into options is expensed. The total amount to be expensed is based on the fair value of account club members’ earning of bonus points and the opportunity to utilise the allocated matching shares and options: points saved in the form of bonus cheques as payment in the future. All issued bonus cheques are not redeemed which is why each sale in the loyalty program is • including all market-related conditions (e.g. target share price) reduced by the fair amount with respect to future redemption of bonus cheques, • excluding e.g. profitability, target for sales increases and that the employee considering the current degree of redemption. Consideration is also taken to remains with the company for a stipulated period and, the member’s probable redemption of bonus cheques in the future. Earnings • including the impact of the conditions that do not constitute vesting are recognised through a reduction in sales during the earnings period with a conditions (e.g. requirement that employees must save or retain the shares corresponding provision in the balance sheet. for a stipulated period). Interest income pertains to interest on bank balances. Income is recognised in the At the end of each reporting period, the Group re-examines its assessments of the period to which the interest pertains. number of shares that are expected to be vested based on the non-market-based vesting conditions and service conditions. Any possible deviation to the original assessments resulting from the reappraisal will be recognised in profit or loss and Leasing, IAS 17 the corresponding adjustments made in equity. In the Group and in the Parent Company, lease contracts occur primarily in the form of rental contracts for retail premises. All the stores, except the one in Insjön, The social security contributions arising from the allocation of options will be are leased. These contracts have been classified as operational leases as they do regarded as an integral part of the allocation and the expense will be treated as a not signify that the economic benefits and risks associated with ownership have cash-regulated share-based remuneration. been transferred to the tenant. Operational leases, in which the Group is the lessee, are recognised in the consolidated income statement as an operating expense straight line over the leasing period. In cases in which the Group is the lessor, income is recognised as a sale in the period to which the leasing pertains. Depreciation is recognised in operating profit. 106 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 NOTES Cash-flow statement Note 2 Financial risks The cash-flow statement is prepared according to the indirect method. The recognised cash flow comprises only transactions that entail receipts or The Group is exposed to a variety of financial risks through its operations: market disbursements. In addition to cash or bank balances, current financial investments risk (including currency risk and interest-rate risk), credit risk, liquidity risk and that are subject only to an insignificant risk of fluctuation in value and have a capital risk. The Group’s overall risk management policy focuses on the unpredictremaining term of less than three months from the time of acquisition are classified ability of financial markets and endeavours to minimise potential unfavourable efas cash and cash equivalents. fects on the Group’s financial results. The Group’s Board has prepared a financial policy, which is updated and adopted at least once a year, to control and manage Parent Company accounting policies financial risks. The financial policy stipulates the framework and guidelines for The Parent Company has prepared its annual accounts in accordance with the managing financial risks and how the Group is to relate to the financial markets. It Swedish Annual Accounts Act and Recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal states the responsibilities and authorities in the area and how the Group is to act Entities, of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. This means that the Parent as regards financial matters. Company, in the annual accounts of the legal entity, has to apply all EU-approved IFRS standards and interpretations as far as possible under the terms of the Currency risk Annual Accounts Act and taking into account the connection between accounting A significant portion of accounts payable comprises liabilities in foreign currencies and taxation. The recommendation specifies the exceptions from and additions and is therefore subject to currency risks. In the Group, the principal currencies to IFRS that are to be made. The regulations in IAS 39 pertaining to financial used in purchases are hedged in order to reduce any currency risks, in accordance guarantee agreements are not applied with respect to guarantee agreements for with the financial policy. subsidiaries. In the Parent Company, loan expenses are charged against profits for the period to which they refer. Shares in the subsidiaries are recognised at cost About 50 per cent of the company’s purchases is made in currencies other than less deductions for any impairment. SEK. The principal currencies for purchasing are the US dollar (USD), Hong Kong dollar (HKD) and euro (EUR). In addition, movements of SEK against the The financial reports are rounded to the nearest million Swedish kronor plus Norwegian krone (NOK) are one decimal point. The accounting policies for the Parent Company have been very significant to the Group because about 40 per cent of sales take place in consistently applied to all periods presented in the Parent Company’s financial Norway. Net exposure to EUR is low, because the company has higher sales in statements. EUR due to its expansion in the Finnish and German market. The table below Amended accounting policies in RFR 2 shows how profit is affected by changes in the principal currencies (excluding The amendments in RFR 2 that impacted the Parent Company’s financial hedging). statements 2018/19 are presented below. Hedging will take place on a monthly basis with maturities of six months for half of RFR 2 contains exemptions for applying IFRS 9 in legal entities. The amendments the expected flow in Norwegian kroner (NOK) and US dollars (USD). that came into force on 1 January 2018 entail that the impairment requirements under IFRS 9 are also to be applied by companies that use the exemption. The Sensitivity analysis regarding currency risk 2018/19 Group has decided to apply this exemption. Impact on Currency Change, % profit before tax, MSEK RFR 2 contains exemptions for applying IFRS 16 in legal entities. The Group has NOK +/5 +/96 decided to apply this exemption. USD +/5 -/+ 79 HKD +/5 -/+ 6 Amendments to RFR 2 that have not yet come into effect EUR +/5 +/5 Senior management does not expect other amendments to RFR 2 that have not GBP +/5 +/1 yet come into effect to have any material impact on the Parent Company’s financial statements on initial application. Cash and cash equivalents are also exposed to currency risk since a certain proportion of the funds is invested in foreign currencies. Classification and format The income statement and balance sheet follow the format of the Annual Accounts Refinancing and liquidity risks Act. This means certain differences compared with the consolidated financial Refinancing and liquidity risk pertain to the risk that Clas Ohlson is unable to statements, for example, items in the balance sheet are more specified and subreceive loans or meet payment obligations due to insufficient liquidity. Refinancing items have different names in equity. requirements are regularly reviewed by Clas Ohlson’s central finance function, which is responsible for external borrowing. Refinancing requirements are primarily Tax contingent on market trends and investment plans. The aim of the principles for The amounts reserved as untaxed reserves are taxable temporary differences. investing cash and cash equivalents is to safeguard the Group’s short and longDue to the connection between recognition and taxation, the deferred tax liabilities term solvency. Investments may only be made in instruments with low credit risk attributable to the untaxed reserves are not recognised in legal entities. According and high liquidity, meaning investments that can be converted into cash and cash to Swedish practice, the amendments in untaxed reserves are recognised in the equivalents at any given point in time. The Group had bank balances only with income statement in individual companies under the heading “Appropriations.” In Nordic banks on 30 April 2019. See also Note 27. the balance sheet, the accumulated value of the reserves is recognised under the heading “Untaxed reserves,” whereby 22 per cent can be regarded as deferred tax liability and 78 per cent as restricted equity. Other The financial reports are stated in MSEK with one decimal point, unless otherwise stipulated. Rounding off can result in certain tables not adding up. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 107 NOTES Group Age analysis of accounts receivable Granted credit limits 30 Apr 2019 30 Apr 2018 Group Overdrafts 200 100 Accounts receivable not due 33,9 Credit facility 550 300 Accounts receivable due <1 month 1,1 Total credit limits granted* 750 400 Accounts receivable due 1-3 months 1,6 Appropriated credit lines 283 0 Accounts receivable due 3-6 months 0,3 Unspent credit lines 467 400 Accounts receivable due 6-12 months 0,4 Available bank balances 105 115.8 Accounts receivable due >12 months 1,7 Refinancing reserve 572 515.8 Total 39.0 *From July 1, a total of granted credit lines amount to 850 MSEK. Cash and cash equivalents are invested in various bank accounts. The counterparties’ solvency is deemed to be favourable and credit risk is thus deemed to be very low. The total liquidity risk comprises cash and cash Group equivalents and unutilised overdraft facilities. Maturity structure financial liabilities <3 mos 3-6 mos 6-12 mos 1 year> Capital risk Capital risk is regarded as low because the Group had a low portion of liabilities at Other long-term provisions 12.7 the end of the financial year and an equity/assets ratio of 49 per cent. Liabilities to credit institution 283.1 The goal of the Group’s capital structure is to be able to continue to report a Other current liabilities 663.6 favourable return to shareholders, value for other stakeholders and to maintain an Accounts payable and other optimal capital structure to ensure that capital costs are minimised. The capital libabilities 637.3 structure can be adapted to meet the requirements that arise by altering the dividend to shareholders, buying back shares, issuing new shares or disposing Total 1,301 283.1 0 12.7 of assets in a bid to reduce liabilities. The assessment of capital requirements is conducted using relevant key ratios such as the relationship between net debt and equity. Interest-rate risk Interest-rate risk entails how changes in interest levels impact the Group’s net financial items and how the value of financial instruments varies depending on changes in market interest rates. All of the Group’s loans that bear interest have short fixed-interest periods. The Group has assessed that loans with Note 3 Other operating income and operating expenses short fixed-interest periods provide the lowest risk and financing expenses over time. Interest-rate risk is also minimised by distributing credit lines over Group Parent Company several different loans and maturity dates. A certain level of working capital 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 is also ensured in the Group’s currency accounts to optimise the levels. Other operating income The effect on interest expense during the forthcoming 12-month period Rental income 24.9 24.2 24.9 24.2 in the event of a 1-percentage-point increase/decrease in interest rates on interest-bearing liabilities amounts to +/2.1 MSEK (0). The effect on interest income during the same period and under the same Profit on sale or disposal of conditions for interest-bearing assets amounts to +/0.3 MSEK (3.8). tangible assets 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.1 Other operating income 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Credit risk Total 25.1 24.3 25.1 24.3 The vast majority of credit risks and credit losses are attributable to holdings of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. Accounts receivable are characterised by a very low risk, as each sub-item is small and the Group’s credit Other operating expenses policy is restrictive. The credit policy states the conditions for credit assessments, Leasing expenses -23.7 -22.5 -23.7 -22.5 credit monitoring, requirements and handling insolvency. The Group’s customers are subject to credit checks for which information about customers’ financial position is obtained from various credit information companies and limits are set Loss on sale or disposal of individually per customer. Taking these measures ensures that risk exposure and tangible assets 0.0 -0.8 0.0 -0.8 credit losses are kept at a commercially acceptable level. Restructuring costs -210.0 0.0 -201.9 0.0 Total -233.7 -23.3 -225.7 -23.3 The Group uses a matrix model based on historical confirmed credit losses to calculate expected credit losses on accounts receivable. The losses are then adjusted to include current and forward-looking information that could impact customers’ ability to pay the receivable. The outcome shows that the loss Note 4 Depreciation allowance on the closing date does not total a material amount and thus has not been recognised. Group 2018/19 2017/18 Depreciation broken down by type of asset Intangible assets1 48.7 35.9 Land and buildings 28.7 29.5 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 159.5 160.1 Total 236.9 225.6 108 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 NOTES Of the Parent Company’s pension expenses, 2.3 MSEK (2.5) pertained to the Depreciation broken down by function group consisting of the Board and CEO. Of the subsidiaries’ pension expenses, Cost of goods sold 82.3 76.2 2.6 MSEK (0.3) pertained to presidents of subsidiaries. Selling expenses 147.2 141.6 In the Group, expenses for defined-contribution pensions amounted to 93.1 MSEK Administrative expenses 7.4 7.8 (82.7) and defined-benefit pensions to 0.0 MSEK (0.0). Total 236.9 225.6 The Parent Company only has defined-contribution pension plans (including Alecta) for which the year’s expenses was 54.1 MSEK (47.0). Parent Company 2018/19 2017/18 In the Parent Company, the year’s expenses for special employer’s contribution on Depreciation by type of asset pension premiums was 13.5 MSEK (12.3). For more information on the definedbenefit pension plans in the Group, refer to Note 19. Intangible assets1 48.7 35.9 Land and buildings 28.7 29.5 Remuneration of Board members, presidents Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 83.6 86.0 and other senior managment Total 161.1 151.5 2018/19 2017/18 Depreciation by function Parent Company Cost of goods sold 82.3 76.2 Salaries and other remuneration 31.4 28.9 – of which, variable remuneration 4.3 1.2 Selling expenses 71.4 67.4 Pension expenses 5.3 5.1 Administrative expenses 7.4 7.8 1 Number of individuals in Group 18 18 Total 161.1 151.5 2018/19 2017/18 Note 5 Expenses by type of cost Group The item “Cost of goods sold” includes all costs incurred in conveying the goods Salaries and other remuneration 37.7 35.6 to the distribution centre and subsequently to the store shelf, such as product – of which, variable remuneration 4.6 1.8 costs, freight to the distribution centre and stores, customs duty, environmental Pension expenses 7.9 5.5 charges and handling costs at the distribution centre and stores. The item “Selling 1 expenses” includes primarily stores costs as well as payroll costs, rents, marketing Number of individuals in Group 20 22 and costs for the sales-related support function at the head office. The item 1 The composition of the Senior Management inculdes 11 persons (12). “Administrative expenses” includes costs for other support functions at the head office. Board remuneration Payroll expenses including social security expenses during the financial year Fees are paid to the members of the Board according to AGM resolutions. Board totalled 2,070.6 MSEK (1,813.1) in the Group and 1,261.6 MSEK (1,080.7) in the members who are employed in the company do not receive director fees. No Parent Company. pensions or other incentive programs are paid to the company’s Board. Depreciation during the financial year totalled 236.9 MSEK (225.6) in the Group No director fees were paid in the subsidiaries. and 161.1 MSEK (151.5) in the Parent Company. 2018/19 2017/18 Note 6 Expenses for employee benefits Director CommitDirector Commitfees tee fees fees tee fees 2018/19 2017/18 Board of Directors Salaries and other remuneration Kenneth Bengtsson, Chairman 0.64 0.12 0.64 0.12 Parent Company 917.4 776.5 Göran Sundström, member 0.32 0.14 0.32 0.08 Subsidiaries 692.8 627.5 Mathias Haid, member 0.32 0.06 0.32 0.06 Group total 1,610.3 1,404.0 Göran Näsholm, member 0.32 0.06 0.32 0.06 Charlotte Strömberg, member 0.32 0.08 0.32 0.08 2018/19 2017/18 Anne Thorstvedt Sjöberg, member 0.32 0.00 0.32 0.00 Social of which, Social of which, Margareta Lehmann, member 0.32 0.00 0.00 0.00 security pension security pension Håkan Lundstedt, member 0.32 0.08 0.00 0.00 expenses expenses expenses expenses Ros-Marie Grusén, member 0.00 0.00 0.32 0.00 Social security expenses Cecilia Marlow, member 0.00 0.00 0.32 0.14 Parent Company 344.0 67.5 304.2 59.2 Subsidiaries 116.2 39.2 104.9 35.8 Board total 2.88 0.54 2.88 0.54 Group total 460.2 106.6 409.1 95.0 At the 2018 Annual General Meeting, Håkan Lundstedt and Margareta Lehmann was elected to the Board. Gender distribution on the Board among the members elected by the AGM in the past financial year was five men and three women. In percentage terms, the distributioin is 62.5 per cent men and 37.5 per cent women. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 109 NOTES Remuneration of Senior Management in the preceding year was seven men and three women. The gender distribution Remuneration paid to the CEO and other members of senior management is during the financial year among Senior Management of the Group, is five women made up of basic salary, variable remuneration and pension contributions. Ten and seven men. In percentage terms, the distribution is thus 58.3 per cent male individuals, together with the CEO, comprise senior management during the and 41.7per cent female. The distribution in the preceding year was eight men and financial year. four women. For the composition of senior management at 30 April 2019, see page 94-95. Further information on decision-making processes in the Group is presented on pages 83-91. 2018/19 2017/18 Remuneration principles Basic Vari. remu. BeneBasic Vari. remu. BeneThe general principles of remuneration for senior executives are to be based on salary STI LTI1 fits salary STI LTI1 fits the position held, individual performance, the Group’s financial results and the Salaries paid to senior remuneration being competitive in the country of employment. The combined management remuneration of senior executives is to consist of basic salary, variable salary in Lotta Lyrå, CEO 2 6.7 1.6 -0.1 0.2 4.9 0.2 0.7 0.3 the form of a short-term incentive based on annual performance objectives, long3 term incentives based on multi-year performance, pension and other benefits. Peter Jelkeby CEO 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 6.0 0.1 -0.7 0.1 In addition, notice of termination and severance pay are subject to terms and Other senior management conditions. (10 individuals, of whom 11 individuals in 2017/18) 4 20.5 3.1 -0.2 1.0 14.0 1.2 -0.2 0.5 Clas Ohlson aims to offer a competitive total level of remuneration, focusing on payments based on performance. This means that variable remuneration may Management total 27.1 4.7 -0.3 1.2 24.8 1.5 -0.2 0.8 comprise a significant portion of total remuneration. The aim is for fixed remune1 LTI (Long term incentive program) pertains to a reported cost/cost reduction for, LTI 2016, LTI ration to be in line with the median of the comparable market, while total remune2017 och LTI 2018. See description below of STI (Short term incentive program) and LTI. ration, when Clas Ohlson meets or exceeds its objectives, is to be in the upper 2 Lotta Lyrå took office as CEO 2017-08-01. quartile of the market. 3 Deputy CEO Peter Jelkeby held the role of Acting President and CEO between 2017-01-01 201-07-31. Basic salary 4 The composition of the Senior Management changed from 7 members to 11 members The basic salary is to comprise the basis for total remuneration. The salary is to be 13 September 2017. related to the relevant market and reflect the extent of the responsibilities included in the position. The development of basic salary is to depend on how well work is performed and how well the employee develops his/her expertise to assume 2018/19 2017/18 future work assignments involving greater responsibility. The basic salary is to be DefinedDefinedDefinedDefinedreviewed annually to ensure that it is market-based and competitive. contribution benefit contribution benefit Variable remuneration (Short Term Incentive, STI) Pension expenses for senior In addition to basic salary, senior executives are to qualify for STI for performance management that exceeds one or several predetermined performance levels during a financial 1 Lotta Lyrå, CEO 2.3 0.0 1.7 0.0 year, designed to promote the company’s long-term value creation. Clearly defined 2 performance targets are to be decided annually by the Board or by individuals Peter Jelkeby tf CEO 0.0 0.0 0.7 0.0 elected by the Board. The performance targets may be connected to operational, Other senior management financial or personal results. Remuneration from the STI plan is subject to a ceiling, (10 individuals, of whom 11 which means that Clas Ohlson can calculate maximum remuneration levels from 3 individuals in 2017/18) 5.5 0.0 2.7 0.0 the beginning. Insofar as performance does not match the lowest performance level, no STI will be paid. STI will depend on the position held and may not exceed Management total 7.9 0.0 5.2 0.0 50 per cent of salary if the ceiling is achieved, which also represents the maximum 1 Lotta Lyrå took office as CEO 2017-08-01. outcome of STI. STI remuneration is also conditional upon the performance on 2 Deputy CEO Peter Jelkeby held the role of Acting President and CEO between 2017-01-01 which earnings are based being sustainable over time, and that Clas Ohlson is 201-07-31. able to reclaim such remuneration that was paid due to information that later 3 The composition of the Senior Management changed from 7 members to 11 members turned out to be obviously erroneous. 13 September 2017. Under the contract of employment with the acting CEO, the mutual period Long-term incentive programs (Long Term Incentive, LTI) of notice is six months. Six months’ salary is payable should employment be The aim of LTI programs is to create the prerequisites for retaining and reterminated by the company. Applicable salary and benefits are payable during the cruiting competent employees to the Group. The programs were designed to period of notice. The retirement age is 65. encourage participants to become shareholders in the company, which is expected to have a positive impact on their long-term work performance. Connecting Salary and other remuneration payable to the CEO are decided by the Board and participants’ rewards to the company’s profit and value development will continue discussed by a Remuneration Committee appointed within the Board. Salary is to promote company loyalty and thus sustainable value growth in the company. reviewed at the end of each financial year. Long-term incentive programs that entitle employees to acquire shares are subject Salaries and other remuneration for other Senior Management are decided by the to AGM approval. The qualification period for LTI 2016, LTI 2017 and LTI 2018 CEO, supported by the Remuneration Committee within the framework decided were in effect during the financial year. The qualification period for LTI 2016 was by the Board. concluded after the close of the financial year and LTI 2019 was launched. All longterm incentive programs are share matching and profit-based employee stock The principles for variable remuneration are resolved by the AGM. The option plans. performance targets are prepared by the Remuneration Committee and decided by the Board. During the year, two different types of variable remuneration, STI and All ongoing long-term incentive programs have been approved by an Annual LTI, were payable. General Meeting. The current program covers up to 100 senior executives and other individuals deemed to be able to influence Clas Ohlson’s development in the Provisions for STI and LTI are posted continuously in the individual annual long-term. accounts. All members of Senior Management are entitled to annual pension contributions, primarily in accordance with the ITP plan. The retirement age is between All participants up to and including LTI 2014 acquired series B shares in Clas 65 and 67. Ohlson corresponding to a value of not less than 5 per cent and not more than 10 per cent of their annual basic salary. Participants acquired series B Clas Ohlson The gender distribution during the financial year among Senior Management shares, at market price, which the company will later match (1:1) free of charge of the Parent Company, is tree women and five men. In percentage terms, the through allotment of shares. If the employee holds the acquired shares and is still distribution is thus 62.5 per cent male and 37.5 per cent female. The distribution 110 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 NOTES 1 employed by the Group after the end of the qualitfication period, the company will Extent of LTI 2017 and LTI 2018 at target level issue matching shares to the employee. LTI 2017 The employee may also be allotted profit-based employee stock options, see the description below. Matching shares No. of No. of employee Target value The programs from LTI 2015 have been changed by dividing the participants into Participants series B-shares2 stock options2 MSEK3 two groups: CEO and President 4,352 43,520 1.3 1. senior management comprising senior management including the CEO, Group Other members of Management and country managers elected by the Board or corresponding posiSenior Management 2,654 32,000 0.9 tions, regarded as having considerable potential in their present position to influence Clas Ohlson AB’s long-term development (Senior Management). Other participants 1,633 144,980 2.8 Total 8,639 220,500 5,0 2. other employees who could develop into members of Senior Management or assume other key positions within the Group and thus influence Clas Ohlson AB’s LTI 2018 long-term development (Key Individuals). Matching shares For senior management, the program is unchanged compared with earlier proNo. of No. of employee Target value grams, see the description above. For Key Individuals, LTI 2016, LTI 2017 and LTI Participants series B-shares2 stock options2 MSEK3 2018 entails that participants receive an allocation of conditional performance-based employee stock options free of charge. The number of allocated employee CEO and President 4,426 44,260 0.8 stock options is based on the calculated number of shares, which, at the prevailing Other members of market price at the start of the program, corresponds to a value of a minimum of 5 Senior Management 10,280 102,800 1.9 per cent and a maximum of 10 per cent of the Key Individual’s annual basic salary. Other participants 1,005 265,175 3.1 Employee stock options are allocated free of charge and each stock option entitTotal 15,711 412,235 5.9 les the holder to acquire one series B Clas Ohlson share. Up to and including LTI 2014, the price per share when the option was exercised was calculated at 110 per cent of the average of the volume-weighted average price paid for the series 1 Initially, at the start of the program, the participants acquired 17,859 and 17,014 shares under B Clas Ohlson share on the Nasdaq Stockholm established for each day during the frameworks of the LTI 2017 and LTI 2018 respectively. a period of 10 trading days prior to the acquisition period. For subsequent LTI 2 The number of shares and employee stock options may be recalculated due to decisions plans, the figure is 100 per cent. The exercise price for LTI 2016, LTI 2017 and concerning a possible new share issue or split. LTI 2018 has been set at 161.00 SEK, 148.30 SEK and 93.80 SEK, respectively. 3 The target value of the plan is calculated based on the fair value on the date of allotment. The options may be exercised not earlier than three years and not later than seven The share value on the date of allotment was 130.72 SEK LTI 2017 and 75.31 SEK LTI 2018 years from the date of allotment. For an option to be exercised, the holder must and the fair value of the option was 17.58 and 11.38 SEK. To calculate the fair value of the still be employed by the Clas Ohlson Group and have retained his/her personal options, the binominal model for option valuation was used. Valuation has been conducted investment for three years from the date of allotment. The option holdings do not using an initial share price of 149.47/94.06 SEK, an exercise price of 148.30/93.80 SEK, an provide entitlement to receive dividends on the underlying shares. expected dividend per share annually, an anticipated lifetime for the options of five years, an interest rate of -0.08 per cent /-0.18 per cent, a volatility of 23 per cent /23 per cent and annual The number of employee stock options that may be exercised by participants of withdrawals of 5 per cent. Volatility is measured as the standard deviation for the expected LTI programs up to and including LTI 2014 depends on the number of series return on the share price based on a statistical analysis of daily share prices during the past B shares that the employee has acquired within the framework of the plan, and three years. The values were adjusted for the discounted value of future dividends. whether the company’s growth and profit growth during the first three financial years increase to the levels set by the Board. These established levels are: Entry, Target and Stretch, with a straight-line increase between each profit level. In accordance with the below, LTI 2017 and LTI 2018 will include the following For Key Individuals under LTI 2017 and LTI 2018, the number of employee stock number of series B shares and employee stock options for the various participant options that may be exercised depends on the number of shares as corresponded categories if the Target level is achieved (refer to the tables below). by the Key Individual’s salary at the start of the program (a minimum of 5 per cent and a maximum of 10 per cent). Share awards The table below outlines the number of granted, forfeited and exercised share Entry is a minimum level that must be exceeded in order for an employee stock awards during this and previous financial year: option to be exercised. The three levels correspond to the following number of employee stock options: 2018/19 • Entry: 5 options per acquired/calculated series B share Share awards LTI 2018 LTI 2017 LTI 2016 LTI 2015 • Target: 10 options per acquired/calculated series B share At 1 May 11,916 4,712 9,659 • Stretch: 15 options per acquired/calculated series B share Granted 17,014 In addition to the levels described above, there is a “Max” level. This level is conForfeited -1,303 -3,277 -2,076 ditional upon the existence of a specific situation and a single member of Senior Management fulfilling the exceptional tasks resolved by the Board. The level correExercised -9,659 sponds to a maximum of 25 options per acquired series B share. At 30 April 15,711 8,639 2,636 0 Accordingly, the total number of employee stock options that may be exercised by 2017/18 each participant is limited to 15 options (25 options for exceptional tasks). Share awards LTI 2017 LTI 2016 LTI 2015 LTI 2014 It was not possible to exercise any of the options for LTI 2016, LTI 2017 or LTI 2018 on 30 April 2019. The number that may be exercised after three years is At 1 May 10,831 11,939 24,115 based on the achievement of growth and profit targets in accordance with the Granted 17,859 above. The sum that is expensed is based on the level of 0 options for LTI 2016, 0 options per share for LTI 2017 and 10 options per share for LTI 2018.The Forfeited -5,943 -6,119 -2,280 total outcome for all ongoing LTI programs during the financial year (LTI 2016, Excercised -24,115 LTI2017 and LTI 2018) was a cost reduction of 3.3 MSEK, including social security contributions. Last year the corresponding figure was a total cost of 8.9 MSEK. At 30 April 11,916 4,712 9,659 0 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 111 NOTES Number of options to excercise Note 7 Remuneration to auditors Number of options to Group Parent Company exercise Deloitte AB 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Participants LTI 2015 LTI 2014 LTI 2013 CEO and President 0 0 0 Remuneration for audit engagement 2.3 2.0 1.4 1.3 Other members of Group Management 0 27,957 19,102 Remuneration for audit Other participants 0 148,952 274,060 related services 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.1 Total 0 176,909 293,162 Tax consultations 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.1 Other 0.1 0.5 0.0 0.5 Total 2.7 2.8 1.6 2.0 LTI 2016 result The qualification and performance periods for LTI 2016 were valid from 1 May 2016 until 30 April 2019. A total of 2,636 shares were allotted on 2 May, after the end of the financial year, in accordance with the AGM’s resolution regarding share Note 8 Financial income and expenses matching of one share per share purchased to those participants who remained employed after the three-year qualification period. The set criteria pertaining to Financial income is distributed as follows: the average sales and profit growth per share for the period 2016 to 2019 were not achieved, which resulted in no options being allotted to participants and the LTI 2016 was thus concluded. Participants of LTI 2014 and LTI 2013 were already Group 2018/19 2017/18 entitled to exercise 10.9 and 15 options respectively, per purchased share at an exercise price of 153.60 SEK and 94.30 SEK, respectively. Interest income 1.1 0.7 The tabel below outlines the number of awarded matching share and options for Group total 1.1 0.7 LTI 2016. Parent Company 2018/19 2017/18 Share awards LTI 2016 Interest income 1.1 0.7 Matching Participants share Options Interest income, subsidiaries 1.3 0.6 CEO and President 0 0 Parent Company total 2.4 1.3 Other members of Group Management 899 0 Other participants 1,737 0 Financial expenses are distributed as follows: Total 2,636 0 Group 2018/19 2017/18 Financial expenses -3.3 -1.9 Group total -3.3 -1.9 Share repurchase for LTI programs During 2016 and 2017, Clas Ohlson repurchased series B Clas Ohlson shares Parent Company 2018/19 2017/18 to fulfil the company’s long-term obligations under the incentive pro-grammes. Repurchased shares will be allotted, sold to participants or to correspond to social Interest expense -3.2 -1.7 security expenses. Interest expense, subsidiaries -1.9 -1.1 Pensions and other benefits Parent Company total -5.1 -2.7 As a main rule, pension agreements are to be defined-contribution and designed in accordance with the levels and practices that apply in the country in which the senior executive is employed. Other benefits may occur in accordance with the conditions that apply in the country in which the senior executive is employed. However, such benefits may not constitute a large portion of the total remuneration. 112 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 NOTES Note 9 Income tax RecogRecognised in Amount Group Parent Company Amount nised in compreExchange at the at start profit or hensive rate differend of 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Group 2017/18 of year loss income ences year Tax on profit for the year Income tax on profit for the year -51.3 -88.6 -2.6 -46.6 Change in deferred tax in -51.3 -88.6 -2.6 -46.6 tempo-rary differences during the year Deferred tax Inter-company profit in Deferred tax pertaining to inventories 31.2 -19.2 0.0 0.0 12.0 temporary differences 31.0 -20.7 -0.5 0.9 Accruals and deferrals 8.8 -1.6 0.0 0.0 7.3 31.0 -20.7 -0.5 0.9 Pension 2.3 1.0 0.0 0.2 3.4 Accelerated depreciation -72.4 -10.3 0.0 0.0 -82.6 Total recognised tax expense -20.3 -109.3 -3.1 -45.7 Tax allocation reserves -147.8 9.7 0.0 0.0 -138.2 Reconciliation of applicable tax Hedging reserves -1.4 0.0 2.6 0.0 1.2 rate and effective rate Other 0.4 -0.2 0.0 0.0 0.2 Recognised profit before tax 91.9 467.1 288.7 310.8 Total -178.9 -20.7 2.6 0.2 -196.7 Expected tax expense according to the swedish tax rate 22% -20.2 -102.8 -63.5 -68.4 Tax effect of: Note 10 Earnings per share* Differences in foreign tax rates -0.7 -0.1 0.0 0.0 2018/19 2017/18 Non-deductible/non-recognised -1.2 -4.1 -0.8 -0.3 Earnings per share before dilution Adjustment earlier taxation 5.1 -1.9 0.0 -1.9 Profit for the year 71.6 357.8 Tax-free dividend subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 62.1 24.8 Average number of shares before dilution 63.2 63.2 Other -3.4 -0.5 -0.9 0.0 Earnings per share before dilution 1.13 5.66 Recognised tax expense -20.3 -109.3 -3.1 -45.7 Earnings per share after dilution Effective tax rate, % 22.1 23.4 1.1 14.7 Profit for the year 71.6 357.8 Average number of shares before dilution 63.2 63.2 Deferred tax items Adjusted for: recognised directly in equity -1.2 2.6 0.0 0.0 share savings program 0.0 0.1 Deferred tax assets 19.4 13.4 3.5 4.0 Average number of shares after dilution 63.2 63.3 Deferred tax liabilities -187.1 -210.1 0.0 0.0 Earnings per share after dilution 1.13 5.65 Recog* number of shares are express in millions of share. Recognised in Amount Amount nised in compreExchange at the Earnings per share before and after dilution at start profit or hensive rate differend of The calculation of earnings per share has been based on profit for the year, totalGroup 2018/19 of year loss income ences year ling 71.6 MSEK (357.8) and on a average number of shares outstanding before and after dilution during both 2018/19 and 2017/18. Change in deferred tax in Options pertaining to LTI 2014, LTI 2015, LTI 2016, LTI 2017 and LTI 2018 are not temporary differences included in the calculation of earnings per share after dilution as they did not geneduring the year rate any dilution effect during the reported periods. Inter-company profit in inventories 12.0 10.8 0.0 0.0 22.8 Accruals and deferrals 7.3 -2.3 0.0 0.0 5.0 Note 11 Dividend per share Pensions 3.4 -0.3 0.0 0.2 3.4 The dividends paid in 2018/19 and 2017/18 totalled 395.1 MSEK (6.25 SEK per Accelerated depreciation -82.6 10.6 0.0 0.0 -72.1 share) and 395.0 MSEK (6.25 SEK per share) A dividend pertaining to 2018/19 of Tax allocation reserves -138.2 9.1 0.0 0.0 -129.1 6.25 SEK per share, comprised of two separate payments of 3.13 SEK per share and 3.12 SEK per share will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held Hedging reserves 1.2 0.0 -1.2 0.0 0.0 on 7 September 2019. The first payment is proposed to be in September 2019 Provisions DE/UK 0.0 2.2 0.0 0.0 2.2 and the second payment in January 2020. The proposed dividend amounts to a total of 410 MSEK (410), representing 573 per cent (115) of the financial year’s Other 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 profit after tax. The proposed dividend has not been recognised as a liability in Total -196.7 30.8 -1.2 0.2 -167.7 these financial statements. The Group does not have any unrecognised deferred tax assets or tax liabilities on temporary differences. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 113 NOTES Note 12 Non-current assets Group Parent Company 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Group Parent Company Equipment, tools, fixtures and 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 fittings Intangible assets Opening cost 1,974.6 1,789.8 1,094.1 1,052.0 Acquisitions for the year 105.8 146.2 54.7 52.0 Capitalised IT and software costs Reclassifications 0.0 2.9 0.0 0.0 Opening cost 596.1 472.3 596.1 472.3 Sales and disposals -158.3 -15.6 -16.8 -9.9 Acquisitions for the year 104.9 124.0 104.9 124.0 Translation differences 6.4 51.3 0.0 0.0 Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Closing accumulated cost 1,928.4 1,974.6 1,132.1 1,094.1 Sales and disposals -4.5 -0.2 -4.5 -0.2 Opening depreciation -1,320.0 -1,139.8 -767.1 -690.2 Closing accumulated cost 696.5 596.1 696.5 596.1 Depreciation for the year -159.4 -160.2 -83.6 -86.0 Opening depreciation -167.8 -132.1 -167.8 -132.1 Reclassifications 3.3 -2.2 3.3 0.0 Depreciation for the year -48.7 -35.9 -48.7 -35.9 Sales and disposals 105.9 14.2 12.7 9.1 Reclassifications -3.3 0.0 -3.3 0.0 Translation differences -4.7 -32.0 0.0 0.0 Sales and disposals 0.4 0.1 0.4 0.1 Closing accumulated depreciation -1,374.9 -1,320.0 -834.8 -767.1 Closing accumulated depreciation -219.5 -167.8 -219.5 -167.8 Closing residual value according to Closing residual value according to plan 553.5 654.6 297.3 327.0 plan 476.9 428.2 476.9 428.2 Parent Company Group Parent Company 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Financial non-current assets Tangible assets Opening cost 198.5 186.3 Land and buildings Increase/decrease in non-current receivables -154.9 12.2 Opening cost 754.8 755.0 754.8 752.2 Acquisitions for the year 0.0 2.6 0.0 2.6 Closing accumulated cost 43.6 198.5 Reclassifications 0.0 -2.9 0.0 0.0 Group Parent Company Sales and disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Translation differences 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 Securities held as fixed assets, valued at fair value* Closing accumulated cost 754.8 754.8 754.8 754.8 Securities held as fixed assets, valued at fair value at the beginning of Opening depreciation -368.1 -340.7 -368.1 -338.5 the year 224.5 0.0 224.5 0.0 Reclassifications 0.0 2.2 0.0 0.0 Acquisition 0.8 224.5 0.8 224.5 Revaluation during the year 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Sales and disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Depreciation for the year -28.7 -29.5 -28.7 -29.5 Securities held as fixed assets, valued at fair value at the end of Translation differences 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 the year 225.3 224.5 225.3 224.5 *According to level three in the fair value hierarchy, see note 20 Closing accumulated depreciation -396.8 -368.1 -396.8 -368.1 Investment commitments Closing residual value according to Contracted investments on the balance-sheet date not yet recognised in the plan 358.1 386.8 358.1 386.8 finanacial statements total the following amounts: Carrying amount, land 6.5 6.5 6.5 6.5 Group Parent Company 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 10.2 21.0 6.4 10.1 114 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 NOTES Note 13 Inventories Note 17 Forward contracts As per the balance-sheet date, outstanding cash-flow hedging existed according Group Parent Company to the following table. 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Merchandise 1,987.3 2,038.0 1,364.2 1,327.6 Carrying amount Average remaining Total 1,987.3 2,038.0 1,364.2 1,327.6 Currency and fair value Nominal amount term in months.1 Sell/buy 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Cost of goods sold 5,277.5 4,926.6 4,978.5 4,817.6 NOK/SEK -6.1 -10.7 152.0 160.3 2.3 2.1 Of which, obsolescence -8.0 -3.8 -9.3 -2.6 NOK/USD 8.5 4.4 414.9 391.7 3.3 3.4 Obsolescence is calculated based on individual assessment on the basis of SEK/USD 1.1 0.8 26.6 18.2 5.5 5.5 age analysis in stores and the distribution centre. Total 3.5 -5.5 593.5 570.3 3.2 3.1 Note 14 Accounts receivable 1 Maturity ranges from 15 May 11 Sept for NOK/SEK, 8 May 30 Oct for NOK/USD and 16 Oct to 16 Oct for SEK/USD. In the preceding year, the maturity ranges were from 9 May 12 Group Parent Company Sept for NOK/SEK, 9 May 24 Oct for NOK/USD and 17 Oct 17 Oct for SEK/USD. 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Forward contracts belong to the derivative category, which is used for hedging Accounts receivable 39.0 33.7 20.6 18.0 purposes. All derivatives are measured at fair value, established by using forward Total 39.0 33.7 20.6 18.0 contract prices on the balance-sheet date, meaning, level 2 in the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 13. Fair value 39.0 33.7 20.6 18.0 Forward contracts with negative market values totalled 6.1 MSEK (14.1), which Provisions for bad debt has not been accounted for as the historic outcome has was recognised in the item accrued expenses and deferred income. Forward not been material. contracts with positive market values amounted to 9.6 MSEK (8.6), which was recognised in the item Prepaid expenses and accrued income. Note 15 Prepaid expenses and accrued income A deferred tax liability of 0.8 MSEK (previous year a deferred tax assets of 1.2 Group Parent Company MSEK) was taken into account and the reamaining fair value of 2.7 MSEK (-4.3) was recognized in the hedging reserve within equity. The amount for forward 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 contracts NOK/USD of 8.5 MSEK (4.4) is allocated on the currency pair NOK/SEK with -9.8 MSEK (-18.0) and on the currency pair SEK/USD with 18.3 MSEK (22.4). Prepaid rent 67.1 93.4 38.9 45.6 Prepaid costs of materials 0.0 39.5 0.0 39.5 Note 18 Proposed allocation of earnings and Equity Other prepaid expenses 80.7 73.7 43.8 42.3 The following earnings (SEK 000s) are at the disposal of the Annual General Total 147.8 206.6 82.7 127.4 Meeting: Note 16 Cash and cash equivalents Profit brought forward 268,033 * Profit for the year 285,564 * Group 2018/19 2017/18 Total 553,597 * Cash and bank balances 105.0 115.8 Group total 105.0 115.8 The Board and Chief Executive Officer propose: At the end of the year, utilised overdraft facilities in the Group, which are not included in cash and cash equivalents, totalled 283.0 MSEK (0.0), refer to Note 20. Dividend payable to shareholders 6.25 SEK per share 410,0001 Carried forward to new account 143,597* Unutilised overdraft facilities in the Group, amounted to 750.0 MSEK (400.0). Total 553,597 Cash and cash equiivalents consists of cash placements in Swedish banks, cash on the way and cash in stores. 1 Dividends are based on the number of shares outstanding on the record date and will be splitted Provisions for bad debt has not been accounted for as the historic outcome has on two payouts, each 3.125 SEK. not been material. The record date for the first payment of the dividend is proposed as 10 September 2019, the second record date for the payment is proposed as 14 January 2020. It is anticipated that the dividend decided upon by the Annual General Meeting will be despatched on 13 September 2019 and 17 January 2020. With reference to the information presented above and what has otherwise come to the knowledge of the Board, the view of the Board is as follows: A comprehensive assessment of the financial position of the Parent Company and Group indicates that the dividend is justifiable with reference to the demands made by the nature, size and risks of the operation on the equity and liquidity of the Parent Company and Group. The Group’s equity/assets ratio is 49 per cent before payment of dividend and 39 per cent after payment of dividend. This is judged to be an adequate equity/assets ratio. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 115 NOTES The total number of ordinary shares is 65,600,000 (2018/19: 65,600,000) with Defined-contribution plans a quotient value of 1.25. The number of series A shares is 5,760,000, while the Defined-contribution plans exist in Sweden, Norway and Finland. Payments to number of series B shares is 59,840,000. Each series A share carries ten votes, these plans are made continuously according to the rules of each plan. while each series B share carries one vote. All issued shares are fully paid up. The company has outstanding stock option plans, whose outcome was hedged 2018/19 2017/18 through the repurchase of 2,382,206 series B shares (2,391,865). The number Group 93.1 82.7 of sharesoutstanding at the end of the year was 63,217,794 (63,208,135). The averagenumber of shares before and after dilution is reported in Note 10. Parent Company 54.1 47.0 The Group’s reserves contain translation differences of -39.3 MSEK For salaried employees in Sweden, the ITP 2 plan’s defined-benefit pension (-40.6), and hedging reserve of 2.7 MSEK (-4.3). obligations retirement and family pensions are insured on the basis of insurance with Alecta. According to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, UFR 10 Classification of ITP plans financed by insurance in Alecta, this is Note 19 Pension obligations a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. For the current financial year, the company did not have access to information to recognise its proportionate share of the The Group has defined-benefit occupational pension plans for only a few formerly plan’s obligations, plan assets and expenses, which entails that the plan cannot employed salaried employees. The following tables provide an overview of the be recognised as a defined-benefit plan. The ITP 2 pension plan insured through items included in the net expense for the remuneration recognised in the consoliinsurance with Alecta is therefore recognised as a defined-contribution plan. The dated income statement for the Group’s defined-benefit pension plans. The premium for the defined-benefit retirement and family pensions are individually amounts for the pension plans are also recognised in the consolidated balance calculated and depend on such factors as salary, previously earned pension sheet. For more information, refer to the pages 105-106. and expected remaining service period. The expected contributions for the next reporting period for ITP 2 insurance policies taken out with Alecta amount to 15.2 MSEK (12.5). Changes in the asset/liability recognised in the balance sheet are: 2018/19 2017/18 The collective funding ratio comprises the market value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of the insurance commitments calculated according to Alecta’s At the start of the year 1.5 1.6 actuarial methods and assumptions, which do not comply with IAS 19. The Net Periodic Pension Cost -0.3 -0.2 collective funding ratio is normally permitted to vary between 125 and 155 per cent. If Alecta’s collective funding ratio falls below 125 per cent or exceeds Employer contribution 0.0 0.1 155 per cent, measures are to be taken to create the conditions for returning Exchange-rate differences 0.0 0.1 the collective funding ratio to the normal interval. In the event of a low collective funding ratio, a measure could be raising the contracted price for new policies and expanding existing benefits. In the event of a high collective funding ratio, a Recognised provision at end of the financial year: 1.2 1.5 measure could be introducing premium reductions. At the end of 2019, Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective funding ratio was 142 per cent (154). Pension obligations: 2018/19 2017/18 Present value of funded obligations 4.7 4.6 Fair value of plan assets 6.0 6.1 Non-recognised actuarial gains/losses 0.0 0.0 Asset in balance sheet 1.2 1.5 Note 20 Financial instruments Received contractual cashflows and sale of financial assets Received contractual cashflows Other financial assets Finanacial assets measured at fair Financial assets measured at value through other comprehensive Finanacial assets measured at fair Assets 30 April 2019 Level amortized cost income value through profit or loss Total Securities held as fixed assets* 3 0.0 0.0 225.3 225.3 Accounts receivable 2 39.0 0.0 0.0 39.0 Other receivables 2 2.7 0.0 0.0 2.7 Cash and cash equivalents 2 105.0 0.0 0.0 105.0 Total 146.7 0.0 225.3 372.0 *The holding in MatHem Sverige AB was valued based on a transaction between two independent parties, and adjusted by the amount of the holding compared with the observed transaction. The fair value was measured according to level 3 of the fair value hierarchy since the value is based on the value of a transaction in a non-active market. 116 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 NOTES Note 22 Other provisions Financial assets meaRefers to: sured at amortized a) Sales-related provisions Liabilities 30 April 2019 Level cost Total Pertains to provisions for guarantee commitments, unredeemed gift cards, open purchase and estimated bonus points to customer club members, which are all Other liability provisions 2 12.7 12.7 expected to be utilised during the subsequent financial year. The provision for estiSkulder till kreditinstitut 2 283.1 283.1 mated future guarantee commitments is equivalent to the guarantee expenses for the year with respect to the length of the warranty period. Other current liabilities 2 663.6 663.6 Accounts payable and other liabilities 2 637.4 637.35 Gift cards Total 1,596.75 1,596.75 When purchasing Clas Ohlson’s gift cards in stores or via online shopping, the entire amount is recognised as a provision and recognised as income only when the gift card has been used in a store or has expired. For other financial assets and liabilities the carrying amount represents a resonable approximation of fair value. Open purchase and complaints Loan Clas Ohlson offers its customers open purchase for 90 days and the right to receivables complain about unsatisfactory purchases for up to ten years after the purchase. and Derivatives Securities Most of the returns occur during the week following the purchase. Every month, accounts for hedging that can be sales and cost of goods sold are adjusted taking into account the estimated Assets 30 April 2018 Level receivable purposes sold Summa proportion of returns. Accounts receivable 2 33.7 0.0 0.0 33.7 Club Clas Derivative instruments 2 0.0 8.6 0.0 8.6 Members of the Clas Ohlson’s loyalty program, Club Clas, receive bonus cheques in various amounts depending on the amount of purchases the customer made Securities held as at Clas Ohlson. The cheques are distributed continuously and are valid for six fixed assets* 3 0.0 0.0 224.5 224.5 months. All issued bonus cheques are not redeemed which is why each sale in the Cash and cash loyalty program is reduced by the fair amount with respect to future redemption of equivalents 2 115.8 0.0 0.0 115.8 bonus cheques, considering the current degree of redemption. Summa 149.6 8.6 224.5 382.6 b) Restructuring During the financial year 2018/19 a provisions for a restructuring cost of 210.0 MSEK pertaining to the closure ef the store network in UK and Germany. Derivatives Other for hedging financial Group Parent Company Liabilities 30 April 2018 Level purposes liabilities Total Guarantee commitments 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Derivative instruments 2 14.1 0.0 14.1 Opening provisions 11.3 10.2 6.1 5.8 Accounts payable and other liabilities 2 0.0 1,024.8 1,024.8 Utilised during the year -11.3 -10.2 -6.1 -5.8 Total 14.1 1,024.8 1,038.9 Allocated during the year 12.0 11.3 6.7 6.1 Total 12.0 11.3 6.7 6.1 Fair value measured according to the three levels below: Level 1: Listed prices in an active marketplace. Open purchase, unredeemed Level 2: Valuation model mainly based on observable market data for gift cards and bonus points 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 the asset or liability. Opening provisions 57.5 53.2 44.6 40.2 Level 3: Valuation model mainly based on own assumptions. Utilised during the year -57.5 -53.2 -44.6 -40.2 Allocated during the year 55.5 57.5 43.2 44.6 Note 21 Accrued expenses and deferred income Total 55.5 57.5 43.2 44.6 Group Parent Company Restructuring 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Opening provisions 17.7 40.5 0.0 0.0 Accrued payroll expenses 129,3 114,5 67,9 59,2 Utilised during the year -165.7 -26.8 0.0 0.0 Accrued holiday pay expenses 206,5 191,2 120,3 108,8 Allocated during the year 210.0 3.9 0.0 0.0 Accrued social security Total 62.0 17.7 0.0 0.0 contributions 99,7 101,5 83,8 77,2 Of which long-term Other items 110,2 129,4 52,9 67,5 provision amounts to 12.7 12.3 0.0 0.0 Total 545,7 536,5 324,9 312,8 Total provisions 129.4 86.5 49.9 50.7 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 117 NOTES Note 23 Inter-Group transactions Of the Parent Company’s invoiced sales, intra-Group sales accounted for 2,934.4 MSEK (2,783.9). Of this sum, 2,303.1 MSEK (2,177.2) related to sales to Clas Ohlson AS in Norway, 609.4 MSEK (561.7) to sales to Clas Ohlson Oy in Finland, 18.4 MSEK (40.1) to sales to Clas Ohlson Ltd in the UK and 3.5 MSEK (4.9) sales to Clas Ohlson GmbH in Germany. No purchases were made from subsidiaries. Note 24 Participations in Group companies Parent company 2018/19 2017/18 Accumulated acquisitioin value Opening value 29.3 29.3 Shareholder contribution 10.0 0.0 Total 39.3 29.3 The table below shows Clas Ohlson AB’s holding of shares and participations in subsidiaries according to the balance sheet 30/4. All companies are owned 100 percent.(C/O P 30.5 percent) Holding of shares and participations in subsidiaries for Clas Ohlson AB 2019-04-30 2018-04-30 Number of Value Number of Country Company Registred office Registration number shares MSEK shares Value MSEK Norway Clas Ohlson AS Oslo NO 937402198 10,000 0.1 10,000 0.1 Finland Clas Ohlson OY Helsinki FI 1765891-7 500,000 4.7 500,000 4.7 UK Clas Ohlson Ltd London 6298382 300,000 4.0 300,000 4.0 Germany Clas Ohlson GmbH Hamburg HRB 130004 1 9.3 1 9.3 China Clas Ohlson (Shanghai) Co, Ltd Shanghai 310000400574190 1,500,000 11.3 1,500,000 11.3 Sweden C/O P Investment AB Sweden 559160-9903 305 10.0 0.0 0.0 Total 39.3 29.3 Note 25 Securities held as fixed assets Parent Company 2018/19 2017/18 Accumulated acquisition value Opening value 224.5 0.0 Acquisitions for the year 0.8 224.5 Total 225.3 224.5 The table below shows Clas Ohlson AB’s holding of securiteis held as fixed assets according to the balance sheet 30/4. Holding of securities held as fixed asset for Clas Ohlsons AB 2019-04-30 2018-04-30 Number of Country Company Registred office Registration number shares Percentage of votes Value MSEK Value MSEK Sweden MatHem i Sverige AB Stockholm 556775-7264 668,550 8% 225.3 224.5 Total 225.3 224.5 118 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 NOTES Note 26 Appropriations Note 30 Contingent liabilities and commitments Parent Company 2018/19 2017/18 Parent Company 2018/19 2017/18 The difference between recognised depreciation and Contingent liabilities, Parent Company depreciation according to plan: Guarantee in favour of Group companies pertaining to – equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings -30.8 -32.2 future rental commitments 236.8 273.3 – land and buildings 0.0 1.0 Parent Company commitments Provision for tax allocation reserves All store premises, with the exception of Insjön, are leased and treated as Provisions for the year 72.0 44.0 operating leases. The company’s policy is that rent should be fixed and not based on store turnover. The average contract period at 30 April 2019 was three years. Parent Company total 41.2 12.8 Contracted leases were calculated according to rent levels for 2019. 2018/19 2017/18 Note 27 Cash and bank balances Rents and lease payments in financial year 317.2 297.0 Parent Company 2018/19 2017/18 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023Cash and bank balances 33.4 36.9 Parent Company total 33.4 36.9 Contracted future rents 281.2 208.9 165.6 99.1 63.5 Utilised Group overdraft facilities, totalled 283.0 MSEK (0.0 MSEK). Unspent credit lines amounts to 750.0 MSEK (400.0 MSEK) in the Group and Parent Company. Contingent liabilities, The Group The Group has no contingent liabilities. Group commitments Note 28 Untaxed reserves All store premises, with the exception of Insjön, are leased and treated as operating leases. The company’s policy is that rent should be fixed and not based on Parent Company 2018/19 2017/18 store turnover. The average contract period at 30 April 2019 was four years. Contracted leases were calculated according to rent levels for 2019. Accumulated difference between recognised depreciation and depreciation according to plan: – equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 438.5 407.7 Group 2018/19 2017/18 – land and buildings 0.0 0.0 Rents and lease payments in financial year 770,6 737.3 Provision for tax allocation reserve Tax 2013:1 0.0 0.0 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023Tax 2013:2 0.0 72.0 Contracted future Tax 2014 101.0 101.0 rents 744.6 614.8 478.9 335.4 489.4 Tax 2015 138.0 138.0 Tax 2016 123.0 123.0 Tax 2017 131.0 131.0 Note 31 Related-party transactions Tax 2018 63.0 63.0 The number of shareholders in the company totalled 42,336. The major Parent Company total 994.5 1035.7 shareholders are Clas Ohlson’s descendants Helena Ek-Tidstrand, Björn Haid, Johan Tidstrand, Peter Haid and Claus-Toni Haid , who hold 38 per cent of the capital and 66 per cent of the votes. No transactions with related parties took place during the financial year or previous year. Remuneration of the Board and Note 29 Pledged assets senior management is presented in Note 6 to the Annual Report. For further description, refer to the corporate governance report, pages 83-91. Group Parent Company 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Cash and cash equivalents 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total pledged assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 The company has no collateral for own obligations pertaining to currency forward contracts. Regarding contracted overdraft facilities, the company’s reports financial covenants, for which the company met the terms and conditions by a healthy margin. Utilised overdraft facilities in the Group and Parent Company amounted to 283.0 MSEK (0.0) in the year end. Total credit limits granted in the Group and in the Parent Company amounts to 750.0 MSEK (400.0 MSEK). CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 119 NOTES Note 32 Average numbers of employees Assets per segment Group Parent Company Sweden 932.0 776.8 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Norway 621.6 661.7 Total Sweden 1,777 1,667 1,777 1,667 Finland 194.4 193.6 – of whom, women (799) (713) (799) (713) Outside Nordic countries 42.7 150.5 Total Norway 797 772 Group-wide 2,081.2 2,301.2 – of whom, women (311) (299) Total 3,872.0 4,083.9 Total Finland 352 336 Cash and cash equivalents are not included in the tables above. – of whom, women (172) (153) Investment and depreciation per segment Total UK 81 86 Investments Depreciation – of whom, women (44) (44) 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Total China 53 52 Sweden 24.8 20.3 36.9 36.7 – of whom, women (32) (26) Norway 34.3 59.6 52.0 51.3 Total Germany 39 37 Finland 14.0 15.2 14.5 15.1 – of whow women (19) (18) Outside Nordic countries 2.6 18.7 8.9 7.6 Total 3,099 2,951 1,777 1,667 Group-wide 1 135.8 383.5 124.6 114.9 – of whom, women 1,377 1,253 799 713 Total 211.4 497.2 236.9 225.6 The average number of employees is based on the total number of hours worked in relation to total annual working time. Investments in intangible assets amounted to 104.9 MSEK (124.0). 1 Depreciation attributable to intangible assets amounted to 48.7 MSEK (35.9). Investment in MatHem i Sverige AB amounted to till 225.3 MSEK. Note 33 Segment reporting Clas Ohlson has the following segments: Sweden, Norway, Finland and Outside Nordic countries as well as Group-wide. The Group-wide segment pertains to the Note 34 Events after the end of the period Group-wide functions that assist sales organisations with purchasing, distribution, marketing, management and other support. A large portion of the Group’s External financing value is generated in the Group-wide segment. The Group’s internal pricing was After the end of the financial year, the company signed an agreement for an adapted to these prerequisites. Transactions between Group-wide and the sales external credit facility corresponding to 100 MSEK to meet the company’s organisations consist primarily of deliveries and payment for goods, internal financing requirements. The company’s total credit facility thereafter amounts to invoicing of services rendered and interest on Group-wide loans. The income 850 MSEK. measure recognised per segment consists of operating profit. Clas Ohlson has no customers that individually account for more than 10 per cent of the Group’s sales. End of performance period, Long-term Incentive Plan, LTI 2016 The qualification and performance periods for the LTI 2016 long-term incentive plan ran from 1 May 2016 until 30 April 2019. After the end of the reporting period, 2018/19 2017/18 a total of 2,636 shares were allotted on 2 May in accordance with the AGM’s resolution regarding share matching of one share per share purchased to those Sales per segment participants who remained employed after the three-year qualification period. Sweden 3,853.4 3,657.6 The established performance criteria regarding average sales growth and Norway 3,571.4 3,286.8 increased earnings per share for the period 2016–2019 were not achieved, meaning that no options were allotted to the participants and, accordingly, the LTI Finland 1,063.9 998.1 2016 has been concluded. Outside Nordic countries 283.5 268.2 LTI 2019 and utilisation of authorisation to buy back shares Group-wide -2,934.4 2,783.9 In May 2019, the long-term incentive plan LTI 2019 was introduced under the Eliminations of sales to other segments 2,934.4 -2,783.9 same structure as LTI 2018. Senior management will purchase shares in LTI 2019 in mid-June. The exercise price for the conditional employee stock options has Total 8,772.3 8,210.7 been set at SEK 77.50 per share, with exercise possible, following the three-year qualification period between June 2022 and April 2026. Operating profit per segment On 8 September 2018, the Annual General Meeting of Clas Ohlson AB authorised Sweden 158.2 150.3 the Board of Directors to acquire a maximum of 860,000 shares during the period Norway 150.0 138.6 until the next Annual General Meeting to secure the company’s commitment in connection with the introduction of a share-based incentive programme, LTI 2019. Finland 34.1 32.0 The total number of shares required to secure the undertaking for LTI 2019 is Outside Nordic countries 8.7 9.1 estimated at 780,000. The entire LTI 2019 undertaking can be secured by using shares that were bought back to secure previous LTI plans where the need has Group-wide -257.0 138.2 been recalculated. Total 94.0 468.3 As per 30 April 2019, the company’s holding of Clas Ohlson treasury shares amounted to 2,382,206 shares, corresponding to 4 per cent of the total number of registered shares. 120 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 NOTES CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 121 CERTIFICATION OF THE ANNUAL REPORT Certification of the Annual Report The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the IFRS standards as adopted by the EU and provide a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position and results of operations. The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and provide a true and fair view of the Parent Company’s financial position and results of operations. The Directors’ Report for the Group and Parent Company provides a fair overview of the development of the Group’s and Parent Company’s operations, financial position and earnings, and also describes material risks and uncertainties facing the Parent Company and companies included in the Group. Insjön 26 June 2019 Kenneth Bengtsson Mathias Haid Margareta Lehmann Chairman of the Board Göran Näsholm Charlotte Strömberg Göran Sundström Håkan Lundstedt Anne Thorstvedt Sjöberg Lotta Lyrå President and CEO Caroline Östning Lasse Zwetsloot Employee representative (Unionen) Employee representative (Handels) Our audit report was submitted on 30 June 2019. Deloitte AB Kent Åkerlund Authorized Public Accountant The balance sheets and income statements are to be adopted at the Annual General Meeting on 7 september 2019. 122 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Clas Ohlson AB (publ) corporate identity number 556035-8672 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Valuation of inventories Opinions Risk description We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Clas Ohlson Clas Ohlson report inventories of SEK 1 987 million as of April 30, 2019. InvenAB (publ) for the financial year 2018-05-01 2019-04-30 except for the corporate tories comprise a substantial part of the group’s assets and consists of a large governance statement on pages 83-91. The annual accounts and consolidated number of articles assorted over 232 stores and a central warehouse. Inventory accounts of the company are included on pages 72-122 in this document. is accounted for at the lower of cost and net sales value. Inventory accounting is subject to significant judgment and estimates, mainly related to obsolescence, In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the calculation of costs included in the inventory value and supplier bonuses. In adAnnual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial posidition, we have considered the large transaction volumes and the complexity due tion of the parent company as of 30 April 2019 and its financial performance and to the number of warehouse locations. For further information, please refer to the cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Risk assessment and control activities on page 90, Estimates and assumptions The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual on page 102, group accounting principles for inventory on page 105 and note 13. Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of 30 April 2019 and their financial performance and cash flow for Our audit included but was not limited to the following audit procedures: the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Stan• Auditing Clas Ohlson’s control environment for inventory management and dards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions procurement. do not cover the corporate governance report on pages 83-91. The statutory • Auditing of Clas Ohlson’s applied calculations of costs included in the administration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and inventory value. consolidated accounts. • Auditing of the inventory valuation as the lower of cost and net sales value and applied model for obsolescence. We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders adopts the • Completeness testing with data analytics covering all inand outgoing income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. deliveries from the warehouses. • Participating in stock taking for selected stores and Clas Ohlson’s distribu Our opinions in this report on the the annual accounts and consolidated accounts tion central in Insjön. are consistent with the content of the additional report that has been submitted • Evaluating the adequacy of applied accounting principles and relevant to the parent company’s audit committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation disclosures. (537/2014) Article 11. Basis for Opinions Revenue recognition We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing Risk description (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities The group’s sales as of April 30, 2019 amounts to SEK 8 772,3 million. The comunder those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities pany recognizes revenue at the time of sales/delivery to the customer when matesection. We are independent of the parent company and the group in accordance rial performance obligations are fulfilled. Revenue recognition has been identified with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled as a key audit matter since sales comprise a significant financial statement line our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes item and consists of a large number of small transactions, in all material aspects that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited services to consumers through own stores with upfront payment. For further information referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to refer to Risk assessment and control activities on page 90 and note 33 segment the audited company or, where applicable, its parent company or its controlled reporting. companies within the EU. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Key Audit Matters Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 123 AUDITOR’S REPORT Our audit included but was not limited to the following audit procedures: Board of Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible for such • Auditing of Clas Ohlson’s process for revenue recognition, handling of cash internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual and evaluation of the control environment. accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, • Analytical audit procedures of recorded revenue and reconciliation of total whether due to fraud or error. sales on receipt level traced against the corresponding movement in inven tory facilitated by data analytics tools. In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Board of Di• Auditing of Clas Ohlson’s analysis and evaluation of fluctuations in the rectors and the Managing Director are responsible for the assessment of the comgross margin. pany’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as • Auditing of the process of handling cash in a selection of stores. applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of • Evaluating the adequacy of applied accounting principles and relevant accounting. The going concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the disclosures. Board of Directors and the Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Closure of stores in UK and Germany The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director’s responsiRisk description bilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the company’s financial During the financial year, Clas Ohlson decided to close stores outside the Nordic reporting process. region. As a result, a provision of SEK 210 million was recorded during the third quarter. Auditor’s responsibility Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual Accounting for provisions requires significant estimates and assumptions from accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from material misstatemanagement of the costs entailed by the closure of the store network outside ment, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes the Nordic region. For further information, refer to Estimates and Assumptions on our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a page 102 and note 22 on provisions. guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when Our audit included but was not limited to the following audit procedures: it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material • Auditing of Clas Ohlson’s process for calculating and supporting a reliable if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence estimate of costs. the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and • Analysis of estimated costs against actuals. consolidated accounts. • Auditing a selection of significant input data in calculations. • Evaluating the adequacy of applied accounting principles and relevant A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the annual accounts disclosures. and consolidated accounts is located at the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description forms part of the auditor’s report. Other information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts This document also contains other information than the annual accounts and Report on other legal and regulatory requirements consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1-71 and 126-156. The Board of Opinions Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for this other information. In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does not cover have also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing this other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion Director of Clas Ohlson AB (publ) for the financial year 2018-05-01 2019-04-30 regarding this other information. and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit to be apour responsibility is to read the information identified above and consider whether propriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report the information is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consoland that the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director be idated accounts. In this procedure we also take into account our knowledge discharged from liability for the financial year. otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be materially misstated. Basis for Opinions We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing stanIf we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude that dards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director these requirements. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that they give a fair We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the to provide a basis for our opinions. consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The 124 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 AUDITOR’S REPORT Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes an assessAct and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent ment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements which the with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and are in company’s and the group’s type of operations, size and risks place on the size of accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. the parent company’s and the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity Deloitte AB, was appointed auditor of Clas Ohlson AB by the general meeting of and position in general. the shareholders on the 2018-09-08 and has been the company’s auditor since 2013-09-07. The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other things continuous Insjön, June 30, 2019 assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial situation and ensuring Deloitte AB that the company’s organization is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other Kent Åkerlund matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting Authorized Public Accountant in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. Auditor’s responsibility Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise to liability to the company, or • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the management’s administration is located at the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors website: www. revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description forms part of the auditor’s report. Auditor’s examination of the corporate governance report The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate governance statement on pages 83–91 has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Our examination of the corporate governance statement is conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor´s examination of the corporate governance statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 125 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability report 2018/19 In accordance with Chapter 6, Section 11 of the Annual Accounts Act, Clas Ohlson has chosen to prepare its statutory sustainability report separately from its statutory Annual Report. The table below shows where the requirements for sustainability information are presented in this integrated annual and sustainability report. Area Description Page reference General Business model 24-25 Environment Policy and environmental issues 28-30 Risks and risk management in environmental issues 31, 80, 136 Targets and results related to environmental issues 23, 128-129 Social conditions Policies and social issues 28-30 and personnel Risks and risk management in social issues 31, 81, 137 Targets and results related to social issues 35-37 Respect for human Policies and staff issues 28-30 rights risks and risk management in environmental issues 31, 80, 137 Targets and results related to staff issues 23, 44-45, 128 Anti-corruption Anti-corruption policy 28-30 Risks and risk management in anti-corruption 31, 80, 137 Targets and results related to anti-corruption 28, 129 126 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report To the general meeting of the shareholders in Clas Ohlson AB (publ), corporate identity number 556035-8672. Engagement and responsibility It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability report for the financial year 2018-05-01 to 2019-04-30 and that it is prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. Opinion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Insjön, 30 June 2019 Deloitte AB Kent Åkerlund Authorized Public Accountant CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 127 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | EIGHT CURRENT TARGET AREAS Eight current target areas Our sustainability targets were restructured during the financial year, and resulted in eight target areas meant to clearly reflect and support our strategy for 100 more years. Both the three important priorities (see page 31) and the parts covered by the redefined targets were identified in the materiality analysis we carried out in spring 2018. 1. A SUSTAINABLE 2. A RESPONSIBLE 3. A SUSTAINABLE CUS4. AN ATTRACTIVE AND OFFERING SUPPLY CHAIN TOMER MEETING SUSTAINABLE EMPLOYER We want to simplify people’s The majority of the products we We are passionate about simSustainability issues are important everyday lives at home through a sell are manufactured in countries plifying life in all kinds of homes, for Clas Ohlson as an employer. combination of products, guidance where there is an increased risk for and about solving our customers’ The ability to attract and retain and supplementary services. We deviations from our Code of Conproblems sustainably. In our intercapable employees is fundamental will continue to develop a product duct. This is why taking responsibilactions with customers – either in for our competitiveness, and when range that supports a sustainable ity in our supply chain is important. physical stores or online – we can the fight for labour power becomes lifestyle, promotes reuse, extends Our target is that all suppliers will be guide them to select the sustaineven fiercer, being a values-govthe life of existing products and in compliance with our requireable alternative. This is why it is erned, sustainable company seeks to recycle products at the ments, with no serious deviations. important to integrate sustainabilbecomes even more important to end of their life cycle. We will also One challenge we continue to work ity into everything we do, so that us. We have a zero tolerance policy expand the service offering to our on is achieving long-lasting change our co-workers who interact with regarding discrimination. Diversity customers in order to promote a in the supply chain, and not tempocustomers can help and guide issues are important to us, since circular economy. This includes rary improvements as the result of them to sustainable choices and we want – and need – to reflect our Clas Fix it, the partnership with an audit. That is why we are looking solutions. customer base. During the financial Vinden, and our rental services. at how we can further promote year, we set a goal for international long-term improvements among Going forward, we will increase diversity: 15 per cent of our emWe will retain our goal of having our suppliers through a pilot project the knowledge of sustainability ployees are to have a background the share of sustainable products regarding closer collaboration with a issues among our employees in in another country than the one total at least 25 per cent of sales in small number of manufacturers. our stores, inform our customers they currently work in. Over the long 2020. The criteria for products for more clearly, and measure our term, the target will be raised to 20 a more sustainable lifestyle have We see increased requirements brand position in sustainability. per cent. been updated, and an advanced for traceability in the supply chain; “From Here to Sustainability” is model specific to Clas Ohlson has during the year we will define Clas one way of communicating our We will continue to work on been developed in order to make Ohlson’s level of responsibility in our sustainability initiatives, which will increasing employee attendance, assessments. On the production supply chain as regards subconbe further strengthened over the having an equal distribution of men side, focus in 2019/20 will be tractors. Together with other comcoming financial year. and women in all groups and at all on issues including classifying panies, we are part of a national levels, and being an inclusive orproducts based on the new model, project called SLEEP, conducted by ganisation in which we respect one implementing the plastics strategy Chalmers University of Technology, another and act in accordance with launched during the year, increasing that focuses on sustainable new our culture and core values. the share of sustainable electronic production of electronics, traceproducts and defining a strategy for ability, conflict minerals, re-use and wood and paper. materials recycling. 128 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | EIGHT CURRENT TARGET Products for a more sustainCO2 emissions, grams of CO2 Percentage of suppliers able lifestyle, share of sales, % relative to our sales meeting the requirements of the Code of Conduct with no serious deviations, % 98 19 1.63 2.25 96 98 98 96 16 14 1.73 10 6 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 Target 25% Target: Reduced CO2emissions from Target 98% * transportation in relation to our sales. * The goal was adjusted to 100% during the year. 5. ENSURE COMPLI6. OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY 7. REDUCE CO 2 EMIS8. EFFICIENT AND ANCE AND HIGH BUSISHALL CONTRIBUTE TO SIONS IN OUR OPERASUSTAINABLE PACKAGNESS ETHICS OUR TARGET OF BEING A TIONS ING THROUGHOUT OUR MEANINGFUL AND TRUSTVALUE CHAIN Clas Ohlson has a strong corpoED BRAND AND COMPANY As we continue to grow as a rate culture, which is the starting company, it is essential that our Packaging is found along our point for being a meaningful and We focus our social responsibilities emissions do not follow suit. Energy entire value chain, which is why trsuted brand and company. Our on initiatives that are close to use in our properties and stores enhancing the efficiency of the Code of Conduct and Code of operations, including the rights of needs to be as efficient as possible, entire packaging chain — from Business Ethics define the requirechildren and support for the UN and we promote the use of elecdesign phase all the way to the ments and instructions that Children’s Rights and Business tricity and heating from renewable stores or direct to customers’ both employees and partners are Principles. Our social responsibility energy sources to best support homes — is important. This goal expected to follow. is and should be linked to our climate-efficient distribution to end involves several functions at the operations, where it is the most customers. During the year, we set company such as our distribution The focus going forward is to efficient and credible. We can then a target for energy efficiency: 30 per centre, the logistics division, the ensure, through information also strengthen confidence and cent energy efficiency by 2030, with purchasing offices in China and and continued training initiatives commitment among our owners, 2014 as a base year. the product development and – internally and with external employees, customers and other design teams. partners – zero tolerance toward stakeholders. Since our products are a large part corruption and compliance with of our core operations, our environWe are enhancing the efficiency our standards for business ethics. Going forward, we will continue mental impact is associated with of the chain and making it more Unannounced audits will be carto focus on initiatives via the Clas transporting them. We continue to sustainable by reducing the use ried out at regular intervals. Ohlson Foundation and our strateincrease the fill rate in containers of packaging materials, choosing gic partnerships with organisations by consolidating products in Asia. the right materials and ensuring such as the World Childhood The same applies to the fill rate in that the packaging can be Foundation and the Save the Chilour transports from the distribution recycled. This work takes place dren Fund, in which training of our centre out to stores. internally, and in partnership with suppliers in China and employees in our suppliers. As help, we have our home markets is an important Increased online shopping impacts our new model for assessing part of achieving our goal. customers’ expectations of sustainable products, which also quickly receiving products shipped includes packaging. In 2019/20, right to their door, which is why all packaging is to be recyclable understanding and managing the in accordance with our new environmental impact from various plastics strategy adopted during sales and distribution channels is the financial year. becoming increasingly important to us. We place strict demands on our distributors for home deliveries, in order to promote more environmentally friendly alternatives for our customers. Through innovative partnerships – with MatHem, for example – we can optimise the transportation flow and reduce our emissions. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 129 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | OUR VALUE CHAIN Our value chain We take responsibility for all our operations, and integrate our sustainability initiatives along our entire value chain to ensure that over the long term it will be as resource-efficient as possible. Managing our positive and negative impact in an effective manner requires that we work on the most material issues along the entire value chain. Our responsibility extends outside of our own operations’ direct impact and also encompasses our impacts through our business relations with, for example, suppliers, transport companies, strategic partners and customers. We also have considerable scope for influencing the various parts of the value chain. We work constantly along the entire value chain to find risks and opportunities to create value for our stakeholders. Product development Manufacturing Transportation Operations AREA Together with strategic suppliers 70 per cent of our products 1,367 million tonne kilometres of About 5,000 employees in six for our proprietary brands. manufactured in Asia. product transports. countries. ISSUES • Water and energy efficiency • Code of Conduct and • Emissions of CO2 and • Skills development • More sustainable material quality requirements energy consumption • Diversity • Packaging • Anti-corruption and bribes • Transportation efficiency • Health and well-being • Recycling opportunities • Human rights in new • Fill rate and • Young people in our workforce • Functionality and existing markets freight consolidation • Energy efficiency and waste • Product life • Migrant worker conditions • Anti-corruption and bribes VALUE • Reduced impact from • Improved conditions for • Reduced CO2 emissions • A high-performing CREATION products during use and suppliers, their employees • More cost-efficient organisation when recycling and families and local transportation solutions • Attract and retain • Relevant and unique products communities skilled employees • Increased confidence in • Increased employee the Clas Ohlson brand commitment • Skills development in fields such as business ethics ABILITY TO MEDIUM MEDIUM MEDIUM HIGH INFLUENCE 130 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | OUR VALUE CHAIN VALUE CHAIN Manufacturing Transportation Product development Operations Sales Home delivery End of product life Product use Sales Home delivery Product use End of product life AREA 232 stores in four countries and Promote environmentally friendly Products with a high environParticipate in collection and recyonline shopping in five countries alternatives for home delivery of mental performance at attractive cling schemes. our online shopping products. prices allow our customers to live more sustainably. ISSUES • Availability of products • Work to limit CO2 • Product life • Waste that have a high environmental emissions in the logistics chain • Environmental impact during • Recycling performance • Transportation efficiency, the product’s service life • Reuse • Products and optimisation and consolidation • Hazardous chemicals • Producer responsibility and services for a more sustainable • Expanded selection to con• Product safety collection systems lifestyle that promotes a circular sumers of environmentally • Services for a more sustainable • Chemicals economy friendly delivery alternatives lifestyle and circular economy • Information and training • Energy efficiency in stores • Spare parts regarding environment and littering VALUE • Loyal customers • Reduced CO2 emissions • Extended product use • Less waste and more CREATION • Motivated co-workers • Attractive and relevant selec• High confidence in the prodmaterial recycling • Attractive, unique tion with environmentally ucts • Fewer chemicals in the environand relevant product offering friendly transportation alterna• Less waste and increased ment • Reduced energy costs tives as a competitive advanresource efficiency • More information about environtage • Fewer chemicals to the envimental impact • Loyal customers ronment • Committed employees and • Reduced energy consumption partners and CO2 emissions • More information about envi• Cost savings ronmental impact ABILITY TO HIGH MEDIUM MEDIUM MEDIUM INFLUENCE CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 131 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Clas Ohlson’s contributions to the SDGs As part of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), the world has united around eliminating extreme poverty, decreasing inequalities, solving the climate crisis, and promoting peace and justice. We can make this vision a reality through shared efforts in all sectors of society. Clas Ohlson will do its part by working strategically on its most important sustainability issues. During the financial year, we mapped the SDGs based on our areas of activity. The SDGs have been discussed among both Group Management and the Board of Directors, and we have linked our new sustainability targets to several of the SDGs. Refer to our new sustainability targets on pages 128–129. The table shows how our sustainability initiatives support the SDGs we have chosen to focus on. SDG Milestones How Clas Ohlson promotes the goal 4. 4.7 Global citizenship and Education opens up a world of opportunities that make it possible for each and every one of Quality sustainable development us to promote a sustainable society. Using the QuizRR training tool, workers are educated in education education. their rights and obligations. Together with CCR CSR, we engage our suppliers in educating migrant workers in parenthood, as well as in their and their children’s rights and well-being. Read more on page 45. Since the spring of 2019, we have been informing and training our employees in partnership with the World Childhood Foundation in identifying and preventing children from being subjected to violence and sexual abuse. Read more on page 8. 5. 5.5 Ensure women’s full Equality between women and men is a precondition for peaceful, sustainable development. Gender and effective participation Read about our work on equality issues, and gender distribution targets in all groups and at equality and equal opportunities for all levels, on pages 34–35. leadership at all levels of decision-making. 7. 7.2 Increase substantially the Access to sustainable, reliable and renewable energy and pure fuels is a precondition for Affordable share of renewable energy in meeting several of the challenges the world faces today. Read about energy efficiency in and clean the global energy mix. our stores on page 53, and about emissions from transportation on pages 64–65. energy 8. 8.4 Improve global resource By protecting labour rights and promoting a safe working environments for all workers, we Decent efficiency in consumption and create the conditions for sustainable economic growth. Read about our work on educating work and production. workers in China using the QuizRR training tool on page 45. economic growth 8.5 Achieve full and producRead about our work on audits at manufacturers in high-risk countries, and our partnership tive employment and decent with Sedex, on pages 44–45. work for all women and men, and equal pay for work of equal value. 8.7 Eradicate forced labour, end human trafficking and eliminate the worst forms of child labour. 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers. 10. 10.3 Ensure equal opportunity An equitable society is built on the principle of equal rights and opportunities for everyone Reduced and eliminate discrimination. regardless, for example, of gender, ethnicity, religion, disability, age or other situation. Diverinequalities sity enables creativity and innovation, which helps us interact with our customers in the best way possible. Read more about our diversity initiatives on pages 34–35. 132 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS SDG Milestones How Clas Ohlson promotes the goal 12. 12.2 Achieve sustainable Current levels of production and consumption of products promotes a drastic overuse of reResponsible management and efficient use sources, and our total climate footprint today is significantly greater than the planet’s capacity. consumption of natural resources. and producWe have a long-term goal of creating a resource-efficient value chain, and we want to help tion 12.4 Environmentally sound our customers live more sustainably. Read about our new sustainability targets, which include management of chemicals and solutions for a sustainable lifestyle, expanded services and sustainable packaging on pages all wastes. 128–129. 12.5 Substantially reduce Read about our work on chemicals and our updated model for assessing sustainable waste generation. products on pages 40–41 and 46. 12.8 Ensure people everywhere have the relevant information for sustainable development and lifestyles. 13. 13.3 Improve education Climate change is a fact, and we must act now. By creating awareness concerning the Climate and human and institutional climate and finding innovative, circular solutions to how this can be managed, we can make action capacity on climate change a difference. Read about our new targets regarding sustainable products and services that mitigation. promoted a circular economy on page 128. We are increasing knowledge among school students regarding the environment and recycling through the Battery Hunt. Read more on page 40. 14. 14.1 Reduce marine pollution Eight million tonnes of plastic end up in the oceans every year, and we need to help to reduce Life below of all kinds. marine pollution. Read more about our new plastics strategy on pages 9 and 46. water 16. 16.2 End abuse, exploitation, Lasting success cannot be achieved in a context of conflict and violence. We previously Peace, trafficking and all forms of partnered with Epcat to ensure that our internal policies and processes maintain a high level justice and violence against children. of ethics in this area. We continue to work actively on spreading knowledge internally about strong instithese policies and missives. We will be installing Netclean, a tool to stop images of sexual tutions 16.5 Substantially reduce abuse of children, on all the computers in the Group. corruption and bribery in all their forms. Read about our ongoing partnership with the World Childhood Foundation, which works to stop violence against and sexual abuse of children, on page 8. A responsible and inclusive way of working, free from corruption and with a high degree of business ethics, is expected from every individual employee at, and partner of, Clas Ohlson. Read more about zero tolerance towards corruption and bribery on pages 28-29 and 129. 17. 17.16 Enhance the global Today, the world is more connected than ever before, and through partnerships with other Partnerships partnership for sustainable players we can truly make a difference. Read more about our partnerships with the Save the for the goals development. Children Fund, QuizRR, the World Childhood Foundation and Sedex on pages 8, 45 and 129. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 133 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The SDGs from the perspective of children’s rights For many years, Clas Ohlson has had a focus on children’s rights for our social responsibility. Our Code of Conduct contains the UN Children’s Rights and Business Principles, and the topics addressed by the Code of Business Ethics include how we are expected to act if we suspect abuse of children. We focus our social responsibilities on initiatives that are close to operations, including the rights of children and support for the UN Children’s Rights and Business Principles. This focus on children’s rights is directly connected to our playing field – the home – and all children’s rights to a secure home and childhood. Viewing the impact that we have from the perspective of future generations promotes our long-term agenda. The illustration shows how our sustainability initiatives in childrens’ rights issues support the SDGs we have chosen to focus on. 4. 6. QUALITY CLEAN WATER EDUCATION AND SANITATION 3. 8. DECENT WORK GOOD HEALTH AND ECONOMIC AND WELL-BEING GROWTH 16. PEACE, JUSTICE 10. AND STRONG INSTIREDUCED TUTIONS INEQUALITIES 13. 12. CLIMATE RESPONSIBLE ACTION CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION 134 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 3 HEALTH AND WELL-BEING – Clas Ohlson intends to be an employer that creates conditions and opportunities for balance in life, where family and work life can easily be combined. 4 QUALITY EDUCATION – Our partnership with Save the Children and CCR CSR, which includes support programmes and training for parents, and also social support for migrant workers and their children as well as the establishment of safe areas for children at two manufacturers. The training material is also available in QuizRR. – The Clas Ohlson Foundation supports the Insjön primary school in 2018/19, as well as Junior Achievement Sweden. 6 CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION – The Clas Ohlson Foundation made a one-time donation to the Save the Children catastrophe efforts after the March 2019 hurricane in Mozambique. 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH – Clas Ohlson has long worked preventively on issues concerning child labour, both through the audit work we conduct in China and through training from CCR CSR (Save the Children), in which our offices in China also received training during the financial year. 10 REDUCED INEQUALITIES – More than 15 million children in China are estimated to be separated from their parents and left in the countryside while their parents work in the plants around the cities. Our strategic partnership with Save the Children and their CSR centre in China is intended to improve the situation for migrant workers who are parents and their children. – Our internal diversity targets, our work on equality and zero tolerance toward discrimination supports the individual and the opportunities of future generations. 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION – Legislation places strict requirements regarding toys, but we place stricter requirements than are expected as regards product safety, since we also test all products that are not classified as toys but are used by children. 13 CLIMATE ACTION – The Battery Hunt is an information campaign and competition that started in 2013 for the purpose of making children aware early on of the importance of recycling batteries for the sake of both the environment and our own health. We thereby promote positive change as regards recycling and education. In 2019, nearly 170,000 schoolchildren in Sweden and Norway took part. – Furthermore, we work to ensure more sustainable transportation for online shopping, reduced energy use and CO2 emissions (Fossil Free Sweden, etc.), which enables safeguarding the planet for future generations. 16 PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS – We partner with the World Childhood Foundation, which was founded to strengthen children’s rights to a safe, loving childhood, and to work in particular on improving living conditions for children who risk being subjected to violence or sexual abuse. In addition to financial support, our partnership includes the opportunity for Clas Ohlson’s employees to receive free training in how to prevent violence and sexual abuse of children by being an “important adult.” – At the start of the 2019/20 financial year, Netclean will be installed on all computers in the Group in order to stop material that shows the sexual abuse of children. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 135 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | SUSTAINABILITY RISKS Risk areas from a sustainability perspective Our business model entails risks that can negatively impact people, the environment and society to various extents. Unless managed correctly, these risks could impact Clas Ohlson’s reputation as a meaningful and trusted brand and company. They can also impact the confidence employees have in us as an employer and our market position, disrupt production and deliveries, incur unforeseen costs and cause violations of the law. Identifying environmental, social, human rights and anti-corruption risks is an integral part of our sustainability initiatives, and systematic risk management is integrated into our operations. For more information on the Group’s risks, refer to the Risks and uncertainties section on pages 78-81. ENVIRONMENT AREA DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MANAGEMENT RAW MATENon-optimised use of non-renewable Consequences attributable to costs of • Replace fossil fuel-based material with RIALS resources materials, which impacts product pricing more sustainable alternatives • Reduce use of materials Inefficient use of raw materials for products Damaged reputation • Use materials with less environmental and packaging, among suppliers and in impact Clas Ohlson’s operations • Increase use of recycled materials • Increase opportunities for recycling CO2 emissions as a consequence of Regulatory consequences • Energy-efficient products EMISSIONS electricity consumption when using our • products and services that promote products Impact on the environment and climate a circular economy • Phase out single-use articles and less CO2 emissions from transportation Reduced access to raw materials for future sustainable products or product categories needs • Energy-efficient stores, offices, warehouses CO2 emissions occurring in operations and premises Disruptions to production, operations and • Replace fossil fuel-based material with customers’ purchasing behaviour as a more sustainable alternatives result of extreme weather conditions and • Reduce CO2 emissions in relation to thus increased costs our net sales • Increase the fill rate by consolidating Damaged reputation goods and adapting to more sustainable logistics systems • Limit the potential hazardous chemicals in CHEMICALS Risk for ground and water pollution our products Regulatory consequences • Apply frameworks for handling chemicals Health risks in manufacturing, processing adapted to the EU RoHS and Reach and using products among suppliers and Impact on work environment legislation in Clas Ohlson’s operations • Apply the cautionary principle through Damaged reputation Clas Ohlson’s chemicals requirements, which define both general and product-specific requirements that are updated annually • Long-term work on increasing quality END-OF-LIFE Inefficient use of products and short of products to extend service life PRODUCTS service lives increase demand for raw Regulatory consequences and product design for the purpose of materials working for more sustainable material and Damaged reputation facilitating recycling Low value from material recycling • Furnish spare parts and solutions for repairs • Offer products with more fields of application, hiring and sharing services that reduce waste • Collection initiatives • Offer solutions that extend products’ service life and facilitate collection, reuse and recycling 136 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | SUSTAINABILITY RISKS SOCIAL CONDITIONS, HUMAN RIGHTS AND EMPLOYEES AREA DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MANAGEMENT WORKING Risk of violations of the right to free associRegulatory consequences • Consolidate and focus on strategic CONDITIONS ation, fair wages, safety, discrimination and suppliers AND HUMAN access to social insurance systems among Transparency regarding the impact of • Train both workers and management at RIGHTS suppliers in high-risk countries our products on consumers’ purchasing our suppliers behaviour • Check compliance with the Code of Risk of forced and compulsory labour and Conduct and monitor deviations child labour among suppliers in high-risk Partnerships with suppliers must be • Check potential suppliers based on countries terminated the requirements in the Code of Conduct before any partnership begins Families negatively impacted by workforce Damaged reputation • Refrain from initiating partnership if migration serious deviations are discovered • Ensure improvements to working conditions over time at our suppliers • Initiatives for children’s rights HEALTH AND Product safety, consumer safety and Regulatory consequences • Take responsibility for all employees SAFETY health when using our products and subcontractors working in Costs related to interruptions in operations Clas Ohlson’s operations Workplace accidents and stress-related as a consequence of absence due to health factors among employees illness Workplace accidents at suppliers Damaged reputation SKILLS Risk that we do not prepare our employLimited access to benefits • Apply shared policies and ees prior to the transition to rapid digital processes for skills development and development Damaged reputation remuneration • Skills survey Risk of not successfully recruiting and A brand that is not relevant as an employer • Target-based individual development utilising talents and/or an offering that is not attractive • Management development DIVERSITY Risk of discrimination and failing to enable Limited access to benefits • Zero tolerance towards discrimination an inclusive society • Equality goals Damaged reputation • Apply shared policies for diversity • Recruit for increased diversity CONFIDENCustomers’ right to privacy and confidenRegulatory consequences • Apply the information security policy TIALITY AND tiality in connection with purchases and as and manage personal data in accorSECURITY members in the loyalty programme Damaged reputation dance with the applicable legislation • New, digital tools make it easy for customers to change and learn about personal information ANTI-CORRUPTION AREA DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MANAGEMENT BRIBERY IN Corruption, among both suppliers and Regulatory consequences • Apply the Code of Business Ethics, THE SUPPLY employees, that threatens economic which is a part of our Code of Conduct, CHAIN and social stability, especially in high-risk Obstacles to establishment in new purand report suspected deviations countries chasing regions • Train senior executives and employees who work with purchasing, high-value Deficiencies in compliance with Clas Increased costs contracts, and agents in Asia Ohlson’s Code of Conduct • External anonymous whistle-blower Deficiencies in quality and deliveries service implemented • Zero tolerance toward corruption Damaged reputation CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 137 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | GRI INDEX GRI Standards Index For the ninth consecutive year, Clas Ohlson is reporting its work with sustainability pursuant to the GRI Standards. This annual report describes our sustainability areas, as well as relevant goals and key indicators linked to these areas. The GRI index provides references as regards standard disclosures concerning the company and corporate governance, as well as disclosures concerning material aspects of Clas Ohlson. The page references refer to the annual report or the website. With the exception of energy consumption and transportation, all data refers to the 2018/19 financial year. As a signatory of the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption, the Sustainability Report comprises Clas Ohlson’s Communication on Progress (COP). 2016 STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI DISCLOSURE REFERENCE 102-1 Name of the organisation Directors’ Report, p. 72 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Business model, p. 24-25; Directors’ Report, p. 72 102-3 Location of headquarters Directors’ Report, p. 72 102-4 Location of operations Directors’ Report, p. 72 102-5 Ownership and legal form Directors’ Report, p. 74-75 102-6 Markets served Directors’ Report, p. 72 102-7 Scale of the organisation Directors’ Report, p. 73 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Employees, p. 32, 35 102-9 Supply chain Purchasing, p. 44 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its Ten-year overview, p. 150-151 supply chain 102-11 Risks and uncertainties, p. 78-81, Sustainability risks, p. 136–137 Precautionary principle or approach 102-12 Chairman’s statement, p. 82 External initiatives 102-13 about.clasohlson.com Membership of associations STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO’s statement, p. 11 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Risks and uncertainties, p. 78-81; Sustainability risks, p. 136–137 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior Governance and responsibility, p. 24-28 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Governance and responsibility, p. 24-28 138 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | GRI INDEX GRI DISCLOSURE REFERENCE GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure Governance and responsibility, p. 24-26; Corporate governance, p. 83-91; Board of Directors, p. 92-93 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics Governance and responsibility, p. 28-30 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Board of Directors, p. 92-93; Group management, p. 94-95 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental and social impacts Sustainability risks, p. 136-137 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Risks and uncertainties, p. 78-81 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social topics Our value chain, p. 130-131; Materiality analysis, p. 31, 128–129 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder expectations, p. 16-17 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements On average, 96 per cent of Clas Ohlson’s employees are covered by collective agreements 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder expectations, p. 16-17 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder expectations, p. 16-17 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder expectations, p. 16-17; Materiality analysis, p. 31, 128–129 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Directors’ Report, p. 72 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Materiality analysis, p. 31, 128–129 102-47 List of material topics Our value chain, p. 130-131; Materiality analysis, p. 31, 128–129 102-48 Restatements of information GRI index, introduction, p. 138 102-49 Changes in reporting Directors’ Report, p. 72 102-50 Reporting period GRI index, introduction, p. 138 102-51 Date of most recent report GRI index, introduction, p. 138 102-52 Reporting cycle GRI index, introduction, p. 138 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Contacts, p. 156-157 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards GRI index, introduction, p. 138 102-55 GRI content index GRI index, introduction, p. 138 102-56 External assurance The auditor’s statement in regards to meeting Swedish legislation on sustainability reporting, p. 127 MATERIAL TOPICS FINANCIAL STANDARDS ECONOMIC IMPACT 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach and its Corporate governance, Control environment, p. 89, Auditor’s report, p. 123-125 components, evaluation of the management approach 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Business model, Economic value by stakeholder group, p. 24-25 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Business model, Economic value by stakeholder group, p. 24-25 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Governance and responsibility, p. 28-29 ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS MATERIALS 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach and its Eight current target areas, p. 128; A unique customer offering p. 40-41, 46 Although this topic is considered material for Clas Ohlson, the associated GRI indicator is not relevant for measuring our impact. Clas Ohlson has continued its process of defining a relevant indicator. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 139 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | GRI INDEX GRI DISCLOSURE REFERENCE ENERGY 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach and its Eight current target areas, p. 129 components, evaluation of the management approach about.clasohlson.com 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Diagram: Energy use and related CO2 emissions from indirect and direct energy consumption, p. 53 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organisation Smart and Simple, p. 64-65 EMISSIONS 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach and its Eight current target areas p. 129 Diagram: Energy use and related CO2 emiscomponents, evaluation of the management approach sions from indirect and direct energy consumption, p. 53 Smart and Simple, p. 64-65 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Diagram: Energy use and related CO2 emissions from indirect and direct energy 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions consumption, p. 53 Diagram: Energy use and related CO2 emissions from indirect and direct energy consumption, p. 53 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach and its Eight current target areas, p. 128-129, Our value chain, p. 130-131 components, evaluation of the management approach Although this topic is considered material for Clas Ohlson, the associated GRI indicator is not relevant for measuring our impact. Clas Ohlson has continued its process of defining a relevant indicator. SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach and its Eight current target areas, p. 128-129. about.clasohlson.com components, evaluation of the management approach Deviations from the Code of Conduct when audited, p. 44-45 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Deviations from the Code of Conduct when audited, p. 44-45 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken SOCIAL STANDARDS EMPLOYMENT 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach and its Eight current target areas, p. 128-129. about.clasohlson.com Commitment components, evaluation of the management approach index, p. 37. 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Employee turnover: Sweden 16%, Norway 37% OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach and its Eight current target areas, p. 128-129 components, evaluation of the management approach about.clasohlson.com Diagram: Employee attendance, p. 36* * Clas Ohlson has defined its own indicator for this topic. 140 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | GRI INDEX GRI DISCLOSURE REFERENCE DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach and its Eight current target areas, p. 128; about.clasohlson.com. Employees, p. 32-35 components, evaluation of the management approach Corporate governance, p. 84-85; Board of Directors, p. 92-92, 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diagram: Managers, proportion of women/men, % p. 34-35 NON-DISCRIMINATION 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach and its Eight current target areas, p. 128 components, evaluation of the management approach about.clasohlson.com. Governance and responsibility, p. 28 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Employees, p. 34-35 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach and its Eight current target areas, p. 129. about.clasohlson.com; Deviations from the components, evaluation of the management approach Code of Conduct when audited, p. 29, 44-45; Sustainable Development Goals, p. 134-135 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective Diagram: Deviations from the Code of Conduct when audited, p. 45* bargaining may be at risk 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor Diagram: Deviations from the Code of Conduct when audited, p. 45* 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor Diagram: Deviations from the Code of Conduct when audited, p. 45* 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or Diagram: Deviations from the Code of Conduct when audited, p. 45** that underwent human rights screening 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria A unique customer offering, p. 44-45 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Diagram: Deviations from the Code of Conduct when audited, p. 45 * This indicator tracks non-compliances based on supplier audits, where there is a higher risk for deviations in regards to freedom of association. ** All new suppliers are evaluated on their performance against our Code of Conduct criteria. CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach and its Eight current target areas, p. 128 components, evaluation of the management approach about.clasohlson.com; A unique customer offering, p. 40-41, 46 Although this topic is considered material for Clas Ohlson, the associated GRI indicator is not relevant for measuring our impact. Clas Ohlson has continued its process of defining a relevant indicator. CUSTOMER PRIVACY 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach and its Risks and uncertainties, p. 80 components, evaluation of the management approach Although this topic is considered material for Clas Ohlson, the associated GRI indicator is not relevant for measuring our impact. Clas Ohlson has continued its process of defining a relevant indicator. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 141 THE SHARE The Clas Ohlson share Clas Ohlson’s series B share has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since 1999. The share is included in the Consumer Services sector index. The share reported a 18 per cent decline during the financial year. Clas Ohlson’s total market capitalization amounted to 5.2 billion SEK (6.3) calculated on the most recent share price of 79 SEK paid for the share on 30 April 2019. Share trend Share capital The Clas Ohlson share decreased by 18 per cent to 78.80 SEK The share capital of Clas Ohlson at the end of the financial (96.00) compared with the year-earlier period, while the SIX year totalled 82 MSEK, comprising 5,760,000 series A shares General Index increased by 6 per cent. The total return for the and 59,840,000 series B shares, each with a quotient value of share, including reinvested dividends, was minus 11 per cent. 1.25. Each series A share carries ten votes, while each series B share carries one vote. All shares carry equal rights to payment The highest price paid was 92.60 SEK, recorded in May 2018, of dividends. Holders of series A shares can request that their while the lowest price paid was 65.30 SEK, recorded in June A shares be converted to series B shares. 2018. Treasury shares Share turnover The number of registered shares amounted to 65,600,000, of During the financial year 2018/19, 98,197,030 Clas Ohlson which 2,382,206 shares (2,391,865) were held by the company shares were traded, representing a turnover rate of 150 per cent. at the end of the financial year. At the end of the period, the number of shares outstanding, net after buy-back, was 63,217,794 (63,208,135). Clas Ohlson’s AGM 2018 Clas Ohlson’s Annual General Meeting took place in Tegera Arena, Leksand, Sweden, on 8 September. This year, as we were celebrating 100 years as a company, the AGM attracted 1,804 visitors from all over Sweden. The participants could visit a product fair were news in the assortment were showcased in a home-like environment and also enjoy special offers in the pop-up store outside the arena. 142 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 THE SHARE The entire commitment for LTI 2018 has been secured by Dividend policy and dividend using shares that have been repurchased to secure previous LTI Clas Ohlson’s dividend policy is that the dividend is to comprograms where the need has been recalculated (previous year prise at least 50 per cent of earnings per share after tax, with repurchases, 21 MSEK). consideration for the company’s financial position. Shareholding structure The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of 6.25 SEK On 30 April 2019, the company had a total of 42,336 share(6.25) per share for the fiscal year 2018/19, splitted in two payholders (34,717). Non-Swedish owners accounted for 32 per outs each 3.13 SEK per share and 3.12 SEK per share. The paycent (37) of the capital and 33 per cent (36) of the votes. outs is proposed to be in September and Januray. The proposed dividend totals 410 MSEK (410), which represents 573 per cent The Swedish ownership is dominated by private individuals (115) of the financial year’s net profit. and companies, owning 47 per cent (42) of the capital, while institutions own 21 per cent (21). Share data Shareholder categories, % Listing: Nasdaq Mid Cap Swedish private Swedish institutions, 21% shareholders, 47% Ticker: Clas B Industry: Consumer Services ISIN code: SE0000584948 Non-swedish shareholders, 32% Number of shareholders Earnings per share, SEK Average daily trading, Dividend per share, SEK thousands 393 42,336 6.25* 7.27 7.59 6.00 6.25 6.25 34,717 5.66 5.75 33,316 5.25 27,933 27,106 1.13 184 104 103 72 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 * Proposed dividend CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 143 THE SHARE The Clas Ohlson-share price and turnover trend 2018/19 Clas Ohlson B Number of shares SIX Generalindex OMX Stockholm Retail_PI trades (000s) 120 8 000 110 7 000 100 6 000 90 5 000 80 4 000 70 3 000 60 2 000 50 1 000 40 0 MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC JAN FEB MAR APR 2018 2019 Source: & Clas Ohlson B (Total return) Number of shares SIX Return Index OMX Stockholm Retail_GI trades (000s) 250 20 000 225 18 000 200 16 000 175 14 000 150 12 000 125 10 000 100 8 000 75 6 000 50 4 000 25 2 000 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Source: & Data per share1 2 5 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Average number of shares before dillution, million 63.2 63.2 63.1 63.2 63.1 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 1.13 5.66 7.59 6.00 7.27 Comprehensive income per share, SEK 1.26 6.37 8.30 5.07 7.41 Cash flow per share, SEK 3 4.93 5.90 11.08 11.15 10.25 Equity per share, SEK 30.8 35.82 35.68 33.75 33.92 Share price at 30 April, SEK 79 96 147 162 143 4 Dividend per share, SEK 6.25 6.25 6.25 5.75 5.25 P/E-ratio, multiple 70 17 19 27 20 Dividend yield, % 7.9 6.5 4.3 3.5 3.7 Payout ratio, % 553 110 82 96 72 Total return, % -11 -30 -6 17 3 1 See key ratio definitions on page 147. 2 Including a non-recurring cost of 107 MSEK. 3 From the operating activities. 4 Proposed dividend. 5 Including non-recurring cost of 210 MSEK for closure of the store network in the UK and Germany. 144 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 THE SHARE Trend in share capital Additional Accumulated Total Year Transaction shares number of shares share capital 1994 48,000 4,800,000 1999 Split 10:1 432,000 480,000 4,800,000 1999 Bonus issue 6,720,000 7,200,000 72,000,000 1999 New share issue 1,000,000 8,200,000 82,000,000 2001 Split 4:1 24,600,000 32,800,000 82,000,000 2004 Split 2:1 32,800,000 65,600,000 82,000,000 1 Major shareholders Number of Number of Percentage Percentage Shareholder series A shares series B shares of capital of votes Helena Ek Tidstrand 1,368,060 6,179,828 12 17 Björn Haid 1,007,960 4,756,334 9 13 Johan Tidstrand 1,368,060 900,000 3 12 Peter Haid 1,007,960 3,785,243 7 12 Claus-Toni Haid 1,007,960 3,475,916 7 12 Nordea Fonder 0 4,249,322 6 4 If Skadeförsäkring AB 0 3,114,337 5 3 Swedbank Robur Fonder 0 2,133,654 3 2 Svenska Handelsbanken AB 0 1,006,500 2 1 Avanza pension 0 893,345 1 1 Other shareholders 0 29,345,521 45 24 Total 5,760,000 59,840,000 100.0 100.0 1 Shareholder categories Number of Number of Percentage Percentage Shareholder series A shares series B shares of capital of votes Swedish private individuals 3,744,080 27,232,655 47.2 55.1 Swedish institutions 0 13,491,888 20.6 11.5 Non-Swedish owners 2,015,920 19,115,457 32.2 33.4 Total 5,760,000 59,840,000 100.0 100.0 1 Shareholding structure Number of Size interval Number of shares Percentage shareholders 1–500 4,149,308 6.3 34,412 501–1000 3,786,979 5.8 4,645 1 001–5 000 5,909,047 9.0 2,750 5 001–10 000 2,198,549 3.4 300 10 001–15 000 813,021 1.2 67 15 001–200 000 573,170 0.9 32 200 001– 48,169,926 73.4 130 Total 65,600,000 100.0 42,336 1 at 30 April 2019 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 145 QUARTERLY RESULTS Quarterly results MSEK 2018/19 2017/18 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 1 May 2018 1 Aug 2018 1 Nov 2018 1 Feb 2019 1 May 2017 1 Aug 2017 1 Nov 2017 1 Feb 2018 –31 Jul 2018 –31 Oct 2018 –31 Jan 2019 –30 Apr 2019 –31 Jul 2017 –31 Oct 2017 –31 Jan 2018 –30 Apr 2018 Sales 1,958.1 2,157.1 2,914.8 1,742.2 1,782.6 1,991.1 2,745.9 1,683.1 Cost of goods sold -1,203.8 -1,260.1 -1,736.3 -1,077.3 -1,059.9 -1,175.7 -1,625.1 -1,065.9 Gross profit 754.3 897.0 1,178.5 664.8 722.7 823.3 1,120.8 617.3 Selling expenses -659.2 -787.2 -799.9 -692.7 -572.6 -632.3 -706.8 -668.1 Administrative expenses -63.0 -76.8 -62.4 -51.0 -49.8 -65.9 -64.7 -56.6 Other operating income/expenses -0.2 0.4 -211.1 2.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.1 1.5 Operating profit/loss 32.0 33.4 105.2 -76.6 100.1 124.9 349.2 -105.9 Financial income 0.3 0.3 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.2 Financial expense -0.6 -0.8 -1.6 -0.3 -0.3 -0.5 -0.5 -0.6 Profit before tax 31.7 32.9 104.1 -76.9 99.9 124.5 349.0 -106.3 Income tax -1.9 -7.9 -25.5 15.1 -22.5 -28.7 -78.6 20.6 Profit/loss for the period 29.7 25.0 78.6 -61.8 77.4 95.8 270.4 -85.7 KEY RATIOS FOR THE PERIOD Gross margin, % 38.5 41.6 40.4 38.2 40.5 41.2 40.8 36.7 Operating margin, % 1.6 1.6 3.6 -4.4 5.6 6.2 12.7 -6.3 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 0.47 0.40 1.24 -0.98 1.22 1.52 4.28 -1.36 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 0.47 0.40 1.24 -0.98 1.22 1.51 4.27 -1.36 Comments to the quarterly results Seasonal fluctuations Three new stores (2) were opened during the first quarter Clas Ohlson’s market and operations are influenced by consu2018/19 and zero stores were closed (0). Six new stores (5) were mer purchasing behaviour. The company’s product range is paropened during the second quarter and one stores were closed ticularly well suited to Christmas preparations and Christmas (0). In the third quarter one store (4) were opened and zero shopping, which means that the third quarter (Novemberstores were closed (3). One store (6) were opened during the January) is generally the strongest quarter of the financial year. fourth quarter and seven store were closed (1). This is followed by the second and first quarters and, finally, the fourth quarter, which is the weakest in terms of sales and profit. 146 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 KEY RATIO DEFINITIONS AND GLOSSARY Key ratio definitions Clas Ohlson uses certain financial measures in this annual report that are not defined Net debt in accordance with IFRS. Clas Ohlson believes that these key ratios are relevant to Interest-bearing liabilities less cash and cash equivalents. users of the financial report as a supplement for assessing Clas Ohlson’s performance. These financial measures are not always comparable with the measures used by other Net debt/EBITDA companies since not all companies calculate such financial measures in the same way. Net debt divided by EBITDA for the latest 12 months period Accordingly, these financial measures are not to be regarded as a replacement for measures defined according to IFRS. The measures not defined according to IFRS are Non-recurring cost presented below, unless otherwise stated. Cost that is not regularly found in the business. Operating margin Average inventory value Operating profit divided by sales for the period. Average inventory value is calculated as the total inventories for the most recent 12 months divided by 12. Operating profit Operating profit comprises profit before financial items and tax. Capital employed Balance-sheet total (total assets) less current and long-term non-interest-bearing Payout ratio liabilities. Dividend divided by earnings per share before dilution. Cash flow from operating activities P/E ratio Operating profit adjusted for items not included in cash flow, interest, paid tax and Share price at year-end divided by earnings per share before dilution. change in working capital. Return on capital employed Cash flow from operating activities per share Operating profit plus financial income expressed as a percentage of average capital Cash flow from operating activities divided by the average number of shares before employed. Average capital employed is calculated as the total capital employed for the dilution. most recent 12 months divided by 12. Comprehensive income per share Return on equity Comprehensive income divided by average number of shares before dilution. Net profit for the period expressed as a percentage of average equity. Average equity is calculated as the total equity for the most recent 12 months divided by 12. Dividend yield Dividend per share divided by the year-end share price. Sales growth Sales in relation to sales during the year-earlier period. Earnings per share (before and after dilution)* Profit for the period divided by the number of shares (before and after dilution). Share of selling expenses, % Selling expenses in relation to sales. EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization Total return Increase or decrease in share price between the end of the year and the beginning of Equity per share the year plus re-invested dividend as a percentage of the share price at the beginning Equity divided by the number of shares outstanding at the end of the period. of the year. Equity/assets ratio Underlying operating profit/loss Equity at the end of the period divided by the balance-sheet total (total assets). Operating profit adjusted for non-recurring costs and costs related to the CO100+ action programme. Gross margin Gross profit divided by sales for the period. Working capital The total of assets, minus cash and cash equivalents (inventories and current Gross profit receivables), less current non-interest-bearing liabilities. Gross profit is calculated as the total of sales less cost of goods sold. *Defined in accordance with IFRS. Glossary Clas Office Nasdaq Stockholm Our concept that facilitates purchases for our corporate customers. Marketplace for trading with securities, where Clas Ohlson’s B share is listed. Club Clas Organic growth Our loyalty program, our customer club. Sales growth in local currencies, excluding acquisitions. CO100+ Products for a more sustainable lifestyle An action programme where our strategic initiatives have been defined. The programme Products with a positive, or significantly lower, environmental impact throughout their life contains initiatives to drive sales growth and cost reductions mainly in the following cycle than a standard product. areas: A more optimised product range, enhanced purchasing efficiency, administration, logistics and customer offering. Sales per squar metre Store sales in relation to the effective retail space. For new stores, a conversion has Code of Conduct been made in relation to how long the store has been open. The standards we set for ourselves, and the suppliers of our products and services, regarding working conditions, workplace health and safety and the environment. sCORE Systems for Clas Ohlson Retail Efficiency, our project for the introduction of a new Comparable units business system. Units that have been in operation during the current period and the entire year-earlier period. Sedex Clas Ohlson works together with Sedex, a global organisation that promotes responsible GDPR supply chains. The EU’s new General Data Protection Regulation sets requirements covering the handling of personal data and applies in all EU countries from May 2018. Store traffic Number of visitors. GRI Global Reporting Initiative, a global standard for sustainability reporting. UN Global Compact UN international principles regarding human rights, labour standards, the Level of service environment and corruption, designed for companies. Percentage of product range that is available “on the shelf” in our sales channels. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 147 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Alternative Performance Measures This section contains a reconciliation of certain alternative performance measures (APMs) with the closest reconcilable items in the financial statements. As analysis tools, APMs are limited, and must be considered in their context and not as a replacement of financial measures prepared in accordance with IFRS. APMs are presented to improve an investor’s evaluation of the operations, as an aid in forecasts of forthcoming periods, and to simplify meaningful comparisons of earnings between periods. Management uses these APMs, for example, to evaluate the operating activities compared with previous results, for internal planning and forecasts and to calculate certain performance-related remuneration. For definitions, refer to page 147. The APMs recognised in this annual report may differ from similarly named measures used by other companies. Average inventory value Earnings per share (before and after dilution)* Group Group 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Average inventory value 2,049.0 1,869.0 Profit for the year 71.6 357.8 Number of shares before dilution 63.218 63.208 Number of shares after dilution 63.230 63.312 Capital employed Number of shares before dilution 1.13 5.66 Group Number of shares after dilution 1.13 5.65 2018/19 2017/18 *Defined in accordance with IFRS. Total assets 3,976.9 4,199.7 Long-term non-interest-bearing liabilities -204.8 -227.4 Equity per share Current non-interest-bearing liabilities -1,541.7 -1,708.4 Group Capital employed 2,230.5 2,263.9 2018/19 2017/18 Total equity 1,947.3 2,263.9 Reason for use: Capital employed measures the company’s ability, in addition to cash balances and cash and cash equivalents, to meet the needs of the Number of shares at end of period 63.218 63.208 operations. Equity per share 30.80 35.82 Cash flow from operating activities per share Reason for use: Equity per share measures the company’s net value per share and determines whether a company increases its shareholders’ capital over time. Group 2018/19 2017/18 Equity/assets ratio Cash flow from operating activities 312.0 372.8 Group Number of shares before the dilution 63.218 63.208 2018/19 2017/18 Cash flow from operating activities per share 4.93 5.90 Total equity 1,947.3 2,263.9 Reason for use: Cash flow from operating activities per share measures the cash Total assets 3,976.9 4,199.7 flow that the company generates per share before capital investments and cash Equity/assets ratio 49.0 % 53.9 % flows attributable to the company’s financing. Reason for use: A high equity/assets ratio provides the financial scope and Comprehensive income per share independence required for conducting the operations and managing variations in the need for working capital and for capitalising on business opportunities. Group 2018/19 2017/18 Gross margin Comprehensive income 79.9 402.8 Group Average number of shares before dilution 63.217 63.208 2018/19 2017/18 Comprehensive income per share 1.26 6.37 Gross profit 3,494.8 3,284.1 Sales 8,772.3 8,210.7 Dividend Yield Gross margin 39.8 % 40.0 % Group Reason for use: Gross margin shows the difference between net sales and the 2018/19 2017/18 cost of goods sold expressed as a percentage of net sales. Gross margin is affecDividend per share 6.25 6.25 ted by several factors, for example, product mix, price trend and cost reductions. Share price 30 April 78.8 96.0 Dividend Yield 7.9 % 6.5 % 148 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Gross Profit Return on equity Group Group 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Sales 8,772.3 8,210.7 Profit for the year 71.6 357.8 Cost of goods sold -5,277.5 -4,926.6 Average equity 2,062.1 2,230.7 Gross profit 3,494.8 3,284.1 Return on equity 3.5 % 16.0 % Reason for use: Return on equity is a measure of profitability in relation to the Operating margin carrying amount of equity. Return on equity is also a measure of how investments are used to generate increased income. Group 2018/19 2017/18 Operating profit 94.0 468.3 Sales growth Sales 8,772.3 8,210.7 Group Operating margin 1.1 % 5.7 % 2018/19 2017/18 Reason for use: The operating margin shows operating profit as a percentage of Sales actual year 8,772.3 8,210.7 net sales and shows operational profitability. Sales previous year 8,210.7 7,990.1 Sales growth 6.8 % 2.8 % Payout ratio Reason for use The change in sales reflects the company’s realised sales growth over time. Group 2018/19 2017/18 Total return Dividend 6.25 6.25 Group Earnings per share before dilution 1.13 5.66 2018/19 2017/18 Payout ratio 553.1 % 110.4 % Share price at the beginning of the year 96.0 147.0 Share price at the end of the year 78.8 96.0 Return on capital employed Re-invested dividend 6.25 6.25 Group Total -10.95 -44.75 2018/19 2017/18 Total return -11.41 % -30.44 % Operating profit 94.0 468.3 Interest income 1.1 0.7 Working capital Average capital employed 2,345.2 2,230.7 Group Return on caital employed 4.1 % 21.0 % 2018/19 2017/18 Reason for use: Return on capital employed is a measure of profitability after taTotal current assets 2,341.7 2,490.7 king into account the amount of capital used. A higher return on capital employed indicates that capital is used more efficiently. Cash and cash equivalents -105.0 -115.8 Current non-interest-bearing liabilities -1,541.7 -1,708.4 Working capital 695.0 666.5 Reason for use: Working capital is used to measure the company’s ability to meet short-term capital requirements. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 149 Ten-year summary MSEK 2018/2019 2017/2018 2016/2017 2015/2016 2014/2015 2013/2014 INCOME STATEMENT Sales 8,772.3 8,210.7 7,990.1 7,601.6 7,329.8 6,807.7 Operating profit 94.0 468.3 609.9 506.4 596.0 530.5 Underlying operating profit 497.0 538.0 609.9 506.4 596.0 530.5 Profit before tax 91.9 467.1 608.9 507.6 597.2 530.2 Income tax -20.3 -109.3 -130.2 -128.8 -138.3 -124.8 Profit for the year 71.61 357.8 478.7 378.8 458.9 405.4 BALANCE SHEET Non-current assets 1,388.5 1,469.5 1,404.5 1,397.8 1,399.9 1,424.2 Non-current receivables 246.8 239.4 18.5 18.1 11.6 8.1 Inventories 1,987.3 2,038.0 1,630.7 1,639.2 1,569.3 1,348.2 Current receivables 249.4 336.9 220.6 263.4 242.5 229.5 Cash and cash equivalents 105.0 115.8 625.1 604.3 517.4 358.3 Total assets 3,976.9 4,199.7 3,899.4 3,922.8 3,740.7 3,368.3 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 1,940.8 2,263.9 2,250.7 2,138.8 2,144.5 1,964.9 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 6.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Equity 1,947.3 2,263.9 2,250.7 2,138.8 2,144.5 1,964.9 Non-current liabilities, interest-bearing 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-current liabilities, non-interest-bearing 204.8 227.4 226.8 195.2 213.3 206.5 Current liabilities, interest-bearing 283.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Current liabilities, non-interest-bearing 1,541.7 1,708.4 1,421.9 1,588.8 1,382.9 1,196.9 Total equity and liabilities 3,976.9 4,199.7 3,899.4 3,922.8 3,740.7 3,368.3 CASH FLOW Cash flow from operating activities 312.0 372.8 698.9 704.6 647.3 689.1 Investments -211.4 -497.2 -263.5 -274.1 -192.3 -171.8 Cash flow after investments 100.5 -124.4 435.4 430.5 455.0 517.3 Financing activities -112.0 -389.8 -418.0 -335.9 -298.9 -283.6 Cash flow for the year -11.5 -514.2 17.5 94.6 156.1 233.7 KEY RATIOS1 Growth in sales, % 6.8 2.8 5.1 3.7 7.7 4.4 Gross margin, % 39.8 40.0 41.2 42.4 42.9 42.6 Operating margin, % 1.1 5.7 7.6 6.7 8.1 7.8 Return on capital employed, % 4.1 21.0 28.4 23.6 29.3 28.0 Return on equity, % 3.5 16.0 22.4 17.6 22.5 21.7 Equity/assets ratio, % 49.0 53.9 57.7 54.5 57.3 58.3 Net debt/EBITDA 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Sales per square metre in store, SEK 000s 30.8 31 31 30 30 30 Number of stores at year-end 232 229 216 205 198 185 Number of full-time equivalent employees 3,099 2,951 2,835 2,787 2,736 2,629 DATA PER SHARE Average number of shares before dilution 63,217,741 63,200,598 63,052,803 63,167,924 63,121,729 63,137,148 Average number of shares after dilution 63,230,062 63,311,743 63,254,614 63,461,923 63,400,934 63,243,692 Number of shares at period end 63,217,794 63,208,135 63,083,438 63,376,420 63,216,061 63,140,994 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 1.13 5.66 7.59 6.00 7.27 6.42 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 1.13 5.65 7.57 5.97 7.24 6.41 Comprehensive income per share, SEK 1.26 6.37 8.30 5.07 7.41 6.41 Cash flow per share, SEK2 4.93 5.90 11.08 11.15 10.25 10.91 Equity per share, SEK 30.8 35.82 35.68 33.75 33.92 31.12 Share price 30 April, SEK 78.8 96 147 162 143 143 3 Dividend per share, SEK 6.25 6.25 6.25 5.75 5.25 4.75 P/E ratio 70 17 19 27 20 22 Dividend Yield,% 7.9 6.5 4.3 3.5 3.7 3.3 150 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 TEN-YEAR SUMMARY 2012/2013 2011/2012 2010/2011 2009/2010 Comments* 6,518.9 6,260.0 5,828.0 5,555.8 430.6 560.6 507.1 590.5 Sales 430.6 560.6 507.1 590.5 Sales increased to 8,772 MSEK, up 7 per cent compared with 8,211 419.9 551.0 499.0 588.2 MSEK in the preceding year. In local currencies, sales increased by 4 -88.4 -150.5 -134.6 -155.4 per cent. 331.5 400.5 364.4 432.8 Number of stores 1,461.6 1,515.0 1,469.5 1,365.5 During the financial year, 11 new stores (17) opened; seven in 3.2 3.5 10.9 1.0 Sweden, one in Norway and three in Finland. During the fiscal year, 1,303.9 1,228.7 1,429.2 1,204.1 four stores in UK and four stores in Germany have been closed. 214.9 197.5 176.7 173.4 During previous year, one store in Norway, one store in Finland and 124.6 111.8 132.6 98.8 two franchise stores in Dubai were closed . The number of stores at 3,108.2 3,056.5 3,218.9 2,842.8 the end of the period was 232, of which 97 were in Sweden, 90 in Norway, 42 in Finland and 3 in the UK. 1,836.5 1,843.8 1,656.8 1,646.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1,836.5 1,843.8 1,656.8 1,646.1 Gross margin 0.0 0.0 300.0 100.0 The gross margin was 39.8 per cent, down 0.2 percentage points compared with the year-earlier period (40.0). During the financial 185.7 195.7 165.9 90.3 year, the gross margin was negatively impacted by increased com0.0 30.0 261.7 171.4 mercial investments, higher sourcing costs and negative currency 1,086.0 987.0 834.5 835.0 hedging effects (NOK), comprising both currency forwards and ex3,108.2 3,056.5 3,218.9 2,842.8 change-rate effects related to delays in inventory. This was somewhat offset by a strong sales currency (NOK) and a weaker purchasing 517.8 964.9 350.3 602.8 currency (USD). -166.5 -206.1 -295.3 -315.8 351.3 758.8 55.0 287.0 Operating profit -334.4 -781.5 -6.0 -267.9 Operating profit amounted to 94 MSEK (468). Operating profit 16.9 –22.7 49.0 19.1 for the period were affected by non-recurring costs, costs linked to the CO100+ action programme and implementation of the business 4.1 7.4 4.9 12.7 system (sCORE ) of approximately 195 MSEK (70), as well as the 41.6 42.1 41.6 40.8 costs for the closure of the store network in the UK and Germany 6.6 9.0 8.7 10.6 totalling about 210 MSEK (0). The Underlying operating profit 23.2 27.9 24.6 32.6 amounted to 497 MSEK (538). 18.3 23.1 22.5 28.0 59.1 60.3 51.5 57.9 Operating margin 0.0 0.1 1.1 0.5 The operating margin was 1.1 per cent (5.7 per cent). 31 34 34 38 174 157 139 120 Cash flow 2,524 2,370 2,219 2,048 During the financial year, cash flow from operating activities totalled 312 MSEK (373). Cash flow for the financial year, after investing 63,349,241 63,635,998 63,802,230 64,383,906 and financing activities, was -11 MSEK (-514). The cash dividend 63,421,154 63,702,052 63,870,584 64,432,321 paid to Clas Ohlson’s shareholders in September 2018 totalled 395 63,287,808 63,615,000 63,710,000 64,280,000 MSEK (395). 5.23 6.29 5.71 6.72 5.23 6.29 5.71 6.72 Return 4.68 6.75 4.79 6.43 The return on capital employed amounted to 4.1 per cent (21.0) and 8.17 15.16 5.49 9.36 the return on equity was 3.5 per cent (16.0). 29.02 28.98 26.01 25.61 87 99 98 128 * Refers to the financial year 2018/19. 4.25 4.25 3.75 3.75 17 16 17 19 4.9 4.3 3.8 2.9 1 See key ratio definitions on page 147. 2 From operating activities. 3 Proposed dividend. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 151 STORE NETWORK Clas Ohlson’s stores* SWEDEN NORWAY Store Opening date P Piteå 20 Sep 2007 Store Opening date A Alingsås 27 Mar 2014 S Skellefteå 17 Mar 2005 A Alta 17 Nov 2011 B Borlänge 26 Sep 2013 Skövde 27 Nov 2008 Arendal 28 Nov 2007 Borås 24 Oct 2002 Stockholm, Barkarby Gate 27 Nov 2014 Asker 16 Oct 2008 E Eskilstuna 30 May 2002 Stockholm, Bromma 23 Sep 2010 Askim 11 Oct 2017 F Falun 5 Feb 2009 Stockholm, Drottninggatan 21 Oct 2010 B Bergen, Galleriet 30 Nov 2017 G Gävle 27 Nov 2003 Stockholm, Farsta 18 Nov 1999 Bergen, Lagunen 6 Mar 2003 Gothenburg, Backaplan 19 April 2018 Stockholm, Gallerian 30 Jun 1989 Bergen, Sartor 16 Feb 2006 Gothenburg, Bäckebol 10 Apr 2003 Stockholm, Haninge 10 Dec 2004 Bergen, Sentrum 22 Apr 1999 Gothenburg, Mölndal 27 Sept 2018 Stockholm, Hornstull 27 Oct 2016 Bergen, Vestkanten Kjøpesenter 22 Nov 2012 Gothenburg, Nordstan 1 Jun 1992 Stockholm, Kista 5 Dec 2002 Bergen, Åsane 30 Sep 2004 Gothenburg, Partille 9 Apr 2006 Stockholm, Kungens Kurva 24 Apr 2014 Bodø, City Nord 7 June 2011 Gothenburg, Sisjön 19 Apr 2012 Stockholm, Liljeholmen 15 Oct 2010 Bodø, Glasshuset 1 Feb 2018 Gothenburg, Västra Frölunda 23 Oct 2009 Stockholm, Nacka 29 Mar 2007 Bryne 5 Nov 2009 H Halmstad, Flygstaden 16 Jun 2011 Stockholm, Södermalm, Ringen 18 Oct 2018 D Drammen, Buskerud 8 Sep 2011 Halmstad, Gallerian 8 Mar 2001 Stockholm, Sickla 6 Dec 2007 Drammen, Gulskogen 18 Sep 2008 Helsingborg, Kullagatan 4 Jun 2009 Stockholm, Skärholmen 7 Dec 2000 E Elverum 22 Mar 2012 Helsingborg, Väla centrum 12 Jun 2003 Stockholm, Sollentuna 31 May 2007 F Farsund 1 June 2017 Hudiksvall 23 Apr 2009 Stockholm, Solna 7 Apr 2005 Finnsnes 9 Jun 2016 I Insjön 27 Jun 1918 Stockholm, Solna, Mall of Fredrikstad, Dikeveien 25 Nov 2010 J Jönköping, Asecs 22 May 2003 Scandinavia 12 Nov 2015 Fredrikstad, Torvbyen 1 Dec 2005 Jönköping, City 9 Dec 2010 Stockholm, Sveavägen 25 Oct 2018 Førde 22 Nov 2012 K Kalmar, Baronen 24 Nov 2005 Stockholm, Täby 25 Oct 2001 G Gjøvik 10 Mar 2006 Kalmar, Hansa City 14 Mar 2013 Stockholm, Tyresö Centrum 3 May 2018 H Halden 12 Mar 2015 Karlskrona 27 Nov 2014 Stockholm, Vällingby 15 Nov 2007 Hamar 11 Nov 2014 Karlstad, Bergvik 20 Aug 2015 Stockholm, Värmdö 17 Jun 2015 Harstad, Sjøkanten Senter 24 Feb 2011 Karlstad, Mitt i City-gallerian 21 Sep 2006 Stockholm, Väsby 27 Apr 2007 Harstad, Amfi Kanebogen 6 Apr 2017 Kiruna 11 Nov 2010 Strömstad 29 May 2009 Haugesund 3 Oct 2002 Kristianstad, Boulevard 18 Apr 2007 Sundsvall, Birsta 30 Apr 2008 Horten 9 Jun 2011 Kristianstad, C4 22 Nov 2018 Sundsvall, In: gallerian 10 Jun 1999 Husnes 8 Mar 2018 Kungälv 28 Mar 2019 Södertälje 29 Apr 2010 Hønefoss 19 Feb 2009 Kungsbacka 13 Mar 2008 T Trelleborg 25 Apr 2007 J Jessheim 5 Nov 2008 L Lidköping 25 Apr 2012 Trollhättan 28 Jun 2012 K Kongsberg 3 Jun 2010 Linköping 10 Jun 2004 U Uddevalla 19 Oct 2006 Kongsvinger 24 May 2012 Ljungby 14 June 2018 Umeå, Avion 17 Mar 2016 Kristiansand, Sandens 6 Nov 2008 Luleå, Smedjan 21 Mar 2002 Umeå, MVG 13 Apr 2000 Kristiansand, Sørlandssenteret 19 Nov 1998 Luleå, Storheden 16 Feb 2012 Uppsala, Gränby 25 Aug 2011 Kristiansund 24 Mar 2011 Lund 7 Nov 2013 Uppsala, S:t Per Gallerian 16 Nov 2000 L Larvik 23 Apr 2009 Löddeköpinge 26 Nov 2015 V Valbo 23 Feb 2012 Levanger 5 Jun 2014 M Malmö, Burlöv 25 Mar 2010 Varberg 28 Sept 2017 Lillehammer 18 Nov 2010 Malmö, Emporia 25 Oct 2012 Visby 17 Apr 2008 Lillestrøm 23 Mar 2017 Malmö, Mobilia 26 Sep 2013 Västervik 6 Dec 2012 Lørenskog 30 Nov 2006 Malmö, Triangeln 3 Dec 1993 Västerås, Erikslund 22 Sep 2011 M Mandal 20 Nov 2014 Motala 29 Jan 2009 Västerås, Igor 22 Nov 2001 Mo i Rana 7 Jun 2012 Märsta 26 April 2018 Växjö 6 May 2004 Molde 22 Oct 2009 N Norrköping, Domino 2 May 1996 Ä Ängelholm 23 Mar 2017 Moss 12 Oct 2006 Norrköping, Mirum Galleria 10 Dec 2009 Ö Örebro, Krämaren 27 Nov 1997 N Narvik 4 Dec 2008 Norrtälje 14 Jun 2012 Örebro, Marieberg 26 Mar 2009 Nyköping 5 Oct 2006 Örnsköldsvik 12 Apr 2007 Östersund 28 Apr 2005 152 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 STORE NETWORK FINLAND OUTSIDE NORDIC COUNTRIES Store Opening date Store Opening date Store Opening date O Orkanger 30 Oct 2014 E Espoo, Ainoa 16 Mar 2017 UK Oslo, Alna Senter 27 Sep 2006 Espoo, Iso Omena 14 Oct 2015 L Liverpool 29 Apr 2010 Oslo, Bogstadsveien 27 Oct 2011 Espoo, Otaniemi 30 Aug 2018 London, Kingston 3 Dec 2009 Oslo, Bryn Senter 26 Aug 2010 Espoo, Pikkulaiva 27 Sept 2017 R Reading 19 Nov 2009 Oslo, CC-Vest 11 Sep 2014 Espoo, Sello 14 Sept 2005 Oslo, Lambertseter Senter 12 Oct 2010 H Helsinki, Columbus Shopping Centre 18 May 2017 Oslo, Oslo City 11 Nov 2005 Helsinki, Hakaniemi 18 Sept 2018 Oslo, Storo Storsenter 19 Jun 2008 Helsinki, Itis 6 Nov 2003 Oslo, Stovner 6 Oct 2016 Helsinki, Kaivotalo 3 Nov 2016 Oslo, Torggata 26 Aug 1991 Helsinki, Kamppi 2 Mar 2006 P Porsgrunn 27 Apr 2006 Helsinki, Kannelmäki 17 Oct 2013 R Rykkinn 15 Mar 2018 Helsinki, Mannerheimintie 14 Nov 2002 S Sandefjord 10 Sep 2015 Helsinki, Redi 20 Sept 2018 Sandnes, Kvadrat 23 Sep 1998 Hyvinkää 18 Oct 2012 Sandnes, Maxi 26 May 2016 Hämeenlinna 30 Oct 2014 Sandvika 10 Jan 2002 J Joensuu 6 Nov 2008 Sarpsborg 8 Jun 2006 Jyväskylä, Kauppakatu 10 Nov 2016 Ski 16 Oct 2003 Jyväskylä, Palokka 8 Sep 2011 Skien 18 Oct 2007 K Kempele, Zeppelin 3 Aug 2017 Slependen 18 Sep 2014 Kokkola 27 Sept 2007 Sogndal 6 Jun 2013 Kotka 23 May 2013 Sortland 24 May 2018 Kouvola 13 Sep 2012 Stathelle 23 Nov 2017 Kuopio, Haapaniemenkatu 24 Feb 2005 Stavanger, Kilden 25 Oct 2007 Kuopio, Matkus 1 Nov 2012 Stavanger, Madla 8 Nov 2007 L Lahti, Karisma 3 Nov 2011 Stavanger, Mediegården 11 Nov 2010 Lahti, Syke 31 May 2012 Steinkjer 15 Oct 2009 Lappeenranta 1 Nov 2007 Stjørdal 2 Nov 2017 Lempäälä 29 Nov 2007 Stord 20 Jun 2013 M Mariehamn 16 May 2013 Strømmen 21 Oct 1999 O Oulu 25 Nov 2010 Svolvær 8 Dec 2016 P Pori 30 Oct 2014 T Tromsø 12 Jun 2008 R Rovaniemi 23 Oct 2008 Trondheim, City Lade 12 Oct 2017 S S:t Michel 16 June 2011 Trondheim, City Syd 8 May 2003 Seinäjoki 11 Sep 2008 Trondheim, Solsiden 19 Oct 2000 T Tampere, Hämeenkatu 18 Mar 2004 Trondheim, Trondheim Torg 17 Feb 2011 Tampere, Shopping Mall Ratina 19 April 2018 Tønsberg 21 Sep 2001 Turku, Forum 3 Mar 2005 * Store portfolio at 30 April 2019 V Valdres 26 Oct 2017 Turku, Raisio 4 Nov 2015 Vestby 14 Mar 2013 Turku, Skanssi 25 Oct 2012 Visit about.clasohlson.com/en to receive conVinstra 16 Feb 2017 V Vantaa, Jumbo 27 Oct 2005 tinuously updated information about the store Vinterbro 26 Mar 2015 Vantaa, Myyrmanni 29 Nov 2011 portfolio. Voss 16 Jun 2016 Vaasa 14 Oct 2004 Clas Ohlson’s broad and affordable product range Å Ålesund 22 Jan 2004 is also available online in the Swedish, Norwegian, Ø Ørsta 4 Oct 2012 Finnish, UK and German markets. www.clasohlson.se www.clasohlson.no www.clasohlson.fi www.clasohlson.uk www.clasohlson.de CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 153 HISTORY 1985 1995 New central warehouse Sales of 100 MSEK A new central warehouse in Insjön enters use. At its opening, the warehouse enThe company’s sales exceed 100 MSEK for compassed 11,000 square metres with a the first time. During the year, a subsidiary was ceiling height of 9 metres. opened in Norway when mail order sales were established in the country. 1918 1944 1967 1989 2000 1972 1961 1999 1991 At the age of just 22, The first store outside Clas Ohlson and his Sweden is inaugurabrother Emil founded The new office and ted in Oslo, Norway. a mail order compastore building on Clas Ohlson is a 250,000 copies of the ny, Clas Ohlsson Highway 70 in Insjön well-known name in catalogue are printed, & Co. The company is completed. The Norway, since the first including about 7,000 is registered as a number of employmail order catalogue products. The comClas Ohlson is bicycle repair shop ees is 75. The was published there pany has about 600 listed on the and printer, but mail catalogue has about in 1985. suppliers. Stockholm order operations are 8,000 products. soon started. Stock Exchange. Sales exceed Clas Ohlson opened Clas Ohlson removed an “s” 1 billion SEK its first store outside from his last name because for the first time. Insjön in central he thought it graphically 146,477 packages are sent Stockholm. looked better. from Insjön during the year. The average value of a package is 56 SEK, or about 480 SEK today. 154 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 HISTORY 2013 2018 100 years Club Clas arrives Unique customer offers, a Club Clas was launched in look back at some historic March and in its first year, the moments and a festival for all loyalty club attracted more than of our co-workers are just a one million members. few examples of how the first 100 years as a company was celebrated. 2008 2010 2014 2016 2009 2011 2002 2017 2015 2018 2012 Clas Ohlson’s first franchise The Club Clas customer The ”100 more years” The first store Clas Ohlson Clas Ohlson store is opened club welcomes its two strategy was launin Finland is opens its opens its 150th in Dubai. The millionth member. Clas ched. In essence, it opened 100th store store in Lahti in Clas Office corOhlson’s first store in is about growing on in Helsinki. in Motala in Finland. porate concept Germany is opened in the Nordic marSweden. is launched in central Hamburg. The kets by simplifying The distribution centre Sweden and company has 4,700 everyday life in the grows and now has Norway. The employees. customers’ homes a total capacity of Club Clas loyalty by offering a combiThe Central Warehouse, programme is 120,000 pallet spaces. nation of products, now named the Distribuintroduced in The store in Insjön is guidance and tion centre, is expanded Finland. expanded and becomes adjacent services. and the Clas Ohlson Clas Ohlson opens the Group’s largest. Museum opens in Insjön. its 200th store in The expansion in the UK A new online shopping platform is Karlstad in Sweden. is started, and the first launched, with extended availability, There are 87 stores store opens in Croydon service and inspiration. A mobile version in Sweden. Sales exceed 8 billion SEK for the in southwest London. is also launched at the end of the year. first time. Lotta Lyrå was recruited as The Club Clas loyalty programme is the new President and CEO. launched in Sweden. In December, monthly sales exceed 1 billion SEK for the very first time. CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 155 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AND CALENDAR Information to shareholders Annual General Meeting Notification of Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of shareholders of Clas Notification of the AGM takes place through an announcement Ohlson AB will be held on Saturday, 7 September 2019 at 11:00 in Postoch Inrikes Tidningar and the notice being made availaa.m. at the Tegera Arena in Leksand, Sweden. Registration will ble on the company’s website. Documents to be presented at the commence at 9:45 a.m. AGM are available from the company’s website about four weeks before the meeting. Attendance Shareholders who intend to participate at the AGM must have Distribution policy notified the company by not later than 2 September 2019, at the The Annual Report is distributed only to those shareholders following address: Clas Ohlson AB (publ), AGM, c/o Euroclear who request it. Distribution takes place about 6 weeks prior to Sweden, Box 191, SE-101 23 Stockholm, Sweden. the AGM. The Clas Ohlson Annual Report and other financial information are available at about.clasohlson.com Notification may be given by telephone +46 247-444 00 or by e-mail agm2019@clasohlson.se. Dividend proposal The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of 6.25 SEK (6.25) Shareholders entitled to participate at the AGM are those who per share for the 2018/19 financial year. are listed on Euroclear Sweden AB’s printed shareholder register on 2 September 2019, and who have notified their intention to • The final trading trade for Clas Ohlson shares, including participate on the same day at the latest. Shareholders who have rights to dividends, is 6 September 2019 and 10 January 2020. trustee-registered shares must temporarily re-register the shares in • Record date for payment of dividend is 10 September 2019 their own names with Euroclear Sweden AB. Shareholders must • The payment date is 13 September 2019 and 17 January 2020. inform the trustee in good time prior to 2 September 2019. FINANCIAL INFORMATION Contact details Clas Ohlson provides financial information for the 2019/20 financial year as follows: Clas Ohlson AB • Interim report May-July, 4 September 2019 SE-793 85 Insjön • Interim report August-October, 4 December 2019 Tel: +46 247-444 00 • Interim report November-January, 11 March 2020 ir@clasohlson.se • Interim report February-April, 3 June 2020 about.clasohlson.com 156 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 157 NOTES 158 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 Sweden Clas Ohlson AB SE-793 85 Insjön Tel: -46 247-444 00 www.clasohlson.se Norway Clas Ohlson AS Torggata 2–6 N-0105 Oslo Tel: +47 (0)23 21 40 05 www.clasohlson.no Finland Clas Ohlson Oy Brunnsgatan 10 B 00100 Helsingfors Tel: +358 (0)20 111 22 22 www.clasohlson.fi UK Clas Ohlson Ltd. 10-13 Market Place Kingston upon Thames Surrey KT1 1JP Tel: +44 (0)8247 9300 www.clasohlson.co.uk Germany Clas Ohlson GmbH Valentinskamp 88 20355 Hamburg Tel: +49 (0)40 299978 111 www.clasohlson.de China Clas Ohlson (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Room 1102-1103, No. 666 Gubei Road, Kirin Plaza, Changning District, Shanghai Telefon: +86 (0)21 3387 0055 For more information about Clas Ohlson visit about.clasohlson.com N ENMÄRK S VA E T Trycksak 3041 0313 Produced by Clas Ohlson AB in cooperation with Clas Ohlson AB, SE-793 85 Insjön Fotografisk Form & Kommunikation. Tel: +46 247-444 00, e-mail ir@clasohlson.se Print: Henningsons Tryckeri AB. Registered office: Insjön Photo: Clas Ohlson, Gustav Kaiser, Daniel Eriksson, Corporate Identity Number: 556035-8672 Markku Pajunen, TT, MatHem, Chuttersnap CLAS OHLSON 2018/19 159 www.clasohlson.com 160 CLAS OHLSON 2018/19
