CSR REPORT 2018 It is all about delivery. Digital Bureaucracy Democracy is based on bureaucracy Democracy is build on trust and trust comes with delivery. Bureaucracy makes it happen 2 Letter from CEO We help government organisations build trust and sustainable societies through digital transformation. From paper based to digital bureaucracy. Not only does government digitization enable higher efficiency, higher quality and better service delivery, it is also the foundation for creating accountable and transparent institutions. Trust is the very foundation of a healthy democracy. Citizens trust and measure governments based on how efficient, transparent and fair the service delivery that they encounter is. Governmental digitization is, therefore, essential for our future society. The past year for cBrain has been characterised by exploring new markets, optimising operational activities and continuous product development. All these activities have contributed to our goal of helping more governmental institutions harvest the benefits of digitizing their processes. 2018 was the year where we committed ourselves to the UN Global Compact. This commitment has helped us formalise what we perceive as responsible business practice and how our business contributes positively towards a sustainable development. Our commitment to conduct responsible business means that we act ethically, transparently and with integrity, in line with the Ten Principles of The UN Global Compact, and contribute towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s). In all our activities, we aim to reduce the negative and increase the positive impacts we have on people, societies and the environment. As we are not able to take responsibility for all the problems that our societies are facing, we have chosen to be highly focused in our efforts to make a positive impact. We have chosen a focus in line with our key competencies and strategic goals to make sure that we are able to execute. This report represents our way of taking responsibility and is an expression of how we work to make a difference. I am delighted to present our 2018 CSR report that serves as our Communication of Progress report for The UN Global Compact as well as the formal reporting following The Danish Financial Statements Act §99a. Per Tejs Knudsen, CEO 3 Our business model Digitization offers deliver citizen services. To enable this, we support civil servants with modern tools great potential for for them to enjoy the best possible working growth, prosperity, environment. We believe government work peace and justice, for is still based on the fundamental principles of the bureaucracy. However, governments societies that engage are now transforming themselves from in a transformation being paper based to digital bureaucracies. towards becoming This has a dramatic impact on all aspects of work from service definition to delivery, digitized. work routines and organization. National standards and public-private partnership In cBrain, we look upon government as a have been fundamental for the Danish shared service, owned by all of us. We want public sector success with digital solutions. governments to optimize their usage of The first national digitization initiative, their given resources, operating with increasreleased in 1996, pointed towards standing efficiency, transparency, and fairness to ards for case processing and data control to increase governmental work quality and efficiency. We believe government work is In close collaboration with Danish governstill based on the fundamental ment organisations, we have developed a formalised model for digital bureaucracy principles of the bureaucracy. as well as a fully standardised digital platform for governmental work. The platform represents a new type of standard software for digital government, called F2, which supports paperless internal work processes and fully digitized citizen services end-to-end as well as collaboration between governmental entities. Today F2 is deployed by more than 50 public organizations, all running on the exact same software platform. More than half of all departments, including Prime Minister’s Office, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Finance, run F2 in a highly effective, accountable and transparent production environment, where ministers and senior executives can work paperless and fully mobile. Implementation based on standard software, combined with a strong and coherent model for digital bureaucracy, offers fast and low risk deployments. Within a few months, organizations can transform into fully digital working environments, supporting all work including case pro4 cessing, formal and informal communicaIn 2018, UN ranked Denmark the #1 tion, knowledge sharing, compliance, and country in the global E-government survey. records management. We now seek to offer our products and The first public sector organisations in UK best practice knowledge, based on our long and Germany are now running standard term and well-proven Danish experiences, F2, demonstrating government re-use of for governments across the world as they standards across borders and we are estabare all facing the exact same challenge: lishing ourselves internationally, including, for example, in the United Arab Emirates. With our F2 model and software as well as supporting implementation methods, Transforming themselves we offer government organisations a fast track and best practice based approach quickly and efficiently to transform into digital bureaucracy. from paper based to We started our journey towards digital digital bureaucracies for bureaucracy in 2005 and have through public-private partnerships helped the the benefit of our future Danish government to digitize. societies, peace and justice. The lesson learned with Danish government is that standards dramatically accelerate governmental digitization, while delivering measurable effects: 50 governmental organisations, running standard software, minimises software investments as government organisations now share maintenance and development. It is unusual for employees to admit happiness and only few months after going live, 62% of users in the Ministry of Transport were satisfied with the ability to find documents and files (up from 12%), 81% were satisfied with knowledge sharing (up from 7%), while 37% state higher job satisfaction. By re-using the F2 standard, the Danish State Administration reduced total costs of operations by 30%, increased employee satisfaction from 62% to 91%, and received the digitization award for best citizen services in 2017. 5 Our SDG commitment Our mission towards standards for case processing and data control to increase government Our mission is to help governments transwork quality and efficiency. Based on this form from being paper-based bureaucrawork, we have continuously developed a cies to digitised working environments, and formalised model and new type standard thereby contribute to creating efficient, software for digital government, called F2, accountable and transparent public instiwhich supports paperless internal work, tutions. This allows institutions to deliver fully end-to-end digitized citizen services quality citizen-centric services as work as well as collaboration between governprocesses are defined with incorporated ment entities. SDG 16 control mechanisms, all activities perPromote peaceful and formed are accounted for, and responsibilToday, F2 is deployed by more than 50 inclusive societies for ities are clearly delegated. The transformapublic organisations in Denmark, all runsustainable development, tion towards a digitized democracy is, thus, ning on the same software. More than half provide access to justice a core part of working towards the United of all departments, including Prime Minisfor all and build effective, Nations Sustainable Development Goals ter’s Office, Ministry of Foreign Affairs accountable and inclusive (SDGs), as it will help institutions take acand Ministry of Finance, run F2 in a highinstitutions at all levels. tion towards meeting the goals effectively. ly effective, accountable and transparent production environment, where ministers After having assessed our mission and and senior executives can work paperless main activities in relation to the SDGs, it and fully mobile. The first government is clear to us that SDG 16 is at the core of organisations in UK and Germany are our corporate strategy. SDG 16 focuses now running standard F2, demonstrating on developing “effective, accountable and government re-use of standards across transparent institutions at all levels” and it borders. is, therefore, directly in line with our mission of digitising institutions to increase The power of a standardised software built efficiency, accountability and transparency for government gives public institutions for the benefit of creating peaceful and the opportunity to transform quickly, with inclusive societies. a lower risk of failure than if the software were to be developed from scratch. A Where do we come standardised software allows public instifrom and where do tutions to transform themselves to digital working environments that have the potenwe go next? tial of creating higher levels of efficiency, In 2018, Denmark ranked as #1 on the accountability and transparency. This has UN E-Government survey. The basis of a positive effect on the population’s satisthis success is the creation of national faction with the public sector, consequently standards of digital solutions and pubfostering trust to governmental institutions. lic-private partnerships for the developSDG 16 expresses the need for this change, ment of software and implementation. and we will be working to help as many The first Danish national digitisation governmental institutions as possible to initiative, released in 1996, pointed transform. 6 Using digitisation to help When a family is split up because of a divorce, it is important for the whole family that the process goes families through a through time as quickly and smoothly as possible. The Danish State Administration deals with these cases and is NATIONAL DIGITISATION AWARD determined to deliver the best possible solution. FOR BEST CITIZEN SERVICE However, as their resources are constrained, they must be highly efficient to deliver high quality services at low costs. To optimise the process of a divorce and increase the quality of the service delivery we engaged with the State Administration to re-design the process and develop a new digital service. This new digital service now offers citizens a more efficient end-to-end solution, resulting in increased satisfaction rates, while reducing the internal costs associated with the process of divorces by approx. 50%. The digital solution received, in 2017, the digitisation award for best citizen services in Denmark. Responsible business At cBrain we do our utmost to be trustworthy, responsible and ambitious in all Our policies to ensure business activities that we undertake. responsible business Integrity is essential if we want to make The Ten Principles of the UN Global a positive impact on the world. This part Compact offers guidelines for how comof the report, therefore, assesses how we panies can conduct responsible business. conduct responsible business. The principles are split into four sub-areas, which are human rights, labour rights, For us, the very basis of conducting responenvironment, and anti-corruption. sible business is to comply with all applicable national and international laws. Further, We have incorporated these sub-areas it is important for us to contribute positively into our way of doing business and this to both our internal and external environis reflected on the next page. ments beyond what is required from us by law. Our policies, which are based on the UN Ten Principles and cBrain’s core values, reflect this responsibility. To make sure that we continue to be ambitious we have established a SDG committee with dedicated resources led by the CEO and monitored by the CFO. The board of cBrain will oversee the activities of this committee to ensure that cBrain continues to act responsibly and pursue a business strategy, which is in line with the goal of SDG 16. 7 HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR RIGHTS Risks Risks We strongly believe that diversity contributes to ensuring quality Our point of departure is Denmark, where legal requirements and innovation in all of our activities. The company has almost for employee rights are high and the cultural context both values doubled its size measured in headcount in 2 years, and we and demands fair treatment. This means that all of our activities acknowledge that this demands a strong leadership and manand internal processes are designed to fulfil these requirements agement focus to strengthen and promote diversity in relation to and expectations. The cultural context has enabled us to adopt a gender, ethnicity and cultural differences. We will, therefore, value-based leadership style, which empowers our employees to work to incorporate high levels of diversity in our operations. act independently. Furthermore, we mainly hire highly educated personnel and this means that we need to offer competitive pay, As our products are dealing with citizens’ data it is important that benefits and working conditions to be able to attract the talent we focus on protecting these individuals from having their data that we need to deliver high quality services and products. misused or leaked to third parties. This risk is central for our operations, as public institutions need to be able to trust our products The main risk concerning labour rights is that we fail to uphold our and services. To ensure quality we allocate substantial resources high standards when we hire personnel or engage with external to product development. stakeholders outside of Denmark’s borders. The level of this risk will increase as we continue to explore new geographical markets Policy in line with our business strategy. Up until now, we have had very few employees and partners operating abroad, but we expect that cBrain fully supports and respects all parts of The Universal this number will increase significantly in the coming years. Declaration of Human Rights. This means that all internal, external, direct and indirect activities performed by cBrain must be in Policy alignment with the declaration. cBrain will neither directly or indirectly be complicit in treatment cBrain acts in line with The Universal Declaration of Human Rights of labour which is not in line with principle 3, 4, 5 and 6 of The and, therefore, treats all stakeholders fairly and does not engage Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. in any discriminatory behaviour. We commit ourselves to give our employees the best possible cBrain will only engages with suppliers who comply with The working conditions by continuously evaluating work processes Universal Declaration of Human Rights. and following industry trends for employee benefits. We are actively working towards promoting a culture in cBrain ANTI-CORRUPTION that embraces a healthy balance between work and private life. We believe that we are only able to develop and deliver innovaRisks tive products of high quality if all our employees are motivated. We are working to help governmental institutions deliver value To create a culture of creativity and innovation, all employees to their citizens. It is, therefore, important that we have high must feel confident in raising their ideas and concerns. We have, standards for how to act with integrity. Since 2012, Denmark has therefore, adopted a flat company structure where it is the quality ranked as either number one or two on the Corruption Percepof the argument rather than the title of the position that counts. tions Index performed by Transparency International. This means that we operate within a context where the threat of corruption is at its lowest. However, it does not mean that we should underestiENVIRONMENT mate the importance of ensuring that we are not complicit in any forms of corruption. Risks Our risk of effecting the environment negatively is relatively As we expand our activities to new markets, we are operating low due to the nature of our products and services. Digitisation within new contexts and cultures, where we can’t automatically limits paper usage in work processes and our products, thereexpect the same level of high standard, and thus, we need to be fore, contribute to a positive development in reducing resource aware and continuously take measures to ensure our integrity. consumption. Policy Policy We distance ourselves in all of our activities from any form of We commit ourselves to having the minimum possible impact on corruption. We will not be complicit in either direct or indirect the environment. In all of our business activities the environmental corruption. impact of our actions should be recognised and minimised. We will not be involved in bribery or any other form of activities In cBrain we support a precautionary approach to environmenthat will unfairly benefit us or any other actors. tal challenges. We do not conduct cost-saving initiatives which We do not perform activities that undermine market competition. compromise environmental responsibility. We do not perform aggressive tax calculations or use transfer We are raising awareness about environmental challenges pricing to avoid paying taxes in any country. through committing our suppliers to act in line with principles 7, 8 and 9 of The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. We are committed to delivering a product of high quality that creates transparent and accountable organisations. This is the very basis of ensuring an environmental development, since without transparency or accountability no actors can be held responsible for their actions. 8 Sustainable society building In cBrain we believe that by supplementThrough pro bono knowledge sharing, proing the focus of the UN Ten Principles fessional advice and by active contribution with the concept of Sustainable Society to industrial, professional and non-profit Building we contribute with a more organisations, we are influencing the direcholistic perspective of being socially tion of governmental institutions and the responsible. With the term “Sustainable norms and standards of our industry. By Society Building” we refer to actions acting responsibly, we contribute to a path which indirectly contribute to sustainable of sustainable development. development through bringing environmental, social and/or economic value for society as a whole. We incorporate Society Building in our way of taking We incorporate Society Building in our way of taking corporate social responsibilicorporate social responsibility ty through an educational focus. Education benefits society as it increases the intellecthrough an educational focus. tual level of the population and, thereby, has the potential of raising living standards, Through the education of individuals, we creating environmental awareness and are increasing the level of competences decreasing discrimination. Our educational within digitalisation of the workforce. activities are linked to sharing knowledge, We, thereby, create better circumstances providing professional advice and educating for society to take on the challenge of individuals within our field of expertise. digitalisation. 9 Initiatives and goals 2018 2019 ACTING We have developed a Code of Conduct to ensure that Implementation of the Code of Conduct all employees have clear guidelines detailing how to act RESPONSIBLE responsibly. Human rights To ensure that we as a company act responsibly in relation Implementation of the different policies and codes Labour rights to all our stakeholders we developed a number of policies: Environment – Suppliers Code of Conduct Anti-corruption – Alcohol Policy – Bribery and Anti-Corruption Code – Environmental Policy – Non-Discrimination Policy – Global Health Policy – Fair Labour Practices – Human Rights Policy ENVIRONMENTAL To stay competitive we need to update our electronic To reduce the negative effect that our transportation has equipment continuously. To avoid the consequences that on the environment we will give our employees the CARE disposal has on the environment we have donated all opportunity to use electrical bikes free of charge when Environment functioning equipment to Fair Denmark. This organisation there are traveling within working hours. distributes the equipment to groups of people who would otherwise not have had access to such resources, making sure that the equipment continues to create value. EMPLOYMENT To make sure our employees are offered benefits that match We will use considerable resources on the development the industry standards we reviewed and increased the beneof our introduction programme for new employees. This CONDITIONS fits we offer employees going on paternity leave. is to ensure that all employees are aware of what is Labour rights expected of them and have a good understanding for We conducted an Engagement Survey to investigate the wellhow to act appropriately. Human rights being of our employees. The survey showed that about 70% of our employees are very satisfied with their job and have a We will develop an employee handbook, which should strong preference for continuing their commitment to cBrain. provide employees with all the necessary information they need to act in line with our values and regulations. Once again, we participated in the 5 km run “DHL Stafetten” in September 2018. To ensure the wellbeing of our employees we will from 2019 start offering free vaccination against influenza. SDG As 2018 has the year where we positioned ourselves in relation to the SDG’s we need to make sure that our whole AWARENESS organisation understands how we as a company contributes INITIATIVES to a sustainable development and which responsibilities we take upon us to act responsibly. We will do so by creating SDG’s internal educational and informative initiatives. PROTECTION To make sure we are trustworthy and are treating all stakeholders according to the Universal Declaration of OF CUSTOMER Human Rights we have implemented ISO 2701. This RIGHTS secures all the data that we manage and our stakeholders can therefore trust us to handle their sensitive data. Human rights KNOWLEDGE By offering student jobs and internships, we are contributing We will continue to take active participation in advisory towards educating the future workforce. boards. SHARING We continuously contribute to our surrounding society with Sustainable Society events, talks, lectures, articles and book publishing to share Building our knowledge and learnings of digitalisation. One example is that our CEO arranged and executed the side event Supporting e-Government Partnerships for Delivering on the SDGs in connection with the UN General Assembly 73 in September 2018. Active participation in advisory boards to ensure that educational institutions educate students within relevant fields of expertise. We participate in advisory boards at University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen Business School, IT University of Copenhagen and Technical University of Copenhagen. Development of norms and standards within digitalisation through political work and knowledge sharing. 10 Internal assessment based on the ESG Standards ESG STANDARD RESULT REFERENCES ENVIRONMENT (E) E1 Direct & Indirect GhG Emission E2 Carbon Intensity E3 Direct & Indirect Energy Consumption E4 Energy Intensity E5 Primary Energy Source E6 Renewable Energy Intensity E7 Water Management E8 Waste Management E9 Environmental Policy Yes www.cbrain.com/about/csr/policies E10 Environmental Impacts No SOCIAL (S) S1 CEO Pay Ratio 5,02 S2 Gender Pay Ratio 1,48 S3 Employee Turnover Ratio 19% S4 Gender Diversity 34% S5 Temporary Worker Ratio 22% S6 Non-Discrimination Policy Yes www.cbrain.com/about/csr/policies S7 Injury Rate 0% S8 Global Health Policy Yes www.cbrain.com/about/csr/policies S9 Child & Forced Labour Policy Yes www.cbrain.com/about/csr/policies (see Fair Labour Practices Policy) S10 Human Rights Policy Yes www.cbrain.com/about/csr/policies S11 Human Rights Violations Filed: 0 Addressed: 0 Resolved: 0 S12 Board – Diversity Independent: 60% Women: 0% CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (G) G1 Board – Separation of Power CEO: Yes www.cbrain.dk/investor/vedtaegter Chairman: Yes www.cbrain.dk/investor/revisionsudvalg Lead Committee: Yes Audit Committee: No G2 Board – Transparent Practices Yes www.cbrain.dk/investor/ corporate-governance/2018 G3 Incentivized Pay No G4 Fair Labour Practices Yes www.cbrain.com/about/csr/policies G5 Suppliers Code of Conduct No G6 Ethics Code of Conduct Yes www.cbrain.com/about/csr G7 Bribery/Anti-Corruption Code Yes www.cbrain.com/about/csr/policies G8 Tax Transparency Yes www.cbrain.com/about/csr/policies (see Anti-corruption and Bribery Policy) G9 Sustainability Report Yes This report is our sustainability report of 2018 G10 Other Framework Disclosures Yes The UNGC framework is reflected in this report G11 External Validation Assurance No www.cbrain.com/about/csr 11 It is all about delivery. Digital Bureaucracy Customers Prime Minister’s Office Ministry for Children and Social Affairs Danish Agency for International Recruitment and Integration Danish Business Authority Ministry for Ecclesiastical Affairs Danish Energy Agency Ministry for Economic Affairs and the Interior Danish Customs and Tax Authority Ministry of Employment Danish Maritime Authority Ministry of Energy, Utilities and Climate Danish Meteorological Institute Ministry of Environment and Food Danish State Administration Ministry of Finance IT University of Copenhagen Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark Rail Denmark Ministry of Higher Education and Science Roskilde University Ministry of Immigration and Integration The Danish Agency of Government Ministry of Taxation IT Services Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing The Ombusdman for Greenland Accident Investigation Board Denmark The Ombudsman for the Faroe Islands Agency for Digitisation State of Greenland Agency for Governmental IT Services Vestforsyning Water and Heating Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment University of Bristol Agency for Modernisation www.cbrain.com · info@cbrain.com · Nasdaq symbol: CBRAIN
