THE WAY FORWARD Sustainability Report 2017/18 Sustainability Report 2017/18 Table of Contents CHAPTER CHAPTER Investing in our 01 Message from the CEO 1 05 Employees Compensation and Benefits Health & Wellbeing 18 19 20 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 21 About This Report 2 Training and Development 21 Scope of the Report 2 02 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality 2 Serving our Clients 22 Acknowledgements Stakeholders’ Feedback 8 8 06 Marketing Communications Delivering Professional and Quality Services Client Privacy 22 23 23 Company Profile 9 Upholding our Ethics 24 Our Vision and Commitment 9 07 Code of Ethics Transparency 24 25 03 Our Sustainability Commitment Our Services Financial Performances 10 12 14 Supporting our Supply Chain 14 08 Communities Capacity Building Research on Management of NGOs in Hong Kong 26 27 28 Advancing Effective Governance 15 09 Key Statistics 29 04 Governance Structure Compliance with Legal Requirements 15 17 Our Management Approach 17 10 GRI Content Index 32 CHAPTER MESSAGE 01 FROM THE CEO This year (2018) marks the 10th year of Ascent Partners. Like everybody, we have experienced ups and downs throughout the years. During the challenging times, we found that an environmental, social and governance ( ESG ) mindset can serve as our guiding principle. Thank you for our stakeholders’ support! We have identified key areas that our stakeholders are concerning about and have great impact to our business, so that we can focus on the key areas to improve upon. One of the significant changes that we have this year is that we have started to employ an open book management system. Staff members can now gain access to the financial information relevant to their daily operations, which enhanced the transparency of the organization. Understanding that achieving long-term sustainability is a continuous journey, we believe that having an ESG mindset lays the foundation for success. Sustainability Report 2017/18 1 CHAPTER ABOUT 02 THIS REPORT Ascent Partners Holding Limited (“Ascent Partners”) is a leading service provider of independent valuation, corporate advisory and technology advisory. We understand that sustainability is essential in the businesses as well as to the global development. We seize the opportunity to integrate sustainability into our operation and to communicate our sustainability performances and progress through this report. Through effective and transparent communication with our stakeholders, we hope to build competitive advantage, reputation and trust within our Group and with our stakeholders, and hence bring sustainable returns to our business. The report has been reviewed by internal professional teams to enhance credibility and overall integrity of the contents. Scope of the Report Stakeholder This is the second Sustainability Report by Engagement and Ascent Partners, prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) Materiality Standards: Core option, with reference to Our sustainability reporting approach is to Sustainability Accounting Standards Board identify material aspects that are important to (“SASB”) Sustainability Accounting Standard our stakeholders and our business operation, for Professional Services. This Sustainability realign the aspects with our business strategy Report covers the Group’s overall performance and prepare ourselves for future challenges in the economic, environmental and social while achieving sustainable growth with our aspects of its major business operations in the stakeholders. Ascent Partners offices in Hong Kong and In order to identify the most significant Shenzhen, the People’s Republic of China (the aspects for our Group to report on, key “PRC”), from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018, stakeholders including shareholders, unless otherwise stated. The office in employees, clients and external professional Singapore has been excluded from the scope teams have been identified and involved in due to its relatively insignificant contribution engagement sessions to discuss and to to the Group’s operation. review areas of attention which would prepare us for future challenges and potential growth. Sustainability Report 2017/18 2 3 s St Ph ake ee on ho Sustainability Report 2017/18 e a lde oy nd r E gs s ys Em ng pl tin g ve ee tin r M ee t Su s Pr Ex ail age Co me aff M n al St ion me rais of te m nt m S Em un ur lar ss ge p Te ess rna ica vey gu scu ga Ap ws Re Di r En nce rvie ings ions tio s ns G e a e r t ES ld m Int he ica o r eh rfo Exit Ga un ak Pe t am io l St ff ta om m n Stakeholder s al S c ail Em Engagement Re Channels Sh Re gula s ys nt gu r B ve s ar lar oa St rd aff M ur ion t S at eh M eet ie en nic Cl ee in em mu ABOUT THIS REPORT tin gs ag m ol gs ng Co r E ail de ak ol de Em eh and rs St one Ph ABOUT THIS REPORT Stakeholder Engagement Process Identification Prioritization Validation (i) Identification – Identify sustainability context a. 25 aspects were identified to be relevant to our business operation out of the 33 GRI topics by the Board of Directors (“the Board”) members. b. 3 business-specific topics were also identified as material and influential to Ascent Partners’ business by the Board members. c. After analyzing sustainability reports of organizations with similar business nature and size, key stakeholders including the shareholders, employees, clients and external professional teams were identified. (ii) Prioritization – Prioritize material aspects a. In order to determine economic, environmental and social aspects that are highly concerned by our stakeholders and influential to our business, surveys were distributed to our stakeholders (including the shareholders, employees, clients and external professional teams) to rank the importance of the 28 aspects and the corresponding impacts on our business. (iii) Validation Check completeness of the material aspects a. The material aspects were checked against coverage of topics in the reporting scope and period to ensure completeness of the reporting contents. b. Results from stakeholder engagement were mapped into a materiality matrix. c. A total of 11 material aspects were identified and endorsed by the Board members. Sustainability Report 2017/18 4 ABOUT THIS REPORT Key Topics Raised by Stakeholder Groups The stakeholder engagement was conducted in the financial year 2016/17 and will be reviewed and conducted on a regular basis. Stakeholder Group Key Topics Raised • Economic Performance Shareholders • Product Responsibility • Code of Ethics • Economic Performance Employees • Code of Ethics • Training and Education • Customer Privacy Clients • Training and Education • Socioeconomic Compliance • Employment External • Training and Education • Customer Privacy Professional • Socioeconomic Compliance Teams • Product Responsibility • Code of Ethics Sustainability Report 2017/18 5 ABOUT THIS REPORT Materiality Matrix HIGH Product Responsibility Training and Education Socioeconomic Compliance Code of Ethics Labor Management Customer Privacy Relations Employment Anti-Corruption Economic Performance Occupational Health and Interest of Stakeholders Safety Market Presence Energy Forced or Human Compulsory Transparency Rights Labor Effluents Assessment and Waste Freedom of Diversity and Indirect Association Economic Water and Collective Equal Opportunity Impacts Bargaining Marketing and Anti-competitive Behaviour Labelling Supplier Non-discrimination Social Emissions Assessment Supplier Child Labor Environmental Assessment Procurement Practices LOW 0 1 2 Impact to Business 3 4 5 6 LOW HIGH Sustainability Report 2017/18 6 ABOUT THIS REPORT Material Aspects and Impacts Boundaries Material Aspects Impact Location (Inside or outside Ascent Partners) Inside Outside Economic Economic performance √ Social Employment √ Training and education √ Diversity and equal opportunity √ Non-discrimination √ Marketing and labelling √ √ Customer privacy √ √ Socioeconomic compliance √ √ Business-specific Topics Product responsibility √ √ Code of ethics √ √ Transparency √ √ Sustainability Report 2017/18 7 ABOUT THIS REPORT Acknowledgements Stakeholders’ Feedback This report would not have been possible The Group welcomes stakeholders’ without the leadership and support from feedback on governance approaches and our senior management. We would like to performances of our environmental and express our deepest appreciation to our social issues. Please give your suggestions or senior management and all of our staff, share your views with us via email at clients and business partners who contact@ascent-partners.com. contributed to our report and facilitated the integration of sustainability into our business. Sustainability Report 2017/18 8 CHAPTER COMPANY 03 PROFILE Ascent Partners is a leading service provider of independent valuation, corporate advisory and technology advisory. We partner with our clients to ensure that our tailored solutions align with their strategic visions to deliver stellar results. The firm’s vision is to build and grow long-term business relationships with our clients. Our clients will enjoy the benefits of leveraging the vast experience from our multidisciplinary team, in financial, accounting, property surveying, environmental science, risk management and engineering fields. Ascent Partners offers our clients unparalleled access to the resources of our carefully cultivated network of professional and business contacts, which will be particularly critical when they are market seeking investors or potential targets for acquisitions. We do not provide advice in isolation. Our cross-functional teams work together to offer clients an integrated service that considers the big picture, orchestrating different processes and connecting parties, establishing plans and monitoring the progress of each project to ensure timely delivery and sustainable returns. Our Vision and Commitment As a trusted corporate valuation firm and advisory firm, Ascent Partners always have your back with our professional knowledge and services that underlie all your most important decisions. When you aim for the peak, leave the rest to us and we will get you there. Sustainability Report 2017/18 9 COMPANY PROFILE Our Sustainability Commitment In Ascent Partners, we place values in our people and our community. We believe that enhancing diversity, well-being and professional development of our people will empower our business. We are also committed to serving our community and protecting the environment for our future generations. We actively participate in the activities and events organized by the associations to promote interest within the business community and network with peers. We are one of the pioneers supporting the earliest adoption of the GRI standards, also referencing the SASB Sustainability Accounting Standard to lead, support and promote sustainability reporting. Upholding responsible corporate values paves the way for long-term success. The United Nations (“UN”) Global Compact set out the ten principles that meet the fundamental responsibilities with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are delighted to announce that our CEO has committed to incorporating the ten principles set out by the UN Global Compact into our operating strategy and policies. This will help guiding us to a more sustainable business management and nourishing a more virtuous corporate culture. Sustainability Report 2017/18 10 COMPANY PROFILE The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Human Rights proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 Labour the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Environment Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10 Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. To stay abreast of the industry trends, we are also a corporate member of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce (“HKGCC”), gold community member of the GRI and an organizational member of the SASB. Sustainability Report 2017/18 11 COMPANY PROFILE Our Services Valuation Corporate Advisory Technology Advisory Services Services Services • Business Valuation • Sustainability • Financial Solution • Financial Instrument Consultancy • Aerial Photography Valuation • Enterprise Risk • Patent Landscaping • Property, Plant & Management Advisory Machinery Valuation Service • Natural Resources & • Transaction Advisory Biological Assets Service Valuation Sectors Served In the financial year 2017/18, we have provided services (including valuation, corporate advisory and technology advisory services) in around 245 projects. Our business expertise covers the following sectors: Mining Construction Agriculture, Manufacturing Wholesale Forestry and Trade Fishing Retail Trade Transportation Services (including Finance, Public and Public business, educational, Insurance and Administration entertainment and (including Utilities health services) Real Estate environmental and waste management) Sustainability Report 2017/18 12 COMPANY PROFILE Geographical locations where products and services are offered: • Argentina • Madagascar • Australia • Mainland China • Hong Kong • Mongolia • India • Singapore • Macau • Taiwan • The United Kingdom Sustainability Report 2017/18 13 COMPANY PROFILE Financial Performances The financial performances including values generated and distributed are managed by the Board through monthly management meetings. Financial information is reviewed annually and audited by external independent auditors. No mergers and acquisition, and financial assistance (including contribution in our shareholding structure) from the government had been involved. Our focus remains on valuation and corporate advisory services, with a minor revenue contribution from technology advisory services. While we made a substantial progress on improving the debt-to-equity ratio, our revenue dropped in the financial year 2017/18 due to a decline in revenue in the valuation business. The drop of revenue also led to a drop in overall profit. Therefore, we have adopted a new sales and marketing strategy – dedicating professional sales and marketing team to valuation and corporate advisory services respectively. This helps increasing sales and enhancing our brand name recognition while developing expertise of our sales and marketing team. Whilst the growth of businesses in Hong Kong became anemic for the past few years, we are exploring growth opportunities for the same services in other geographical regions such as the PRC and Singapore. Supply Chain Our business operation involves daily office procurement in the areas of administration, telecommunications, cleaning, maintenance and courier services. Without significant changes to last year, we sourced products and services mainly from Hong Kong, while some others were sourced from the Mainland China, Macau, Singapore, Australia, Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the United States and Canada. Sustainability Report 2017/18 14 CHAPTER ADVANCING 04 EFFECTIVE GOVERNANCE Governance Structure Sound Our five Board members, with diverse backgrounds, expertise and experience, governance lead Ascent Partners by setting strategies and targets, establishing and reviewing management policies, monitoring financial and non-financial performances, and is the way evaluating management approaches. To reinforce our management on the economic, environmental and social issues to stay and enterprise risks, we established a Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Committee. The CSR committee assists competitive Ascent Partners in overseeing the company’s initiatives, plans and practices regarding CSR issues that are significant to the company and the communities in which in rapidly we operate. Strong corporate governance underpins changing integrity of a company. During the financial year 2017/18, we placed focus on strengthening transparency. While transparency has always been a material market. aspect of our operation, our performance on improving transparency will be further discussed in Upholding our Ethics – Transparency. Sustainability Report 2017/18 15 ADVANCING EFFECTIVE GOVERNANCE Simon Mak Chief Executive Officer As a co-founder and the CEO of Ascent Partners Group Limited, Simon Mak has grown the company from scratch to an organization serving more than 400 leading corporate clients with offices in Hong Kong, China and Singapore. Paul Wu Hauman Yeung William Yuen Stephen Yeung Director of Director of Corporate Director of Valuation Principal of Property Technology Advisory Advisory Service Valuation Paul received his MSc. and BSc. Hauman is a CMA and a member of William became a Certified Stephen is a Member of the Royal Degrees from Simon Fraser the Institute of Public Accountants Financial Risk Manager (“FRM”) Institution of Chartered Surveyors University in Canada in 1989 and (“IPA”) of Australia, has been from Global Association of Risk (“MRICS”), the Hong Kong Institute 1986 respectively. Paul also involved in the environmental Professionals (“GARP”) in 2007 and of Surveyors (MHKIS), China obtained the Certified Management movement in Hong Kong since earned the Chartered Financial Institute of Real Estate Appraisers Accountant (“CMA”) certificate in 1988. Analyst (“CFA”) credential from the and Agents (“CIREA”), a Registered Australia from CMA Institute, and CFA Institute in 2008. Professional Surveyor of the served as Vice-Chairman of its Surveyors Registration Board (RPS, Committee of Strategic GP) as well as a CMA, Australia. Development of its Committee of Strategic Development since 2016. Sustainability Report 2017/18 16 ADVANCING EFFECTIVE GOVERNANCE Compliance with Our Management Legal Requirements Approach All employees shall undertake and agree to We discuss, monitor and evaluate the fully abide by, comply with and act pursuant economic, environmental and social issues to the Code of Ethics and Standards through regular meetings involving our Professional Conduct published by the CFA employees, the management and the Board. Institute (“CFA Code”), whether they are a CFA As with our risk management approach, we member or not. The CFA Code stipulated that apply the precautionary principle when all applicable laws, rules and regulations of making decisions that may cause serious or any government, regulatory organization, irreversible damages. We are in the process of licensing agency, or professional association setting up whistle-blowing channels and governing professional activities must be procedures regarding any breach of business complied with. Reasonable efforts must be ethics. made to detect and prevent violations of Negative feedback or grievances from our applicable laws, rules, regulations and the employees are always welcomed as they CFA Code. We ensure that our employees are provide us with precious opportunities to aware of the applicable laws and regulations improve our work environment and facilitate through training, case studies and news fair settlement. sharing sessions. A complaint was lodged by one of our There were no non-compliances with laws departed employees to the Labour and regulations in the social and economic Department regarding compensation dispute area in the financial year 2017/18. in 2016/17. The complaint had been resolved through out-of-court settlement in the financial year 2017/18. We reviewed and revised our employment contract to avoid reoccurrences. No other grievances were filed. Sustainability Report 2017/18 17 CHAPTER INVESTING IN OUR 05 EMPLOYEES Employees’ contributions are conducive to our success. Supportive work culture enables an inclusion of opinions from distinct perspectives, We have which is integral to delivering comprehensive and professional solutions to our clients. We recruit on open recruitment platforms and screen candidates based on criteria including the right technical knowledge, experience, personality, interpersonal skills and work attitude. We assess technical knowledge of job candidates through examinations and interviews. Through interviews, people to we ensure that our employees uphold values align with our core values so that we can strive collaboratively and effectively to achieve our business goals. Promotion opportunities are also provided in line with our business growth. To boost productivity and employee satisfaction, we allocate employees in suitable roles in which they can unleash their full potential. There was a total of 23 employees as of 30 June 2018, with all make the right employed under fixed-term contract. We care about our employees and encourage employees to raise concerns or grievances openly. While the overall organizational scale, headcount things and structure remain the same, we had a shift of staff geographical allocation. During the year, we faced challenge of recruiting and retaining high-caliber talents for the Hong Kong happen. team. However, since our long-term goal is to explore market opportunities in Mainland China, the relatively high turnover rates of the Hong Kong team have not adversely impacted on the company. We have implemented strategy to build execution capability among our Shenzhen team and the zero turnover rates of the Shenzhen team have demonstrated a successful execution of the strategy. Sustainability Report 2017/18 18 INVESTING IN OUR EMPLOYEES Compensation and Benefits We provide attractive compensation and benefits to retain talents. Employees are entitled to basic salary with discretionary bonuses, as well as commission depending on their job nature. Salary is reviewed on an annual basis. Upon statutory holidays, employees are entitled to various types of leave including annual, sick, maternity, paternity, social service and examination leave. We make contribution towards the Mandatory Provident Fund (“MPF”) Scheme, pension fund, unemployment insurance fund, medical insurance fund, work-related injury fund, maternity insurance fund and the housing provident fund for our employees in accordance with the requirements specified in the MPF Schemes Ordinance, Cap. 485 of the Laws of Hong Kong and the Social Insurance Law of the PRC. Other benefits provided to full-time employees include: • Medical insurance scheme (inclusive of body check); • Annual health screening scheme for employees over 30 years old; • Reimbursement of course fees for trainings, allowance for professional examinations and membership fees for professional bodies; • Reimbursement of dinner and transportation costs due to overtime work; and • Reimbursement of costs for sports and fitness programs. Sustainability Report 2017/18 19 INVESTING IN OUR EMPLOYEES Health and Wellbeing Improving the wellbeing of employees helps Fitness Reimbursement Program to sustain our business success. Wellbeing Regular exercise has a lot of health benefits includes employees’ physical and mental such as keeping us away from illness and health as well as their workplace relationships. disease, maintaining healthy weight and reducing stress. Starting from the financial Promoting Staff Wellness year 2017/18, our employees are now entitled We look after our employees’ health through to reimbursement of a certain amount of costs medical insurance and health screening for sports and fitness activities including gym schemes with comprehensive coverage memberships and fitness classes. This catering to diverse needs of our employees. To promotes regular exercises while allowing foster healthier lifestyles, we provide a wide employees to choose the type of sports to take variety of fresh fruits in office. This boosts part in at their own discretion. Our employees employees’ immune system and draws our had actively engaged in various sports employees away from their desks to the activities such as yoga classes, Muay Thai communal area where they take short breaks classes and boot camps since the launch of and socialize among themselves. this program. Improving Our Work Environment Interacting with Peers Employees spend most of the time in office We organize gatherings, festive celebration during the day. It is vital to provide our parties and birthday parties to engage our employees a work environment that optimizes employees. By encouraging team work and work productivity as well as personal comfort. workplace camaraderie, we aim to create a We are particularly dedicated to improving healthy and vibrant environment for our indoor air quality (“IAQ”) and acoustics of our employees not only to work in, but also to workplace. interact and flourish with peers. IAQ is now an important aspect when To celebrate the 9-year anniversary of Ascent concerning indoor environmental quality. We Partners, we held a lunch hotel buffet on 1 therefore engaged an accredited consultant to September 2017, together with all our staff assess our IAQ at our office. We also from Hong Kong and Shenzhen. After lunch, participated in the voluntary IAQ Certification the team visited the iFlight Technology Scheme for Offices and Public Places launched Company Limited at Hong Kong Science Park, by the HKSAR Government. As the first tenant in which our staff had the opportunity to learn of our office building participating in the about the latest drone application and scheme, we are proud to announce that our participate in the hands-on flight experience. office has achieved an “excellent class” The event ended with the exciting lucky draw certification. that some of our staff won drone products as their prizes. We are aware that good workplace acoustics help employees to stay focused on their work. We value every relationship not only with our Upon the receipt of feedback that our staff but also with our alumni. Alumni employees had experienced distractions from Gathering is organized regularly to maintain surrounding group discussions or telephone ongoing engagement with of our departed conversations, we created an additional colleagues. The Ascent Partners Alumni meeting room for discussion and improved Gathering 2018 had taken place in 26 January the overall sound insulation of our meeting 2018 with around 25 staff members and rooms. alumni joined the gathering. Sustainability Report 2017/18 20 INVESTING IN OUR EMPLOYEES Diversity and Equal Training and Opportunity Development A diverse workplace culture with different Apart from providing on-job and staff talents, skills and experiences enables us to transition trainings, we encourage employees provide a variety of solutions and services to to take part in external trainings and join our clients in the prevailing fast-changing professional bodies. Participation in trainings market. We hire candidates from different and professional bodies allows our employees backgrounds, from fresh graduates to to gain and share expert knowledge, keep experienced professionals, and provide themselves updated with industrial news and internship opportunities to local and overseas attain networking opportunities which enable students who want to gain hands-on them to provide better insights and services to experience, develop skills and build networks. our clients, hence value added to businesses. For that reason, our employees are entitled to We also maintain a fair work environment to full reimbursement of training costs, build trust among ourselves. We provide equal examination fees and necessary leave for opportunities to our employees in respect of approved professional examinations. recruitment, training and development, job advancement, and compensation and Ascent Partners and our employees strive to benefits. They are not discriminated against or make continuous development. We conduct deprived of such opportunities on the basis of performance appraisals every half year. race, sex, age, disability, national origin, Together with our employees, we evaluate religion, sexual orientation and any other their biannual work performances, analyze discrimination prohibited by applicable laws. their strengths and weaknesses, identify training needs and set goals for improvement There were no reported incidents of in the future. discrimination during the financial year 2017/18. In the financial year 2017/18, 100% of our employees have received regular performance appraisals. Sustainability Report 2017/18 21 CHAPTER SERVING OUR 06 CLIENTS Marketing and Communications We aim to flourish with our clients, through A reliable partner who cultivation of reliable and long-term relationships. Building trust with our clients is critical to the maintenance of long-term relationships. We are cautious about product understands and service labelling, aiming to provide our clients with accurate and adequate information of our products and services. We what our allocate resources to ensure that our sales and marketing team acquires full knowledge of our products and services as well as being competent to communicate effectively with clients our clients. In the financial year 2017/18, no non-compliance incidents with regulations or voluntary codes concerning product and service information or labelling occurred. need. Sustainability Report 2017/18 22 SERVICING OUR CLIENTS Delivering Professional Client Privacy and Quality Services Our solutions and technological products We are vigilant when dealing with client enable our clients to make better decisions and information, especially non-public improve their management strategies. We information. All our employees undertake to exercise diligence, independence and keep confidential information highly thoroughness in analyzing information and confidential and not to disclose to any third making recommendations. Through party. Confidential information includes but is multiple-level reviews and independent audits, not limited to: we ensure the credibility and reliability of our solutions and recommendations. • Information and/or documents of “Insider Dealing” governed by the Securities and We also screen our prospective clients to avoid Futures Ordinance, Cap. 571 of the Laws of any engagement in market manipulation. Hong Kong; We are professional, diligent, efficient and • Information and contact details of clients; enthusiastic as acclaimed by our clients in the and testimonials, and will continue to improve our services to surpass expectations from our • Raw materials in support of the accuracy clients. and/or truthfulness of all finished works issued to clients. There were no substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of client privacy, identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data in the financial year 2017/18. Sustainability Report 2017/18 23 CHAPTER UPHOLDING 07 OUR ETHICS Code of Ethics We set the bar high in terms of our business ethical standards, and abide by all applicable laws regarding business ethics and the CFA Code. We only We have stringent rules on conduct in the workplace, especially on the conflict of interest and corruption. Misconduct can lead to champion disciplinary action or dismissal. All staff of Ascent Partners shall act with: • Professionalism; the • Integrity; • Duty of loyalty; • Due diligence; highest • Transparent disclosure; and • Avoidance of conflict of interest. There were no legal and regulatory fines and settlements associated with professional standard. integrity or duty of care in the financial year 2017/18. Sustainability Report 2017/18 24 Transparency We pledge to go extra miles with our service. Ascent Partners believes that our services should be performed in a professional and transparent manner. We fully support and cooperate with clients’ internal and external audit reviews in a timely manner. We also disclose to clients and prospective clients the basic format and general principles of the processes we use in analysis and any changes that might materially affect the processes. Internally, we define our corporate goals and action plans clearly for our employees. During the financial year 2017/18, we went further on disclosing our annual financial performances with our employees. Our CEO presented key financial data to our teams and evaluated on the performances so as to set directions for the next financial year. Through regular staff meetings, we keep our employees informed and involved in our company’s major decisions and changes. Employees can also voice their opinion and expectations with our “open door” culture. Sustainability Report 2017/18 25 CHAPTER SUPPORTING OUR 08 COMMUNITIES Ascent Partners is dedicated to enhancing capacity building in our community. Through sponsoring professional and public seminars, A successful business researches and studies, we strengthen human and institutional resources to push forward green movement and foster sustainability needs a culture in Hong Kong. We also continuously support and promote Chi Heng Foundation, which aims to create a healthy harmonious, equal and healthy society by funding and operating projects in education and care for children and adults impacted by AIDS, AIDs prevention and anticommunity, discrimination. During the financial year 2017/18, we have promoted Chi Heng Foundation through distribution of calendars so we and tote bags to our clients, which are printed with drawings by the children supported by Chi Heng Foundation. contribute to building a better one. Sustainability Report 2017/18 26 SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES Capacity Building In the financial year 2017/18, we have sponsored Corporate Social Responsibility Forum and participated in various events including cum Awards Presentation Ceremony conferences and seminars regarding green finance, We were proud to speak at the Corporate Social sustainability reporting and sustainability business Responsibility Forum cum Awards Presentation values. Apart from financial support, we are devoted Ceremony for COOL Corporate Membership to promoting environmental and social due Scheme 2017 organized by Friends of the Earth diligence by delivering trainings to the professional on 20 July 2017. Ms. Shirley Lui, Manager of association members. Our professional teams have Ascent Partners Advisory Service introduced shared our knowledge and expertise through “Guidelines on Highlighting ESG Practices”. The conferences and seminars. attendances were all from different industries to 2017 Green Finance Symposium exchange views, share insights and promote best practice in the area of environmental We were delighted to sponsor the “2017 Green sustainable development. Finance Symposium” on 4 July 2017, marking the second year we sponsor the green finance One Belt One Road Seminar Series – symposium. The event brought together students, The Sustainable Development of professors and renowned industry experts to Chinese Enterprise Overseas address issues including energy saving and market Invited by China Enterprise Association trend of green bond. Through global cooperation (Singapore), we were honored to speak at the that facilitate uptake of green finance activity, we will “One Belt One Road Seminar Series The be able to improve the ability of capital markets to Sustainable Development of Chinese Enterprise invest the green industries. It is essential to meet our Overseas” in Singapore on 25 August 2017. 40 goal of financing sustainable and green growth. member companies attended the seminar. Practical Implementation Guide for ESG We shared the latest listing requirements set out Reporting by Singapore Exchange on merger & acquisitions We spoke at the “Practical Implementation Guide for as well as sustainable reporting. Ascent Partner’s ESG Reporting” seminar held by the Hong Kong co-founders and directors, Hauman Yeung and Institute of Chartered Secretaries (HKICS) on 18 July William Yuen covered needs, methods and 2017. Mr. Hauman Yeung, Director of Ascent importance of valuation and sustainable Partners Advisory Service and Ms. Shirley Lui, reporting. Manager of Ascent Partners Advisory Service introduced all KPIs of ESG reporting required by HKEX listing rule Appendix 27 and analyzed each KPI with real cases as examples. The sharing was useful to companies that are keen to learn about ESG KPIs. We are glad to share our expertise and communicate with all parties concerning ESG reporting. Sustainability Report 2017/18 27 SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES Research on Annual Conference – New Challenges for Management of NGOs Directors of Listed Companies Ascent Partners was honored to sponsor and speak in Hong Kong at the “Annual Conference-New Challenges for Directors of Listed Companies”, organized by the Good governance of NGOs is vital to ensure that Hong Kong Independent Non-executive Director charitable contributions from the public properly Association in Hong Kong on 22 September 2017. reach the intended beneficiaries. To understand whether charitable contributions to local NGOs We were proud to share the topics including are used for legitimate purposes, we employed Securities and Futures Commission’s recent interns from local Universities to conduct a guidance note, notifiable transactions, business detailed study on management and fund using valuations and due diligence of valuers. Ascent of NGOs in Hong Kong. Apart from providing Partner’s co-founders and director, Mr. William internship opportunities to local Yuen addressed that directors and senior undergraduates, findings from the study also executives should be aware of the guidance and contributed to the Impact Measure of NGO & serious consequences for abrogating their duties. Strategic Philanthropy Conference, held on 2 Feb 2017 Tax and Regulatory Conference 2018 in the Hong Kong Polytechnic University. We sponsored the 2017 Tax and Regulatory conference. Sharing our knowledge and experience is one of the many things to do for building a bigger and brighter future. Sustainability Conference: Governance and Financial Health of NGOs We were glad to sponsor the Sustainability Conference: Governance and Financial Health of NGOs on 9 February 2018, organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University’s School of Accounting and Finance. The conference brought together NGO professionals, academic researchers and stakeholders who are interested in understanding more on the latest development of governance and financial health of NGOs. Sustainability Report 2017/18 28 CHAPTER Key 09 Statistics Category Unit 2017/18 102-8 # Total no. of employees by employment contract and by gender Hong Kong Male Female Permanent contract No. of people 10 8 Temporary contract No. of people 0 0 Mainland China Male Female Permanent contract No. of people 4 1 Temporary contract No. of people 0 0 102-8 Total no. of employees by employment type and by gender Male Female Full time No. of people 13 6 Part time No. of people 1 3 102-41 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Employees covered by collective % 0 bargaining agreements 401-1 Total no. and rate of new employee hires by age group, gender and region Hong Kong Male Female Under 30 years old No. of people/% 2/200% 7/140% 30-50 years old No. of people/% 1/25% 0/0% Over 50 years old No. of people/% 0/0% 0/0% Mainland China Male Female Under 30 years old No. of people/% 4/133% 0/NA* 30-50 years old No. of people/% 0/0% 1/100% Over 50 years old No. of people/% 0/NA 0/NA Sustainability Report 2017/18 29 KEY STATISTICS Category Unit 2017/18 401-1 Total no. and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region Hong Kong Male Female Under 30 years old No. of people/% 6/600% 11/20% 30-50 years old No. of people/% 2/50% 0/0% Over 50 years old No. of people/% 0/0% 0/0% Mainland China Male Female Under 30 years old No. of people/% 0/0% 0/NA 30-50 years old No. of people/% 0/0% 0/0% Over 50 years old No. of people/% 0/NA 0/NA SV102-07 Total no. and rate of employee turnover by voluntarism Male Female Voluntary departure No. of people/% 19 100% Involuntary departure No. of people/% 0 0% 404-3 Percentage of total employees received regular performance review by gender Male % 100% Female % 100% Percentage of total employees received regular performance review by employee category Senior management % 100% Middle management % 100% Frontline and other staff % 100% 405-1 Percentage of individuals in governance bodies by gender Male % 100% Female % 0% Percentage of individuals in governance bodies by age group Under 30 years old % 0% 30-50 years old % 20% Over 50 years old % 80% Sustainability Report 2017/18 30 KEY STATISTICS Category Unit 2017/18 405-1 Percentage of senior management employee by gender Male % 67% Female % 33% Percentage of senior management employee by age group Under 30 years old % 33% 30-50 years old % 67% Over 50 years old % 0% 405-1 Percentage of middle management employee by gender Male % 50% Female % 50% Percentage of middle management employee by age group Under 30 years old % 0% 30-50 years old % 50% Over 50 years old % 50% 405-1 Percentage of frontline and other staff by gender Male % 38% Female % 62% Percentage of frontline and other staff by age group Under 30 years old % 69% 30-50 years old % 25% Over 50 years old % 6% # Information were compiled by out Administrative Department based on the traceable record in our system. * Rate with NA implies undefined value due to division by zero. Financial Information Financial Performances Data in 2016/17^ Net sales HKD 1,879,029 Total capitalization HKD 3,765,687 Total liability HKD 9,167,731 Total equity HKD (5,402,044) ^The financial performance data shows audited data in 2016/17. Audited data of 2017/18 will be supplemented in the next reporting period. Sustainability Report 2017/18 31 CHAPTER GRI CONTENT 10 INDEX Core Option GRI Standard Disclosure Page No. GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-1 Name of organization 2 (Organizational Profile) 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 12 102-3 Location of headquarters 37 102-4 Location of operations 2 Ownership and legal form 2, Body Corporate 102-5 102-6 Markets served 12-13 102-7 Scale of the organization 14, 18 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 18, 29 102-9 Supply Chain 14 Significant changes to the organization and its 14 102-10 supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 11, 17 102-12 External initiatives 10 102-13 Membership of associations 10 GRI 102: General Disclosures Statement from senior decision-maker 1 102-14 (Strategy) GRI 102: General Disclosures Values, principles, standards, and norms of 9 102-16 (Ethics and integrity) behavior GRI 102: General Disclosures Governance structure 16 102-18 (Governance) GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 5 (Stakeholder engagement) Collective bargaining agreements None of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. 102-41 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 4 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 4 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 4-6 Sustainability Report 2017/18 32 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page No. GRI 102: General Disclosures Entities included in the consolidated financial 2 102-45 (Reporting practice) statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 2, 7 102-47 List of material topics 7 102-48 Restatements of information No restatements. Changes in reporting No changes of the list of 102-49 material topics and topic boundaries. 102-50 Reporting period 2 Date of most recent report The previous report 102-51 reported for the period 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017. Reporting cycle We issue our report in an 102-52 annual basis. Contact point for questions regarding the report 8, 37 102-53 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 2 102-54 Standards 102-55 GRI content index 32-36 102-56 External assurance 2 Economic Material Topics Economic Performance GRI 103: Management Approach Explanation of the material topic and its 7 103-1 Boundary The management approach and its components 14,17 103-2 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 14,17 GRI 201: Economic Performance Financial assistance received from government 14 201-4 Sustainability Report 2017/18 33 GRI CONTENT INDEX Social Material Topics GRI Standard Disclosure Page No. Employment GRI 103: Management Approach Explanation of the material topic and its 7 103-1 Boundary The management approach and its components 17-21 103-2 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 17-21 GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 29-30 Benefits provided to full-time employees that 19 401-2 are not provided to temporary or part-time employees Training and education GRI 103: Management Approach Explanation of the material topic and its 7 103-1 Boundary The management approach and its components 17, 21 103-2 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 17, 21 GRI 404: Training and education Percentage of employees receiving regular 21 404-3 performance and career development reviews Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 103: Management Approach Explanation of the material topic and its 7 103-1 Boundary The management approach and its components 17, 21 103-2 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 17, 21 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Diversity of governance bodies and employees 29-31 405-1 Opportunity Non-discrimination GRI 103: Management Approach Explanation of the material topic and its 7 103-1 Boundary The management approach and its components 17, 21 103-2 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 17, 21 GRI 406: Non-discrimination Incidents of discrimination and corrective 21 406-1 actions taken Sustainability Report 2017/18 34 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page No. Marketing and labelling GRI 103: Management Approach Explanation of the material topic and its 7 103-1 Boundary The management approach and its components 17, 22 103-2 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 17, 22 GRI 417: Marketing and Labelling Incidents of non-compliance concerning product 22 417-2 and service information and labelling Customer Privacy GRI 103: Management Approach Explanation of the material topic and its 7 103-1 Boundary The management approach and its components 17, 23 103-2 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 17, 23 GRI 418: Customer Privacy Substantiated complaints concerning breaches 23 418-1 of customer privacy and losses of customer data Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 103: Management Approach Explanation of the material topic and its 7 103-1 Boundary The management approach and its components 17 103-2 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 17 GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance Non-compliance with laws and regulations in 17 419-1 the social and economic area Sustainability Report 2017/18 35 GRI CONTENT INDEX Other Material Aspects GRI Standard Disclosure Page No. Product Responsibility GRI 103: Management Approach Explanation of the material topic and its 7 103-1 Boundary The management approach and its components 17, 22-25 103-2 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 17, 22-25 Code of Ethics GRI 103: Management Approach Explanation of the material topic and its 7 103-1 Boundary The management approach and its components 14,18 103-2 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 14,18 Transparency GRI 103: Management Approach Explanation of the material topic and its 7 103-1 Boundary The management approach and its components 17, 25 103-2 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 17, 25 Sustainability Report 2017/18 36 OUR OFFICES Hong Kong Office Room 2102, 21/F, Hong Kong Trade Centre, 161-167 Des Voeux Road Central, Hong Kong Tel: (852) 3679 3890 Shenzhen Office Room No. 1529, Golden Central Tower, No. 3037, Jintian Road, Futian District, Shenzhen City, Guangdong Province, China (Postal Code: 518048) Tel: (86) 755 8321 0319 Singapore Office #14-05 Shenton House, 3 Shenton Way, Singapore 068805 Tel: (65) 6221 5600 Service Enquiry Tel : (852) 3679 3890 Email : contact@ascent-partners.com Website : www.ascent-partners.com @ ERE Exhibits Ltd. All rights reserved, reproduction without permission is strictly prohibited
