+Value that comes from excellence 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 3 ocyan 2018 annual report F or the sixth consecutive year, Ocyan presents its performance according to the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), in the Essential option of the GRI Standards. The company publishes its results annually, and the last document, with information from 2017, was published in May 2018. The content covers the period from January 1st to December 31st, 2018, in the economic, social and environmental areas, and covers the main aspects of operations, as well as the risks and opportunities mapped by the company and which are of interest to its shareholders and other stakeholders. |GRI 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-54| The contents were organized based on the correspondence between the six themes most relevant to the business, pointed out in a materiality study conducted in 2016, the ten principles of the Global Compact, an initiative of the United Nations (UN) that the company voluntarily supports, and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), which make up the UN Agenda 2030. These topics ▸▸ PRESENTATION 3 are detailed in the item Materiality Process, on pages 22 and 23. ▸▸ A MESSAGE OF THE PRESIDENT 4 The financial statements of Ocyan S.A. for the fiscal year ended ▸▸ OCYAN 6 December 31st, 2018 are presented in accordance with accounting Highlights of 2018 8 practices adopted in Brazil, including the guidelines issued by Main indicators 10 the Brazilian Accounting Practice Committee (CPC), and the International Financial Reporting Standards Reporting Standards ▸▸ CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 12 (IFRS) of the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) Compliance 13 and have been audited by independent auditors. The social and Risk management 16 environmental data underwent internal verification. The survey of the standard contents, as well as complementary information, Presentation ▸▸ STRATEGIC VISION 18 was under the responsibility of the Sustainability area. |GRI 102-56| Business orientation 19 Innovation 21 The consolidated financial statements, the relationship with Table of Contents Sustainability management 22 the entities included in them and the external audit report are available for consultation on the company's corporate website ▸▸ ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 28 (www.ocyan-sa.com, under Investors Relations tab). |GRI 102-45| Operational results 29 Financial results 31 Portuguese and English versions of the document were printed, which are also available for download on the corporate website. ▸▸ SOCIAL COMMITMENTS 32 Comments, suggestions, doubts or criticisms regarding this Internal audience 33 document or the activity of the company can be sent through the Health and safety 39 channel: www.ocyan-sa.com/fale-conosco. |GRI 102-53| External audience 43 ▸▸ ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENTS 48 Responsible management 49 Climate changes 52 ▸▸ GRI SUMMARY 56 ▸▸ CORPORATE INFORMATION 66 4 5 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report |GRI 102-14| O The year 2018 brought us important in the Action Program, and with recognition BrasFELS, the product uses 20% less of the load achievements and, with these, by the client. We completed the first year of applied by the other solutions in the production new challenges. After successfully operation of the FPSO Pioneiro de Libra, a joint units, representing a breakthrough in terms of completing the change of the brand and the venture with Teekay, with results that give us the efficiency and productivity gain. In addition, financial restructuring process, at the beginning certainty that this is a very promising business we have created a platform to encourage and A Message from the President of the year, it was the time to return to the for the future of the company and in which we support internal and external innovation initiasuppliers' register of Petrobras, our main client. will be focused in the coming years. During this tives, with a focus on increasing efficiency and In 2019, we will The release represents a new cycle for our period, the vessel produced more than 58,000 improving the safety of operations and assets. business, at a time when the oil and gas sector barrels of oil equivalent per day from a single work even harder is growing again in the country. |GRI 102-10| well, a milestone in the offshore industry. And the In 2019, we will work even harder and focused on and focused most important: with no records of accidents. safety and operational performance, in order to We keep investing strongly in compliance. Today, honor our commitment to our investors and other on safety and we have a much more robust and transparent We have also improved health and safety stakeholders. We will continue to look for opporsystem, which offers a set of measures designed indicators. We believe that there is still a lot tunities to expand operations, both in Brazil and operational to guide, prevent, detect, and interrupt irregularto be done in this area and therefore we hired abroad, where there are good expectations for performance, in ities, in a structured, continuous, and sustainable specialized companies to make a safety our business, also aiming at the development of manner, within the best market practices. One assessment of the vessels and, from there, to new products and the diversification of services. order to honor of the highlights of the year was the signing of define more robust action plans for each unit. our commitment the Oil Industry Integrity Compact, designed The focus will continue to be to ensure the health We emphasize once again the trust placed by by companies in the sector, with the support of of our members and a safe and incident-free our majority shareholder and the commitment to our investors the Brazilian Institute of Oil, Gas and Biofuels work environment, inalienable values for the and dedication of our members and other (IBP) and the Ethos Institute, which establishes company. business partners. Without union, focus, and and other ethical principles in the fight against corruption balance, we would not have been able to get stakeholders. that must be respected in conducting business In the social area, we launched a new volunteer here. We are ready to tread together this journey among the companies in the industry. Through program, in partnership with the NGO Junior towards the new cycle of growth. the Compliance area, we were recognized with Achievement do Rio de Janeiro (JARJ), one of the Building Awareness Champion, an award the largest social youth incentive organizaThanks everyone. granted by The IIA Global for the internal audit tions in the world. The objective is to encourage campaign carried out during the year. students to debate important topics such as ethics, citizenship, responsibility, life in society, Another achievement was the significant the labor market, and the future. Only in 2018, improvement, of more than eight points, in the the action impacted more than 1,100 young company's image recovery, in a survey carried people and involved 75 volunteer members of out by the Reputation Institute with the internal the company. and external audiences. We have also taken an important step in We recorded the best EBITDA since 2015, of Innovation, with the creation of CompRiser®, Roberto Lopes Pontes Simões R$ 1.75 billion, an increase of 17.9% in the year. a system of hybrid risers (ducts that connect President – Business Leader From the viewpoint of operational performance, platforms to the seabed) for use in the deepwater we ended 2018 with quite satisfactory numbers and ultra deepwater oil exploration industry. As a of the units, almost all above the average agreed result of a partnership with Magma Global and 6 7 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report Ocyan is a private company, with 100% of its ▸▸ Brent between $ 55 and $ 90 per barrel (bbl) until capital controlled by Odebrecht S.A. Operating 2021 – High implied a slow recovery of growth, in the upstream oil and gas market in Brazil and lower than the dynamics registered between 2004 abroad, Ocyan maintains activities in the areas and 2014, with high profitability for oil companies; INTEGRATED SOLUTIONS FOR THE of chartering and offshore drilling; supply and ▸▸ Unbalance between supply and demand – UPSTREAM OIL AND GAS INDUSTRY installation of subsea infrastructure; chartering Excess capacity in most segments of the oil and |GRI 102-2| and operation of offshore production units; and gas industry production chain (except FPSOs). offshore maintenance and services. Through a Indications of gradual improvement, mainly in large experience and the use of new technol2020/2021; Offshore Maintenance ogies, it offers to customers the provision of and Services: integrated services, from engineering design ▸▸ Brazilian market: A new opportunity for reopening Maintenance solutions and and management of offshore projects to the of the market (legislation, success in the new specialized services, on demand, operation of rigs, always valuing the safety pre-salt auctions with new players and divestwith assurance of safety, of its personnel and the operation and with a ments of Petrobras), but scenario still impacted by technical capacity, partnership, strict commitment to ethics and transparency. the reduction of Petrobras' five-year investment and financial sustainability. |GRI 102-1, 102-5, 102-6| program (from US$ 98 billion in 2016/2020 to US$ 74.5 billion in 2018/2022); With its administrative headquarters located ▸▸ International market: Opportunities for chartering Offshore Drilling: in the city of Rio de Janeiro, the company ultra deepwater drilling units and assessing the maintains two Logistic Support bases: one in Charter and operation of growth of other businesses as a result of new Macaé (RJ) and one in Itajaí (SC), as well as an ultra deepwater rigs. service contracts with international oil companies office in Austria. Its assets are made up of six (IOCs) for Brazil, Mexico, and the African coast; drilling units, being four drilling vessels and two semi-submersible platforms, in addition to two ▸▸ Structural impacts of the crisis – Oil company/ Subsea: Floating Production Storage and Offloading supplier relationship and ongoing review of Charter, operation of pipe laying units, (FPSO) platforms, and two Pipe Laying Support business models. Changing the profile, behaviors SURF projects, manufacture and Vessels (PLSV). A team with technical expertise and needs of customers. installation of subsea equipment. is available to meet, on demand, maintenance Challenges of customers and suppliers: needs and specialized services for the upstream oil and gas industry in Brazil. |GRI 102-3, 102-4, 102-7| ▸▸ Ensure the survival: Even with oil price stabiliOffshore Production: zation, there is still a need to adjust costs, seeking Charter and operation of floating At the end of year 2018, it had 2,295 effective greater efficiency, as well as capital and financial production units (FPSO). employees. Its net revenue in the year regisdisciplines; tered a slight increase of 2.7%, reaching the ▸▸ Prepare growth conditions: Adjustment of capital amount of R$ 2.85 billion. EBITDA totaled R$ structure, preservation of business intelligence, 1.75 billion, 17.9% more than in 2017 (R$ 1.48 search for members and partners for portfolio Ocyan billion), with an EBITDA margin of 61.4% versus optimization, and review of service scope; 53.5% in 2017. |GRI 102-7| ▸▸ Drilling Market: Without Petrobras boosting activity and new hiring, the drilling companies The oil and gas sector present in Brazil and abroad continue to operate in survival mode. Pulverization of this market requires The following aspects marked the performance consolidation, through mergers and acquisitions; in 2018: ▸▸ Innovation/technology: Industry focus to reduce ▸▸ Gradual resumption of the low cycle – Need for costs and improve operational safety, through Highlights of 2018 absolute focus on performance by all companies increased automation or standardization and in the oil and gas sector; scanning projects. Main indicators 8 9 OPERATIONAL PEOPLE Offshore Drilling: ▸▸ Increased adherence to the Private Pension Plan ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report (Odeprev), which went from 38% to 62% of the total ▸▸ Norbe IX completed more than four years without a eligible members. lost-time accident. Highlights of 2018 ▸▸ Implementation of the Best Practice Program ▸▸ Unprecedented achievement of the Integrated focused on promoting the health and well-being of Certification ISO 9001/14001 and OHSAS 18001. its employees. FINANCE COMPLIANCE ▸▸ Delbe III, Norbe IX, Norbe VIII and Norbe VI ODN drilling ▸▸ Hiring of 28 new trainees through the Internship units were awarded in the Safety Award Ceremony, ▸▸ Deal of the Year: award by Latin Lawyer, a ▸▸ Reactivation of registration in the customer's Program, the main entrance to Ocyan for young the annual event of the International Association of vehicle that is a reference in business law, due contracting system, indicating that the company people in line with the company's culture and growth Drilling Contractors (IADC). to the financial restructuring carried out by the is fit, regarding the criteria of integrity and potential, who are prepared to be future employees. company. compliance, to participate again in Petrobras' Offshore Maintenance and Services: CUSTOMERS bidding processes. BRAND ▸▸ Rigs: implementation of the Rig Integrity Plan ▸▸ Return to the registry of suppliers of Petrobras, ▸▸ Building Awareness Champion: International (Preservation and Painting) with formal customer ▸▸ Significant growth of 8.3 points in reputation in through the release of precautionary measures. Award of the Internal Audit Awareness Month, in recognition. 2018, reaching the Strong rating level, with 71.7 conjunction with the Institute of Internal Auditors points, in a Reputation Institute survey. ▸▸ PetroRio: closure of the contract without any incident, SOCIETY of Brazil (IIA Brasil). demobilizing all personnel and material in safety. ▸▸ Launch of Ocyan on social networks Facebook ▸▸ More than 1,700 students, children and young ▸▸ Development of a Compliance e-learning for and Instagram and re-launch on LinkedIn, as well ▸▸ Petrobras: realization of two production shutdowns, people benefited by the social initiatives of the qualification and promotion of integrity among as restructuring of the institutional site. without occurrence of accident and execution of the School in Action Program. its stakeholders, available for registration (http:// demands in accordance with the planned schedule. TECHNOLOGY & INNOVATION www.ocyan-sa.com/pt-br/fornecedores). ▸▸ New Volunteer Program, with the support of the ▸▸ Creation of Se Liga Program, initiative to promote the partnership signed with the NGO Junior Achievement ▸▸ Release of the Ocyan Waves platform created ▸▸ Development of digital totems: self-service safety of offshore employees. do Rio de Janeiro, to dialogue with young people to develop internal and external innovation terminals to facilitate communication with the and adolescents of state schools of Rio and Macaé, initiatives. offshore audience. Offshore Production: through initiatives focused on youth entrepreneurship. ▸▸ Development of an innovative riser tower system ▸▸ Approval and publication of the Corporate Risk ▸▸ Stabilization of the operation of the FPSO Pioneiro de The program was attended by 75 volunteer members. (CompRiser®), solution to interconnect a floating Management Policy and creation of the Risk Libra, with 97.9% of economic uptime and 446 days ▸▸ Launching of the Youth Mentoring (Mentoria offshore production unit to a subsea system Committee. without lost-time accidents. Jovem) Project in partnership with engineering for productive purposes such as production, ▸▸ Signing of the Oil, Gas and Biofuel Industry Subsea: students from the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro injection, and offloading. Integrity Compact, designed by 14 relevant (UFRJ-Macaé) and the Engineering and Subsea ▸▸ Average economic uptime of the two vessels of ▸▸ Deployment of Ocyan Live, an integrated companies of the sector, with the support of IBP teams of the Drilling Business Unit, aiming at the 99.4%. monitoring system that sends data from the and Ethos Institute. scientific and technological development of young company's six drilling rigs in real time to the ▸▸ No accident recordable on both vessels. people from surrounding communities. ▸▸ Compliance on Top: recognition of Ocyan's Chief Drilling and Marine Operational Support Center Compliance Officer (CCO) in a survey conducted ▸▸ TOP Estrela do Mar wins 1st place in Petrobras (CSD), a modern intelligence and operations by professionals in the field as one of the 20 most ranking of operational performance. center of the Drilling Business Unit located in admired and respected compliance professionals Macaé Base. SUPPLY in Brazil. ▸▸ Application of 787 performance assessments for service provision, for a total of 174 different suppliers onboard the rigs. Ocyan 10 11 Main indicators ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report |GRI 102-7| REVENUE (R$ million) Gross revenue Net revenue 3,790 3,640 3,252 3,130 2,864 2,931 2,848 2,773 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 EBITDA EBITDA margin 1,848 61.4% 1,698 1,748 54.2% 53.5% 1,483 50.8% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 FINANCE PEOPLE Shareholders' equity Total assets Employees Ocyan 5,398 3,354 22,286 4,110 2,372 2,352 3,434 15,635 15,166 14,316 2,295 136 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 12 13 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report Committed to continuous The company follows the guidelines defined by Compliance the parent company, Odebrecht S.A., and the |GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 205-2| improvement of its policies that support its business, including the Governance Policy, the Code of Conduct and Committed to continuous improvement, Ocyan business, Ocyan adopts Policy on Compliance with Ethical, Upstanding seeks to adopt the highest standards and best and Transparent Operation. (available at the market practices, taking into account applicable best governance practices company's institutional website: www.ocyan-sa. national and international laws. com/pt-br/conformidade). |GRI 102-16| to ensure transparency, Throughout 2018, it consolidated its compliance fairness, accountability system, reinforcing concepts and guidelines Governance structure described in the Compliance Policy and in the and corporate liability. |GRI 102-18| guidelines and procedures that support it, through communication and training plans, elaborated These principles are Corporate Governance Ocyan's governance structure consists of the and applied to all employees, including offshore Board of Directors (BD) and three permanent teams, having the appropriate content according considered fundamental advisory committees of the Board of Directors to the identified risk of each audience. – (I) Finance and Investment Committee; for the achievement of (II) Culture, People Communication and The pursuit of the Compliance area for excellence Sustainability Committee; and (III) Compliance and alignment with the business strategy resulted results that maximize and Auditing Committee – and the Executive in the implementation of innovative solutions, the creation of value and Board. According to their competence and level such as the digital totem (self-service terminals of authority, these management bodies make scattered through the assets) in order to reach the harmonization of decisions aiming at sustainability and business the offshore audience and enable real-time continuity. access to information in an interactive manner. interests of customers It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors – Likewise, a digital compliance and anti-corand other stakeholders. the highest governance body – to direct, guide, ruption training platform was developed for and approve the business in relation to economic, suppliers, service providers, and other partners, social, and environmental topics, establishing seeking to guide them in relation to the behavior strategic guidelines that will be executed by the expected by Ocyan in the scope of business Board. The body is also responsible for electing relationship with the company. The e-learning the members of the Executive Board and for for third parties comprises the due diligence monitoring and appraising the performance of process of integrity, which assesses the risks of the Business Leader. In 2018, it was made up by third-party companies prior to their contracting eight acting members – all appointed by the and is available to the external audience in the sole shareholder, Odebrecht S.A. –, and three institutional site, through the access login request of them are independent directors. None holds (http://www.ocyan-sa.com/pt-br/fornecedores). an executive position (including the president Compliance of BD) and the term of office is two years, with Risk management possibility of reelection (limited to four consecutive terms). During the year 2018, the board met six times a year and the Executive Board at least twice a month. |GRI 102-19, 102-23, 102-26| 14 15 COMPLIANCE SYSTEM Ethics Line Channel Additionally, in addition to the United Nations Although religious institutions may receive Management 7 Global Compact and the Ethos Institute Business donations from Ocyan, it is forbidden to grant ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report Compact, signed in 2016, Ocyan strengthened benefits directly related to missionary activities its commitment to fighting corruption through (evangelization and catechesis) of any religion. Engagements in membership in important collective actions, Donations to unions or entities controlled by Collective Actions 6 8 Monitoring of Risks such as the Business Action for Integrity and them are also forbidden. With the employers' and Controls Transparency, promoted by the Ethos Institute. unions, Ocyan maintains an associate's Compliance of 5 DETECT relationship, making payment of compulsory Third-Parties It is also part of the Oil, Gas and Biofuel Industry contribution, as provided by law. Integrity Compact, an initiative designed by 4 Communication 14 relevant companies of the sector, including Internal Audit and Qualification Ocyan. With the support of the Brazilian Institute Leader of Oil, Gas and Biofuels (IBP), it establishes Ocyan's Compliance System also has the PREVENT 3 ethical principles that must be respected in Internal Audit area, an independent and Assessment of conducting business among the companies objective assessment and consulting activity, Risks and Controls in the industry in the fight against corruption. which aims to help the company achieve its Remedy Risks and 2 9 |GRI 205-1| objectives through a systematic and disciplined Policies and other Strengthen Controls approach in order to evaluate and improve the Guidelines REMEDY The company forbids the granting of donations efficiency of risk management, internal controls, 1 Compliance or sponsorships that benefit, directly or and governance processes. Governance indirectly, political parties, politicians, or 10 Disciplinary Actions candidates for political office. An employee In 2018, the Internal Audit, which reports who, in the exercise of his or her citizenship, functionally to the Audit and Compliance makes a political contribution under local law, Committee of the Board of Directors, completed shall communicate the fact to the Compliance its second cycle of audits, in accordance with area and declare that his or her donation is not the annual plan prepared, based on a multidiNUMBERS OF THE COMPLIANCE SYSTEM IN 2018 related to Ocyan. In 2018 no such contributions mensional universe of risks approved by the 3 (37%) independent directors in the Board of Directors were made. |GRI 415-1| Board of Directors. R$ 4.2 million of budget, 26% higher than in 2017 R$ 1.0 million of savings with internal initiatives 100% of employees qualified in compliance topics 24% reports voluntarily identified in the Ethics Line 8 dedicated members 20 Ethics Agents Board of Directors / Audit and 9 guidelines and quick-reference guides Compliance Committee 97% of suppliers assessed in the Integrity Due Diligence process Corporate Governance 253 action plans resulting from 7 reports from Internal Audit Top Management External Audit RECOGNITION Regulatory Bodies Ocyan has been awarded with the Building Awareness Champion– an International Award of the Internal Audit Awareness Month, in conjunction with the Institute of Internal Auditors 1st Line of Defense 2nd Line of Defense 3rd Line of Defense of Brazil (IIA Brasil), the largest global representative of professional internal auditors. The Managerial Controls Compliance Internal Audit recognition was granted due to the internal audit campaign carried out by the company during Business Risk Management the month of May, which included lectures and internal communications to the employees. Management Internal Controls The awards are part of an annual program promoted by The IIA worldwide. The choice of Ocyan is the result of the work carried out by the Internal Audit team with the support of several other areas of the company. The award contributes to the positive exposure of the brand, in addition to demonstrating to the market the evolution of the company accordingly. 16 17 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report Establish ETHICS LINE CHANNEL 1 the process |GRI 103-2, 103-3, 102-17| Risk management |GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 102-15| The Ethics Line Channel is an exclusive and Continuous Identify improvement 8 2 confidential tool for safe communication of Ocyan recognizes that risk management is the risks behaviors that breach Ocyan's Code of Conduct directly related to quality of delivery, sustainable or any policy, guideline, internal regulation or growth, results generation and value creation, laws in force. The registered information is supporting decision-making to achieve business received by an independent and specialized objectives. company, which ensures the anonymity, absolute confidentiality, and non-retaliation The risks process is established through the Risk Report RISK Calssify against the complainant. After a first analysis, Management Policy, which aims to guide and 7 3 and monitoring MANAGEMENT the inherent risk the operator sends the complaint directly to the support the achievement of the objectives, in Compliance area, where the facts reported are accordance with the strategies for mitigating duly verified. potential events that may affect Ocyan in the management of its risks, in a manner compatible The Channel is accessed by the website (www. with decision-making capacity, appetite, and linhadeeticaocyan.com.br) ou by calling 0800 tolerance, as well as strengthening the risk 377 8020, 24 hours a day and in Portuguese and management culture of the company and its Develop Identify and classify English languages. For international calls, the controlled companies. 6 4 the action plan the mitigating controls number +55 11 2739-0985 is available (collect calls are allowed). The number of contacts regisThrough risk management, Ocyan hopes to tered by the Ethics Line Channel grew by 60% ensure that decision-makers at all levels have 5 Calculate in 2018, from 87 to 139 reports. Among these, timely access to sufficient information on the inherent risk 59 cases were investigated, of which 25 were the risks to which it is exposed. In this way, it considered as appropriate (42%) and 34 were increases the probability of reaching its objecunfounded (58%). No case of corruption was tives and reduces risks to acceptable levels, thus determined. |GRI 205-3| preserving shareholders' tangible and intangible Risk policy assets, the safety of people, and the integrity of Continuing the implementation process of Financial, Occupational, and Compliance, having Other internal and external mechanisms of the environment and communities. the Compliance System, the Policy on Risk as criteria for risk prioritization the metrics for communication and interaction are maintained Management was approved and implemented frequency and impact (occupational, environso that the various publics can seek guidance The risk management process is part of the PA in 2018. The document covers the establishment mental, operational, image, and financial). and advice on ethical and legal behavior, as well cycle, and the priorities and goals resulting from of a context, identification, assessment, prioras issues related to organizational integrity, as this process are included in the Action Program itization, treatment, communication, and Throughout the year, under the coordination well as reporting concerns and complaints about (PA) of the Business Leaders and of other Corporate Governance monitoring of the risks of the business activity. of the Risk Management Group, a project risk unethical practices are: the Compliance area leaders in Ocyan and its controlled companies. assessment was also implemented in a struce-mail (conformidade@ocyan-sa.com); Ocyan As a strategic definition of this policy, the Risk tured manner, making it obligatory for all areas Portal (intranet); corporate website (http://www. The company maintains a series of management Management Group was created, with the to submit new projects to the Group and to the ocyan-sa.com/pt-br/conformidade); and the measures to ensure, along with the audits, participation of professionals from the corporate, LN in order to carry out a risk assessment prior Ethics Committee, composed of four directors certifications and training applied, that the financial, insurance and internal audit lines. to the submission of proposals. of the Board of Directors and coordinated by Precautionary Principle is adhered to in all its Coordinated by one of Ocyan's superintendent the Compliance director or the 20 ethics agents operations. This principle provides a guarantee directors, the group responds directly to the In 2019, work will continue to monitor corporate spread through Ocyan. On the institutional site, against potential risks which, according to Business Leader (LN) and is responsible for risks for the Drilling Business Unit, with there is also the option Contact Us, through the current state of knowledge, cannot yet be coordinating the activities of the risk management methodological references to ABNT NBR ISO which you can contact Ocyan to submit suggesidentified. |GRI 102-11| process, monitoring the evolution of corporate 31000: 2009/2018 and Coso Enterprise Risk tions, questions, complaints, or criticisms. risk mapped with the support of specialized team, Management 2004/2017, considering external following the consolidated risk matrix, based on the information, internal reports, history of previous identification, analysis, and consolidation of inforevaluations and the work that was prepared in mation in four areas of concentration: Strategic, 2017 for Ocyan. 18 19 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report Business orientation |GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3| Strategic vision Ocyan is a company with a sustainable Sustainability attitude and knowledge to provide solutions ▸▸ To ensure sustainability as an inalienable for the upstream oil and gas industry in Brazil value, seeking to eliminate the occurrence of and abroad. Its main values, in line with its serious incidents, reinforcing zero tolerance to shareholder, are the safety of its employees, risk situations to operations, people, and the Focus of action in 2019 the operation, and the entire environment, a environment; commitment to ethics and transparency, and a ▸▸ To ensure continuous investment in social partnership of trust with customers. ▸▸ Operational safety responsibility that promotes income generation, education, and social inclusion, strengthening Its proposal is to offer complete solutions for ▸▸ Operational performance and expanding actions in the communities the industry and to add value to its business, where the company operates. through the provision of services from design ▸▸ Commitment with the bondholders engineering and offshore project management Compliance to the operation of platforms, combining ▸▸ Commitment with the shareholder ▸▸ To permeate throughout the value chain of the experience, the use of state-of-the-art company the practice of compliance system Strategic vision technologies, and professional excellence. For ▸▸ Innovation with ethical, upstanding and transparent Ocyan, the key to this success is focused on the operation, ensuring the engagement of the knowledge and focused work of its employees ▸▸ Recovery of image leadership, Ethics Agents, and other employees and the constant search for synergy between for continuous improvement; its areas of operation. ▸▸ To work with a high standard of governance In recent years, Ocyan has been focusing its and compliance and demonstrate the evolution strategy on diversifying its client portfolio and of the compliance program for the various developing new services. The change of the stakeholders, especially financial institutions, brand, which took place in early 2018, launched recovering the market recognition. a new outlook at the business, bringing more dynamism and confidence to operations, as well Risk management as recovering the pride of belonging among its ▸▸ In line with the Risk Policy, to follow the Corporate employees. Risk Management Program, in addition to taking it to the business units, in order to map the In addition to seeking new business opporspecific risks and mitigate them to acceptable tunities in Brazil, including with international levels; companies that are starting to operate in the ▸▸ To evaluate the risks of the new projects and Business orientation country, Ocyan is also taking a very cautious revisit the risk analysis of the current projects, approach to the geographical expansion of its Innovation monitoring the evolution of the treatment plans. operations, with the intention of mediumand Sustainability management long-term growth. 20 21 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report Finance Goals for the three-year period ▸▸ To promote the continuous increase of compet▸▸ To consolidate itself as a service provider of itiveness, with greater productivity, SSTMA Drilling, Subsea Construction, Oil Production, management, as factors of differentiation; Maintenance (onshore and offshore) of qualified services, operating in Brazil and abroad, focusing ▸▸ Excellence in contractual management with on customer diversification, operational customers, suppliers, and partners, prioritizing excellence, financial health, and adequate risk cash generation and the internal result, contribmanagement, resulting in an attractive return uting to business profitability. that allows developing necessary partnerships Innovation and capital structure appropriate for its growth, both in Ocyan consolidator and in business; ▸▸ To structure and implement the open innovation program, developing and incorporating new technologies, as well as connecting Ocyan to the ▸▸ Recover employees' pride of belonging and the trust and positive image in the market Innovation start-up’s ecosystem, aiming at improving perfor(customers, members, partners, suppliers and The innovation topic gained prominence in mance and operational safety, creating value for financial institutions) through best practices of Ocyan's corporate strategy. The company the company. governance, compliance, and sustainability; understands that the future pass through Business ▸▸ Remunerate part of the capital invested within new technologies that bring diversification of the agreed conditions and create value for the portfolio and improvement of efficiency and ▸▸ To ensure the performance of Drilling rigs, shareholder. performance. generating the results assumed in the financial restructuring and the commitments with the In this way, in 2018, new opportunities in the offer shareholder; of services were structured to seek the under▸▸ To seek growth by prioritizing the acquisition of standing of the current demands of innovation new customers and services, as well as new ways in the oil industry in the domestic and foreign of hiring and forming partnerships that promote markets, such as: adequate capital structure for the Offshore Production business. COMPRISER® Image and People Partnership executed between companies Ocyan, ▸▸ To continue the fulfillment of the communication Magma and BrasFELS for the production and plan, through internal and external actions and commercialization of the CompRiser® solution, leadership engagement, strengthening the new a hybrid riser tower system using composite brand and recovering the image before the material. Development, which involves innovation stakeholders; and technology, will provide benefits to operators in the sector – such as easy assembling, high ▸▸ To recover the confidence of the employees and corrosion resistance, reduction in weight, and the feeling of pride and belonging; Strategic vision the possibility of withstanding high temperature ▸▸ To implement diversity actions, encouraging an and pressure. The concept has been validated OCYAN WAVES inclusive, non-discriminatory and meritocratic by a specialized company and is already being work environment, with respect to human rights presented to potential customers. As a decoupled Ocyan Waves is a platform created by the and differences between people. solution, the Composite Multi-Bore Hybrid Riser company to encourage and support internal (CMHR) applies 20% less than the existing load and external innovation initiatives to improve its by other solutions, resulting in a difference of operations. Its focus is on increased efficiency, up to 9,000 tons per FPSO. The expectation of improved safety, support for the start-ups new business is positive, as there is a constant ecosystem and a direct contribution to the demand for the reduction of weight and load in new generation of suppliers in the oil and gas the operation of the FPSOs. In addition to the industry in Brazil. Ocyan Waves Challenge is Brazilian market, there are good opportunities the platform's first program and registration to apply this technology in West Africa and the will be opened for Brazilian startups to present Gulf of Mexico. innovative solutions for the company. 22 23 MATERIALITY MATRIX |GRI 102-44| ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report ➊ Ethics and Transparency Commitment to people ➌ ➋ Risk Management INFLUENCES ON THE ASSESSMENT ➍Economic Performance Sustainability Environment ➏ ➎ development Local management OF STAKEHOLDERS The company has a defined governance structure ▸▸ To act preventively: in the area of corporate and local sustainability, including the support of a permanent committee, ▸▸ In the health and safety of people, processes, in order to incorporate best practices in financial, information, and assets, ensuring a safe, RELEVANCE OF THE ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS social and environmental, and good governance healthy, and motivating work environment; ● Governance/ethics topics ● Economic topics ● Environmental topics ● Social topics responsibility. ▸▸ In environmental aspects and the rational use For Ocyan, sustainability is an inalienable value. of natural resources, ensuring that services Its commitment is to act in accordance with its contribute to sustainable development; Step 1 – Prior identification of ▸▸ Influence on the perception of stakeSustainability Policy, assuring the upstanding, material topics, based on: holders (topics on which they decide on ethical, transparent and responsible conduction ▸▸ In the quality of services; ▸▸ Ocyan strategy (growth/vision of future) their relationship with the company) of its business, identifying and mitigating risks, improving the management of processes and ▸▸ In the integrity of assets. ▸▸ Topics considered relevant by the competencies at all levels, in search of operational controlling shareholder Odebrecht S.A. Step 4 – Prioritization on six excellence. These principles represent the commitment of ▸▸ Topics prioritized in a previous materimajor topics and 26 topics: all members or those acting on behalf of the ality process, carried out in 2013 ▸▸ Ethics and transparency This commitment is based on the Sustainability company in a practice that adds value to the ▸▸ Topics considered material by customers ▸▸ Risk management Management Principles: business. (More information on this document of the company and presented in or on Sustainability Management at Ocyan is ▸▸ Commitment to people their sustainability reports available on the webpage http://www.ocyan-sa. ▸▸ Economic performance ▸▸ To ensure compliance with legal and regulatory ▸▸ Outstanding issues for the oil and gas sector com/pt-br/sustentabilidade). ▸▸ Environment requirements and other requirements applicable in the Sustainability Topics survey – What to processes; the Stakeholders Want to Know, from GRI ▸▸ Local development ▸▸ To meet the expectations of customers, Materiality process ▸▸ Press releases about the industry and the company |GRI 102-46| ▸▸ Correlation of topics with the Global Compact, Step 5 – Preparation of the materiality matrix shareholders, investors, members, creditors, an initiative of which Ocyan is a signatory employees, and partners; ▸▸ Horizontal axis presents the company's vision, Ocyan manages sustainability from the priority ▸▸ Context of sustainability (country and sector) about the importance of the impacts topics of the sector and together with its main ▸▸ Vertical axis represents the influence ▸▸ To manage risks inherent to processes, identistakeholders: employees, local communities, Strategic vision fying, evaluating and controlling them in order Step 2 – Selection of topics on stakeholder assessment shareholders, customers, suppliers, financial to prevent and minimize their effects; grouped in four dimensions: agents, government, and regulatory bodies. These audiences were prioritized based on the ▸▸ Governance/Ethics Relevant topics |GRI 102-44| ▸▸ To develop a sustainable safety culture, with a materiality and the evaluation of the impacts ▸▸ Economic The themes considered of greater relevance for focus on human behavior management; caused by the company and on the influence, society and for the business were: Ethics and ▸▸ Social they have on the decisions or the value of the Transparency; Risk Management; Commitment to ▸▸ To promote the continuous improvement of ▸▸ Environmental company. |GRI 102-40, 102-42| People; Economic Performance; Environment; and performance in quality, heath, safety, and Local Development. For each of them, the company environment; In order to define the relevance matrix, a consulStep 3 – Consultation with business established goals and targets to be met in the short, tation process was carried out in 2016, involving leaders who highlighted three aspects: medium and long term. The matrix below was built ▸▸ To maintain social dialogue and interaction with the members of the Board of Directors and the based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) internal and external stakeholders to business; ▸▸ Probability of occurrence of risks to value addition main leaders of the company, including the guidelines and the application of the AccountAbility Business Leader, and it was divided into five steps: ▸▸ Economic impact on value addition AA1000 standard. 24 25 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report MATERIAL TOPICS AND LIMITS Internal External External initiatives |GRI 102-12| GRI Topic limit limit Related contents Topic |GRI 102-47| |GRI 103-1| |GRI 103-1| GRI Standards Once again demonstrating its commitment by the signatory companies and represent an to ethics, in July 2018, Ocyan adhered to the important advance in the integrity agenda of Ethics and Anticorruption All operations Shareholders, 102-16, 102-17, Business Action for Integrity and Transparency the country and an evolution of the culture of Transparency customers, 205-1, 205-2, 205-3 Commitment Letter, promoted by Ethos Institute, compliance in the business environment. government, creditors, which focuses on strengthening prevention and suppliers, communities fighting corruption in the country. Ocyan also participates in other external Compliance All operations Shareholders, suppliers 307-1, 419-1 initiatives for sustainability. These include: the Unfair competition All operations Competitors 206-1 The initiative involved the study of the National UN Global Compact, in which it participates Public policies All operations Shareholders, 415-1 Integrity System – Brazil, led by Ethos, which in Human Rights and Integrity committees; customers, government, suppliers, identified improvements and setbacks in Ethos Institute's Integrity and Anti-Corruption communities the country's laws and regulations between Business Pact; the Compliance Committee of the Risk Risk management All operations Shareholders, 102-15 2000 and 2015, with the participation of NGO Brazilian Institute of Petroleum, Gas and Biofuels Management customers, Transparência Internacional and the Law (IBP); and the Open Letter to Brazil on Climate government, suppliers, School of FGV RJ and SP. The commitments Change, coordinated by the Ethos Institute and communities and proposals of the Action will be pursued the Business Forum on Climate Change. Preparing for All operations Customers, suppliers, 102-15 emergencies communities Commitment Occupational health All operations Suppliers 403-1 a 403-10 to people and safety Human rights All operations Customers, suppliers, 406-1, 407-1, (discrimination, freedom communities 4081, 409-1 PARTICIPATION IN ASSOCIATIONS |GRI 102-13| of association, child labor, forced labor) Entidade Projeto/comitê Participação Training and education All operations Suppliers 404-1, 404-2, 404-3 Brazilian Association of Petroleum QHSE Committee Coordination It is part of the leadership Diversity and Equal All operations Suppliers, communities 405-1, 405-2 Service Companies (Abespetro) that prepares the NR together opportunities with Petrobras and the MT. Economic Economic performance All operations Shareholders, 201-1, 201-2, Performance customers, 201-3, 201-4 Local Content Committee Discusses initiatives government, in the sector. creditors, suppliers Technical Group of FPSO Discusses initiatives Climate changes All operations Suppliers, communities 201-2 in the sector. Innovation All operations Customers, suppliers American Chamber of Commerce Oil and Gas Committee Discusses initiatives Environment Waste/Leakages All operations Suppliers 306-2, HRI 306-3, of Rio de Janeiro (AMCHAM) in the sector. 306-4, 306-5 Effluents – water All operations Suppliers 306-1 International Association of Technical Committee of the Discusses initiatives pollution Drilling Contractors (IADC) sector and SSTMA in the sector. Emissions All operations Suppliers 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, Brazilian Institute of Petroleum, HSE Committee Discusses initiatives Strategic vision 305-4, 305-5, Gas and Biofuels (IBP) in the sector. 305-6, 305-7 Social Responsibility Committee Supports RS activities Water All operations Suppliers 303-1, 303-2, 303-3 and works with other Energy All operations Suppliers 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, companies in the sector. 302-4, 302-5 Human Resources Committee Discusses laws and Local Procurement practices All operations Suppliers, 204-1 development communities, initiatives and exchanges government experience with other companies in the industry. Socio-environmental All operations Suppliers, 308-1, 308-2, assessment of suppliers communities, 414-1, 414-2 Compliance Committee Develops sector-specific government pact to fight corruption. Indirect economic All operations Suppliers, communities 203-1, 203-2 impacts Ethos Institute Compliance Indicators Monitoring of performance Local communities All operations Suppliers, communities 413-1, 413-2 indicators. 26 27 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report Communication The Communication area is responsible, Reputation survey RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS |GRI 102-40, 102-43| among other attributions, for managing the As a result of this work and a series of governance image and the reputation of the company. In and compliance actions implemented over the 2017, Ocyan underwent a major process of last two years, Ocyan's internal reputation grew brand change, approved and put into practice by 8.3 points, from 63.4 (average) in 2017 to Stakeholder Communication channel in early 2018. Since then, a series of initiatives 71.7 in 2018, reaching the strong level, in the Customers Meetings, forums and industry meetings | Institutional has been adopted to bring this new reality to classification of the Reputation Institute, interSite | Performance Assessment Report (BAD): issued at the company's various stakeholders, in order to national consultancy that performs studies on frequencies and weights that vary according to the scope promote an integrated (external and internal), the reputation of big companies. of each contract, the document evaluates equipment and simultaneous and transparent communication. materials; human resources; facilities and effectiveness The survey took into account the opinion of the Initiatives of the Communication area in 2018 members in all business units, demonstrating a Employees Permanent dialogue between leader and led parties growing recovery of the pride of belonging to | Ocyan Portal (Intranet) | Radar Ocyan (board) | TV ▸▸ Rating A of press visibility in the accumulated the company. Among the dimensions assessed, Ocyan | Internal Communications Ocyan Informs of the year; Governance was the one that obtained greater (e-mail) | Facebook | Instagram |LinkedIn ▸▸ 21 internal campaigns; relevance in the view of this audience. Employees hired Daily safety dialogues and managers of ▸▸ Breakfast with the Business Leader The Reputation Institute also heard the external from third parties contractor teams in onshore and offshore ▸▸ Expansion of the Radar Ocyan bulletin for six rigs audience (financial market, customers, press, operations | Facebook | Instagram |LinkedIn and Ocyan TV for the Offshore Maintenance and institutions and associations). Although and Services base: 20 boards and 19 screens; less marked than the internal audience, Ocyan's reputation has generally improved to the Suppliers Meetings | Business events | Institutional ▸▸ Launch of Ocyan in Facebook and Instagram Site | Supplier website mid-range. The customer and financial market and re-launch on LinkedIn; segments were the highlights for the change ▸▸ Redesign and launch of the new institutional site, of range. The change of the brand was one of with a 76.1% increase in the number of users and the relevant factors to impact this result. Of 40 Shareholders and investors Meetings | Events | Telephone contacts | Institutional site a 66.4% increase in page views; items evaluated in the research, 31 presented (banks, financial agents) evolution, 9 remained stable and none fell. ▸▸ Digital Marketing Campaign: 3,400 prints and 20,700 clicks on the website; ▸▸ Participation in congresses and events in the Local communities Meetings in communities | Social projects supported sector: FPSO Congress and Rio Oil & Gas, the (associations, leaderships) | Institutional site | Facebook | Instagram |LinkedIn latter with an approximate audience of 40,000 OCYAN REPUTATION (in points) people; ▸▸ Brazil Energy (Brasil Energia) advertising 71.7 8.3 Government Meetings | Participation in public campaign: announcements in TN Petróleo, 63.4 hearings | Institutional site Strategic vision Upstream and Portos & Navios vehicles, with an average reach of 180,000 people; ▸▸ Training of leaders and influencers in communication: 94 brand ambassadors; Regulatory bodies Meetings | Institutional site STRONG ▸▸ Institutional relations: strengthening the AVERAGE relationship with the functional areas (Communication) of partner institutions, among them Petrobras, Magma and Keppel. Press/media Meetings | Institutional Site (Press Room) | Facebook | Instagram |LinkedIn 2017 2018 28 29 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report ECONOMIC UPTIME Operational results OFFSHORE DRILLING Highlight for safe operation, Norbe IX drilling OFFSHORE DRILLING platform completed more than four years In 2018, the average economic uptime Economic-financial performance Ocyan is an innovative company that offers without a lost-time accident. Altogether, up to of all rigs (operational availability its customers the service of chartering and December 31st, 2018, there were 1,600 days versus the daily rate), excluding the operation of offshore drilling rigs for ultra without this type of occurrence. Unprecedented effects of scheduled shutdowns, was deepwater, with state-of-the-art technology among the assets, this achievement is a conse96.4% (target agreed to 96.5%). that ensures greater efficiency and quality, with quence of dedication, planning, discipline, and excellence in safety, health, and environment. focus on the continuous improvement of safety OFFSHORE PRODUCTION management in operations. In 2018, the average economic uptime Its fleet consists of four drilling vessels: Norbe of the FPSO Cidade de Itajaí was VIII, Norbe IX, ODN I, ODN II; and two semi-subOFFSHORE MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES 99.1%, compared to the PA of 98.6%; mersible platforms: Norbe VI and ODN Delba and the FPSO Pioneiro de Libra was III. It was the first Brazilian private company to Ocyan has a team with technical expertise 97.9%, compared to the PA of 96.0%. provide offshore drilling services in the country to meet, on demand, maintenance needs and and to operate a semi-submersible unit moored specialized services for the upstream oil and gas SUBSEA in a water depth of over 1,000 meters. industry in Brazil providing solutions according to In 2018, the average economic uptime the needs of the customer. of TOP Coral do Atlântico was One of the highlights of the year was the 99.4%, compared to the PA of 95.0%; unprecedented achievement of the Integrated The operation registered 160 tons of fabricated and the TOP Estrela do Mar was Certification ISO 9001/14001 and OHSAS materials, 178 tons of materials assembled on 99.4%, compared to the PA of 95.0%. 18001. The result is a work of more than two board, and 63,000 square meters painted on board years and the commitment of the teams in the in eight units served, in addition to five production search for the continuous improvement of the shutdowns. The main activities developed by the management system representing a competOffshore Maintenance and Services (MSO) area itive differential for the company. Another are engineering, manufacturing, maintenance, highlight was the application of all third parties installation, modification, integrity management, to the Integrity Due Diligence process prior to and inspection of displaced assets. institutional/commercial interaction. Among the achievements in 2018 it is the creation The company ranked first in Petrobras' Sondópolis of Se Liga Program, an initiative to promote the (December 28th, 2018), in a total of 16 operated safety of offshore employees. Once a week, the rigs, surpassing the PA, which provided for the Health, Safety and Environment team, together third place. The database integrates the main with contract management, contacts an member information about the platforms in operation. The on board, in a conference with his/her family, to company moved up from ninth position in 2015 raise awareness about the risks on board, the use to take the lead in 2018. of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and the Operational results importance of his/her life for the family and the company. In addition to raising the awareness of Financial results the individual, the objective is also to train multipliers capable of disseminating the concept of safe work on board the platforms. 30 31 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report OFFSHORE PRODUCTION Ocyan operates in the oil production platforms solutions for the offshore market. Its focus is the provision of flexible and rigid pipe laying services Financial results Ocyan's financial statements for the year ended December 31st, 2018 (under the operating segment through two Floating and the installation and manufacture of subsea Production Storage Offloading System (FPSO) equipment. Revenues and results corporate name of Ocyan Participações S.A.) were audited and the independent auditor's assets: Cidade de Itajaí, with production capacity In partnership with French company Technip, After successfully completing its financial report, without qualification, was issued on of 80,000 oil barrels/day, and Pioneiro de Libra, the company operates two Pipe Laying Support restructuring process, Ocyan ended 2018 with February 28th, 2019. with processing capacity of 50,000 oil barrels/ Vessels (PLSVs) TOP Estrela do Mar and TOP a gross revenue of R$ 2.93 billion, slightly higher day. Both vessels are the result of a joint venture Coral do Atlântico, responsible for the interconwith Teekay Offshore Partners and are chartered nection and communication between wells and than the R$ 2.86 billion of 2017, and cash generRelease of precautionary to Petrobras in the Santos Basin. production platforms, with capacity of laying ation, expressed by recurring EBITDA of R$ 1.75 measures billion, compared to a previous result of R$ 1.48 pipes with up to 550 tons of cargo in water depth billion. The total value added, which represents After a period of almost four years prevented from In the year, the FPSO Cidade de Itajaí produced of up to 2,500 meters, both in the service of the formation of the wealth generated in a given participating in bids and signing new contracts 10.4 million oil barrels, accumulating a total of Petrobras. period and its respective distribution, totaled with Petrobras, due to the involvement of its main 98.0 million since the beginning of the operation, In the year, the fleet of PLSVs was at the top of R$ 1.79 billion, against R$ 6.08 billion in 2017. shareholder in the investigations of Operation Car in February 2013, and recorded the 306-day the ranking of the Operational Performance Index The previous result considers the amount of R$ Wash, Ocyan obtained the lifting of the blockade. mark without lost-time accidents. The FPSO (IDO), which is calculated by the ratio between the 5.36 billion in financial income determined by The company was deemed as fit by the customer, Pioneiro de Libra produced 9.4 million oil barrels planned and expected time of the ten main activthe adjustment to fair value of debentures with regarding the criteria of integrity and compliance, in 2018, accumulating a total of 9.8 million since ities performed by the PLSVs during the subsea profit sharing (DPL), which corresponded to the to participate again in its bidding processes. The the beginning of the operation, at the end of interconnection process. For the Barcópolis extraordinary gain obtained in the financial release represents yet another important step 2017, and 446 days without lost-time accidents. ranking, PLSVs occupy the first two places (TOP restructuring of corporate debt. in the company's new growth cycle, restructured Estrela do Mar and TOP Coral do Atlântico in 1st financially and ready for new achievements. SUBSEA and 2nd places, respectively) and the TOP fleet Ocyan was the first Brazilian company to prioroccupies the 1st place in the general ranking of itize its development in the Subsea Construction the pipe laying vessels that provide services to market, further strengthening the strategy of Petrobras. ADDED VALUE (R$ million) |GRI 201-1| being the customer's choice to provide integrated Statement of added value – Consolidated 2015 2016 2017 2018 Economic-financial performance Revenues¹ 4,609 3,550 3,127 3,046 Inputs acquired from (1,620) (1,032) (963) (747) third-parties Depreciation, amortization, (1,821) (2,503) (2,260) (1,145) and impairment Revenue from equity interests 566 782 6,173 638 and financial income Total added value to distribute 1,734 797 6,077 1,792 Distribution of added value – Consolidated Personnel 930 802 738 627 Tax, rates and contributions 236 124 (21) 156 Providers of shareholders’ 568 (129) 5,360 1,009 equity and third-party Added value distributed 1,733 797 6,077 1,792 ¹Includes gross revenue, other net revenues and expenses and revenues related to the construction of own assets. It does not include financial income. 32 33 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report Internal audience |GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3| Employees, customers, The company values maintaining a professional in its Policies and Codes, including in the Code environment in which there is respect, diversity, of Conduct of Suppliers, understanding that all suppliers, and local health and safety care and opportunities for related parties must share values and principles individual development, factors that increase that govern interpersonal relationships. In the communities in the the level of satisfaction of its employees and year, 92.4% of the number of members with a municipalities of activity commitment to their values and culture. Likewise, work contract administered in Brazil (1,957 it seeks to maintain a remuneration and benefits workers) was covered by collective bargaining are key stakeholders for the policy that is attractive and compatible with the agreements. |GRI 102-41, 407-1| reality of the Brazilian oil and gas sector. development and growth The company also began a mapping of skills The relationship with its members is based on the to identify potential successors to positions of Ocyan. The strategy dialogue between leader and those he/she leads, deemed as strategic. The initial focus was on the set by the company has, on education for and by work and for policies and positions of Business Leader and directors. In Social commitments codes, among them the Policy on People and the 2019, the action will be stepped up and positions among its objectives, to Code of Conduct, which deal with respect, ethics, linked to the leaderships will enter the radar and education between the parties. The company of the program. The idea is to consolidate the create and share value with also invests in the strengthening of prevention succession process, by training the potential concepts in order to improve and consolidate the substitutes and strengthening the traineeship this network of people with standards and processes related to the safety, program for the training of young people, both health and quality of life of its own workers or preparing for the company's future growth cycle. whom it relates every day service providers. |GRI 404-2| with ethics, transparency, Each year, employees receive feedback on their and a spirit of collaboration. performance through the assessment of the Profile of employees Action Program (PA) cycle. The purpose is to stimulate career evolution and development by On December 31, 2017, Ocyan had 2,295 identifying individual qualities and competencies employees in its staff, all with permanent and improvement points for development and employment agreements. Among them – including learning. In 2018, 100% of its staff received a those on leave (181) – 1,441 professionals (68.2%) performance assessment. |GRI 404-3| worked under the offshore and 673 (31.8%) under the onshore regime. The reduction of 33.2% in Ocyan also understands that freedom of the staff during the year was mainly due to the association and collective bargaining are rights demobilization of the Offshore Maintenance and guaranteed to all members and are expressed Services (MSO) contracts. |GRI 102-8| Internal audience Health and safety External audience 34 35 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report EMPLOYEES PER GENDER AND REGION |GRI 102-8| 2017 2018 Region Men Women Total Men Women Total Brazil Southeast 2,940 401 3,341 1,818 331 2,149 South 65 22 87 74 20 94 Northeast 0 0 0 45 2 47 Abroad Austria 1 4 5 0 4 4 Netherlands 1 0 1 1 0 1 Total 3,007 427 3,434 1,938 357 2,295 1 1 Among these, 181 employees were on leave. EMPLOYEES PER AREA OF ACTIVITY |GRI 102-8| EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES PER EMPLOYEES PER EMPLOYEES PER PER GENDER WORK REGIME 1 AGE GROUP FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY 2017 2018 |GRI 102-8| |GRI 102-8| |GRI 405-1| |GRI 405-1| Men Women Total Men Women Total Dynamic Operation (OD) + Austria 84 98 182 79 89 168 Offshore Drilling 1,196 134 1,330 1,152 142 1,294 84+16+U 68+32+U 71+29+U 66+34+U Consolidated Integrated Services 1 1,727 195 1,922 707 126 833 Total 3,007 427 3,434 1,938 357 2,295 ¹ Trainees are not considered in the number of employees, which were 2,295 in 2018. 84.4% 68.2% 70.9% 65.9% MEN OFFSHORE 31 TO 50 YEARS OPERATION Social commitments EMPLOYEES PER TYPE OF AGREEMENT |GRI 102-8| 16+84+U 32+68+U 20+80+U 28+72+U 15.6% WOMEN 31.8% ONSHORE 20.5% UP TO 30 YEARS 27.8% ADMINISTRATIVE 9+91+U 6++U94 2017 2018 Men Women Total Men Women Total 8.6% 5.8% 51 YEARS Member with permanent 2,961 375 3,336 1,909 330 2,239 MANAGEMENT OR ABOVE labor agreement 1+99+U Minor-Apprentices 46 52 98 29 27 56 Trainees¹ 21 30 51 30 29 59 Total 3,028 457 3,485 1,968 386 2,354 0.5% BUSINESS ¹ Trainees are not considered in the number of employees, which were 2,295 in 2018. ¹ Does not consider employees on leave. 36 37 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report Diversity Training and development |GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3| |GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3| Ocyan believes that continuing education is The financial participation of the company in Ocyan values the inclusive environment and The company is aligned with global movements the best way to promote the qualification of its institutional and non-mandatory programs respect for differences, in accordance with that seek greater gender equity in society. At the employees. Therefore, it invests in a portfolio varies between 50% and 100% of the total the principles of human rights set out in its end of 2018, 15.6% of the staff was women. The of training and qualifications in which the value and are institutional and sector-specific. policies and the Code of Conduct, through predominance of men in the workforce is a direct employee reinforces the skills necessary for his/ In addition, external training is also carried out which it reinforces the non-tolerance of any reflection of their sector of activity – the oil and gas her activity in the company. The topics can be to meet specific customer demands. kind of discrimination and moral and sexual industry – characterized by the condition of work technical, managerial and leadership, as well as harassment. The diversity topic is covered embarked on the high seas, with shifts of 14 days. transversal (health and safety, environment and During the year, training and professional develin its strategic planning and has a series of respect for diversity, among others). opment programs, both internally and externally, improvement actions in progress, with defined At the end of 2018, the company had 20 People reached a total of 146,546 hours (average of goals and objectives. with Disabilities (PWDs), representing about All development actions aim to qualify members 69 hours per employee), reaching workers in all 1.0% of the staff. to take on greater challenges. In each business, areas of the company. there are specific teams responsible for training management, which may be mandatory or non-mandatory, and always occur in alignment and/or at the request of the employee's DIVERSITY INDICATORS |GRI 405-1| leadership. 2017 20181 Men Women Men Women Per functional category Nº % Nº % Nº % Nº % TOTAL TRAINING HOURS |GRI 404-1| Board of Directors 6 86.0% 1 14.0% 7 100.0% 0 0.0% No. of participants Members1 3,007 87.6% 427 12.4% 1,938 84.0% 357 16.0% No. of employees in the training Total no. of Average hours Business2 13 0.0% 0 0.0% 12 1.0% 0 0.0% Functional category in the position 1 sessions 2 training hours per employee Management 112 3.7% 34 8.0% 101 5.0% 31 9.0% Total number 2,110 2,699 146,546 69 Administrative 565 18.8% 323 75.6% 374 19.0% 265 74.0% Leadership 13 6 203 16 Operation 2,317 77.0% 70 16.4% 1,451 75.0% 61 17.0% Men 13 6 203 16 Women 0 0 0 0 Per age group Nº % Nº % Management 3 128 109 5,969 47 Social commitments Board of Directors Up to 30 years 0 0.0% 0 0.0% Men 97 97 5,599 58 31 to 50 years 6 60.0% 2 29.0% Women 31 12 370 12 Over 51 years 4 40.0% 5 71.0% Business 565 413 34,806 62 Members1 Men 311 257 25,634 82 Up to 30 years 968 28.2% 471 20.5% Women 254 156 9,172 36 31 to 50 years 2,192 63.8% 1,626 70.8% Operational 1,404 2,171 105,568 75 51 years or above 274 8.0% 198 8.6% Men 1,344 2,091 103,151 77 Other diversity items Nº % Nº % Women 60 80 2,417 40 People with disability 42 1.2% 20 1.0% 1 Does not include employees on leave in the year (181) + 3 entities considered in the macro-structure + 1 active employee who was Foreigners 131 3.8% 110 5.0% reintegrated after the end of the leave. 2 The number considers the total number of trained employees in the year, regardless of the total figure recorded on December 31st. 1 Total number of members (active + non-active) 3 The Management Group concentrates information from the Management and Business groups, which represent groups considered 2 Business: Business Leader, Support Leaders, Superintendent Directors, Contract Directors, and Compliance Officer. strategic. 38 39 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report Well-being and health |GRI 403-6| The company offers a series of benefits and Pension plan initiatives that aim at the health and well-being The employees have a private pension plan of its employees. These include: offered in a co-participation system. For contract workers in Brazil, the company offers Benefits to employee the Odeprev plan – maintained and managed by the Odebrecht Group. ▸▸ Ambulatory for emergency services in company; In 2018, there was a significant increase in ▸▸ Health care plan for all employees; program numbers. 1,085 employees benefited from the plan, or 62% of the eligible employees ▸▸ Optional dental plan; (38% in 2017), with a contribution of R$ 10.7 ▸▸ Day Care Center / Baby-sitter Assistance million (R$ 9.7 million in 2017). The total amount collected in the year, with the company's partic▸▸ Meal Voucher / Food Voucher ipation, was R$ 17.3 million (R$ 14.2 million in ▸▸ Private Pension Plan. 2017). |GRI 201-3| Best practices Program The contribution amount of the employee varies ▸▸ Ocyan Baby: program that offers personalized between 1% and 12% of the remuneration; the accompaniment to all members and spouses company's monthly contribution may be 30%, of Ocyan employees throughout the gestation 40% or 50% of the employee's contribution, Health and safety period, birth and puerperium, including infordepending on the contribution made by the |GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3| mational lecture for parents, Ocyan Baby Kit beneficiary. (with baby care items), parking spaces exclusive One of Ocyan's greatest commitments is to Ocyan's 12 Golden Commitments for pregnant women, and space for support to For expatriates – non-Brazilians and non-Amerensure the integrity and preservation of the The program aims to discipline occupational lactating women in the administrative bases; icans – the company offers the International lives of its members and contractors. In order safety behaviors in order to ensure continuous Pension Plan (IPP), a benefit created in 2014 and to provide a safe and healthy work environment improvement and safety excellence, guiding ▸▸ Health Space: environment for the practice following the same model as Odeprev. every day, especially given the high complexity leaders on the adoption of administrative proceof Shiatsu and Pilates in company for the of its offshore operations, a number of training dures, alignment of practices, and strengthening employees of the corporate headquarters; and development initiatives specifically related of discipline culture for compliance with policies, ▸▸ Employees' Week: lectures and interactive to health and safety are carried out throughout guidelines, principles, standards, and procedures. It activities related to career and quality of life, the year, covering both the workers on the also aims to improve the quality of communication, held during a week of November, given by ODEPREV platforms and ships, and those onshore. investigation, identification, and treatment of the employees and external partners; R$ 17.3 causes of accidents with or without lost-time, Social commitments Safety assurance is discussed in contract, in operational incidents, and breach of the 12 Golden ▸▸ Day Off for birthday people who work in the budget composition, and in planning activSafety Commitments. administrative bases; R$ 14.2 ities. In addition, the topic is also linked to the ▸▸ Well-Being Circuit: promoted in partnership Action Program (PA) of leaders and those who Management system |GRI 403-1, 403-7, 403-8| with Firjan, based in Macaé and in the Corporate 62% are led, and Occupational Health, Safety and A robust occupational health and safety Headquarters, aims to support the employee in Environment (SSTMA) indicators are monitored management system is maintained, which adopting healthier living habits. It comprises four periodically. centralizes actions to raise awareness, health workshops: Brazil Cooking; Emotional 38% reinforce the safety culture by observing risks Health; Physical Activity; and Healthy Food and The responsibility for the practice and impleand behaviors and improving equipment and Oral Heath, each with a duration of 60 minutes; mentation of the programs and procedures for facilities. All business units have the autonomy the SSTMA management is carried out through to implement their management system ▸▸ Move Yourself Program: race group, with the planned delegation and the awareness of all independently, but following the positioning, specialized support, in partnership with Firjan, 2017 2018 the employees. strategy, and policies of the company. The for members of the Drilling Unit. system covers all employees: onshore, offshore, Total collected (in million) and subcontractors. Eligible participants (in %) 40 41 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report Health services are provided by qualified ➎ Identification of existing controls for risk Training |GRI 403-5| professionals and guarantee members access management; In addition to the training required by legislation Safety indicators to information during medical consultations for each type of activity, initiatives such as the 12 and follow-up throughout their period within the ➍ Risk assessment; Golden Safety Commitments program, seminars, Among the priorities and goals established in organization. The confidentiality and privacy and workshops on occupational safety and the Action Program is to evolve permanently in of the collected data is ensured, including in ➏ Determination of controls for risk reduction; health during Internal Weeks for the Prevention Occupational Health, Safety and Environment computerized health systems and medical of Occupational Accidents (Sipat), training (SSTMA) to achieve zero lost-time accident. records. |GRI 403-3| ➐ Assessment of the new risk category. on hazard risk management/preliminary risk Although in recent years there has been a analysis procedures and for use of equipment and significant improvement in the indicators – the Occupational health and safety management Occupational hazards and risks, whether tools related to the activity, among others. The Recordable Incidents Frequency Rate (TFIR), systems (integrated with quality and offshore or onshore, are recorded in a Hazard and trainings are made available online, theoretical with and without lost-time, went from 5.1 in 2013 environment) have been implemented to Risk spreadsheet within an electronic system, in on-site or practical, and can be taught by thirdto 1.4 in 2018 –, the company still considers the meet stakeholder requirements and increase a specific control document, in accordance with parties or internally by persons qualified and/or outcome to be below its expectations and a customer satisfaction, in accordance with the requirements of OHSAS 18001:2007. trained to do so. Every new employee receives challenge to be pursued relentlessly. legal requirements and the following standards: information about the occupational health and Offshore Drilling: OHSAS 18001:2007, ISO Observation cards are also used in the operasafety management system. In addition to the various tools already available 14001:2015, ISO 9001:2015, ISO 55001:2014, tional bases and in the offshore units, to identify to seek improvements in the subject, the and ISM Code; Offshore Production: OHSAS deviations, risks, hazard situations, and opporTraining is provided free of charge and within company is investing in the development and 18001:2007, ISO 14001:2015, and ISM Code; tunities for improvement. There is recognition paid working hours. Complementary training implementation of the program to strengthen Subsea Construction: OHSAS 18001:2007, ISO of the best cards, encouraging this practice by courses that are not free can be funded the safety culture, with a focus on behavioral 14001:2015, ISO 9001:2015; and ISPS Code; the workforce. by the company. The effectiveness of the management. Offshore Services and Maintenance: OHSAS training is assessed through forms, identifying 18001:2007, ISO 14001:2015, ISO 9001:2015. The communication and the investigation of improvement points for the development of the In 2018, the Offshore Drilling and Production incidents are done within an electronic system individual development plan. Business Units began a program focused on Risk identification |GRI 403-2| configured with a research methodology that the diagnosis of the safety culture maturity All incidents are reported and investigated allows to identify the immediate causes and The training requirements are complementary level of their respective businesses. The goal individually and, for each one, an action plan is the root causes related to the fact. In the same to the qualifications of the employee and are is to develop a high performance organizaprepared to correct the problem and avoid its registry, corrective and/or preventive actions identified in the training management system. The tional culture for the process of continuous repetition in the unit and/or other units, where are created that can be administered within the training and frequencies are recorded through a improvement of safety. The program provides applicable. electronic system itself regarding deadlines and training matrix and controlled by the system. the provision of information on the current evidences. It is the obligation of each member stage of the safety culture as well as supports Internal audits are carried out with the purpose of to stop any act or condition with the potential decision-making to decide the best behavioral assessing the effectiveness of the management to cause accidents. management strategy. system. In addition, the company seeks the industry's best benchmark examples at instituAn Internal Accident Prevention Commission In the year, there were no fatalities or records of tions such as International Marine Contractors (CIPA) is maintained in each operation unit, to occupational illness or hearing loss. |GRI 403-10| Social commitments Association (IMCA), International Association ensure the compliance of 100% of the workforce of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) and International the regulations established by the Brazilian Association of Drilling Contractors (IADC). Ministry of Labor and Employment (NR-5) – in offshore units, the regulatory standard is NR-30. Learning Health and Safety is how we do business here The process of continuous improvement uses the Culture PDCA cycle – a management tool that aims to The committees play a key role in adopting Aware Health and Safety control the improvements promote the continuous improvement of processes occupational health and safety programs and Culture through a circuit of four actions: plan, do, check, and measures, including behavioral audits, installation Maturity of Safety Culture act. The risk identification process is performed inspections, training and leadership development Bureaucratic We have the system to manage hazards, however, the through the following steps:: in Occupational Health and Safety (SST). Culture system is used mechanically Ad-hoc Health and Safety is important, we do a lot every time ➊ Selection of areas and activities; The Commissions are made up of representaCulture there is an incident tives of the workers and the employer, who make ➋ Identification of hazards and damage; decisions together for health and safety. When Ignorant Who cares, as long they don't catch us Culture necessary, monthly ordinary and extraordinary ➌ Analysis of legal requirements; meetings are held to discuss matters pertinent to the topic. |GRI 403-4| Safety Performance 42 43 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report External audience |GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3| Creating value for its shareholders and society is The company watches over free competition one of Ocyan's missions, which work to establish and, therefore, seeks to act ethically, with HEALTH AND SAFETY INDICATORS |GRI 403-9| responsible and sustainable relationships with integrity and transparency among the players in communities, suppliers, customers, governthe industry, stimulated by creativity, continuous Contractors of ments, and other audiences in their places of improvement of operations, and increased Employees third-parties Total workforce Per age group activity. This also implies the management of productivity. The topic is addressed in its Policy issues that have potential for conflict and need on Compliance with Ethical, Upstanding and Up to 30 to Over to be treated in a transparent way, contributing Transparent Operation and is part of the annual Men Women Men Women Men Women 30 50 50 to raise the image of a partner company in recycling training of leaders and those who are Nº of deaths 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 building a fairer and more equitable society with led. In 2018, no lawsuit was filed with Ocyan for opportunities for development for everyone. unfair competition, trust practice, and monopoly. Number of high 8 0 0 0 8 0 0 7 1 |GRI 206-1| consequence injuries (lost-time Customers accidents)1 Assessment Ocyan strives to be at the forefront of the oil In order to promote continuous improvement Rate of high 1.32 0 0 0 0.98 0 0 1.65 1.84 and gas market to offer innovative and efficient in service provision, Ocyan assesses the level consequence injuries solutions capable of winning and retaining of satisfaction of its main customer, Petrobras, customers. Aligned with this principle, in 2018, through the Performance Assessment Report Number of 13 0 0 0 13 0 0 11 2 the topic of innovation has gained prominence (BAD). The document, which follows the scope occupational injuries in strategic planning. Its extensive experience of each contract, assesses the following data: (total of accidents) 2 in the sector and its work close to the customer Equipment and Materials; Human Resources; Rate of injuries 2 2.15 0 0 0 1.59 0 0 2.60 3.67 contribute to identify, with greater assertiveness, and Facilities and Effectiveness. In 2018, except the real needs and demands of the oil industry. for Offshore Drilling, all business units received 1 Excluding deaths 2 Types of injuries: fall, crushing, mechanical shock, cut, and improper posture. a grade above the target set in the Action Note: Ocyan's operations occur exclusively in the Southeast Region of Brazil Its main customer today is Petrobras, with whom Program (PA). it has a longstanding commercial relationship, with contracts signed for chartering of Performance Evaluation Report (BAD) (BAD) assets and providing offshore production and maintenance services. It has also established RECORDABLE INCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE (TFIR) successful partnerships with international Business Unit BAD With and without lost time companies, including the French company Offshore Drilling 9.0 Technip, with which it shares joint ventures TOP Estrela do Mar and TOP Coral do Atlântico; and FPSO Pioneiro de Libra 10.0 5.10 Social commitments the Norwegian company Teekay, partner in FPSO Cidade de Itajaí 9.3 FPSOs Cidade de Itajaí and Pioneiro de Libra. PLSV Top Coral do Atlântico 9.9 In all business units, highly trained teams are PLSV TOP Estrela do Mar 10.0 2.49 maintained, with responsibility on assets and Offshore Maintenance 9.0 1.43 1.59 1.61 the environment. In 2018, Ocyan returned to the and Services 1.59 positive list of Petrobras' suppliers and is eligible for new bids. The company is also resuming the process of internationalization of operations, seeking new opportunities to diversify 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 its customer portfolio, as well as developing projects to offer new technologies and services. 44 45 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report Suppliers |GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3| areas of Supply, Health, Safety, Environment, and The system also manages the training required for NUMBERS OF SUPPLIER Technical in the assertive choice of its partners. third-party workers. Every worker who is going to MANAGEMENT IN 2018 Ocyan's chain of suppliers is comprised of Additionally, it includes a self-assessment do a service embarked on one of the drilling rigs distributors, authorized representatives, questionnaire on compliance practices, operated by Ocyan must necessarily undergo 195 equipment manufacturers, tradings, service anti-corruption and money laundering. a system of control of specific trainings for the critical national suppliers, with 65 providers, maintenance companies, consultants, execution of services on board, called Drake. Even being audited (11 were potential and auditors located in Brazil and abroad. In On-site audits are also performed on service if the supplier is already approved, whenever there is non-contracted suppliers) 2018, the monetary value paid for materials providers, as well as the assessment of service a new service to be performed on board, the system and services totaled R$ 750 million, for a total of and material suppliers. The audit has increased confronts the data of the person assigned to the 787 757 contracted suppliers. Of this amount, 74% the domain in relation to the level of certification work and verifies whether or not it has already gone performance assessments of corresponded to local procurement (companies in which the supplier is. The assessment portal through the specific training for that activity. This service providers, for a total with operations in Brazilian territory). |GRI 102-9, has become a tool through which users of the ensures greater safety to operation and assets. of 174 different suppliers 204-1| service, technical manager, and commercial manager have the possibility to validate and In case of noncompliance with any legal regulation 93 Since 2017, the company has maintained a new assess the quality of the services provided, as or sustainability requirement requested by Ocyan, Ocyan's appraisers process of selection, assessment, and approval well as whether they are within the scope of the a process of investigation is initiated to investigate of partners, in order to manage risks to the contract and the commercial issues. Thus, the the facts and take the applicable actions, which may 81% company's reputation, damage to property, and criterion of selection and maintenance of the even result in contractual termination. of the service providers losses to the shareholder. Through this system, third0party becomes clearer. above the average the diagnosis of the level of commitment of Risk and impacts suppliers with the legal, social, environmental, Specific documents on environmental issues are The Supplier Management System also encompasses Follow-up of labor and safety aspects is performed. included in the approval process for each related a risk matrix that covers the entire contracted service documentation of category, without which the supplier cannot base (around 500 items). For each item of the register, 63 Potential suppliers should provide social and register in the Ocyan's database. In the case of an analysis of environmental and operational risks and labor contracts environmental information in accordance with specific waste management providers, audits impacts involving the product or service in question current legislation. In this way, the company are performed, and the results are reported was performed, listed in four levels high, medium, reinforces its commitment to ethics, value for the technical and commercial areas, which low and negligible. creation for the whole chain and sustainable may result in action plans or discontinuation development. of the supplier. Audit reports are also issued Ocyan repudiates child labor and forced or analogous with the score of each supplier. The weights of to slave labor. No such case was raised in audits The system qualifies the supplier base with nonconformities are related to documents and carried out by the Company's Supplier Management ▸▸ To access Ocyan's Supplier Approval System, go respect to legal, tax, financial, technical, and environmental evidence. System. |GRI 408-1, 409-1| to: http://www.ocyan-sa.com/pt-br/fornecedores. compliance issues, as well as supporting the To download Ocyan's Code of Conduct, go to: http://www.ocyan-sa.com/pt-br/conformidade. Social commitments Item registration Labor management Approval RISKS AMONG SUPPLIERS |GRI 308-2, 414-2| SUPPLIER Topic Risk Assessment MANAGEMENT Audit Compliance Corruption, money laundering, transparency, reputation. SYSTEM Human rights Occupational accidents, work in hazardous or degrading conditions, discrimination. Environment Oil and chemical leaks, atmospheric emissions, improper disposal of waste. Service Commercial Labor practices Delay or non-payment of salaries and social charges; freedom of association. Society Excess use of public equipment and infrastructure, unemployment after conclusion of contracts, non-integration with communities, corruption. Drake system 46 47 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report students from the Federal University of Rio de During the year, four schools in Macaé and one Janeiro (UFRJ-Macaé), who participate in the in Rio de Janeiro benefited from the initiative #Inovareaprender Program, met the profesthrough the programs Let's Talk about Ethics sionals of the Engineering and Subsea teams of and The Advantages of Staying in School , all the Offshore Drilling Business Unit, who worked with students from the 10th grade of high school. as mentors of the students in order to develop The volunteers applied the programs in the state operational solutions. schools Luiz Reid, Irene Meireles, 1º de Maio and Matias Neto, in Macaé, and in the Escola The students of UFRJ Macaé developed two Estadual Souza Aguiar, in Rio de Janeiro. prototypes that bring solutions for application in the drilling rigs of the company, meeting the In total, the School in Action initiatives directly demands of the mechanical and subsea areas. benefited 1,710 children, adolescents, and young people in different communities and schools. R$ The solutions were developed in 3D printer 240,000 were allocated to purchase equipment, and laser cutter donated by the company to tools, and materials for the initiatives supported. the Management and Research Center of Between 2007 and 2018, the School in Action UFRJ-Macaé. From April to October 2018, the program already benefited more than 24,000 mentors guided the students at every stage, people. Ocyan does not pass resources directly from the development to the construction of the to social projects but manages this relationship prototypes. The challenge for the mechanical and accountability. |GRI 203-1| area was the creation of a precision slide holder to expedite the regular inspection work of the diesel engines' axles on drilling rigs. In the Subsea area, the solutions were aimed at confirming the Society compatibility of Ocyan's fleet connectors with |GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3| the wells supplied by the customer, acting at a depth of up to 3 thousand meters, facilitating Ocyan seeks to contribute to society in the In 2018, efforts were concentrated in the the prior analysis of the operation and avoiding RESULTS OF THE regions where it operates through social programs #innovateandlearn (#Inovareaprender) delays in the schedules. |GRI 203-1| VOLUNTEER PROGRAM that promote the education and inclusion of Program, supported since 2014, which consists children and adolescents living in communities of theoretical and practical robotic learning VOLUNTEERING with high levels of social vulnerability. The local activities for students in 11 makers spaces, 1,192 students impacted, being 124 demands, related to the topic, are mapped out in which are practical learning environments, in Ocyan launched a new Volunteer Program in Rio and 1,072 in Macaé meetings to discuss supported projects, as well the concept of learning by doing , maintained through the activation of projects of the as requests for support that come through its in schools of the municipal network, besides Entrepreneurial Trail, an initiative of the NGO 5 Social commitments communication channels. A careful analysis is the Universities IFF and UFRJ and the Senai de Junior Achievement Rio de Janeiro (JARJ), schools served performed to understand the needs presented Macaé. Also, in 2018, a partnership was created one of the largest social youth incentive and to establish best practices, always focusing with the NGO Junior Achievement do Rio de organizations in the world. The initiative is part 23 teachers mobilized on social inclusion through educational develJaneiro to promote the Corporate Volunteer of its social responsibility program, School in opment. The actions are concentrated in the city Program through the application of programs Action, and seeks to structure and expand the 45 of Macaé, where the logistical support base is in state schools in the cities of Rio de Janeiro company's volunteer activities, which have participating volunteers installed, and, from 2018 on, also in schools in Rio and Macaé. existed since 2007. de Janeiro. |GRI 413-1| 315 Youth Mentoring Project The project has activities in state schools of Rio hours of volunteering With the objective of promoting scientific de Janeiro and Macaé and intends to encourage 80% Escola and technological development, in addition students to debate topics such as ethics, of the volunteers rated the to strengthening the relationship with the citizenship, responsibility, life in society, the em ação experience as excellent community, Ocyan, through the Escola em labor market, and the future of the young people. Ocyan promotes social initiatives through its Ação, brought together young people from the Only in 2018, the action impacted more than 64% social responsibility program School in Action #Inovareaprender Program and the company's 1,192 young people and involved 75 volunteer of students said they were more willing (Escola em Ação). Engineering and Subsea teams. Engineering members of the company. to study to achieve their goals 48 49 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report Responsible management |GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3| Ocyan invests in improvement actions aimed Committed to improving its environmental The commitment to the at the conscious use of natural resources, the performance with eco-efficiency, consistently preservation of the environment and its assets, and continuously, Ocyan establishes a series of environment, as expressed and the efficient management of assets. Its work sustainability goals agreed by leaders and those is based on the Sustainability Policy, a document who are led by Action Programs (PA), which in the Sustainability Policy, Environmental commitments that contains guidelines on controlling the are in line with Global Compact guidelines and defines the rational use impacts of its activities, such as environmental Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), initiaand occupational risks, as well as rules for the tives of the UN of which it is a signatory. of natural resources and maintenance of ecosystems and biodiversity. Audits are conducted to assess the compliance cleaner technologies, The Sustainability area is responsible for the of operations with environmental requiredevelopment, implementation, and management ments. One of the prominent risks related to efficient control of of environmental initiatives, which lead, among well drilling activity is oil spillage into the sea, other things, to obtaining and maintaining which can also cause serious damage to local greenhouse gas emissions, operating licenses and certifications. communities, the customer, the business, and the company's image. In 2018, there were no reduction of waste, All business units follow the Basic Environmental significant spills, considering the parameter of Management Plan, which contains: the diagnosis 100 barrels or spills in sensitive areas. Likewise, mitigation of environmental of foreseeable impacts and the definition of there were no significant fines or non-monetary impacts of operations, and measures to eliminate or minimize them; prepasanctions for non-compliance with environration for recovery of degraded areas; proper mental laws and regulations. |GRI 306-3, 307-1| protection of ecosystems waste management; training and qualification of all employees to work with a focus on prevention; and biodiversity. and emergency preparedness. Gestão responsável Uso consciente de recursos Mudanças climáticas 50 51 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report Conscious use of resources WATER |GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 303-1, 303-2| 234.85 million liters in 2017; 64.7% of this total was Most of the volume of water withdrawn by the collected at sea. Of the amount, 43.55 million liters POWER |GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3| During the year, the drilling rig fleet had a shorter company comes from the ocean, both for human were consumed. The company does not recycle or period of dockage – the assets were in operation consumption and industrial use. Water collection reuse water in its operations. |GRI 303-3, 303-5| Considering all sources (gasoline, diesel, for a longer time under operational control of at the operational bases comes from public and natural gas, kerosene, and electricity), energy the customer – and the contract of Norbe IV private supply services. All effluents generated The total volume of discarded water totaled consumption within the company in 2018 was platform also ended; in addition, there was a longer on board vessels are treated and discarded at 235.81 million liters, compared to 224.16 million 105,651 gigajoules (GJ), a result 75% lower than operating time of the FPSO Pioneiro de Libra sea, respecting the limits imposed by the appliliters in the previous year. All the parameters in 2017 (428,141 GJ). compared to year 2017. All these factors justify cable legislation. established by the applicable legislation are the fall in energy consumption within the company obeyed and monitored, in addition to the requireand the increase in consumption outside. As the company's assets are granted to the ments stipulated by the customer. Oils and customer, the volume of water consumed is greatly greases (mainly hydrocarbons) in oily effluents, influenced by the operation and, therefore, by the including produced water, are priority substances customer. For this reason, no water-related goals of concern as they can cause irreversible damage are set. Where applicable, minimum requirements to the body of water, the ecosystem, or human POWER CONSUMED WITHIN THE COMPANY (GJ) |GRI 302-1| are established for suppliers and service providers health. The disposal process is carried out based that have a significant impact. on legislation: Marpol 73/78; Conama Resolution Non-renewable sources 2017 2018 2018 393; Law 9,966 from April 28, 2000. The limits are In relation to the company's operations, there set by legislation. The treatment method used for are no significant water-related impacts that discharge in the drilling and subsea construction Gigajoules Liters Gigajoules compromise river basins. rigs was the oil and water separator (SAO) and in Gasoline 2,184 53,835 1,735 the FPSOs, three-phase separator, and flotation In 2018, Ocyan withdrew a volume of 283.65 million cells. In the year, there were no incidents of Diesel 2,311 37,448 1,330 liters of water from water sources, compared to non-compliance with discharge limits. |GRI 303-4| Natural gas from the well 1,175,859 43,319 Aviation kerosene 1,789 41,129 1,415 Maritime diesel oil 201,927 1,039,284 38,713 TOTAL WITHDRAWAL OF WATER PER SOURCE (in millions of liters) |GRI 303-3| Renewable sources 2018 2018 Source 2017 2018 Electricity 26,509 19,139 Sea water (total) 224.16 183.58 Produced water (total) 38.97 Environmental commitments Total 234,720 2,347,555 105,651 Third-party water (total) 10.69 61.10 Total of withdrawn water (surface, groundwater, 234.85 283.65 sea, produced, third-party waters) Potable water 224.16 61.10 POWER CONSUMED OUTSIDE THE COMPANY (GJ) |GRI 302-2| Other water 10.69 222.55 Chain of suppliers before company operation 2017 2018 Note: The values used come from water bills, flow meters (offshore units) and purchases of tank trucks and gallons of mineral water. Calculations were obtained by means of direct measurements. There was no water withdrawal in areas with water stress. Goods and services acquired 8,369 3,746 Activities related to the fuel and energy sector 13,998 4,110 Transportation and distribution 298 3,257 WATER DISPOSAL PER DESTINATION (in millions of liters) |GRI 303-4| Waste generated in the operations 0 0 Source 2017 2018 Business travels 67,034 92,989 Sea/oceans 224.16 229.22 Transportation of employees 456 24 Third-party water 6.59 After the operation, including logistics providers, retailers and clients Total disposed (surface waters + groundwaters + sea/oceans + third-party water) 224.16 235.81 Disposal per type of water 2017 2018 Leased assets (downstream) 3,589,654 10,080,902 Potable water 224.16 235.81 Total 3,679,811 10,185,028 Other waters 0 0 52 53 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report WASTE Climate changes |GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3| The management of waste from oil well activities long-term results of treatment or disposal |GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3| is the responsibility of the customer. Ocyan only methods; costs of treatment or disposal monitors and controls the separation, storage methods. An assessment is made whether the Since 2012, Ocyan has been producing and the technology applied and the intensity of the and transport of hazardous and non-hazardous destination of waste meets local regulatory publishing its annual inventory, which records improvement in efficiency; an increase in demand waste from its operation, identifying the risk that requirements. In the absence of local regulatory direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse for attracting new customers and markets such materials are potentially polluting. The requirements, waste must be disposed of in an gases (GHG), in the Public Register of Emissions associated with the business; and winning new destination is defined according to its type and environmentally proper manner. of the GHG Protocol. The company has an area investors interested in cleaner and more efficient based on criteria based on the procedures of dedicated to environmental and sustainability operations. the Environmental Management System of the All members receive guidance and are trained management, responsible for collecting the company. on the effluent and waste management policy data that make up the inventory. EMISSIONS established by the customer. In the case of spills, The variables commonly assessed in the there are established goals that directly impact Risks x opportunities |GRI 201-2| In 2018, scope 1 emissions (direct, under definition of the final disposal of waste are the PA. In 2018, 2,990.48 ton of hazardous waste As a company aware of its role in building a company control) totaled 5,217 tCO2e, while the following: type and classification of the were transported – highlighting that Ocyan better world, Ocyan recognizes the relevance scope 2 emissions (referring to electricity waste; amount of residue; disposal methods does not import, export, or transport this type of the effects of climate change and its interconsumption) resulted in 420 tCO2e, and scope and techniques; treatment or final disposal; of waste internationally. |GRI 306-4| action with sustainable development. Within 3 emissions (indirect, occurring in the chain of availability of treatment or disposal methods; the organization, these changes can impact suppliers), in 540,137 tCO2e. all operations; outside the company can affect suppliers, customers, and communities. Due to The decrease of 72.3% in scope 1 (see table on its relevance to the business, this topic is closely the next page) is related to the shorter docking managed by the Sustainability Board. period of the drilling fleet (only one rig) and DISPOSAL OF WASTE 1 |GRI 306-2| the end of the Norbe VI platform contract. The Regarding the physical risks to the company, 55.9% increase in scope 3 is a direct consesusceptible to climate change, there is a possible quence of the decrease in scope 1 and also of Hazardous waste Weight (t) Method of disposal increase in the incidence of tropical cyclones, the emission volume computed by the FPSO Batteries 2 1.12 Recycling storms, and floods. Regulatory risks involve Pioneiro de Libra, which operated during the Electronics and fluorescent lamps 3 12.97 Recycling/Recovery/Decontamination changes in the emission limit of greenhouse entire 2018 year, compared to a smaller period gases and changes in the country's energy policy. in 2017. Health waste (t) 0.37 Incinerator Oils and greases 388.25 Re-refining / Recycling The interaction between climate change and Oily water 2,137.41 Reuse sustainable development sets the challenge for Environmental commitments improving efficiency and for cleaner operation, Other hazardous waste (contaminated 450.36 Co-processing / Landfill / Blending including technological solutions for adaptation solids and chemicals out of use) measures. Non-hazardous waste Weight (t) Method of disposal The impacts associated with climate change Paper/cardboard waste 48.85 Recycling riches initially involve an increase in operational cost due to the need for adaptation measures Mixed urban waste (common) 310.74 Landfill to the new climate scenario, including the Metal 401.53 Recycling incorporation of technologies and changes in GHG EMISSIONS (tCO2e) Plastic 57.49 Recycling the operational bases. Another point would be the decrease in the demand for services, as a Glass 6.26 Recycling result of the choice of alternative fuels that have Wood 143.54 Energy recovery lower carbon emissions from consumers. It is Kitchen oil 1.13 Recycling also possible that there is a migration of investor resources to renewable energy and to a lesser 540,137 1 Waste from the Offshore Production and Logistics area is managed by the Customer emission of greenhouse gases. 2 1 battery = 0.0001 t 3 1 Lamp = 0.0002 t On the other hand, the impacts associated with 5,217 420 opportunities related to climate changes show Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 that the change in operating cost will depend on 54 55 GRI Standards Content Index ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (tCO2e) |GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3| |GRI 102-55| This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option |GRI 102-54| 2017 1 2018 Combustion fixed sources 18,069 4,833 For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Combustion mobile sources 698 292 Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the Fugitives refrigeration 30 85 body of the report. The service was performed on the Portuguese version of the report. Fugitives extinguishers 0 2 Combustion cut and welding 11 5 Page and/ Global Total Scope 1 (direct emissions) 18,808 5,217 Standards GRI Disclosure or link Omission Compact ODS Electric power 668 420 GRI 101: Foundation 2016 Total Scope 2 (energy purchase) 668 420 General disclosures Products, goods and services purchased 544 305 Capital goods 767 1 GRI 102: Profile General Fuels purchased 165 62 disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organization 7 T&D losses 160 100 102-2 Activities, brands, 6 Transportation of waste 17 44 products, and services Transportation of materials 19 55 102-3 Location of headquarters 7 Waste 1 34 Air travels 11,236 8,149 102-4 Location of operations 7 Transportation of employees 28 1 102-5 Ownership and legal form 7 Operation of assets 333,634 531,386 Total Scope 3 (indirect emissions) 346,571 540,137 7 102-6 Markets served Overall total (1+2+3) 366,047 545,774 102-7 Scale of the organization 7, 10 1 Some figures for the year have been corrected because the data for the calculation of Scope 1 and 3 emissions are not available on the closing date of RA 2017. |GRI 102-48| 33, 34, 35 6 8 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 102-9 Supply chain 44 INTENSITY OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS |GRI 305-4| Environmental commitments 102-10 Significant changes to the 4 organization and its supply chain 2017 tCO2/ 2018 tCO2/ 102-11 Precautionary 16 active participants active participants Principle or approach Administrative Headquarters 25 81 154 102-12 External initiatives Dynamic Organization 102-13 Membership 25 Offshore Production (Offshore Production 6,415 3,328 of associations Logistic Support Base + offshore units) Offshore Services and Maintenance Strategy 200 147 Logistic Support Base 102-14 Statement from 4 Subsea Construction 0 108 senior decision-maker Offshore Drilling (Logistic Support 102-15 Key impacts, risks, 16 1,114 1,900 and opportunities Base + offshore units) Ethics and integrity Types of Greenhouse Gas emissions, Scopes 1 and 2 Scopes 1 and 2 included in the intensity rate 102-16 Values, principles, 13 16 standards, and norms of behavior CO2, CH4, COVNM, CO2, CH4, COVNM, Gases included in the calculation NOx, HF6, SF6, R-22, NOx, HF6, SF6, R-22, 102-17 Mechanisms for advice 16 10 16 MP, POP e HAP MP, POP e HAP and concerns about ethics 56 57 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report Page and/ Global Page and/ Global Standards GRI Disclosure or link Omission Compact ODS Standards GRI Disclosure or link Omission Compact ODS Governance 102-51 Date of most recent report 3 102-18 Governance structure 13 102-52 Reporting cycle 3 102-53 Contact point for 3 102-19 Delegating authority 13 questions regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting 55 102-23 Chair of the highest 13 16 in accordance with the GRI Standards governance body 102-26 Role of highest 13 102-55 GRI content index 55 governance body in setting 102-56 External assurance 3 purpose, values, and strategy 102-32 Highest The Business governance body's role in Leader sustainability reporting formally reviews and approves the information Material Topics published in the Annual GRI 200 Economic Standard Series Report. Economic performance Stakeholder engagement GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 19, 24 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 22, 27 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 16, 19 102-41 Collective 33 3 8 approach and its components bargaining agreements 102-42 Identifying and 22 103-3 Evaluation of the 16, 19 selecting stakeholders management approach 102-43 Approach to 27 GRI 201: 31 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 201-1 Direct economic value stakeholder engagement Economic generated and distributed performance 102-44 Key topics and 23 2016 53 13 GRI Standards Content Index concerns raised 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Reporting practice due to climate change 102-45 Entities included in the 3 201-3 Defined benefit 38 consolidated financial statements plan obligations and other retirement plans 102-46 Defining report content 22 and topic Boundaries Indirect economic impacts GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 24, 46 102-47 List of material topics 24 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 46 102-48 Restatements 54 approach and its components of information 103-3 Evaluation of the 46 management approach 102-49 Changes in reporting Did not occur GRI 203: Indirect 203-1 Infrastructure investments 47 2, 5, 7, 9, 11 economic and services supported 102-50 Reporting period 3 impacts 2016 58 59 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report Page and/ Global Page and/ Global Standards GRI Disclosure or link Omission Compact ODS Standards GRI Disclosure or link Omission Compact ODS Procurement practices Water and effluents GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 24, 44 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 24, 51 Management material topic and its Boundary Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 Approach 2018 103-2 The management 44 49, 51 103-2 The management approach and its components approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 44 management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the 49, 51 management approach GRI 204: 204-1 Proportion of spending 44 12 Procurement on local suppliers 303-1 Interactions with water 51 7, 8 6, 12 practices 2016 as a shared resource Anti-corruption 303-2 Management of water 51 7, 8 6 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 13, 24 discharge-related impacts Management material topic and its Boundary GRI 303: 303-3 Water withdrawal 51 7, 8 6 Approach 2016 103-2 The management 13, 16 Water 2018 approach and its components 303-4 Water discharge 51 8 6, 8, 12, 14, 15 103-3 Evaluation of the 13, 16 management approach 303-5 Water consumption 51 8 6 GRI 205: Anti205-1 Operations assessed 14 10 16 Emissions corruption 2016 for risks related to corruption GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 24, 53 205-2 Communication and 13 10 16 Management material topic and its Boundary training about anti-corruption Approach 2016 policies and procedures 103-2 The management 49, 53 approach and its components 205-3 Confirmed incidents of 16 10 16 corruption and actions taken 103-3 Evaluation of the 49, 53 management approach Anti-competitive behavior GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 13, 24 GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 54 7, 8 3, 12, 13, Management material topic and its Boundary Emissions 2016 1) GHG emissions 14, 15 Approach 2016 103-2 The management 13, 43 305-2 Energy indirect 54 7, 8 3, 12, 13, GRI Standards Content Index approach and its components (Scope 2) GHG emissions 14, 15 103-3 Evaluation of the 13, 43 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 54 7, 8 3, 12, 13, management approach 3) GHG emissions 14, 15 GRI 206: Anti206-1 Legal actions for anti43 16 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 54 8 14, 15 competitive competitive behavior, anti-trust, behavior 2016 and monopoly practice Effluents and waste GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 24, 51 Energy Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 24, 49, 50 103-2 The management 49, 51, 52 Management material topic and its Boundary approach and its components Approach 2016 103-2 The management 49, 50 103-3 Evaluation of the 49, 51, 52 approach and its components management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the 49, 50 GRI 306: 306-2 Waste by type 52 8 3, 6, 12 management approach Effluents and and disposal method waste 2016 GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption 50 7, 8 7, 8, 12, 13 306-3 Significant spills 49 8 3, 6, 12, Energy 2016 within the organization 14, 15 302-2 Energy consumption 50 8 7, 8, 12, 13 306-4 Transport of 52 8 3, 12 outside of the organization hazardous waste 60 61 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report Page and/ Global Page and/ Global Standards GRI Disclosure or link Omission Compact ODS Standards GRI Disclosure or link Omission Compact ODS Environmental compliance GRI 403: 403-8 Workers covered by 39 3, 8 Occupational an occupational health and GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 13, 49 health and safety management system Management material topic and its Boundary safety 2018 Approach 2016 103-2 The management 13, 49 42 3, 8 403-9 Work-related injuries approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 13, 49 403-10 Work-related ill health 41 3, 8 management approach Training and education GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance 49 8 16 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 24, 33, 37 Environmental with environmental laws Management material topic and its Boundary compliance 2016 and regulations Approach 2016 Supplier environmental assessment 33, 37 103-2 The management GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the approach and its components 24, 44 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the 33, 37 103-2 The management 44 management approach approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training 37 6 4, 5, 8 44 Training and management approach per year per employee education 2016 GRI 308: Supplier 308-2 Negative environmental 45 8 33 6 8 404-2 Programs for upgrading environmental impacts in the supply chain employee skills and transition assessment 2016 and actions taken assistance programs GRI 400 Social Standards Series 404-3 Percentage of employees 33 6 5, 8 Occupational health and safety receiving regular performance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 24, 39 and career development reviews Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2018 Diversity and equal opportunity 103-2 The management 39 approach and its components GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 24, 36 Management material topic and its Boundary 103-3 Evaluation of the 39 Approach 2016 management approach 103-2 The management 33, 36 GRI Standards Content Index 39 3 approach and its components 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 103-3 Evaluation of the 33, 36 403-2 Hazard identification, 40 3, 8 management approach risk assessment, and incident investigation GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance 35, 36 6 5, 8 Diversity bodies and employees 403-4 Occupational 40 3, 8 and equal health services opportunity 2016 403-4 Worker participation, 40 8 Non-discrimination consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 13, 24, 36 Management material topic and its Boundary 403-5 Worker training on 41 3, 8 Approach 2016 occupational health and safety 103-2 The management 13, 33, 36 403-6 Promotion of worker health 38 3, 8 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 13, 33, 36 403-7 Prevention and mitigation 39 3, 8 of occupational health and management approach safety impacts directly linked by business relationships GRI 406: Non406-1 Incidents of discrimination Did not occur. 6 5, 8, 16 discrimination and corrective actions taken 2016 62 63 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report Page and/ Global Page and/ Global Standards GRI Disclosure or link Omission Compact ODS Standards GRI Disclosure or link Omission Compact ODS Freedom of association and collective bargaining Supplier social assessment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 24, 33 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 24, 44 Management material topic and its Boundary Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 Approach 2016 103-2 The management 44 103-2 The management 33 approach and its components approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 44 management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the 33 management approach GRI 414: 414-2 Negative social impacts in 45 2 5, 8, 16 Supplier social the supply chain and actions taken GRI 407: Freedom 407-1 Operations and suppliers 33 3 8 assessment 2016 of association in which the right to freedom and collective of association and collective Public policy bargaining 2016 bargaining may be at risk GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 13 Management material topic and its Boundary Child labor Approach 2016 103-2 The management 13 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 24, 44 approach and its components Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the 13 103-2 The management 44 management approach approach and its components GRI 415: Public 415-1 Political contributions 14 10 16 policy 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the 44 management approach Socioeconomic compliance GRI 408: Child 408-1 Operations and 45 5 8, 16 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 13 labor 2016 suppliers at significant risk Management material topic and its Boundary for incidents of child labor Approach 2016 103-2 The management 13 Forced or compulsory labor approach and its components GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 24, 44 103-3 Evaluation of the 13 Management material topic and its Boundary management approach Approach 2016 GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with There were 16 103-2 The management 44 Socioeconomic laws and regulations in the no significant GRI Standards Content Index approach and its components compliance 2016 social and economic area non-monetary fines or 103-3 Evaluation of the 44 penalties in management approach the year. GRI 409: Force 409-1 Operations and suppliers 45 4 8 dor compulsory at significant risk for incidents labor 2016 of forced or compulsory labor Local communities GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 24, 46 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 46 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 46 management approach GRI 413 Local 413-1 Operations with local 46 1 communities community engagement, 2016 impact assessments, and development programs 64 65 ocyan 2018 annual report ocyan 2018 annual report 10 Principles of UN Global Compact Board of directors Network Brazil WE SUPPORT (Composition on December 31st, 2018) Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection Luciano Guidolin – President of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Daniel Bezerra Villar make sure that they are not complicit André Amaro da Silveira in human rights abuses. José Coutinho Barbosa Roberto Prisco Paraíso Ramos Labor João Pinheiro Nogueira Batista Businesses should uphold the freedom of Hatem Soliman association and the effective recognition Antonio Marco Campos Rabello of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced Nir Lander – Responsible for Compliance and compulsory labor; the effective abolition of child labor; and the elimination of discrimination in respect Executive board Corporate information of employment and occupation. Roberto Lopes Pontes Simões* Business Leader Environment Businesses should support a precautionary Heitor Luiz Gioppo* approach to environmental challenges; Chief Offshore Drilling Officer undertake initiatives to promote greater Jorge Luiz Uchoa Mitidieri* environmental responsibility; and Chief Offshore Services and Maintenance, Offshore Production and Subsea Construction Officer encourage the development and diffusion of GRI Standards Content Index environmentally friendly technologies. Guilherme Pacheco de Britto Legal Counsel Anti-corruption José Claudio Breviglieri Grossi* Responsible for Planning, People Support and Communication Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Marco Aurelio Costa Cruz Fonseca Responsible for Sustainability Support Rogério Luis Murat Ibrahim* Sustainable Development Goals – The United Nations 2030 agenda Responsible for Finance and Investment Support *Statutory officers 66 Addresses ocyan 2018 annual report Headquarters Avenida Cidade de Lima, 86, salas 501 e 502 Santo Cristo – Rio de Janeiro – RJ CEP 20220-710 Logistic Support Base (Offshore Drilling and Offshore Services and Maintenance) Rodovia Amaral Peixoto, s/n° km 167 Fazenda São José Mutum Imboassica – Macaé RJ CEP: 27925-290 TK Office-Ocyan Edifício NovoCais do Porto Avenida Cidade de Lima, nº 86 9º andar Santo Cristo Rio de Janeiro RJ CEP: 20220-710​ Itajaí Base FPSO Cidade de Itajaí Rua Professora Marly Pitz, nº 76 Fazenda Itajaí SC CEP: 88301-495 Viena – Austria Odebrecht Óleo e Gás GmbH Lothringerstrasse, 16/08 1030 Viena – Áustria Credits Area responsible for the report Corporate information Sustainability Gri advisory and texts Editora Contadino Graphic design Multi Design Translation Uno Traduções Comments, suggestions, doubts or criticisms regarding its content, as well as the operations and initiatives of the company in Brazil can be sent through the channel: www.ocyan-sa.com/fale-conosco. |GRI 102-53| +ocyan-sa.com ocyan.sa ocyan-sa
