S ustainability Report 20182019 Takasago International Corporation Nissay Aroma Square, 5-37-1, Kamata, Ota-ku, Tokyo 144-8721, Japan TEL +81-3-5744-0511 FAX +81-3-5744-0512 http://www.takasago.com/en/index.html Contact: Global Integration Headquarters Contents About This Report Scope and Boundaries The scope of this report is the Takasago group. This includes consolidated subsidiaries as well as nonMessage from President and CEO....P.3 consolidated subsidiaries defined by the equity-method. Corporate Vision....P.9 Period Covered Fiscal 2018. In this report, the term of “Fiscal” is as follows; Corporate Profile....P.11 From April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019 for Japan From January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018 for the others • Financial Highlights • External Partnerships and Initiatives External Assurance There is no external assurance for this report. Business Outline....P.15 Guideline referenced Sustainability at Takasago....P.17 GRI Standard (Core) • Sustainability Vision • History • Message from Senior Vice President • Takasago Sustainability Team Corporate Communication Tools •R evision of the Charter of Corporate Our Activity....P.23 H4 H1 2018 Behavior and Code of Conduct • Governance コーポレート本部 2018 • Materiality Assessment • EHS Corporate Governance S ustainability Report • Our Business Activities and SDGs • Social Aspects Report 20182019 GRI Standard Context Index....P.55 Corporate brochure Corporate Governance Report Social and Environmental Report Sustainability Report (Japanese only) (Japanese only) 2018-2019 Corporate website LinkedIn Takasago site 1 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 2 Message from President and CEO Last year, the Takasago group launched a new due to tightened environmental restrictions in China medium-term management plan One-T (the last all contributed to significant raw material cost phase of Takasago Global Plan) with a target of the increases. sales turnover at 170 billion yen and the ratio of operating profit to revenue at 5.2%. The group will Even under these circumstances, our growth in Asia celebrate 100th anniversary in 2020, the final year of continued to steam ahead with double-digit figures. this management plan. Despite the Asian market growth slowing down, our double-digit growth was achieved by acquiring a In 2018, Takasago reported record high sales number of new businesses. turnover for the first year of One-T. What has Our India business specifically, started bearing fruits contributed to this good result and what are and showing good results. The vanilla business has issues that the company needs to tackle? become one of our core businesses. In addition, a couple of new Takasago original aroma ingredients, Our sales turnover for fiscal 2018 increased by for fragrances were launched in 2018. The fine approximately 6% or 9 billion yen over that of the chemical business, despite a slower growth trend, previous year exceeding 150 billion yen for the further improved its business portfolio with the first time. The operating Profit however decreased successful expansion using a novel LAH (Lithium by approximately 8% from the previous year to 5.8 Aluminum Hydride) reaction process. billion yen. As a result, fiscal 2018 ended up with “a fall in profit despite a jump in sales”. A significant We continued to pursue large-scale investments increase in the procurement cost of raw materials to ensure our continued growth. Some examples was the main reason for the pressures on the profit. of these are building a production site in Jakarta, Natural raw materials shortages due to natural Indonesia, acquisition of additional land in Germany disasters, shortages of crude materials triggered by for the future expansion, and then expansion of the accidents of chemical plants, and factory closures flavor production facility in Guangzhou, China. Satoshi Masumura President and Chief Executive Officer 3 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 4 Message from President and CEO It appears global activities are moving forward and gaining momentum. What are concrete action plans for the second year of One-T? For the second year for One-T, the primary focus will be on raw materials procurement and strengthening partnership with strategic suppliers. The cost of raw materials, both natural and synthetic, has soared continue to reinforce this solid partnership we have significantly-much more than we had anticipated developed over the years and pursue stronger and for One-T period. To cope with the situation, a strategic ties with all of our key suppliers. strategic sourcing program called TaSuKi has been implemented. Strategic medium and long term plans Enhancement of global corporate functions is also a and agreements with key suppliers have been or are key element for our continued success in the future. being developed to ensure the stable supply and We are now reviewing and improving business flows prices of key strategic materials. Over many years, among the group companies and working very hard Takasago values partnership with key supplier, such to integrate various systems to ensure appropriate as by setting up a joint-corporation with a vanilla and timely global alignment. Incorporating the best processing company in Madagascar and making practices of the Takasago group and standardizing strategic ties with a processor of grapefruit and business processes globally will surely improve orange juices in U.S.A. for citrus flavor/fragrance the efficiency and profitability of the entire group’s ingredients. With a long-term view always, we operations. Globally aligned business processes will enable us to optimize our human resources across the group companies and ensure that we manufacture the same quality products across the globe. In respond to a fast-growing demand in the market, flexibility in business plans including business we decided to build a production facility in Jakarta. contingency. This will certainly enhance our market As for capital investment, the new production facility When completed this fall, Takasago will gain an presence in many aspects. in Jakarta will start its operations soon. Indonesia, additional production capacity in South East and which has the largest Muslim population in the South Asia. This production facility, together with This year, unfortunately, the significant negative world, is a fascinating market with 260 million people our facilities in Singapore and India, allows us to impact from high procurement cost has impacted and a key for our continued aggressive growth in manufacture products at these three sites to supply our profitability. We continue to tackle issues one by Asia. Currently, products are imported mainly from for growing markets in the region. This will also one patiently and resolve these issues on a timely Singapore and supplied to customers in Indonesia. enable us to shorten lead-time as well as secure manner. 5 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 6 Message from President and CEO How about the progress of your initiatives for Operational safety is also a key in pursuit of ensures safety, we succeeded in the LAH reaction How do you envision Takasago to be as it sustainability? Strengthening sustainability sustainable management. Since the fire accident in commercialization. We continue to further deepen approaches its 100th anniversary? throughout the group is one of your corporate 2013, we have ensured “Safety is Our Priority” in continuous flow technology capabilities and broaden action plans. all our operations. We have also set April 10th as our product range to meet the ever-changing market Takasago’s corporate logo “Square T” is also called “Takasago Safety Day”, during which the Takasago needs. This will continue to enhance our synthetic “Triple T” that stands for our strong belief “Trust is During the first year of “One-T”, we made steady group reaffirms our commitment on operational business portfolio. earned from technology and teamwork”. We will progress. Revision of the Charter of Corporate safety and all the employees across the globe continue our efforts to understand our customer’s Behavior and Code of Conduct was one of the plans participate in global as well as in site-specific safety When it comes to fragrances, we often receive perspective, strengthening sales & marketing forces, that we have pushed forward. The revision includes programs. In addition to our day to day safety requests for fragrances composed of renewable enhance R&D capabilities, conduct thorough quality our commitment to addressing global challenges activities, our initiatives for ISO45001 certification will ingredients from customers in Europe and Americas. control on all our products, and provide flexible such as human rights and climate change, also help us pursue our global safety alignment and Last year, Takasago launched a renewable-resources services with agility to ensure a corporate focus on governance concerns such as the risk management improvement in occupational safety management. based and highly biodegradable aroma ingredient delivering customer satisfaction. including cyber security, realizing a sustainable utilizing our original asymmetric chemistry. As lilysociety (Society 5.0) through innovations, and also What are R&D demands from the global market? like synthetic aroma ingredients are banned in EU We will celebrate 100th anniversary next year. One ensuring the management’s strong involvement. states, Takasago developed an aroma ingredient hundred years ago, the founders of Takasago had With that background, the board of directors To meet a growing demand of sustainable products, that utilizes components derived from lily with a a dream to spread high quality aroma products regularly takes up climate change and TCFD we are focusing on environmentally friendly safe and environmentally friendly manufacturing incorporating Asian and Japan originated natural recommendations. The board spent a lot of time products/processes, employing the Takasago process. This has been adopted in a wide range flavor and fragrance raw materials and synthetic discussing material issues last year. This year we group’s unique technologies, such as catalysts and of applications such as fine fragrances and aroma ingredients from Japan to the world. strive to embody actions to tackle climate change continuous flow for the synthetic products, and detergents. We also focus on the development of Returning to the same spirit of founders, through such as preparation for acquiring SBT Initiatives. It is natural flavor and fragrance ingredients utilizing natural flavor ingredients in respond to an increasing aroma, I believe we continue to contribute to health very important to integrate these environmental and fermentation method as well as natural resources demand for natural flavors. Utilizing a company of mind and body of people around the world. social issues and concerns into business actions. processing. Our technologically-driven approach will Takasago acquired in 2016 which is specialized Based on our corporate philosophy “Contributing to In Japan, ever since the Meiji period, an idea of push us forward to become a top-class flavor and in the manufacture of natural ingredients Central Society through Technology”, we consolidate all the corporate social responsibility has been rooted with fragrance company. Ingredients Technology, Inc., we are very well knowledge and expertise that the group possesses a phrase “Benefit for All Three Sides”. Likewise, positioned to develop and manufacture new and and resolve issues that we are facing, strive to make our corporate philosophy “Contributing to Society As for fine chemicals, we added in our technological unique bio-based flavor ingredients. the management foundation firmer and continue to through Technology” clearly mirrors this commitment portfolio a new process innovation to commercialize aim for sustainable growth of the Takasago group. to our social responsibility. Everyone in the Takasago LAH reaction last year. It was considered extremely Our Vanilla Center and Citrus Center also play group is continually reminded of “Contributing to difficult to realize the chemical reaction process key roles in the expansion of our natural flavor Society”, to ensure that we integrate this into our at a chemical plant scale due to its high reactivity. ingredients’ pallet to meet the ever-increasing global business activities. Combining with our continuous flow technology that needs. 7 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 8 Corporate Vision Corporate Philosophy Basic Management Policy Contributing to Society through Technology •A well regarded company that respects the global environment and local communities. •A leading flavors and fragrance company in the global market that consistently supplies dependable products. Medium-term Management Plan “One-T” It is essential to combine all management resources of the Takasago group and make group-wide efforts to produce creative and innovative value for the year, 2020. We set the new medium-term management plan “One-T” Basic Policies in the One-T (FY2018-2020), shortened form of One-Takasago 1. Customer Satisfaction which is also a slogan for united the Takasago Through improved sales capability, enhanced research and development, comprehensive quality control, and group. Towards the realization of one of our basic swift and flexible business actions, we aim to improve customer satisfaction. management policies “A leading flavors and Customer fragrances company in the global market that Satisfaction 2. Business Growth Strategy consistently supplies dependable products,” we While increasing our market presence and securing stable profits, we aim to strengthen our business will grow continuously by carrying out our plans foundation and to achieve net sales target of 170 billion yen. with the following five pillars. Human 3. Technological Innovation Technological Resources Innovation With the corporate philosophy of emphasis on technology in mind, we strive to develop new technologies and Development products with great originality and superiority, and to apply their achievements to our global business. Corporate 4. Improvement of Profitability Through optimizing value chain and re-engineering business processes globally, we aim to achieve an operating income ratio target of 5.2%. Improvement Business 5. Human Resources Development of Growth We will optimize our human resources, develop staff members who will pursue ambitious initiatives in new Profitability Strategy areas, and create an environment where our staff members can fulfill their potential globally. We put the concept of “Corporate” in the center of the basic policies above and as a global company, we will harmonize rules and guidelines as well as integrate systems to strengthen our corporate governance and accelerate the globalization. This will move us ahead to achieve One-Takasago. 9 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 10 Corporate Profile Financial Highlights (billion JPY) EMEA* 2018 Sales Turnover by Region Japan Sales 25 EMEA Sales 68 Takasago International Corporation, headquartered in Tokyo, Japan, develops, manufactures and supplies flavors, * Europe, the Middle East, and Africa 17% fragrances, aroma ingredients and fine chemicals. Our products are in foods, cosmetics, household products and Japan pharmaceutical intermediates for the life science industry, and functional materials for the electronics industry. 45% We have now business operations in 27 countries and regions around the world. Takasago strengthens its market Asia Pacific Asia Pacific Americas 16% presence worldwide and accelerates the growth in every area where we are. Sales 24 Sales 33 As of end March, 2019 Americas 22% Corporate Profile Name Headquarters TAKASAGO INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION 5-37-1, Kamata, Ota-ku, Tokyo, 144-8721, Japan 150 billion Founded February 9, 1920 Capital 9.2 billion JPY Employees worldwide 3,470 4 Core Businesses Flavors Fragrances Japan Tokyo Berkshire / U.K. Moscow / Russia Osaka Aroma Fine Zülpich / Germany Nagoya Ingredients Chemicals Paris / France Fukuoka St.Ouen / France Milano / Italy Hiratsuka New York / U.S.A Crystal Lake / U.S.A Barcelona / Spain Iwata Rockleigh Istanbul / Turkey Seoul / Korea Murcia / Spain Kashima Harriman Shanghai / China Mihara Rockingham / U.S.A Teterboro Lahore / Pakistan Agadir / Morocco New Delhi / India Guangzhou / China Xiamen / China Dubai / UAE 2018 Sales Turnover by Category Taipei / Taiwan Mumbai / India Hongkong / China Mexico City / Mexico Bangalore / India Pasig City / Philippines Fine Chemicals Others Chennai / India 4% 1% Yangon / Myanmar Aroma Singapore / Singapore Bangkok / Thailand Ingredients Purwokerto / Indonesia 9% Ho Chi Minh City / Vietnam Flavors Tangerang / Indonesia 60% Antananarivo / Madagascar Fragrances Midrand / South Africa Vinhedo / Brazil 26% Sydney / Australia 150 billion 11 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 12 Corporate Profile Sales Turnover Operating Income External Partnerships and Initiatives 2016 136 2016 7.1 2017 141 2017 6.3 2018 150 2018 5.8 Takasago engages in several organizations, supports initiatives and responds to sustainable related platforms including below. Ordinary Net • American Chemical Society Income Income • CDP • EcoVadis 2016 7.7 2016 6.3 • European Flavour Association (Executive Board) 2017 6.7 2017 7.0 • Flavor and Extract Manufacturers Association (Board of Governors) • International Fragrance Association (Board of Directors) 2018 6.7 2018 4.7 • International Organization of the Flavor Industry (Board of Directors) • Japan Business Federation • Japan Chemical Industry Association • Japan Flavor & Fragrance Materials Association ROE* % ROA* % • Japan Food Additives Association • Mint Industry Research Council 2016 7.6 2016 4.4 • Natural Renewable Stewardship Circle • Rainforest Alliance 2017 7.7 2017 3.7 • Research Institute for Fragrance Materials (Board of Directors) 4.9 3.6 • Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil 2018 2018 • Sedex • Syndicat National des Fabricants de Produits Aromatiques • UN Global Compact Equity Capital Ratio % Investment 2016 48.4 2016 7.3 2017 51.0 2017 6.3 2018 51.5 2018 4.5 Depreciation R&D Expense to Expense Sales Turnover % 2016 5.4 2016 8.5 2017 5.7 2017 8.6 2018 6.1 2018 8.1 13 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 14 Corporate Profile Business Outline Takasago has been developing innovative flavors, fragrances, aroma ingredients and fine chemicals to enrich people’s daily lives. Creativity, inspired by nature We design to taste… and powered by science Endless Possibility Green Chemistry 15 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 16 Sustainability at Takasago Sustainability Vision Message from Senior Vice President As a company that recognizes its corporate responsibility Action Plans 2018-2019 to the global environment and aspires to be a society’s most trusted partner, we position sustainability as one With regard to EHS, we fully recognize the climate of the key cornerstones of our business to ensure a Tatsuya Yamagata change as an urgent global issue. Last year, Environmental Economic Senior Vice President, prosperous society for future generations. the board of directors actively discussed TCFD Global Integration Headquarters, Responsibilities Responsibilities recommendations. In October 2018, Takasago joined and EHS Executive Furthermore, as a responsible corporate citizen, we fulfill Japan Climate Initiatives and began to prepare for our economic, environmental and social commitment in applying for the Science Based Targets initiative(SBTi). a well-balanced manner. Specifically, we make utmost CO2 emission reduction is a key issue that Takasago Social efforts to reduce our environmental impact through Responsibilities has been tackling for many years under our EHS100 diverse initiatives for reduced waste and improved Plan. In addition to down-to-earth, day to day efforts, energy efficiency, to conserve bio-derived materials, and The Takasago group considers sustainability as we will continue to investigate additional ways to actively embrace diversity in our workforce through a a vital element for our growth. Strengthening our to increase renewable energy use as well as the sound diversity management. sustainability position is defined as one of the key development of manufacturing processes to bring corporate action plans under “One-T”, launched in more green chemistry and improve its production in April 2018. Global Integration Headquarters, efficiency. Preparation of acquiring ISO45001 newly formed to achieve the aim, is responsible for certification also started. Along with continuous strategizing and planning as well as leading Takasago and steady efforts to be made at each affiliate, History Sustainability Team, which consists of our functions ISO45001 certification will help strengthen and globally Takasago has been actively developing environmental initiatives into the business activities since the environment of Environment, Health and Safety (EHS), Human standardize our operational safety management. statement was first published in 2002. Throughout midium-term business plans, Takasago has been expanding its Resources, Operations, R&D and Quality Assurance. scope to social aspects, such as human rights and diversity and to all sustainability-related issues. For these three years, Takasago has been focusing As for social aspects, we aim to strengthen on EHS, social aspects, governance, and disclosure. stakeholder engagement. Last year, Takasago Conflict The group is strongly committed to tackling global Minerals Policy was developed and communicated issues and fulfilling the our corporate responsibility as with relevant vendors on top of the Supplier Code of One-T a member of society. This will also help enhance the Conduct. We will monitor to ensure the dissemination corporate value in a long term. in a wider scope throughout the supply chain. Lastly, we continue to stress transparency and Strengthen Sustainability We are proud to say we made a lot of progress during timeliness on our information disclosure. Last year’s GP-3 Position the first year. As for governance, we revised the Charter sustainability report was made in line with GRI Develop Global Sustainable of Corporate Behavior and Code of Conduct with the guidelines for the first time. This year we continue to Communication GP-2 Society strong commitment to global challenges addressed by disclose information in an appropriate manner through Broaden the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as well the report and various media. EHS100 Scope GP-1 EHS as to society 5.0: Japan’s big societal transformation Strengthen Social plan. Takasago Group Human Rights Policy was also We make the utmost efforts to strengthen our Environmental •T  akasago Responses Sustainability Governance developed for the purpose of stipulating our thoughts sustainability position, fulfill our corporate responsibility • EHS100 revised to Team formed Discosure and commitment, and embodying a process (Human as a member of society and strive to enhance the incorporate social aspects Rights Due Diligence) to implement a risk management corporate value in a long term. • EHS100 Plan launched in all our business activities. Additional measures to *ISO45001: Occupational Health and Safety Standards • Gained ISO 14001 certification for our global ensure the cyber security are being taken and will business operations continue to be upgraded. 17 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 18 Sustainability at Takasago Takasago Sustainability Team Process for defining materiality Discuss influence on the Takasago Sustainability Team has been formed since Assess importance to group’s business success Discuss and then approve at 2016 to ensure that all our activities are globally stakeholders through global EHS at Sustainability Promoting board of directors’ meeting. sustainability indexes aligned with the vision and strategy and action plans Committee are conducted in a timely and appropriate manner. The team consists of five key corporate functions which are EHS, Human Resources, Quality Assurance, Human Operations Materiality 2018-2019 Resources Operations, and R&D. Takasago Sustainability Very high Team General manager of Global Integration Headquarters is leading the team and communicates key sustainability issues at the board of directors. Sustainability •Reduction of Environmental Impact Quality •Green Chemistry •Climate Change Promoting Committee, in which representatives from R&D Assurance •Local Communities •Occupational Health and Safety each function participates, takes place regularly at •Diversity •Innovation Headquarters to exchange information and concerns •Customer Health and Safety and monitors the progress on our activities. as well as monitor the progress. Through this global Respective team is responsible to communicate communication matrix, Takasago is strengthening Importance to stakeholders globally across its functional area and develop its own sustainability across the globe. action plans following the corporate strategy. A global meeting takes place every quarter or so to build mutual •Biodiversity •Education and Training •Human Rights communication and discuss issues and concerns •Employment •Responsible Supply Chain •Economic Performance •Transparency Revision of the Charter of Corporate Behavior and Code of Conduct As a global entity with the corporate philosophy behaviors. Takasago reviews the Charter of Corporate “Contributing to Society through Technology”, the Behavior and Code of Conduct whenever necessary. Takasago group has established the Charter of The latest revision was made in December 2018 to Corporate Behavior and Code of Conduct to globally add our commitment to tackling global challenges •Fair Competition •AntiCorruption •Risk Management implement its business principles and ethics. It is well such as climate change and human rights as well as communicated with all the employees across the globe innovation to embody Society 5.0: Japan’s big societal and incorporated into the employees’ practices and transformation plan. high high Influence on business success Very high Materiality Assessment •EHS •Social •Governance •Disclosure •Economic Performance Takasago conducts a materiality assessment, taking Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), and standards external opinions into consideration, and reviews its of Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). High material issues every year. In our materiality matrix, X axis is discussed and reviewed by Takasago X-axis represents “company’s influence on business Sustainability Team and brought up to the board of success” and Y-axis represents “importance to directors for further discussion and decision-making. Low High stakeholders” defined by a third party organization, The content and topic boundaries of this report are with reference of global sustainability indexes, such as defined according to the following process. 19 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 20 Sustainability at Takasago Our Business Activities and SDGs In June 2017, Takasago signed the UN Global Goals (SDGs) in many aspects such as reducing CO2 Category Material Issues Plans Compact. The group adheres to the ten principles in emissions for Goal 13 and process-innovation for Goal the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti9. We will further enhance our business operations to corruption. Our business activities are originally aligned help achieve SDGs with strong commitment to tackling with the United Nations Sustainable Development global challenges. • Occupational health • Acquire ISO45001 and safety • EHS 100 Plan • Reduction of • Authorization on SBT EHS environmental impact Initiatives • Climate change • TCFD recommendations • Biodiversity • Enhance engagement with community Materiality • Promoting diversity • Global alignment Very high • Community • Enhance engagement with community • Suppliers and partners • Responsible supply chain assessment • Renewable resources Social • Innovation • Concept, product and process Innovation • Continuous flow/ • Green chemistry manufacturing process • Bio technology process Importance to stakeholders • Education and training • Enhance education and training program • Employment • Career development • Human rights • Human Resource Due Diligence • Anticorruption • Global training program Governance • Risk management • Strengthen management • Fair competition • Global training program Disclosure • Enhancce information high • Transparency disclosure high Influence on business success Very high 21 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 22 Our Activity Governance At the Takasago group, we continue to further roles in the business operations. This is to ensure strengthen our corporate governance by ensuring that both the directors and corporate officers remain that decisions are made according to the corporate focused on their primary roles and that the decisions guidelines and the process is properly monitored by made and directions set by the board are dutifully the board of directors. Transparency in corporate executed in a timely manner. Improvements of the activities is further enhanced through appropriate governance structure have been made continuously. information disclosure. In addition to establishing the In addition to Crisis Management Board, Compliance Governance basic policy on internal control, a corporate officer system was introduced to clearly separate the board of directors’ supervisory and policy making functions Committee, and Corporate Governance Committee, Risk Management Committee was newly organized in March 2019. All committees are chaired by Satoshi from corporate officers’ execution and implementation Masumura, our President and CEO. • Risk Management General Meeting of Shareholders • Crisis Management Appointment/Dismissal Report Appointment/Dismissal Report Appointment/Dismissal Report • Compliance Board of Directors Audit Audit & Supervisory Board Audit & Supervisory Board Member Cooperation • Human Rights Audit & Supervisory Board Office Appointment/Dismissal Report Report Crisis Management Board EHS Compliance Committee Audit Accounting Risk Management Committee Auditor Corporate Governance Committee Board of Corporate Officers Report • Environment Direction Report Operating Division Internal Audit Audit and Inspection • Occupational Health and Safety Department Cooperation • Takasago Safety Day 2018 Social Aspects • Stakeholder Engagements Shareholders and Investors Suppliers Customers Employees Society 23 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 24 Our Activity the exchange rate could impact the group’s business Economic Conditions results and financial condition. Future recession or economic downturn in main Risk Management markets, both in and outside Japan, could affect our Compliance Globalization sales performance. It could also lead to a change The Takasago group does not only value the The Takasago group conducts business globally. in consumer demand that holds off on buying home The Takasago group considers compliance to be one environment and society, but also the sustainability Confusion of politics, economy, society and many products, foods and so on under the stagnating of its top priority management issues and strives to of our business. In order to fulfill our responsibility to other aspects caused by emergent situations such as economic situation. Decline in consumers demand continuously improve its compliance system while every stakeholder, Takasago regularly monitors and terrorism, war, pandemic, and so on, could significantly in main markets could impact the Takasago group’s ensuring fair and proper business activities and identifies risks that could potentially affect our business affect the business performance and financial business results and financial condition. effective corporate governance. The group has a stability while striving to maximize stakeholder value. condition. compliance hotline that enables all employees to report Compliance violations of compliance and consult their concerns on Our Risk Management Committee, consisting of Procurement/Sales To conduct our business globally, the group complies compliance issues. Through an internal publication, general managers, identifies potential risks that may The Takasago group sources raw materials and with laws and regulations or relevant standards on KUMPU, all employees of any type of contract within hinder business continuity, as well as formulates supplies its products around the world. Natural product quality and safety, the environment, and the group are informed of the compliance hotline. and reviews preventive measures against them. The disasters, trend in consumer preference, changes in chemical substances as well as accounting, tax, labor, risks identified are reported to the board of directors international and local regulations and other significant and transactions in each country and region. In case During the reporting period, we identified no issues meeting for further review. changes are factors that influence the procurement new laws and regulations or relevant standards are put brought up through the system. Nor was there any and sales activities, and thereby significantly affect our into effect, they could make a significant impact on our incompliance with any laws and regulations in the We will continually develop and implement measures business performance and financial conduction. business performance, restricting the group’s business social as well as economic areas. to mitigate each of the risks listed below in the best activities and requiring additional investments to cope possible way. Accidents/Disaster with the situation. Natural disasters or accidents that occur in the Risks Identified areas where our production sites are situated could Human Resources damage production facilities and disrupt procurement, The Takasago group is expanding business all over Human Rights Climate Change distribution and sales. Consequently, these difficult the world. There could be a risk that the group fails The Takasago group’s financial performance could be situations could negatively affect Takasago’s business to sufficiently secure and develop human resources, The Takasgo group fully recognizes respect of human significantly impacted by climate change, unexpected performance and financial condition. which could affect our financial performance and rights as our corporate responsibility. The Charter of climate variability or extreme weather events due to position. Corporate Behavior and Code of Conduct, revised in global warming caused by greenhouse gas emissions, New Products Research and Development 2018, includes respect of human rights, which is to or unseasonable weather that occurs irregularly. For The Takasago group continues to make an effort for be incorporated into our corporate culture. To further example, as the group sources and uses a variety research and development of new products well ahead strengthen its commitment, “Takasago Group Human of natural raw materials, shortage and price hike of of potential needs of the market. However, delay of Rights Policy” was developed based on the Universal natural raw materials, caused by climate change, could developments or unforeseen changes of consumer’s Declaration of Human Rights and International restrict the operations. Also, unseasonable weather in preference could negatively affect the effect of Covenants on Human Rights, the International Labor summer could affect the sales of our flavor products investments for research and development. Crisis Management Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles for beverage market, which is one of our main and Rights at Work, the Ten Principles of the United categories. Information Security Takasago has established its crisis management Nations Global Compact, and the United Nations The Takasago group deals with confidential information system, including business continuity plan (BCP), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Exchange Rate related to research and development, production, which enables us to take necessary precautions Human Rights Due Diligence is in place to identify, The Takasago group develops, manufactures and marketing and sales, as well as the personal against possible disasters and emergency situations. prevent and mitigate relevant risks. supplies products in a global scale, taking advantage information of numerous customers. The Takasago All the procedures are to help effectively minimize of having 11 overseas consolidated subsidiaries. group’s business results and financial condition the impact of a contingency, and immediately restore Due to fluctuation of the exchange rate, the noncould be affected by leak of confidential or personal normal operating conditions. The Crisis Management consolidated financial statements, when exchanged information held by the group resulting from attacks Board is set up at the Corporate Headquarters in into Japanese yen, could potentially affect the financial on its server, unlawful access to it, a computer virus Tokyo. In the event of a crisis, no matter where it condition of the consolidated financial statements. In invasion or other factors that are out of our control. arises, the Crisis Management Board organizes a foreign currency transactions, significant fluctuations of meeting to control the situation and give directions. 25 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 26 Our Activity Our EHS Statement EHS Our EHS Statement are available in 11 languages, to disseminate the group mission to all employees, who Environment Environment, are working in 27 different countries. As part of its basic management policy, the Health & Safety Declaración de EHS E 环境保护与健康安全（EHS）声明 Takasago group aims to be “A well regarded E company that respects the global environment and Global EHS Management the group requirements and implement them in an local communities” and endeavors to reduce the Medioambiente 环境 H S H S The Takasago group is aware of the importance of appropriate global alignment. Takasago has been Salud Seguridad 健康 安全 environmental impact of its activities. environmental conservation and the health and safety implementing a long-term EHS plan called EHS Como empresa global que basa su filosofía en la contribución a la sociedad a través de la tecnología, el Grupo Takasago renueva su compromiso de adecuarse a las necesidades de la 作为一家以“立足技术、贡献社会”为理念的全球企业，高砂集团重申其承诺 ： sociedad, asegurando el cumplimiento tanto de las leyes como de las normas aceptadas 我们在满足社会需求的同时必须确保遵循法律、法规与自愿合规义务， 100 (2009 – 2020) that includes objectives such Environmental Management System voluntariamente, con el fin de proteger la salud, la seguridad de las personas y la of its employees and the other stakeholders. 保障人们的健康与安全以及保护全球环境。 conservación del medioambiente global. 1. Mantenemos EHS como un valor en todas nuestras actividades de negocio. 1. 我们在所有业务运营中均坚持以EHS为价值观 。 2. Trabajamos para mantener y reforzar las actividades relacionadas con EHS en as climate change (reduction of CO2 emission), 2. 通过与我们员工以及内外部利益相关方的协调，我们将继续开展并加强各种EHS活动。 As of December 2018, 20 production sites, Corporate coordinación con nuestros empleados y colaboradores internos y externos. 3. Proporcionamos la formación y conocimientos necesarios para asegurarnos de que 3. 我们提供必需的教育与培训来确保在系统化与可持续的基础上实施我们的EHS活动。 nuestras actividades EHS se llevan a cabo de forma sistemática y sostenible. 4. 我们对我们经营活动的EHS影响进行评估，并在减少对环境造成的影响、保障员工与 4. Evaluamos el impacto de nuestro negocio en las áreas de EHS y constantemente 工作场所的安全，以及维护与促进员工健康等方面，不断加强我们的EHS活动。 environmental conservation (reduction of water use), reforzamos las actividades enfocadas a la reducción del impacto en nuestro entorno, la Our EHS Headquarters is responsible for strategizing seguridad de nuestros empleados y lugares de trabajo, y el cuidado y fomento de la salud de nuestros empleados. April 10, 2017 2017年4月10日 Research & Development Division (Hiratsuka, Japan) waste management, promotion of renewable energy, Satoshi Masumura and planning as well as leading the Global EHS and EHS Office at Headquarters are certified to the ISO Satoshi Masumura 代表取缔役社长 日本高砂香料工业株式会社 President and Chief Executive Officer Takasago International Corporation Committee, in which the EHS representatives of and management of chemical substances. EHS data 14001 standards under a single corporate certificate. associated with these objectives are entered into the From left: EHS Statement (Spanish), EHS Statement (Chinese). each affiliate participate. The Committee takes place Organization The Takasago group every quarter to monitor our global activities on the EHS management system, called T-ReCS, by each site Address 5-37-1, Kamata, Ota-ku, Tokyo, Japan environment, and occupational health and safety. on a regular basis and collected by EHS Headquarters Global EHS Manager Meeting Standard ISO 14001:2015 for monitoring. Also, for enhancing operational safety, On top of a quarterly-held video meeting, a face to face Development and Manufacture of The EHS Headquarters developed the group EHS we are preparing to gain certification to ISO45001 meeting takes place every three year at our headquarters Scope of Certification Flavors, Fragrances, Aroma Ingredients, and Fine Chemicals Guidelines and Minimum EHS Requirements to set standards by 2020. in Tokyo. The objectives are to share EHS related Site Registered activities of each site regarding EHS and to ensure our EHS Office achievement of EHS100 goals. In January 2019, we Hiratsuka Factory released our newly developed Occupational Health and 20% Iwata Factory Safety Risk Assessment Rules. Prior to official release of Takasago International Corporation CO2 reduction Kashima Factory by 2020 vs. 2010 the rules, the briefing session was held during the global in non-production sites Corporate Research & EHS manager meeting. In addition, the risk assessment Development Division workshop was conducted to get the EHS managers JAPAN Takasago Spice Co., Ltd. Hadano Factory familiar with the rules, hazard identification and risk Takasago Coffee Co., Ltd. Iwata Factory evaluation. Takasago Chemical Corporation Kakegawa Factory Takasago Food Products Co., Ltd. Nankaikako Co., Ltd. Implementation of 20% Takasago West Japan Co., Ltd. renewable energy Industrial waste reduction Takasago Europe Perfumery Laboratory EHS100 Plan Factory 50% by 2020 vs. 2010 in non-production sites S.A.R.L. -Phase (FY2018-2020)Takasago International Corporation Flavor Factory (U.S.A.) Excerpted Global EHS Manager Fragrance Factory Takasago International meeting, workshop (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Takasago De Mexico S.A. De C.V. OVERSEAS Takasago Europe GmbH Shanghai Takasago-Union Promoting voluntary Recycle industrial waste Fragrances & Flavors Co., Ltd. Pudong Factory standard of reduce, reuse, andrecycle of 100% Takasago International Chemicals (Europe), S.A. container at all production sites Takasago International (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. Takasago Fragrâncias E Aromas Ltda. Takasago International (India) Pvt. Ltd. *As of December 2018 27 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 28 Our Activity Energy and Emissions Energy consumption within the organization Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 3) Total Water Withdrawal by Source The Takasago group manufactures flavors and 2017(Restated) 2018 Changes in % CO2 emission Ratio to GHG water withdrawal (m3) 2017 (Restated) 2018 total Ratio to the (MT) fragrances incorporating a variety of natural raw Direct Energy (GJ) gross volumes Third Party cat 1 Purchased goods and services NA materials, which are sourced from all over the Town Gas 208,190.59 218,645.10 5.0% Municipal Water 615,961.02 627,015.78 LP Gas 3,125.70 3,632.82 16.2% cat 2 Capital goods 12,317.76 0.7% Industrial Water 481,565.00 457,224.00 world. The price, quality and supply volume of our Fueland-energy-related LNG 285,792.45 285,579.91 -0.1% cat 3 NA Ground Water 2,117,269.48 2,065,243.14 raw materials have been affected by bad weather activities Natural gas 0.00 3,766.04 Upstream transportation Total Water Withdrawal 3,214,795.50 3,149,482.92 cat 4 1,767,122.00 95.1% globally especially these years. In addition, some of and distribution Residual Fuel Oil 43,085.07 41,792.83 -3.0% our production bases have been directly affected by cat 5 Waste generated in operations 1,932.29 0.1% Gas/Diesel Oil 5,847.81 7,071.47 20.9% Water Discharge by Destination cat 6 Business travel 3,082.00 0.2% natural disasters such as heavy rains that risk supply Kerosene 22.94 2.57 -88.8% water discharge (m3) 2017 (Restated) 2018 cat 7 Employee commuting 6,172.00 0.3% of our products. These extreme weather events are Gasoline 1,612.44 2,004.20 24.3% Surface Water 2,665,791.94 2,600,367.40 cat 8 Upstream leased assets NA presumably caused by climate change. Waste Oil 32,258.77 28,973.87 -10.2% Ground Water 0.00 863.00 Downstream transportation cat 9 NA Total Direct Energy 579,935.77 591,468.81 2.0% and distribution Third Party 403,348.54 404,222.48 Indirect Energy (GJ) cat 10 Processing of sold products NA As such, taking appropriate actions on climate change Total Water Discharge 3,069,140.48 3,005,452.88 Electricity purchased 800,177.89 790,939.37 -1.2% cat 11 Use of sold products NA is an extremely important issue for us not only to End-of-life treatment of Steam purchased 28,648.67 28,885.32 0.8% cat 12 NA Water Intensity protect the global environment, but also to assure the sold products Total Indirect Energy 828,826.56 819,824.69 -1.1% cat 13 Downstream leased assets NA 2017 2018 supply of our products that is directly associated with Renewable Energy (GJ) cat 14 Franchies NA Water intensity sustainability of the business. cat 15 Investments NA NA (m3 per tonne production) 10.49 9.73 Biomass incinerated 55,116.64 32,860.39 -40.4% Electricity purchased 74,460.10 112,695.17 51.3% Scope 3 1,790,626.05 96.3% Our total energy consumption in 2018 increased by Total Renewable Energy 129,576.74 145,555.56 12.3% Scope 1 31,877.47 1.7% Waste Management 1.2% from the previous year due to steady growth Scope 2 36,118.40 1.9% In 2018, 1.7% of the waste generated is finally Total Energy 1,538,339.07 1,556,849.06 1.2% GHG total amount 1,858,621.92 of our business. By our efforts to increase the use of landfilled, but there are countries and areas where renewable, however, CO2 emissions in 2018 decreased Energy intensity the manifest system is not in place, and processing 6.8% compared to 2017. 2017(Restated) 2018 Water and Effluents information on waste at outsourced companies is not Energy intensity (GJ per tonne production) 10.49 9.73 Currently availability of water does not directly affect available or is unclear for some cases. In the future, We will continue making utmost efforts on reduction our business operations, as we have good access to we will aim for collection of more accurate data by of greenhouse gas emissions through strengthening Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1 + 2) sufficient amount and quality of water. However, we selecting contractors that can disclose processing overall energy management, upgrading equipment, 2017(Restated) 2018 Changes in % have production facilities in 13 countries, and some are information. improving production processes and introducing GHG emissions (tonnes) located in areas where demand of water is expected more environmentally friendly technologies such as Scope 1 31,483.70 31,877.47 1.3% to increase in the future. In addition, as securing a We will work to reduce the amount of generated waste Scope 2 41,495.56 36,118.40 -13.0% continuous flow manufacturing processes. sufficient amount and quality of water is very important through appropriate sorting and recycling practices, Total (Scope 1 + 2) 72979.26 67995.87 -6.8% to for our operations, shortage of water and change and related education to our employees. or deterioration of water quality directly affect our GHG emissions intensity (scope 1 + 2) Waste by type and disposal method production output and quality. 2017(Restated) 2018 Changes in % Hazardous waste (tonnes) 2018 GHG emissions (tonne)per tonne production Recycling 1,152.06 Scope 1 0.28 0.23 -20.2% We have reduced our total water withdrawal by 2.1% Incineration 85.14 Scope 2 0.21 0.20 -7.2% from the previous year by our efforts, such as the Landfill 32.29 Total (Scope 1 + 2) 0.50 0.43 -14.6% reduction of water consumption through recycling of Total hazardous waste 1,397.74 water used in manufacturing processes and reviewing Non-hazardous waste (tonnes) 2018 cleaning processes. We will continue making our Recycling 21,099.03 efforts to reduce water consumption. Incineration 6,504.55 Landfill 481.93 It is important to understand the specific condition Total non-hazardous waste 28,104.15 and requirements of water use at each site and make efforts for the proper use. Through a periodical survey Environmental Compliance on regulatory trends and risk analysis, we strive to The Takasago group considers compliance as one grasp water risks at each site and the associated of its top priority management issues. In 2018, control measures. discharged water quality slightly exceeded the local effluent standards at two production sites. We have been working hard to improve our discharged water 29 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 quality and comply with the standards. 30 Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment, Work-Related Injury and Incident Investigation Fatal occupational injuries were not occurred at all the Occupational Health As one of the recent actions in summer, we took up sites globally. 18 operators in Japan, 26 in Europe, 10 & Safety (OHS) an action on heatstroke prevention. EHS Headquarters and staff members at a production site of Takasago in Asia, and 17 in Americas, however, were wounded during manufacturing in 2018. We have to make extra Japan collaboratively measured WBGT (WBGT; efforts to reduce such work-related injuries. Based on the declaration that “Safety is our First Wet Bulb Globe Temperature) value and identified Priority”, the Takasago group recognizes operational higher risked area in the site. They recommended Environmental Incidents health and safety as our top priority in the entire and advised how to prevent heatstroke at the area. Neither at all the sites in Japan, nor all the sites in operations for the sustainable growth. Additionally, as part of EHS Headquarters activities, Europe, Asia, and Americas, any outflow incident EHS office personnel has been visiting production beyond the site occurred. However, some slight OHS Communications sites in other countries to conduct an EHS inspection leakage due to damaged and/or turned-over Since the fire accident in 2013, Takasago Japan to verify that the work environment properly meets or containers occurred. We continue making extra efforts has been conducting an official meeting called exceeds the Minimum EHS Requirements. We also to reduce such incidents at work. Safety Committee on a monthly basis, in which EHS focus on odor control derived from manufacturing at a representatives of our production sites, concerned site to prevent such environmental pollution. departments’ directors, and general managers participate. The objective of the meeting is to address key issues and any concerns reported in a regular site audit and others and monitor the progress of improvement actions. We ensure all issues are put into PDCA cycle and additional preventive measures are implemented across the group. In addition, both obligatory and voluntary occupational Regular Site Audit safety and health meetings are regularly conducted at each production site. Development of OHS Management System WBGT Meter Heat Stoke Meter As the transition from OHSAS 18001 to ISO45001 We have been conducting an OHS inspection at started in 2018, we have been trying to acquire the our production sites out of Japan too. We make an ISO 45001 certification globally by 2020. Acquiring inspection to see if situations and practices at the this global standard will help strengthen and globally sites conform to our EHS minimum requirements and standardize our operational health and safety share and discuss issues and concerns to resolve with management. We expect that injuries and illnesses as colleagues. well as incidents at workplaces will be prevented or significantly reduced. In Japan, we have been conducting risk prediction activities. Through the activities, we are developing capability of risk prediction in our employees. This helps prevent injuries and incidents. 31 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 32 Takasago Safety Day 2018 R&D (Kanagawa, Japan) Takasago Food Products Kashima Factory Safety inspection in all work place Takasago West Japan (Shizuoka, Japan) (Ibaraki, Japan) (checking for storage conditions (Hiroshima, Japan) Checking of grounding-point of hazardous goods, check and We designated April 10th as Takasago Safety Day. This is the day to reflect on the 2013 fire accident, Inspection for ignition source Fire prevention training, training and ignition preventing point, replacement of safety equipment, in workplace, communication of discharging water, lecture of fire prevention training with fire sorting and setting-in-order in and to pledge, “Never to let such an accident happen again”. test of MCA, education of experience of 2013 fire incident bureau officer living room and warehouse, handling of oxygen breathing On April 10th, 2018, Takasago Safety Day was held with various safety trainings at all the group apparatus (scope; firefighting communication test of each section in R&D, firefighting training companies in and out of Japan to develop safety awareness and improve knowledge about safety. Each team and engineering team of (collaborated with TIC Hiratsuka self-firefighting team), internal Factory) one of us reaffirmed our commitment towards safety. firefighting training Headquarters Iwata Factory (Tokyo, Japan) (Shizuoka, Japan) Nankaikako Address of EHS Executive and Hiratsuka Factory Education of prevention of electric Takasago Coffee standard first aid training course. related incident by an internal (Wakayama, Japan) (Kanagawa, Japan) lecturer, checking and cleaning of Iwata Factory Experience simulated earthquake Address of GM of Production and switchboard in each work place, Procurement division, education (Shizuoka, Japan) (intensity 7), firefighting drill, Our President and CEO checking and cleaning of 100 V lecture of zero accident campaign Firefighting drill on the assumption delivered a speech at Iwata of fire protection and disaster outlet in office, communication Takasago Spice of fire at warehouse, pest control prevention in hazardous facilities, test of MCA and satellite phone Takasago Chemical Factory in Japan. The video inspection for ignition source in Hadano Factory training Kakegawa Factory message was sent for the work place, firefighting training (Kanagawa, Japan) (collaborated with TIC R&D) Firefighting drill on the assumption (Shizuoka, Japan) group companies out of of fire at the certain place, forklift Training of suitable wearing of Japan. training (classroom and hands-on) personal protective equipment, by an external lecturer for all discharging water by firefighting employee team and handling of respirator New Jersey, USA (Office) France Training all employees for using Firefighting drill using fire extinguisher, presented on fire New York, USA Singapore the SDS, remind against risks associated with the handling of prevention, game learning of (Fragrance Factory) Fire safety seminar by fire chemicals product and use of the safety and hazardous, hands-on New Jersey, USA Presented active shooter safety prevention center, fire extinguisher protective equipment supplied learning of distracted driving demo, call point demo, firefighting (Flavor Factory) for the work place, firefighting suit, spill kits demo Education of prevention of drill using fire extinguisher, first ignition and flammable materials, aid kits, AED’s, eye washes, demonstration of ignition, suitable safety quiz Guangzhou, China The speech is as below. Discussion of problems from Shanghai, China handling of personal protective Taking safety measures is an safety patrol, firefighting drill, Evacuation, firefighting and equipment, discussion of endless activity. We position improving compliance and safety sightseeing to local fire bureau rescue drill for fresh person based safety as an extremely on procedure important theme in our new midium-term business plan that Spain began in April, 2018. “Safety Firefighting drill and safety operation” is the basis of all management system inspection our business activities. We all Mexico and audit based on SEVESO Germany bear in mind that we cannot Education of prevention of Brazil Education of ignition on directive achievesustainable growth * SEVESO directive; ignition and flammable materials, Demonstration and education of workplace, fire prevention, Requirements to companies without our strong commitment firefighting drill using fire mechanism of ignition, prevention first aid, personal protective extinguisher Morocco adopted after a Seveso disaster. to “Safety First”. India of ignition, risk of chemical and equipment, gas detection and In this directive, companies must chemical risk assessment Education and drill of handling fire GHS. Firefighting drill, inspection Firefighting drill using fire take every necessary action, such extinguisher, Education of risk of extinguisher Madagascar of forklift and charging station as establishing safety report, chemical explosion, contest of Education and drill of handling fire emergency plan, land use plan safety slogan by employee extinguisher, first aid training and monitoring system. 33 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 34 Our Activity Corporate Procurement Guidelines Social We have established “Corporate Procurement Suppliers Shareholders Guidelines” according to Corporate Procurement Stakeholder Takasago discloses corporate information in a timely Employees Society Policy. To ensure appropriate business procedures that comply with responsible sourcing, these guidelines and adequate manner to shareholders and investors. Our Supply Chain Engagements As part of our efforts to improve our IR activities, we Customers Suppliers indicate important items, such as “Compliance”, send the Newsletter to Shareholders twice a year Our supply chain and “Fair trade”, “Anti-corruption”, “Human rights” and while disclosing related documents and press releases procurement model at a glance “Environmental protection”, all of which are important on the IR site in our website to expand the investor Takasago values sustainability through its businesses. factors in selecting suppliers. These guidelines Shareholders community and enable shareholders and investors It is therefore essential to source raw materials for make our tasks and our responsibilities clear, so all to deepen their understanding about our business each of its business units in a responsible way, in full procurement staff, including persons in charge of local activities. alignment with group values and both clients’ and civil purchasing can implement corporate policies and society’s aspirations. ensure responsible procurement activities. We hold financial result briefings twice a year (May and Takasago is using about 14,000 different raw materials To confirm the implementation of these principles Employees Society November), and our president and officers in charge sourced from more than 1,000 suppliers all over the in day-to-day operations by our staffs, we regularly directly communicate with the investors and analysts. world. About 5,000 of the raw materials are natural conduct workshops on Corporate Procurement The details of the briefings are also disclosed on our ingredients coming from natural sources such as Guidelines so that all of procurement staffs shall IR site. Furthermore, Investor and Public Relations plants, fruits, vegetables, roots, leaves and flowers. understand and follow the corporate initiatives Department takes charge in handling reporting related On the other hand, about 9,000 of the raw materials appropriately. to IR and visits to investors. are synthetics made by sophisticated chemical Customers Suppliers technologies. Their main starting materials can be of Takasago Supplier Code of Conduct natural origin such as wood or synthetic origin such We respect business partners who value environmental as natural gas or naphtha. They can not only provide a and social responsibility to maintain a high level of unique sensory profile which does not exist in nature, trust from society. We have established the Takasago Takasago regards shareholders, society, suppliers, but also replace natural ingredients to decrease usage Supplier Code of Conduct as followings: customers and employees as our key stakeholders. of protected ingredients such as musk, ambergris and so on. For timely supply of high quality raw “As a company that values the global environment Engaging with each stakeholder through dialogue materials with appropriate prices to our facilities & aspires to gain a high level of trust from society, Takasago holds sustainability as one of the key provides us with insights on important issues to them around the world, we are promoting procurement cornerstones of our business. Takasago therefore and our company. We also highly value communication activities using our global network. In order to build prioritizes & values suppliers that place importance with stakeholders for corporate decisions. fair and trustful relationships with worldwide business on global & social responsibilities (e.g. sustainability, compliance with laws, regulations & social norms, partners for continuously sustainable procurement, protection of human rights, assuring health & safety & we have established a Corporate Procurement Policy, fair trade).” Corporate Procurement Guidelines and Takasago Supplier Code of Conduct. It confirms the understanding of our policy among Shareholders Shareholders Corporate Procurement Policy business partners. We declare it in our questionnaire and confirm their full understanding when starting and Investors Employees Society We have established the “Corporate Procurement transactions with them. Policy” in accordance with the “Basic Management We strive to offer an appropriate Customers Suppliers Policy” as a guide for implementing local community The Takasago Code of Conduct is a summarized return of profits to shareholders conservation and global environment protection in our statement therefore it is followed by our Responsible by realizing sustainable procurement activities. Sourcing Policy which indicates our ambition, growth through sound and transparent corporate We practice the following in our procurement activities: objectives and commitment in detail. management. At the same time, we work hard to further strengthen communication with shareholders • Pursuing the three elements of quality, cost and and investors both in and outside Japan. stable supply • Persisting in the observance of all relevant laws, respect for human rights, being fair, dealing impartially and considering preserving the environment 35 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 • Valuing a regional culture and building a partnership 36 between the Takasago group and the supplier Our Activity Global Procurement Team Training Session Responsible Sourcing • Build strong, mutually beneficial and transparent partnerships with suppliers Teamwork is one of the important values of the Global procurement team members shall have In June 2017, Takasago signed the UN Global • Maintain and strengthen a system that can stably Takasago group. an opportunity to attend the training session at Compact (UNGC) and in accordance with “UN Global and reliably procure high quality raw materials We have teamed up for global procurement for headquarters in Japan. • Mutual understanding for sharing goals through Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human dialogue and RFQ with suppliers more than 30 years and the team currently contains We have been conducting it twice a year, aiming rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption” • Thorough implementation of the “Takasago Supplier delegates from 11 overseas production sites. their better understanding of corporate medium-term stipulated there, we continue our efforts to realize Code of Conduct” which emphasizes corporate management plan, corporate procurement policy and social responsibility such as sustainability and these 10 principles. We are also striving for sustainable respect for basic human rights by periodic supplier As we handle various raw materials from all over the guidelines as well as intergroup networking through procurement activities as much as possible while surveys utilizing questionnaires world, mostly with different cultural backgrounds, face-to-face meetings for teamwork. focusing on compliance with national laws, respect • Check for no forced labor or child labor by periodic Takasago presence at origin is one of the major keys to supplier questionnaires for human rights, environmental conservation, fair ensure stable supply. *According to the supplier questionnaire results 2018, we confirmed all our VOICE business practices, involvement and development in business partners acknowledged as Takasago global suppliers meet the social and Each affiliate, therefore, shall be responsible for environmental standards. local communities and so on. supplier relationship management as an international Sylvie Spencer in We have been continuously reviewing our Responsible procurement office for the Takasago group. Takasago Europe Sourcing Policy in accordance with ISO20400: Collaboration with 3rd Party Organizations Perfumery Laboratory sustainable procurement guidance. Based on the In order to pursue responsible sourcing, the Takasago Based on the concept of standardization, including S.A.R.L. (France) policy we will confirm the potential impact of our group has joined social organizations promoting harmonization of raw materials, we continue to explore “Meeting the people in the procurement activities in various fields of “human sustainable and ethical sourcing to improve every possible opportunity for total optimization of raw training and learning about rights, labor, environment, anticorruption”. The procurement, taking into consideration environmental material management. their way of working was very much appreciated Responsible Sourcing Policy embodies the concept conservation. We have become a member of RSPO Global RFQ (Request For Quotation) is one example of – it will surely ease our communication to of the Supplier Code of Conduct. If the possibility of (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil) *1, RCPA such activities. understand and support each other. Intense week negative influence is confirmed, we will promptly plan (Renewable Citrus Products Association) *2 and When it is necessary to manage the availability of raw in terms of training but so interesting, we have for improvement and cooperate with suppliers and are working on procurement of sustainable natural materials due to global volume constraints, the Takasago learned a lot!” other stakeholders to implement it. materials. team globally shares inventory within the group. Supplier Relationship Management In early 2016, we joined Sedex*3 (AB membership), In addition to a regular annual meeting at Gülser Akdeniz in In the Takasago group, we conduct international which enables us to assess our suppliers in the headquarters, our global procurement team schedules Takasago Europe procurement activities utilizing the global procurement areas of Work Environment, Health & Safety, various workshops, regional meetings, visits and G.m.b.H. (Germany) organization with the headquarters procurement Environmental Management and Ethical Business training via a matrix-like structure by region, ingredient “For persons like me, who department at the center. Through global procurement Practice. By using the world’s largest collaborative category or business type under corporate initiatives. has started to work almost activities we continue to contribute not only to our platform for sharing supply chain data globally, along 2.5 years ago, great chance customers but also to all stakeholders by reliable with a separate Supplier Questionnaire, we ensure to get a huge information input in a very short supply of high-quality, safe and secure products. an ethical supply chain. As of fiscal 2018, we have time. Received interesting information about the For this purpose, we utilize dialogue with suppliers, established relationships on Sedex with around 160 challenges/missions of our colleagues from the a supplier questionnaire and RFQ (Request major suppliers overseas and in Japan. We confirm if other affiliates. Teamwork and openness is always For Quotation) to conduct supplier relationship a new business partners are Sedex members when important to work in a global acting company – management as stated below: starting transactions and encourage them to become good possibility to realize it during the training.” a Sedex B member if they are not. We also started to encourage prioritized existing suppliers to join Sedex for sustainable relationship if they are not. To further enhance our sustainable procurement, we review training programs with trainees’ and trainers’ *1 RSPO: A social organization trying to transform the palm oil industry into a sustainable industry with fewer burdens on the environment. feedbacks considering Takasago’s direction with *2 RCPA: A group of companies interested in developing sustainable citrus products. *3 Sedex: An online platform for sharing information on ethical and responsible the latest social and environmental requirement. practices. We will start training for all persons associated with procurement activities including staff from other departments. 37 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 38 Our Activity Sustainability: Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification “TaSuKI” Program Update TaSuKI Originals Schemes (PEFC) certifications and others for pine1. Overall We implement and manage responsible sourcing strategies evolution of our sourcing along the value chain to secure sustainable supply. based materials. This is a significant challenge, and the Since last year we have further evolved our TaSuKI TaSuKI Care TAKASOURCE is a tool validated by ECOCERT Expert first meetings with key suppliers have been organized. program governance to ensure that TaSuKI addresses We support local suppliers, producers, their communities Consulting developed to assess the natural extracts One expected outcome of this initiative is receiving the all of our clients’ and civil society’s key aspirations in a and reduce impact on the environment. we purchase. Working with a cross-functional team RSPO certification according to the mass balance (MB) clear, comprehensive and effective way (see diagram TaSuKI Comply We commit towards responsible sourcing compliance. from purchasing and sustainability and an external supply chain model for several compounding facilities. below). Therefore, for the most important ingredients TaSuKI Share expert, we assess the combination of raw materialsourced by Takasago, we will combine related activities We are transparent in the way we communicate supplier each time since the same material may Recycled & Renewable Materials and according to the four pillars described below. program’s objectives, strategies, and progress. have different countries of origin depending on the Packages supplier. For each source, we review the three pillars Because of the characteristics of our production TaSuKI, The virtuous circle of responsible sourcing backward integration at Takasago of sustainability: environmental, economic and social we cannot use reclaimed materials. Considering the aspects from the cultivation to transformation of the procurement of sustainable natural materials, we Continuitu of Supply material. are trying to use recycled ingredients made from Price & Quality stability fallen trees, sawdust, cut-branches materials, waste Innovation materials instead of those traditionally coming from • Social: Satisfy human needs and meet the objectives TaSuKI Originals of social equity, by favoring the participation of logged trees. It will be one key activity of the TaSuKI 1.Sustainable all social groups working on health, housing, project in the future. Sourcing Strategies consumption, education and cultural topics. For the Takasago group*4, the ratio of renewable raw • Environmental: Conserve, improve and value the environment and natural resources in the long term, materials*5 we used in 2018 is about 47% of our total. by maintaining the ecological balance, by reducing We started maintaining our ingredients and calculate TaSuKI Care TaSuKI Share Respect for local the risks and by reducing the environmental impacts. Transparency 2.Programs for GHG gas emission to significantly improve this figure 4.Proactive Communities & • Economic: Ensure the distribution of wealth and Ethics Local Communities Communication environment profits, incorporate the social and environmental and prepare for the future depletion of petroleum. & Environment costs to the price of materials and seek to develop the local economic network. We do not use recycled bottles and packages for our finished products for safety, regulatory and cost TaSuKI Comply 3.Supply Chains A natural material is graded based on the scoring reasons. Basically, recycled pallets are only used for Compliance criteria, and we conduct a final assessment ranked some storage and oneway use for safety reason. Traceability by a priority of action. By the end of 2018 we had assessed more than 80% of our natural materials by We use recycled materials (waste paper and steel volume and value. Our most important suppliers have materials) for cardboard packaging and steel drums, been informed of our approach and asked to comment and the ratio of waste paper used in cardboard on our assessment. varies according to the country. We are also reusing intermediate bulk containers (IBC), steel drums and About its scope: society’s aspirations. This can span from establishing This process has enabled us to identify the highest risk pallets as far as there is no potential safety risk. We have conducted an in-depth analysis of our a collection network, building a green field plant to naturals in our product portfolio, and we work actively Packaging materials unfit for use are collected, sorted purchased raw materials portfolio and made an initial acquiring existing sourcing/manufacturing expertise in on enhancing this priority list of naturals to reduce the and recycled by authorized recycle contractors. list of the most important ingredients we ultimately its countries of origin. risk profile, while continuously reviewing outstanding would like to fully take backward integration approach. *4: All Japan subsidiaries and affiliates in global and new materials. *5: Renewable raw material: A renewable resource is a natural resource which can Not only for risk mitigation reasons but also providing About its organization : replenish itself to overcome human consumption through biological reproduction, naturally recurring processes and/or other positive actions. Based on the definition a distinctive competitive advantage to our creative Takasago has a longstanding individual presence of GRI Standard Japanese version, we compiled the ratio of renewable raw material In 2019 another new challenge was started . We are usage. teams, clients and communities from which we procure in countries of origin for growing, sourcing and expanding the assessment to renewably sourced materials. manufacturing natural ingredients. However, we are raw materials that are not naturals: pine, palm oil and now in the process of combining all sourcing presence soy derivatives which are used for fragrance. The About its strategies: in countries of origin under one “common roof” to objective is to achieve “zero deforestation” in our value For each ingredient identified as important, we are leverage synergies, roll out best-in-class sourcing, chain mainly through RSPO certification for palm oil currently designing TaSuKI Originals, Care, Comply CSR, traceability, systems-use practices and be derivatives and Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and and Share strategies to address clients and civil prepared for significant TaSuKI scope expansion. 39 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 40 Inspired Our Activity 2. Ongoing Projects This longstanding local presence enabled Takasago to Unfortunately, as we all know too well, this negative — Science by While TaSuKI obviously has global reach, we intend to develop unrivaled understanding of local communities’ trend has accelerated lately. Therefore, like patchouli, Mediumto long-term scientific program with the fully leverage our rich heritage of SMEs in extended constraints, aspirations, needs and support them with vanilla had been identified long ago as an ingredient for Malagasy regional university, agronomy research Asia-Pacific regions and initially prioritize sourcing tangible economic, environmental and social impacts: which Takasago needed full backward integration. institutes and plant biotechnology labs in Europe presence in regions as follows: —P  TTI has provided direct and indirect employment For this very purpose, 10 years ago Takasago formed with the overall objective to improve quality, yields Nature to local communities since it was incorporated back a joint venture with Ramanandraibe Export, a welland thus farmers’ revenues (genetics, varietal Asia-Pacific: in 1980. respected and established Malagasy company mapping and improvements, pest/disease control, Patchouli Oil from Indonesia —P  TTI develops a long-term approach with producers specialized in agri-commodities production and etc.…) and encourages loyalty and long-term relationships. transformation. Largest vanilla plantation in the heart of vanilla • Strategic sourcing of patchouli oil – TaSuKI Originals —P  TTI strives to source regularly, pay at a fair market The purpose of this joint venture is to directly source producing area in Sava to research, develop, run price, but also often pay a premium over the market and upgrade vanilla in Madagascar. pilot improvement programs and develop training Indonesia with its rich biodiversity is known to be a price to reward the quality of the oil and loyalty. For this, we have dedicated buyers and collection to roll out best practices to local producers treasure trove for the flavors and fragrance industry. —P  TTI has very early on been providing training and stations upcountry in the heart of the vanilla growing Capability building training to producers Among the many essential oils and spices originating advice to producers with the objective to: regions, as well as a plant in Toamasina, Madagascar — Support to Local Communities and Their from the archipelago is found the iconic patchouli oil. Reduce impact on the environment (pesticides, to process high quality extracts. Environment Indonesia is by far the largest source of patchouli oil fertilizers, firewood usage, crop rotation, etc.…), Education: Donation of IT equipment, lab financing with 90 % of worldwide production. Roll out best practices to optimize yields, reduce However, we soon realized that being “simply” and sponsorship of students’ PhD on vanilla rejection rates and for producers to optimize their vertically integrated from sourcing to processing improvement in Cursa Regional Sava University. For instance, Patchouli has been used for incense in revenues. locally like patchouli in Indonesia would unfortunately The goal is to generate local human resources Japan for thousands of years, and has sometimes — Constant dialogue with small holders to ensure a not suffice to ensure a sustainable supply of highwith enough scientific background to achieve suffered severe shortages. Many companies have seamless and superior quality supply of patchouli quality vanilla extracts. Given the social and economic scientific research on vanilla and improve the local attempted to develop a large-scale alternative source oil. situation in Madagascar, issues are far more complex. environment. or an exact chemical equivalent, but all have struggled. — Formal training and reminders of Takasago Focus on local communities and their environment, • Infrastructure: Reconstruction of roads and We, at Takasago, with our longstanding sourcing Suppliers Code of Conduct, particularly relating to infrastructures improvements and scientific expertise, elementary schools in Maroantsetra leadership in Asia-Pacific region, pursued another the social compliance section. and strategies are a must to make a significant and • Nutrition: Distribution of rice to local cooperative sourcing strategy and ambition. As early as 39 years — Anticipation of trends and volatility mitigation by sustainable turnaround for Madagascar’s vanilla to members for immediate relief after hurricane ago, we decided to settle in Indonesia, in the heart of longer term dialogue and mutual sales / purchase regain the legitimate prestige it had for years. Enawo one of the essential oils producing regions. Close to commitment, even when the market is at a dip. individual smallholders, we aimed to secure our own While planted acreage has increased steadily over the • Vanilla CSR compliance and traceabilityTaSuKI supply directly from local farmers and distillers. years supported by continuously skyrocketing prices, Comply We established direct sourcing relationships with output and quality is on the opposite deteriorating producers, built a greenfield processing plant with significantly. Why ? Sustainability is in Takasago’s very DNA. Therefore, our modern technology and research capabilities to Malagasy operations in Madagascar are: develop unique qualities as well as to secure continuity We carefully analyzed the situation and as we can compliant with our Code of Conduct, EHS 100 Plan of supply of these high-quality oils for Japanese and only support but not resolve governance issues, we ISO 14001 certified other affiliates’ markets. We achieved our objective decided to focus on local communities, infrastructure Members of Sedex to fully integrate our procurement of the oil along the and technology, and launched in 2015 our own holistic certified as FairTrade® entire value chain in the country of origin. program: • Support to local communities and environment – Africa TaSuKI Share and TaSuKI Care. Vanilla from Madagascar As previously mentioned, Since PT Takasago Indonesia • Vanilla strategic sourcing TaSuKI Originals and (PTTI) was incorporated in 1980 and for decades of TaSuKI Care local presence, we have deepened our relationship with individual farmers. For years, the vanilla supply chain in Madagascar has faced major ethical, environmental and economic issues. 41 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 42 Our Activity Concept Innovation Product Innovation Customers Shareholders “Japan Wood Project” blooming woods Aroma Ingredients from Renewable The concepts such as “nature”, “organic” and Resources Research & Employees Society “wellbeing” are the major global trends in the As Takasago approaches its centennial in 2020, we fragrance product market. Natural materials are are honored to be the leading global Japanese aroma Development Suppliers Customers essential for embodying those concepts. Takasago ingredient company. Historically, aroma ingredients has been working on capturing and analyzing the are extracted from plant and animal origins, and scents of unique Japanese flora with our technology Sustainable Citrus Supporting we have challenges including unreliable supplies INNOVATION AROMASCOPE™ and reconstituting them without Conservation of Natural Resources and fluctuations in quality due to impacts of Mother Our R&D organically integrates three innovations: losing their natural qualities. Citrus oil is one of the most important natural Nature. Therefore, we have moved toward production “concept innovation” to create new value by raw materials for flavor and fragrance. Recently, of nature-identical synthetic aroma ingredients to scientifically analyzing and assessing the human In 2017, we started “Japan Wood Project” focusing on however, citrus oil has been facing some difficulties conserve biodiversity by reducing conventional senses; “product innovation” to materialize those the scents of Japanese trees. Hinoki (Chamaecyparis and challenges in its sustainability. Nearly 50 % of extraction from naturals. We have been focusing concepts into our products; and “process innovation” obtusa Endl.) in Kiso area, Hiba (Thujopsis dolabrata processed grapefruit has been produced in the US. more on sustainable and renewable sources of raw to establish safe and efficient production technologies Siebold et Zuccarini var. hondae Makino) in Aomori However, for two decades, the production volume of materials. Sustainability is a key mindset to our vision. with a lower environmental impact. We have 10 R&D area and Sugi (Cryptomeria japonica) in Akita area are grapefruit in Florida, the major grapefruit region, has l-Menthol is a representative example as we centers all over the world, and we bring our unique species endemic to Japan. The forests in those three decreased sharply. In particular after the year 2000 manufacture it from renewable myrcene. We also and effective technologies and products into reality areas are called “日本三大美林” which means “the due to the influence of enormous hurricane disasters use renewable resources coupled with our synthetic through these three innovations and open innovations most beautiful three forests in Japan”. In this project, and some serious diseases primarily including technology to give birth to our new ingredients such with our external partners. our team has established an innovative method for citrus greening. Therefore, high quality grapefruit as Biomuguet® and Biocyclamol®. Both are naturereconstituting natural scents and we are now working oil has become limited and the price has increased identical, biodegradable and chiral molecules which significantly recently. Open Innovation on creating our new collection of woody fragrances provide indispensable alternatives to existing synthetic with a concept “blooming woods.” In this critical situation, Takasago has promoted muguet ingredients. Our newest molecule launched Sleep Study for Supporting Human Health The concept expresses a new woody note with backward integration with our citrus processors and with a woody and amber note Dextramber® is just Scents and odors are known to have many effects freshness and diffusivity. Through visiting these forests suppliers to secure stable procurement of citrus oils. one such ingredient under our CHIRAROMA® platform on human physiology and psychology. A variety of and smelling various woods, we found that the freshly We are also pursuing alternative solution to lessen which utilizes our asymmetric chemistry and epitomize research reports have described their effects on cut down wood has unique top notes and strong the excess dependence on citrus oils by using our our commitment to contribute to society through humans. Takasago has been working on revealing diffusivity, and it has convinced us that there are new expertise as a technology-driven flavor company. With technologies. how scents and odors work on our psychological possibilities. Thus, we decided to reconstitute this our cutting-edge analytical technologies, advanced states with scientifically established physiological fresh woody scent. biosynthesis technologies for new natural aroma Materials Development from Wastes or measurements. By investigating human responses To analyze the characteristics of this scent, we tried ingredients and excellent flavor creation technologies, Unutilized Resources to the scents and odors, we get evidence that some various analytical methods and finally developed the we have deeply investigated components in citrus oil The active use of wastes or unutilized resources leads of them can have influences on humans. With these following approach: first to scrape thin layers of dried that contribute to the olfactory note and developed to fully utilizing natural resources to the maximum. Powered studies, we aim to contribute to supporting human wood using the Japanese traditional planer called kanna citrus extenders reconstructed with those components We believe it is one of the effective actions to provide well-being by developing flavors and fragrances based just before the analysis and add water, and then capture to partially replace citrus oils in our formulation. solutions for the environment. Takasago has identified on human physiological data supporting states of the headspace volatiles. We found out that adding water Through our intensive study on grapefruit oil, a various kinds of useful materials from previously wellness. Recently, in order to meet an increasing to the wood can trigger the release of the fresh top sesquiterpene ketone “mustakone” was elucidated unutilized resources. They were applied to develop by variety of needs for scents and odors smoothly, we note and its character is close to our target. In addition as one of the compounds that most contribute to unique flavor and fragrance ingredients using enzyme are now focusing on collaboration with universities. to analytical data, we utilized gas chromatographygrapefruit’s olfactory characteristics. Currently, we and fermentation techniques to add high value to our For example, a study on sleep was conducted with olfactometry (GC-O) to figure out the key characters are working on manufacturing natural mustakone and flavors and fragrances. Takasago will continue these Nagaoka University of Technology to investigate the contributing to the unique scent and finally leading to the other contributors from natural sources other than actions to reduce its environmental impact. Science scents that can support a good sleep. reconstitution of natural woody scents. citrus oils for the sustainable purposes. Through such holistic approach, Takasago is always We are challenging ourselves to represent the new striving to provide our customers with citrus flavors in natural feeling through an integration of our innovative consistent quality with stable supply. analytical technologies and creation expertise. 43 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 44 Our Activity newly developed catalyst should contribute to reduced production safety and recovery by thin film distillation. GREEN CHEMISTRY use of hydrogen and energy. We will continue to make Our key natural products manufactured at CIT include Process Innovation environmentally benign processes through catalysts. gamma-decalactone, gamma-octalactone, gammaOur R&D and manufacturing activities are oriented nonalactone, phenylethyl alcohol, hexanal and other to Green Chemistry. Green Chemistry is defined as specialties. the design of chemical products and processes that reduce or eliminate the generation of hazardous Takasago Chemical Corporation substances. Twelve principles of Green Chemistry have Accelerates Development of Continuous been proposed, and the scope of green chemistry Production Facility “iFactory®” includes not just pollution by toxic chemicals but Takasago Chemical Corporation, an affiliated company energy conservation, waste reduction, and life cycle of Takasago Group, is leading a joint development considerations such as the use of more sustainable or program as part of a consortium comprising eight firms renewable feedstocks. Natural Aroma Ingredients Developed by and one institute. White Biotechnology Dubbed “iFactory®”, this program will bring about 1. Prevent waste As a leader in asymmetric catalyst technology, many of continuous production of pharmaceutical ingredients 2. Maximize atom economy our ingredients are manufactured under the principles and highly functional chemical products. 3. Design less hazardous chemical syntheses of green chemistry. By incorporating the principles 4. Design safer chemicals and products Continuous Flow Processing into our manufacturing processes, environmental Its purpose is to help build an energy-efficient 5. Use safer solvents and reaction conditions Reducing Environmental Impact and economic benefits have been established in economy and society while contributing to enhanced 6. Increase energy efficiency With the experience of continuous flow operations use of renewable resources, biodegradability, yield industrial competitiveness. 7. Use renewable feedstocks implemented in the l-Menthol production process, we improvement, more energy efficiency, reduction of 8. Avoid chemical derivatives understand the benefits of continuous flow processing. waste generation, and improvement in safety and It was adopted in 2018 to be among one of the 9. Use catalysts instead of stoichiometric reagents Thanks to recent progresses in this field, we are productivity. Many raw materials are derived from programs for innovating the strategic energy 10. Degradation of Design chemicals and products intensively expanding our capability toward continuous renewable resources and by-products which would conservation technologies put forward by the New after use flow, which is now recognized as an indispensable otherwise become waste materials. As a company Energy and Industrial Technology Development 11. Analyze in real time to prevent pollution tool to help achieve UN Sustainable Development that started its business in Japan, Takasago has the Organization (NEDO). 12. Minimize the potential for accidents Goals (SDGs). There are many advantages in adopting heritage based on Japanese culture for reducing waste continuous flow rather than batch processing and recycling. Catalysts Contributing to Reducing Energy including: White biotechnology is another driver in green Use and Waste chemistry. This uses enzyme or microorganism One of our key assets to practice Green Chemistry • Easier temperature control biocatalysts, which fulfils many key criteria of green is catalysts which achieve high selectivity and • Reduced risk in handling hazardous chemicals chemistry and contributes to SDGs. Increasing milder reaction conditions. These catalysts realize • Achievement of a more consistent throughput demand for natural flavor also drives new R&D using manufacturing processes with (1) minimized use biocatalyst. Asymmetric synthesis of optically active of raw materials, (2) reduced amount of waste, (3) Typically, smaller equipment than that for batch aroma ingredients is our proprietary technology known reduced energy consumption and (4) the use of safer processing is employed for continuous flow, which as CHIRAROMA@. In complement with Takasago and non-hazardous reagents. Since our first industrial enables easier temperature control. A noteworthy organic synthetic technology, biocatalysts also allow application of an asymmetric catalyst to the l-menthol achievement in this regard is the successful enantioselective bio-transformation. process in 1983, we have developed a variety of implementation of CSTR train to effect reduction using catalysts and applied them to our manufacturing lithium aluminum hydride (LAH). The CSTR system Takasago Food Products Co., Ltd., and US-based processes. maximizes the usefulness of the most versatile hydride Centre Ingredient Technology, Inc. (CIT), which joined We developed catalysts for ester reduction, which reagent while suppressing its inherited disadvantages our group in 2016 specializing in production by circumvents waste associated with conventional which frequently cause difficulties in batch processing. bioprocess, are becoming leading manufacturing hubs methods. Our continuous efforts led to an improved In our efforts to expand our continuous flow capability, for our natural aroma ingredients. CIT is a high-tech catalyst which enabled milder reaction conditions we are confident that continuous flow technology will production facility which uses fed-batch cultivation (lower hydrogen pressure, lower temperature, etc.) and contribute to reducing impact on the environment, and with accurate cultivation control and monitoring, thus expanded substrate scope. It is expected that the we are putting “continuous” efforts into this field. downstream processes with consideration of 45 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 46 Our Activity Quality Assurance Procedures (SOPs) and guidelines have been Training Programs All training results are shared with global and local established to standardize detailed QC procedures To further enhance the highest levels of quality and managements to assure that the lessons and skills Takasago is committed to working as a valuable across all business units and affiliates. These service, all Takasago Flavor and Fragrance affiliate learned are effectively reflected and utilized as part partner with our customers to meet all their product guidelines are also incorporated in the local quality Quality Control teams have participated in local of all local QC teams’ daily activities and continuous quality and safety needs and requirements. management procedures and practices ensuring global and global training sessions provided by both the improvement plans. This is a crucial part of Takasago’s alignment of our QC management. Global QC Centers. The Global QC Centers are efforts to continuously supply the highest quality Quality Assurance Organization the headquarters based technical resource groups products to our customers at anytime and anywhere The mission of Corporate Quality Assurance Customer Satisfaction that partner with customers and affiliates to provide all over the world. These global trainings contribute not Headquarters (QAHQ) is to ensure that Takasago support and trainings for QC teams at all Takasago only to the quality alignment of Takasago products, but Corporate Philosophy supplies safe, wholesome and reliable fragrances, affiliates to build globally aligned QC systems. Global also serve to improve teamwork between all the QC flavors, aroma ingredients, and fine chemicals that quality harmonization is a key element of training in teams as “One TAKASAGO.” comply with safety and regulatory requirements Basic Management Policy order to assure that our products consistently meet or of governing bodies, customers and/or trade exceed all requirements. The technical supervisors of Compliance associations. In addition, Takasago’s QAHQ makes Charter of Corporate Behavior the Global QC Centers coordinate the trainings. It is Takasago’s global policy to comply with the sure that Takasago consistently delivers quality Takasago Flavor affiliates produce regionally distinct latest regulations and/or legislations. Takasago fully Corporate QC Policy products and services that meet the highest flavor products. The recent Flavor QC trainings, supports the objective of the European Regulation Our policy and approach toward quality and product safety standards. QAHQ is an manufacturing and quality control conducted by the Flavor technical supervisors, on Registration, Authorization and Restrictions of independent organization within Takasago and consists Corporate QC-SOP/Guidelines including an organoleptic training, and sessions on Chemicals (REACH) to further improve the safe and of quality assurance departments across the globe The guidelines set out specifics regarding what gas chromatography methodologies, maintenance sustainable use of chemicals and the quality of life of we need to do for manufacturing and quality operating under the “One Takasago Quality Assurance contorol procedure, technical laboratory best practices and all citizens in Europe and the environment. 2018 was Concept”. This organization also includes global QC quality systems, are designed to provide the same a key milestone year for REACH. Takasago took an centers as well as global safety and regulatory affairs Global Meeting high-quality services to all customers in the world. active role in its implementation and registered all the centers working closely with the local affiliates. These Various global meetings of the quality division are held These trainings are also responded to local needs to relevant substances by the deadlines. REACH is a centers are also responsible for the development on a regular basis. The main objective is to ensure improve/ or advance in specific analytical areas. Our continuous process and we have been ready to work and implementation of our global policies and that Takasago continues to deliver products of the proactive activities will help align and streamline QC with the European Chemical Agency (ECHA) and the guidelines under our globally standardized business highest quality. The meetings are designed to update best practices, and in turn driving procedure efficiency competent authorities over the next years to generate process. With this, Takasago is able to provide the all the quality divisions on the latest regulations, improvements, resulting in less waste and reduced any required additional data that are needed to assess highest quality products to meet or exceed all of our global policies and guidelines and to discuss any safety risks. the safe and sustainable use of the chemicals we customers’ expectations worldwide. relevant issues or concerns on a timely basis. This Additionally, we provide proficiency testing globally, registered. Takasago monitored in 2018 all the other activity ensures that Takasago provides the same based on ISO/IEC17025 schemes to which Takasago chemical control regulations around the world with a QC Policy, SOPs level of quality and service for our customers globally. has been accredited. This helps confirm and special focus on South Korea’s K-REACH and Turkey and Guidelines QC Centers, for instance, coordinate quarterly standardize QC testing skills of the QC staff members REACH. Takasago’s Corporate teleconferences and semi-annual meetings with all and maintain them at the highest level as well as QC Policy was key QC leadership from each facility to exchange motivates the members. Our Global Safety and Regulatory Affairs Centers developed based information, leverage and share best practices, set continuously monitor everchanging in global on our Corporate and measure KPI’s and to keep the teams aligned and As for Takasago Fragrance affiliates, the regulations, customer requirements, standards and Philosophy, Basic informed. representatives of the QC teams attended an olfactive guidelines set by trade organizations such as FEMA, Management Policy intensive training at the Fragrance QC center. The IFRA, RIFM, IOFI, ACI, and PCPC. Information is and the Charter of training consisted of smelling natural raw ingredients shared promptly with each affiliate around the world, Corporate Behavior and finished products, in order to understand their guaranteeing that Takasago provides safe and reliable and Code of Conduct. complex nature and characteristics. The training also products all over the world in a consistent manner. This enables us to have included discussion about defining expectation levels a globally consistent in terms of harmonizing raw material and finished Certifications quality mindset and systems that not only meet our product qualities. Those attendees who were validated Takasago promotes the acquisition of management customer’s expectations but also ensure appropriate as Technical Referent now support and teach daily system certifications such as ISO 9001, FSSC 22000/ and timely improvements. In line with the Corporate olfactive training at each site and are also working as ISO 22000, GFSI Scheme and other internationally QC Policy, global QC Standardized Operating sensory contact. recognized quality and safety standards that are 47 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 48 Our Activity appropriate for products we manufacture. This is of our products on-the-job and external training opportunities. Trust Career Development part of our global initiatives that includes the group from customers is earned from providing pioneering Takasago is highly committed to career development companies in and out of Japan. Gaining these • Composition of our products (based on disclosure technology and exceptional service resulting from solid and career pathing for our employees. We understand requirements) standards helps us promote better quality and service, • Safety data sheets (which highlight components that teamwork of the Takasago group’s employees. To what knowledge, skills, personal characteristics and as well as ensure global standardization. may have a health or environmental impact) maintain this trust, we continually invest in educational, experience are required for an employee to progress in • Information on the safe use of our products development and enrichment opportunities, resulting his or her career. We identify talents, support employee On-site Audit in confident employees that embrace challenges, learn development beyond borders, share best practices and To further strengthen the group’s quality management, Such information is provided for all products from failures as an avenue for growth and successful knowledge transfer, broaden perspective and network global QC centers routinely conduct on-site audits manufactured by Takasago. During the reporting innovative improvements. Lastly, the organization and expand global capabilities. Takasago offers a of all manufacturing sites to assure their systems are period, Takasago has not identified any incident of inspires teamwork by engaging a diversified group of variety of tools, trainings and possibilities to develop consistently improving and meeting or exceeding all non-compliance concerning product information and professional competencies, fully equipped to meet laterally or by promotion and/or by departmental and prescribed requirements and standards, and that they labeling. a range of challenges. Roles and responsibilities overseas transfer. Employees actively participate in are aligned with Takasago’s business plan, objectives are aligned across affiliates, ensuring skills sets and career path aspirations and provide feedback to modify and quality control policy. requirements are comprehensive, utilizing local talents and enhance individual performance. In collaboration in a global manner. Quoted from Human Resource with management, performance metrics are established, Customer Health and Safety Takasago develops and manufactures a wide range Employees Shareholders Development Statement. *Quoted from Human Resource Development Statement development plans created and opportunities to embark on new projects provided, to fully understand the Employees of products across four business pillars: Fragrances, operations of the organization. Society Flavors, Aroma Ingredients, and Fine Chemicals. As Employment Situation Training and Education an integral part of the creation and manufacturing Takasago has its workforce in 27 Customers Suppliers Takasago engages in ongoing training activities Promoting Diversity processes, Takasago continually evaluates all products countries and regions around the to promote sustainable learnings and obtain Takasago continually strives to create a work for their health and safety compliance. This approach world with a variety of contracts positive behavioral results. These include providing environment that welcomes and respects diversity is applied from the research and development stage up and types of work. In 2018, 44% of employees is comprehensive education on anti-harassment and and empowers individuals to realize their full potential. to the manufacturing stage of our products. During the covered by collective bargaining agreements. diversity to ensure employees and managers embrace As part of this, we support efforts to increase female reporting period, Takasago has not identified any nonthe importance of cultural differences and inclusion, managers and foreign national employees while Employees including temporary staff compliance with regulations or industry-led voluntary support human rights, and respect varying beliefs and promoting the benefits of diversity and inclusion. Region Employees Male Female %Male %Female codes. practices. Safety procedures are prioritized to increase Takasago values the contributions of all employees, and Japan 1,747 1,361 386 78% 22% awareness of dangerous activities and hazardous believe that the broad perspective provided by a diverse Asia Pacific 734 373 361 51% 49% Marketing and Labeling Europe 711 406 305 57% 43% materials with the goal of eliminating injuries and workforce adds enhanced value to all our products and Takasago develops and manufactures Fragrances, Americas 664 377 287 57% 43% illnesses of all personnel. Anti-corruption, anti-trust and operations on a global basis. Flavors, Aroma Ingredients and Fine Chemicals. All Total 3,856 2,517 1,339 65% 35% related trainings are also provided across all regions of Takasago’s sales are made through business-toto educate and reinforce a commitment to regulatory Communication Permanent employees by age group business channels. None of the products are sold excellence and fair competition. The culture within Takasago Japan has been seeking to develop its own <30 30-50 >50 directly to consumers. Our Fragrances and Flavors are Region Total Takasago supports employee growth and development way for team building among the affiliated companies Male Female Male Female Male Female sold to companies supplying consumer goods, who from on-boarding, ongoing training and on-the-job in Japan. A sport event called “Takasago-Cup” is one Japan 229 60 821 235 301 73 1,719 incorporate them into their products that are sold to Asia Pacific 69 69 277 244 57 28 744 experiences. Building on employee expertise allows of our efforts in Japan. The event is held every year, in the general public. Our Aroma Ingredients are sold to Europe 63 57 229 179 101 55 684 Takasago to continuously enhance the products and which employees including those of group companies other Flavor and Fragrance companies for use in the Americas 25 35 203 112 150 75 600 services provided for the consumer. can participate. The matches of various kinds of sports creation and manufacture of their own compounds. Total 386 221 1,530 770 609 231 3,747 Educational Programs such as volley ball, basketball, tennis, baseball, and Takasago Fine Chemicals are generally used as so on are organized and participants enjoy playing intermediates for the manufacturing of pharmaceuticals Human Resource Development New employees Compliance matches among sites. Through such opportunities, we and of chemicals. When supplying our products to our Takasago recognizes that our employees are a critical aim to build solid team work at each business site and customers, Takasago provides product information component for success. The organization supports Site Specific across companies and develop an appropriate work as required by regulations and/or the customers. This an environment that empowers and challenges environment. typically includes one or more of the following: employees to reach their full potential. We focus on Professional EHS Development combining employee aspirations for career growth, Sourcing of the raw materials used in the manufacture with opportunities to enhance skills, by offering Takasago Educational Program consists of above 5 pillars 49 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 50 Our Activity Shareholders Blood drive with the American Red Cross. Society Employees Society (USA, Mexico, Brazil) For the last several years, Takasago America has partnered with the American Red Cross to sponsor blood drives for Community Customers Suppliers employees. Every blood donation saves or sustains the lives of up to three of our neighbors within the community. Takasago As the Takasago group states in Basic Takasago Spice Hiratsuka Factory Mexico and Brazil have started the same Management Policy that it respects the A breakfast with Clean up activity around the factory. Clean up activity and plant tulip bulbs action in their communities. We are global environment and local communities, gardeners(Germany) working towards the same direction across the Americas. All our gardeners are people we consider connecting with the locals with disabilities. We invited is fundamentally important. We have them for a breakfast in December 2018, and we been making various approaches such offered them chocolate Santa as holding cultural events, offering Clause at the breakfast. educational programs, making donations and supporting community activities for a Takasago West Japan Takasago Food Products long time. We will continue these activities Awarded for hazardous materials Donated culture soil to an elementary and try to be a partner trusted by local safety school in Iwata City, located in the central part of Japan. Holiday giving by the Giving communities. Tree Charities/Adopt A Family Foundation (USA, Mexico, Brazil) EMEA During the holiday season, all group companies in Americas participated in Support to ESAT (France) holiday giving actions for needy families organized by the above charitable Takasago France is continuously supporting to those organizations. Presents and donations suffering from illness and people with disabilities in were collected and delivered to local various ways. In 2018, they made donations to a families. specific center known as ESAT (“Etablissement ou Takasago Chemical Kashima Factory Service d’Aide par le travail”, or Inclusion through Work), Clean up on the Coast Joined clean up activity held annual charity dinners to raise funds for cerebral paralysis research and aesthetic care for patients in hospitals (26 different pathologies) since 1992. Asia Pacifics Iwata Factory Awarded for the contribution of cleaning up activities Visit nursing homes for Japan elderlies (Shanghai, China) Group companies in China region have been keeping a good relationship with residents World Disability International Day of the neighborhood and people in the community. Takasago Shanghai makes (Spain) regular visits to a nursing home for elderlies. Takasago Spain sponsored a video about eliminating discrimination at work against people with disabilities. Americas Educational program with schools (Singapore) Donations to the Arrastão Takasago Singapore engaged in an educational program project(Brazil) Providing support to the elderlies which aims to enrich the learning experiences of Takasago Brazil made donations to the students and to inspire them in pursuing STEM (Science, (Guangzhou, China) Arrastão project, a non-profit organization Technology, Engineering and Mathematics)-related Takasago International (Guangzhou) (TIG) provides that supports families in poverty in the career in the future. Both Flavor and Fragrance Division support to the elderlies in the community in their daily region. The donation supported the NPO’s of the company accepted students from schools which life. During Mid-autumn Festival, a Chinese traditional activities for community development in runs STEM-ALP (Applied Learning Programs) supported festival, TIG held activities in the community for caring the areas of education, culture, income by the Ministry of Education of Singapore. of the elderlies together with local government. generation, housing and quality of life. 51 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 52 How to enjoy the aroma of incense 1. When an incense burner placed in front of you, bow Spreading Culture of Fragrance passed around and participants should guess to which to a participant sitting beside you to express “Excuse of the five incenses it corresponds, and write their me for taking before you” Koh-do, the Japanese answer on a sheet of Japanese paper. Answers are Culture of Incense wood collected by the ceremony assistants. They check the 2. Bring the incense burner with your right hand and answers and tell the ceremony master the name of the place it on your left hand. Japanese incense ceremony: participants who gave the right answer. Winners are an unforgettable spiritual experience rewarded by one of the calligraphies written during the 3. Rotate the incense burner halfway to the left with ceremony at the end of the ceremony. your right hand, to place “listening point” in front of The incense ceremony of the Japanese Koh-do you. Society is held twice a year (in spring and autumn), Unfortunately I did not get any reward, but surprisingly, which is a great occasion to discover one of the the last winner kindly asked the ceremony master 4. Cover the incense burner so as to make a circle with traditional Japanese cultural arts. to offer me his calligraphy. I was greatly honored to the thumb and index finger of the right hand, to gather receive it. the scent inside the palm. Last April I was offered an opportunity to attend to the spring incense ceremony. It took place in a 122-year5. Keep the incense burner upright and lift to your old traditional Japanese house known as Shouen nose, listen to the aroma of incense from in between in Tokyo. This house is a beautiful example of the the thumb and index finger. Commonly, inhale incense Japanese culture of sustainability with its remarkably three times to listen to its aroma. well-maintained wooden structure. Full of participants dressed in kimonos and suits, it is a perfect place to 6. After listened, hold the incense burner with your immerse yourself in an atmosphere of the authentic right hand and place it to the next person, At this time, Japanese spirit. rotate the incense burner halfway to the right. Never There are other kinds of the sessions in which, for hand over the incense burner directly since a burning example, participants should find the three identical small round charcoal briquette is inside. incenses out of six. The incense ceremony itself is divided in three parallel sessions which are hold three times. Each ceremony is Japanese incense ceremony is not only a pleasant conducted by a ceremony master and assistants who moment to appreciate delicate fragrance of incense prepare and transmit the incense burners. Another wood but is also a good occasion to meet people. master depicts the ceremony with beautiful Japanese At the lunch break participants move to a different calligraphies that will be offered as award to the room of the house, and enjoy together the delicious winners of the session. lunchbox and the green tea served by the organizers. In one of these sessions, five different incense burners This was an unforgettable experience that I deeply with warmed incense wood chips in them are passed recommend. I would like to express my gratitude to IR The numerous tatami rooms of the house are around one after another to the participants who Public Relations Office for giving me an opportunity to connected to each other, and sliding panels (fusuma) sit on the tatami mat in seiza position. During the participate in the spring incense ceremony, and hope and sliding doors covered with Japanese paper (shoji) smelling time, the master of ceremony recounts a story that it will help to keep this traditional art alive. separate them from the wooden veranda, which related to the fragrance of incense wood. The sniffing offers a relaxing view on the inner garden. Everything or “listening to” each fragrance, as it is believed we Benjamin Dassonneville contributes to take you to the world several decades perceive it not by nose but also by heart, must respect Takasago International Corporation ago and the quietness of the place brings a sense of formal manners and etiquette. After the five incense tranquility and deep emotion. burners are returned to the assistant, a sixth one is 53 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 54 GRI Standard Context Index 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio ー G4-54 ― Percentage increase in annual total compensation 102-39 ー G4-55 ― ratio 5 Stakeholder engagement Standard GENERAL DISCLOSURES Pages Related information 102-40 List of stakeholder groups P.35 Stakeholder Engagements G4-24 6.2 / Reasons for omission G4 standard ISO 26000 GC 6.3.10 102 GENERAL DISCLOSURES 6.4 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements P.49 Employment Situation G4-11 6.4.3 3 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 6.4.4 1 Organizational profile 6.4.5 102-1 Name of the organization P.11-13 Corporate Profile G4-3 ― 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders P.35 Stakeholder Engagements G4-25 6.2 P.11-13 Corporate Profile G4-4 6.2 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services ― 6.7 P.15-16 Business Outline G4-PR6 6.7.4 102-3 Location of headquarters P.11-13 Corporate Profile G4-5 ― 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement P.35 Stakeholder Engagements G4-26、G4-PR5 6.7.5 102-4 Location of operations P.11-13 Corporate Profile G4-6 ― 6.7.6 6.7.8 102-5 Ownership and legal form P.11-13 Corporate Profile G4-7 ― 6.7.9 102-6 Markets served P.11-13 Corporate Profile G4-8 ― 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised P.35 Stakeholder Engagements G4-27、G4-PR5 6.2 P.11-13 Corporate Profile 6 Reporting practice 102-7 Scale of the organization Consolidated Financial Statement for G4-9 ― the First Quarter (Available in Japanese) Entities included in the consolidated financial P.1 About This Report 102-45 G4-17 6.2 statements P.11-13 Corporate Profile 6.4 102-8 Information on employees and other workers P.49 Employment Situation G4-10 6 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries P.19-20 Materiality Assessment G4-18 ― 6.4.3 102-9 Supply chain P.36 Our Supply Chain G4-12 102-47 List of material topics P.20 Materiality 2018-2019 G4-19 ― Significant changes to the organization and its P.1 About This Report 102-10 P.36 Our Supply Chain G4-13 ― 102-48 Restatements of information G4-22 ― supply chain P.30 Water and Effluents 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach P.27 Global EHS Management G4-14 6.2 102-49 Changes in reporting P.1 About This Report G4-23 ― P.14 External Partnerships and 102-50 Reporting period P.1 About This Report G4-28 ― 102-12 External initiatives G4-15 6.2 Initiatives 102-51 Date of most recent report P.1 About This Report G4-29 ― P.14 External Partnerships and 102-52 Reporting cycle P.1 About This Report G4-30 ― 102-13 Membership of associations G4-16 6.2 Initiatives 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report P.1 About This Report G4-31 ― 2 Strategy Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI P.3-8 Message from President and 102-54 P.1 About This Report G4-32-a ― 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker G4-1 6.2 Standards CEO P.18 Message from Senior Vice 102-55 GRI content index P.55-59 GRI Standard Context Index G4-32-b 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities President G4-2 6.2 P.1 About This Report (There is no P.25-26 Risk Management 102-56 External assurance G4-32-c、G4-33 7.5.3 external assurance for this report) 3 Ethics and integrity 200 Economic Values, principles, standards, and norms of P.9-10 Corporate Vision GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 102-16 G4-56 ― 10 behavior P.17-22 Sustainability at Takasago P.19-20 Materiality Assessment 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics P.26 Compliance G4-57、G4-58 ― 10 G4-DMA-a、 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary P.21-22 Our Business Activities and ― G4-20、G4-21 4 Governance SDGs 102-18 Governance structure P.24 Governance G4-34 6.2 P.9-10 Medium-term Management Plan One-T P.19 Takasago Sustainability Team P.10 Basic Management Policy 102-19 Delegating authority G4-35 ― P.24 Governance P.27-28 Environment, Health & Safety G4-DMA-b、 Executive-level responsibility for economic, > Global EHS Management 102-20 P.19 Takasago Sustainability Team G4-36 ― G4-EN34、 environmental,and social topics P.28 Environment 103-2 The management approach and its components G4-LA16、 ― 1、8 > Environmental Management System Consulting stakeholders on economic, G4-HR12、 102-21 ー G4-37 6.2 P.31 Development of OHS environmental,and social topics G4-SO11 Management System Composition of the highest governance body and Corporate Governance Report P.36 Our Supply Chain 102-22 G4-38 6.2 P.37-38 Responsible Sourcing its committees (Available in Japanese) P.47-49 Quality Assurance 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body P.24 Governance G4-39 6.2 P.18 Message from Senior Vice Nominating and selecting the highest governance Corporate Governance Report 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach G4-DMA-c 102-24 G4-40 6.2 President Action Plans 2018-2019 body (Available in Japanese) GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 Corporate Governance Report 102-25 Conflicts of interest G4-41 6.2 6.8 (Available in Japanese) P.11-13 Corporate Profile 6.8.3 Role of highest governance body in setting 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Consolidated Financial Statement for G4-EC1 102-26 P.19-20 Materiality Assessment G4-42 ― 6.8.7 purpose, values,and strategy the First Quarter (Available in Japanese) 6.8.9 P.18 Message from Senior Vice Financial implications and other risks and P.25 Risk Management 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body G4-43 ― 201-2 G4-EC2 6.5.5 7 President opportunities due to climate change > Climate Change Evaluating the highest governance body s Defined benefit plan obligations and other 102-28 ー G4-44 6.2 201-3 G4-EC3 ― performance retirement plans Identifying and managing economic, P.19-20 Materiality Assessment 201-4 Financial assistance received from government G4-EC4 ― 102-29 G4-45 6.2 environmental, and social impacts P.25-26 Risk Management P.24 Governance GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes G4-46 ― P.25-26 Risk Management Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender 6.4.4 202-1 G4-EC5 6 Review of economic, environmental, and social compared to local minimum wage 6.8 102-31 P.19-20 Materiality Assessment G4-47 6.2 topics 6.8 Proportion of senior management hired from the Highest governance body s role in sustainability 202-2 G4-EC6 6.8.5 6 102-32 ー G4-48 ― local community reporting 6.8.7 P.24 Governance GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 102-33 Communicating critical concerns G4-49 6.2 P.26 Compliance 6.3.9 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns P.26 Compliance G4-50 ― 6.8 6.8.3 Corporate Governance Report 6.8.4 102-35 Remuneration policies G4-51 6.2 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported ー G4-EC7 (Available in Japanese) 6.8.5 Corporate Governance Report 6.8.6 102-36 Process for determining remuneration G4-52 ― 6.8.7 (Available in Japanese) 6.8.9 102-37 Stakeholders involvement in remuneration ー G4-53 6.2 55 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 56 6.3.9 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 6.6.6 6.6.7 P.30 Water and Effluents P.38 Responsible 6.5.3 6.7.8 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination > Water Discharge by Destination G4-EN22 8 Sourcing 6.5.4 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts ー G4-EC8 6.8 P.30 Environmental Compliance P.46 Relationship with 6.8.5 P.30 Waste Management Local Society 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method G4-EN23 6.5.3 8 6.8.6 > Waste by type and disposal method 6.8.7 6.8.9 306-3 Significant spills P.32 Work-Related Injury G4-EN24 6.5.3 8 GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste ー G4-EN25 6.5.3 8 6.6.6 6.5.3 6.8 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers ー G4-EC9 306-5 ー G4-EN26 6.5.4 8 6.8.5 runoff 6.5.6 6.8.7 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 Non-compliance with environmental laws and 6.6 307-1 P.30 Environmental Compliance G4-EN29 4.6 8 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption ー G4-SO3 10 regulations 6.6.3 “Supplier Environmental Communication and training about anti-corruption 6.6 GRI 308: 205-2 P.50 Training and Education G4-SO4 10 Assessment 2016” policies and procedures 6.6.3 6.3.5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions 6.6 New suppliers that were screened using P.37 Supplier Relationship 205-3 ー G4-SO5 10 308-1 G4-EN32 6.6.6 8 taken 6.6.3 environmental criteria Management 7.3.1 GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 6.3.5 Negative environmental impacts in the supply 6.6 308-2 P.37 Responsible Sourcing G4-EN33 6.6.6 8 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, antichain and actions taken 206-1 ー G4-SO7 6.6.5 7.3.1 trust,and monopoly practices 6.6.7 400 Social 300 Environmental GRI 401: Employment 2016 GRI 301: Materials 2016 6.4 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover ー G4-LA1 6 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume ー G4-EN1 6.5.4 7、8 6.4.3 301-2 Recycled input materials used ー G4-EN2 6.5.4 8 Benefits provided to full-time employees that 6.4 401-2 are not provided to temporary or part-time ー G4-LA2 6.4.3 6.5.3 employees 6.4.4 P.39 Recycled & Renewable Materials 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials G4-EN28 6.5.4 8 and Packages 6.4 6.7.5 401-3 Parental leave ー G4-LA3 6 6.4.3 GRI 302: Energy 2016 GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization P.29 Energy and Emissions G4-EN3 6.5.4 7、8 6.4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational 6.4.3 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization ー G4-EN4 6.5.4 8 402-1 ー G4-LA4 3 changes 6.4.4 6.4.5 302-3 Energy intensity P.29 Energy and Emissions G4-EN5 6.5.4 8 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 6.5.4 Occupational health and safety management P.31 Development of OHS 6.4 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption P.29 Energy and Emissions G4-EN6 8、9 403-1 G4-LA5 6.5.5 system Management System 6.4.6 Reductions in energy requirements of products 6.5.4 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and P.32 Hazard Identification, Risk 6.4 302-5 ー G4-EN7 8、9 and services 6.5.5 403-2 G4-LA6 incident investigation Assesment, and Incident Investigation 6.4.6 GRI 303: Water 2018 6.4 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource P.30 Water and Effluents G4-EN8 6.5.4 7、8 6.4.6 Occupational health services 6.8 P.29-30 Water and 403-3 ー G4-LA7 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts ー G4-EN9 6.5.4 8 6.8.3 Effluents 6.8.4 P.30 Water and Effluents > Total Water 6.8.8 303-3 Water withdrawal G4-EN10 6.5.4 8 Withdrawal by Source Worker participation, consultation, and 6.4 P.30 Water and Effluents 403-4 communication on occupational health and safety P.31 OHS Communications G4-LA8 303-4 Water discharge 6.5.4 6.4.6 > Water Discharge by Destination P.30 Water and Effluents Worker training on occupational health and 6.4 303-5 Water consumption 6.5.4 403-5 P.33-34 Takasago Safety Day 2018 > Water Discharge by Destination safety 6.4.6 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 6.4 403-6 Promotion of worker health ー 6.4.6 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or 304-1 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high ー G4-EN11 6.5.6 8 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health 6.4 biodiversity value outside protected areas 403-7 and safety impacts directly linked by business ー 6.4.6 relationships Significant impacts of activities, products, and 304-2 ー G4-EN12 6.5.6 8 Workers covered by an occupational health and 6.4 services on biodiversity 403-8 ー safety management system 6.4.6 304-3 Habitats protected or restored ー G4-EN13 6.5.6 8 6.4 403-9 Work-related injuries P.32 Work-Related Injury IUCN Red List species and national conservation 6.4.6 304-4 list species with habitats in areas affected by ー G4-EN14 6.5.6 8 6.4 operations 403-10 Work-related ill health P.32 Work-Related Injury G4-LA8 6.4.6 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 P.29-30 Energy and Emissions P.50 Training and 6.4 305-1 Direct (Scope1) GHG emissions > Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) G4-EN15 6.5.5 7、8 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee ー G4-LA9 6 Education 6.4.7 emissions (scope 3) 6.4 P.29-30 Energy and Emissions Programs for upgrading employee skills and P.50 Training and Education 404-2 G4-LA10 6.4.7 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions > Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) G4-EN16 6.5.5 7、8 transition assistance programs P.50 Career development 6.8.5 emissions (scope 3) Percentage of employees receiving regular P.50 Training and 6.4 P.29-30 Energy and Emissions 404-3 ー G4-LA11 6 performance and career development reviews Education 6.4.7 305-3 Other indirect (Scope3) GHG emissions > Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) G4-EN17 6.5.5 7、8 emissions (scope 3) GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 P.29-30 Energy and Emissions 6.3.7 305-4 GHG emissions intensity > GHG emissions intensity (scope 1 + G4-EN18 6.5.5 8 P.49 Employment Situation 6.3.10 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees G4-LA12 6 2) P.50 Promoting Diversity 6.4 6.4.3 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions ー G4-EN19 6.5.5 8、9 6.3.7 6.5.3 6.3.10 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) ー G4-EN20 7、8 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women 6.5.5 405-2 ー G4-LA13 6.4 6 to men Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and 6.4.3 305-7 ー G4-EN21 6.5.3 7、8 6.4.4 other significant air emissions GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 57 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 58 6.3 6.7 6.3.6 6.7.3 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions 406-1 P.26 Human Rights G4-HR3 6.3.7 6 6 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product 6.7.4 taken 417-2 P.49 Marketing and Labeling G4-PR4 6.3.10 and service information and labeling 6.7.5 6.4.3 6.7.6 6.7.9 Freedom of Association and Collective GRI 407: Bargaining 2016 6.7 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 6.7.3 6.3 417-3 ー G4-PR7 marketing communications 6.7.6 6.3.3 6.7.9 6.3.4 Operations and suppliers in which the right to GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 6.3.5 407-1 freedom of association and collective bargaining ー G4-HR4 3 6.3.8 may be at risk Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 6.7 6.3.10 418-1 ー G4-PR8 6.4.3 customer privacy and losses of customer data 6.7.7 6.4.5 GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 6.6 6.3 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the 6.6.3 419-1 P.26 Compliance G4-SO8、G4-PR9 6.3.3 social and economic area 6.6.7 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 6.3.4 6.8.7 408-1 ー G4-HR5 5 incidents of child labor 6.3.5 350 317 6.3.7 6.3.10 GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 6.3 6.3.3 6.3.4 409-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ー G4-HR6 4 6.3.5 6.3.7 6.3.10 GRI 410: Security Practices 2016 6.3 Security personnel trained in human rights policies 6.3.5 410-1 ー G4-HR7 1 or procedures 6.4.3 6.6.6 GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016 6.3 6.3.6 Incidents of violations involving rights of 411-1 ー G4-HR8 6.3.7 1 indigenous peoples 6.3.8 6.6.7 GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 6.3 Operations that have been subject to human 6.3.3 412-1 ー G4-HR9 1 rights reviews or impact assessments 6.3.4 6.3.5 Employee training on human rights policies or 6.3 412-2 ー G4-HR2 1 procedures 6.3.5 6.3 Significant investment agreements and contracts 6.3.3 412-3 that include human rights clauses or that ー G4-HR1 2 6.3.5 underwent human rights screening 6.6.6 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 6.3.9 Operations with local community engagement, 6.6.7 413-1 impact assessments, P.51-52 Society G4-SO1 6.8 1 and development programs 6.8.5 6.8.7 6.3.9 Operations with significant actual and potential 6.5.3 413-2 ー G4-SO2 1 negative impacts on local communities 6.5.6 6.8.9 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 New suppliers that were screened using social P.37 Supplier Relationship G4-LA14、G4414-1 ― 2 criteria Management HR10、G4-SO9 G4-LA15、 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and 414-2 P.37 Responsible Sourcing G4-HR11、 ― 2 actions taken G4-SO10 GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions ー G4-SO6 10 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 6.3.9 6.6.6 Assessment of the health and safety impacts 416-1 P.49 Customer Health and Safety G4-PR1 6.7 ofproductand service categories 6.7.4 6.7.5 6.3.9 6.6.6 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health 416-2 P.49 Customer Health and Safety G4-PR2 6.7 and safety impacts of products and services 6.7.4 6.7.5 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 6.7 6.7.3 Requirements for product and service information 6.7.4 417-1 P.49 Marketing and Labeling G4-PR3 and labeling 6.7.5 6.7.6 6.7.9 59 TAKASAGO Sustainability Report 2018-2019 60
