Annual Report 2018 A specialty pharmaceutical company – with the aim of becoming a leader within addiction Contents The Business Financial Reports and Notes The Year in Brief 1 Reports 41 About Orexo 2 Notes 49 CEO Interview 4 Assurance of the Board of Objectives and Strategies 8 Directors and President 71 Key Therapeutic Area 10 Auditor’s Report 72 Innovations 12 Reconciliation and Definitions Technologies 13 of Key Figures 76 Products and Development 14 Key Market 18 Corporate Governance Sales 20 Corporate Governance Report 79 The Share 22 Auditor’s Report on the Corporate Governance Statement 84 Board of Directors 86 Sustainability Report 24 Management 87 Board of Directors Report 32 Other Information Glossary 85 Shareholder Information 88 Read more on our website Our corporate website, www.orexo.com, is our foremost communication channel. You are also welcome to follow us in other channels that are updated continuously with information regarding our business or our environment. These are: THE YEAR IN BRIEF 2018 – a pivotal year Key events during the year Q1 Q4 • The new year began with new exclusive contracts for • The US field force, which had previously been contracted, ­Zubsolv® which considerably improved the market access was internalized to further strengthen the commercial in the US. organization. • Development project OX124, treatment of opioid overdose • Joseph DeFeo, former Head of Finance and Operations with naloxone, demonstrated positive data from in-vivo in the US subsidiary, was appointed as new EVP and CFO studies and progressed into clinical development. from November 1, 2018. • A new project OX338, for acute treatment of moderate • A Capital Markets Day was hosted in Stockholm, Sweden. to severe pain with ketorolac, was announced. The keynote speaker was the former Governor of New Jersey, Chris Christie, who has also served as an advisor Q2 to President Trump on how to combat the #opioidcrisis. • Orexo communicated that the manufacturing efficiency • As of April 13, 2019, Orexo will regain the control of program is expected to reduce the average cost per tablet ­Zubsolv in all markets following a termination of the by 25 percent, with full effect as from Q1 2019 compared ­contract with Mundipharma. Orexo has initiated an to 2017. assessment of the best route to maximize the potential • The launch of Zubsolv was initiated in the EU by Orexo’s of Z ­ ubsolv in markets outside the US. partner Munidpharma. • A first phase I clinical trial was initiated for OX124 and Q3 ­positive study results were received. • Orexo won the patent litigation against Actavis in the • An in-vivo study was performed for OX338 and positive American Court of Appeals, securing Zubsolv’s exclusivity study results were presented at the beginning of 2019. in the US until September 2032. • The pipeline was expanded with the development project OX125, with the aim of developing a treatment of opioid overdose with nalmefene. • Orexo communicated that the manufacturing efficiency program will further reduce costs and now expects reduction of the average cost per tablet with 35 percent, with full effect from the second half of 2019 compared to 2017. 28% SEK 117 m SEK 590 m Zubsolv US, net revenues EBITDA 2018 Cash and cash equivalents, growth in 2018 December 31, 2018 Orexo won the patent litigation The pipeline increased securing Zubsolv’s exclusivity from 2 to 5 projects in the US until September 2032 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 1 ABOUT OREXO A fully integrated specialty pharmaceutical company Orexo develops improved pharmaceuticals based on innovative drug delivery technologies. The focus is primarily on opioid addiction and pain but the aim is to address therapeutic areas where our competence and technologies can create value. The products are commercialized by Orexo in the US or via partners worldwide. The main market today is the American market for buprenorphine/naloxone products, where Developed 4 products approved worldwide1 Orexo sells the product Zubsolv®. Total net sales for 2018 amounted to SEK 783.1 million and the Orexo has developed four products from concept to patient. The products have been approved in multiple number of employees was 129. Orexo is listed markets and helped patients benefit from improved on the Nasdaq Stockholm Mid Cap (ORX) and is drugs worldwide. available as ADRs on OTCQX (ORXOY) in the US. Products, page 15 The head office, where research and development is also performed, is situated in Uppsala, Sweden. Our drug delivery Strategic focus on technologies improve product pharmaceuticals expansion Orexo develops improved products by combining wellOne of Orexo’s objectives for long-term growth is to known and well-documented substances with in-house broaden the US commercial platform, by M&A transactions, innovative drug delivery technologies. to leverage scale and expand sales. Technologies, page 13 Objectives and strategies, pages 8–9 Key figures SEK million 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Net revenues 783.1 643.7 705.9 646.2 570.3 whereof Zubsolv US net revenue 621.5 485.8 481.8 416.7 228.0 Cost of goods sold –171.8 –164.4 –149.6 –150.2 –107.4 Operating expenses –515.6 –421.9 –584.4 –676.6 –487.9 EBIT 95.8 57.4 51.7 –180.6 –25.0 EBIT margin, % 12.2 8.9 7.3 –27.9 –4.4 US EBIT 198.3 73.7 21.4 –109.1 –100.4 US EBIT marginal, % 31.9 15.2 4.4 –26.2 –44.0 EBITDA 116.6 78.2 73.1 –99.9 –12.5 Earnings per share, before dilution, SEK 3.99 0.67 0.84 –6.09 –1.70 Earnings per share, after dilution, SEK 3.93 0.67 0.84 –6.09 –1.70 Cash flow from operating activities 242.0 146.6 156.2 –109.2 –487.3 Cash and cash equivalents 589.8 327.9 282.4 198.1 284.5 1 One of the products, Diabact, was divested when the subsidiary Kibion was sold in 2015 2 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ABOUT OREXO We make a Embracing all aspects of difference opioid addiction Orexo’s pipeline contains development projects with We work in the life science sector and at Orexo in the a primary therapeutic focus around opioid addiction midst of one of the largest health crises ever in the US, in all phases, from prevention to treatment. which takes tens of thousands of lives per year. I strongly believe that many talents want to work in a company that Development projects, pages 16–17 makes a real difference in people’s life and this is exactly what we offer at Orexo. CEO interview, pages 4–7 14% Key market characterized by strong growth In the US the #opioidcrisis is accelerating and in 2017 UN’s sustainabilty goals 3 and 5 are in focus when Orexo 70,200 Americans died of an overdose, mainly caused by report on its commitment for a sustainable world. use of opioids. There is a great need for treatment and Sustainability Report, pages 24–31 the buprenorphine/naloxone market grew by more than 14 ­percent in 2018. Key market, pages 18–19 Core Values Customer focus Engagement Flexibility Simplicity OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 3 CEO INTERVIEW Well positioned to become a leader in combatting the opioid epidemic The US opioid crisis is one of the greatest health crises of modern times claiming more and more lives. With a strong operational and financial platform we are well positioned to address this growing epidemic. The progress seen to date will allow us to expand our commercial platform, advance our promising R&D projects and ultimately provide innovative and affordable treatments to patients suffering from opioid addiction. You have a strong year behind you. What were the highlights? 2018 was a great year for Orexo. The most pivotal highlight was the positive outcome in the patent litigation in September which allows us to focus on the future shape of the company and our ambitious growth strategy for 2019 and beyond. In addition to the successful patent outcome, we made sufficient progress towards reducing manufacturing costs and saw progress across our pipeline with the addition of thress new programs, including OX124 (naloxone for treatment of opioid overdose) which reported encouraging clinical data in early January of this year. The strength of this data reinforces our confidence in the commercial potential of this program, which I believe will address a high unmet need, providing an improved product for opioid overdose patients. Overall, 2018 was a strong year for Orexo, and I can not thank my team enough for their efforts and hard work. You are ending the year with record profitability and a cash balance that continues to improve. What is driving this? Since my appointment as CEO in 2013 I have invested much of my time to increase the profitability of the business and I am pleased to see these efforts beginning to bear fruit. This has been achieved by applying significant cost control measures and implementing a conservative investment strategy in order to improve cash-flow and profitability. Increased profitability was largely driven by sales of Zubsolv® in the US, with an increase of 28 percent from 2017. We have also seen the impact of our manufacturing efficiency program in 2018, which has improved our gross profit m ­ argin, and I expect this to have an even greater impact in 2019. You have said that you will continue to be a profitable company. Can we expect the same strong financial performance in the future? Photo: Jenny Öhman Our ambition is to continue to improve our profitability for 2019 including EBIT and EBITDA. Despite increased compe4 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CEO INTERVIEW tition in the US, I feel confident that we are in a strong size of our workforce. However, I am pleased that these ­position to deliver further growth, particularly as we look to issues are now behind us and that thanks to the team and expand our commercial platform in this growing market commitment of my colleagues here at Orexo, we are with more products. Delivering on our strategy and further ­making good progress towards improving the current treatdevelopment of our pipeline will require continued investment offering for patients suffering from opioid addiction. ment in R&D, and although this may impact profitability in isolated quarters, it will ensure the longer-term growth of Orexo is one of the few Swedish pharmaceutical Orexo and the sustainability of the business. companies that have embraced the world’s largest pharmaceuticals market in the US. What makes it You have developed Orexo from an R&D so attractive? company to a profitable specialty pharmaceutical As one the largest and fastest growing markets for opioid company. What was the greatest challenge and dependency, the US is a key market for Orexo. Although how did you tackle it? operating in the US has its challenges, it does offer a faster I would not be leading a profitable specialty pharmaceutical route to market for new treatments than e.g. in Europe. company if it had not been for the support of my team and their perseverance through what has been a very Orexo finds itself at the epicentre of one of the challenging but rewarding year. The greatest challenge for largest health crises ever in the US. Can you describe me has been the time and energy spent on a lengthy legal the crisis briefly and is it isolated to the US? process that has been outside of our control. The time The crisis is more prominent in the US than the rest of invested in IP litigation not only impacted profitability but the world, however, opioid dependency and addiction has also required some difficult decisions when it came to the developed into a global issue. Part of the problem relates PROFITABILITY (EBITDA) AND ACHIEVED MILESTONES 116.6 73.1 78.2 SEK M –12.5 –62.1 –89.1 –99.9 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Establish a commercial Launch of Zubsolv organization in the US Offer the widest in Germany dose range for Zubsolv and Sweden in the US Secure manufacturing sites in Sweden & the US Win the patent litigation versus Actavis securing Obtain FDA approval for Zubsolv’s exclusivity Zubsolv® in the US in the US until september 2032 Launch of Zubsolv Obtain EMA approval for in the US Zubsolv in Europe Establish and maintain attractive partnerships for assets in relevant territories OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 5 CEO INTERVIEW to liberal prescription of opioid pain killers for less serious new ideas and products to improve treatment for opioid ­injuries. Today opioid treatment sees greater regulation and dependency and other addictions. is increasingly monitored, resulting in reduced access to ­opioid pain killers. Unfortunately, this has resulted in patients Which project do you believe has the greatest sourcing opioid pain killers illegally, where they also risk potential to reach the market first? consuming opioids much stronger than would be prescribed Our OX124 project is now the most advanced pipeline by a physician. This in turn has led to an increase in overcandi­date. Based on the data we have seen in the first clinical doses and fatalities, which is an area of opioid addiction we study, I am confident in the commercial prospects of this are committed to tackling. project. From a market perspective, our pipeline projects have significant sales potential as they address unmet What is being done to combat the ­medical needs in niche areas. Our OX382 (buprenorphine opioid crisis in the US? for treatment of opioid dependence and pain) and OX338 The opioid crisis is being addressed from several angles (ketorolac for treatment of acute moderate to severe pain) and initiatives are focusing on both prescription and illegal projects will be differentiated through their unique delivery opioids. There has been a decline in the prescription of mechanism, a compelling marketing message versus ­opioids, which means that there is an even higher need for ­currently available products. treatment as opioid dependent patients may be forced to reduce their doses of pain killers and make their dependence You have a strong financial and operative evident. Fortunately, we are seeing a positive trend in initiaplatform. What do you think the company tives being implemented to improve access to treatment, will look like in a few years’ time? which again has been an important contributor to the I am very proud of what we have accomplished with 28 percent growth Orexo experienced in the US market in ­Zubsolv, especially considering the complex and increasingly 2018. I am pleased to see there is a strong consensus across competitive market in the US and globally. However, there is the political and regulatory landscape on the need for a clear opportunity to expand our US commercial platform greater access to treatment for opioid dependence. further, a key priority for the business over the coming year. Our focused R&D investments are starting to bear fruit and Does the need for care disappear we would expect to have at least one product from our if the crisis is solved? own pipeline in the market within four years. Opioid dependency is a chronic medical condition and many patients will need life-long treatment to avoid relapse. Describe the strategy for getting there. As we continue to see more initiatives to restrict the use and Based on our financial strength and established infrastructure, prescription of opioid pain killers, we would also hope to see the strategy is to pursue business development or M&A new non-opioid and non-addictive alternatives to manage opportunities to broaden our platform, i.e. non-organic pain more effectively. However, this also means that we will growth. However, we need to continue developing the likely see an increase in eligible patients who have developed business we have established today, to ensure we are not opioid dependency over time, and who will require treatment dependent on finding the right external opportunity to to refrain from misuse or obtaining illegal substances. continue our growth and R&D efforts. Zubsolv® is a treatment for opioid dependence, Regarding M&A activities, what are you looking at but you are now developing products enabling specifically and where are the greatest synergies? you to take a broader approach in this area The simplest approach to M&A is to identify the areas where of treatment. Why? we already operate successfully to maximize possible synerThe need for improved treatment is critical, and something gies. As we are looking at commercial or near-commercial we see every day as our staff visit thousands of clinics in the stage opportunities, the natural starting point would be in US each year. As a company operating in the opioid addiction the US and within addiction, where we are active today. space, we have a responsibility to address the challenges in However, the overall addiction space is currently suffering the market, e.g. the lack of effective opioid overdose rescue from very limited pipeline developments and many projects medication, more alternatives for patients requiring Medicaare working with the same API as Orexo, i.e. buprenorphine tion Assisted Treatment (MAT) and pain relief medications and naloxone. In light of this we may look more opportunisthat are more effective and most importantly non-addictive. tically at adjacent areas, which include most of the CNS We have developed a diverse pipeline addressing all of (Central Nervous System) space. these areas and will continue our R&D efforts to discover 6 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CEO INTERVIEW Human capital is usually a company’s most important resource. How do you attract and keep talent? We work in the life science sector and at Orexo in the midst of one of the largest health crises ever in the US, which takes tens of thousands of lives per year. I strongly believe many talents want to work in a company that makes a real difference in people’s life and this is exactly what we offer at Orexo. Apart from that, I believe the best way to attract ­talent is to create a positive working environment, at Orexo this is evidenced by employees encouraging their friends to pursue a role within the company. Looking beyond the financial performance of the company, one of the areas I am most proud of is the positive feedback we receive from our employees both in Sweden and the US, in the yearly Photo: Jenny Öhman employee survey. What do you most appreciate about your job? There are many aspects I appreciate about my job, but patent litigation is a good example of this – internally we knowing that our work every day is helping to provide treatbelieved we would win, and in September 2018 that was ment for some 50,000 patients who suffer from opioid exactly what we did! dependence is a hugely motivating factor. Comparing Orexo today to when I joined the company in 2013, there is a Uppsala, Sweden, March 2019 strong “can do attitude” where we approach seemingly impossible hurdles with confidence. As a company we Nikolaj Sørensen believe that we can solve any problem. I believe that the President and CEO Future value 1. Growing key market 2. Strong financial position and drivers A business foremost addressing profitability opioid addiction in the US which is Fueled by the US commercial one of the largest health crises ever organization which is an important in America and also a growing cash and profitability contributor global concern. on a Group level. 3. Strong track r­ ecord 4. M &A and business 5. Expanding pipeline of developing development Growing pipeline including several ­products interesting projects to embrace all Add commercial stage products in the US to leverage the commercial aspects of opioid addiction. Orexo has developed four products with worldwide approval. infrastructure and expand sales. OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 7 O B J EC T I V E S A N D S T R AT EG I E S Ambitious route for long-term growth Orexo has developed from being an R&D stage company to becoming a profitable fully integrated specialty pharmaceutical company with its own commercial business in the US. From a strong operational and financial platform, Orexo is aiming to become a leader in the field of opioid addiction. To achieve this, the commercial business will be broadened through M&A and proprietary products at the same time as profitability will grow. Objectives & Strategies 2019 and onwards 1. Broaden the US commercial platform to leverage scale and expand sales. 2. Further accelerate Orexo US performance and EBIT contribution. 3. Launch at least one new product from the pipeline within 4 years. 8 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 O B J EC T I V E S A N D S T R AT EG I E S Key success factors for Zubsolv® that can be applied to new products Market Access Zubsolv commercial strategy effectively leverage payer control of formularies through strong relations and creative contracts. Clinical Sales Successfully completed Nationwide (US) sales the largest clinical trials force infrastructure. performed in the Working with agile sales buprenorphine/naloxone market. Key management i.e. ROI1 Success per district. Factors Regulatory Supply Experience from Established stable and flexible securing product approval supply chain. in multiple large Performed multiple pharmaceutical markets, Tech-transfers to CMOs.2 such as the US and Europe. Proven ability to lower COGs.3 1 Return on Investment 2 Contracted Manufacturing Organization 3 Cost of Goods Sold OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 9 KEY THERAPEUTIC AREA Opioid addiction is a treatable chronic disease Opioid addiction is a chronic medical condition with a number of associated co-morbidities which often requires life-long treatment. Although there is an increased focus on improving all aspects of care, as well as proactive measures in place to tackle the opioid crisis in the US, there is still an urgent medical need for more efficient treatments covering all phases of opioid addiction. Opioid addiction is a chronic medical condition which is Opioid addiction can affect anyone comparable to other diseases such as type 2 diabetes or high In the US, opioid substance abuse is prevalent among all blood pressure. The road to opioid addiction is complex, demographics, such as gender, age, ethnicity and socio-­ and can start with a prescription from a medical professional economic class. A root cause of opioid addiction, and the to treat short-term pain. Many patients are not aware of the subsequent opioid crisis in the US, is the prescription of addictive properties of opioids, or the adverse consequences opioid-­based pain medications, such as oxycodone and related to long-term opioid use. Patients often experience a codeine, which is often prescribed to relieve pain from: highly addictive euphoric sensation, which can lead to prolonged substance abuse. Over time, prolonged exposure to • tooth aches and dental procedures opioids can cause changes to the brain that result in a • injuries power­ful urge to continue the use of the opioids, despite • surgeries the consequences. • chronic conditions such as cancer The causes of addiction in general are wide-ranging, with genetic factors thought to account for about 50 percent of an individual’s susceptibility to developing addictive behaviour.1 Environmental factors such as stress and exposure to the addictive substance also play a part in developing opioid addiction. 2 Although many patients may suffer for their 1 Addiction and Recovery entire lives, opioid addiction is a disease that can be treated. 2 https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3898681/ 10 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 KEY THERAPEUTIC AREA It is estimated that approximately 8 to 12 percent of patients Opioid addiction can be treated who are prescribed opioids for longer use become addicted.3 Opioid addiction is a treatable condition. As a result of its The signs and symptoms of addiction can be physical, chronic nature and long-time repercussions, the effectivebehavioural, and psychological, and are often linked with ness of treatment varies among patients, and treatment is anxiety attacks, mood swings, nausea and depression. often administered over long periods of time or chronically. Medication Assisted Treatments, MAT, are the most common The life as an opioid dependent therapies which are based on buprenorphine, methadone Patients with opioid dependence need to ensure a constant or naltrexone. Buprenorphine is often combined with the intake of opioids as they can experience withdrawal symptoms antagonist naloxone to help prevent misuse by injection. just hours after their last dose. These symptoms include, but The gold standard for MAT in the US is buprenorphine/ are not limited to, cravings, anxiety, and sleeping problems naloxone which can be taken under the tongue as a tablet and can impact the individual’s ability to work and sustain or film. Methadone is most commonly administered orally relationships with family and friends. It is not uncommon for under supervision while naltrexone is a monthly injection. these patients to turn to unconventional ways of obtaining MAT is normally provided in combination with behavioural access to opioids, such as from the black market. counselling and psychological support. In the US, treatment usually takes place in private practices The short road to overdose or at specialist medical clinics, and more rarely in hospitals. Unfortunately, efforts to limit access to prescription opioids In Europe the treatment takes place in specialized treatment appear to have resulted in an unintended consequence, centres in the outpatient setting.6 as patients have resorted to heroin and stronger synthetic ­opioids, such as fentanyl, to compensate for the limited availability of prescription opioids, with fatal outcome. Patients who turn to heroin or synthetic opioids have an increased risk of experiencing an overdose, and fatalities relating to opioid overdoses have become the most common 3  owles et al. Rates of opioid misuse, abuse, and addiction in chronic pain: V cause of death among Americans under the age of 50.4 a systematic review and data synthesis, Pain (April 2015) 4 Drug Policy Alliance In 2017 more than 70,200 Americans died from a drug 5 Center for Disease Control ­overdose, mainly caused by opioids.5 6 European Drug Report 2018 (EMCDDA) CO-MORBIDITIES ASSOCIATED WITH OPIOID ADDICTION • Overdose • Depression • Alcoholism • Sleep disorders • Bipolar disorder (Manic Depression) • Adult Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder • Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder • Schizophrenia OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 11 I N N O VAT I O N S Innovation is the heart of what we do Orexo is a company built on the principle of innovation, fueled by the interplay between researchers and experts with different scientific backgrounds. Today innovation remains at the core of the work of continuing to develop new formulation technologies and early stage projects to benefit patients globally with improved drugs. Culture Process Orexo has created a workspace with an open minded Project and product ideas are captured from all employees environ­ment where new product ideas are captured from within the organization. All ideas are evaluated and prioritized all across the organization. In our view, transparency and with regards to e.g. which unmet medical need is addressed, multifunctional interactions are key drivers for establishment technical feasibility, patentability and commercial potential. of an innovation culture. Orexo strives to initiate product This process is enabled by the multifunctional interplay development internally and maintain full control of the between researchers and experts, and is a key to success. development process. However, we are increasingly working with selected external partners who can provide leading Value and unique expertise in the development programs. As a result of an innovative culture, talents and transparent processes, Orexo has been able to create a unique track Talents record of developing proprietary innovative products with Orexo is a fully integrated specialty pharmaceutical comsignificant value for patients and societies around the world. pany with expert competence in a multitude of scientific To date Orexo has developed four products, Zubsolv®, disciplines. Our talents are continuously fostered and Abstral®, Edluar® and Diabact® 1, which have been approved advanced through individually compiled development plans. in multiple countries across the world. With the patient in focus, Orexo’s innovative drug development process is charac­terized by engagement, flexibility and 1 Divested together with the former subsidiary Kibion in 2015 simplicity. 12 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 TECHNOLOGIES Future formulation technologies Several important initiatives have been made to ensure that Orexo can develop new improved products through a combination of well-known and well documented substances via innovative in-house drug delivery technologies. The aim is to develop innovative technologies for both oral, sublingual and intranasal drug formulations. Oral formulation technology Intranasal formulation technology Many active ingredients face major challenges when adminThe intranasal route of administration is a viable route for istered by the oral route. For example, incomplete dissolution many different active pharmaceutical ingredients offering in the GI-tract, poor intestinal absorption and extensive significant advantages compared with other administration metabolism may all limit the bioavailability. Consequently, routes, even parenteral injections. For example, delivering many drugs are not effective when administered orally. drugs through the intranasal route avoids first pass metaboOrexo is currently developing a new formulation technology lism of the active ingredient allowing for rapid and potentially that can overcome these issues, thereby enabling oral extensive exposure of the drug. Orexo is currently developing administration of drugs for which this route is not feasible a novel and unique intranasal formulation technology that today. Several active ingredients have been identified as allow for rapid and efficient delivery of various active ingrepromising candidates for this technology. dients. The technology is especially suitable for rescue medications such as naloxone and nalmefene for treatment Sublingual formulation technology of opioid overdoses. The sublingual space represents numerous opportunities as well as challenges for the delivery of drugs. Sublingual products need to be well tolerated by patients and properties such as taste and mouth feel are critical for successful treatment. Furthermore, the amount of saliva available under the tongue is limited, which makes significant demands of the formulation in order to act efficiently. Orexo is recognized as a world leader in the development of efficient sublingual products. Zubsolv®, Abstral® and ­Edluar® all utilize Orexo’s proprietary sublingual formulation platform based on interactive mixture principles, providing rapid onset and efficient absorption of the drug across the sublingual mucosa. In Zubsolv, this concept has been further refined, resulting in a product with highly efficient absorption across the sublingual mucosa. This enabled the development of a product with significantly improved efficiency compared with those of competitors. Orexo is currently developing its second-generation sublin­gual formulation technology. The aim is to perfect the sublingual delivery of drugs, thereby unlocking new active ingredients that are currently not possible to administer sublin­gually. Several active ingredients have been identified as promising candidates for this technology. OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 13 PRODUC TS AND DE VELOPMENT Embracing all aspects of opioid addiction Orexo has a strong history of developing new products approved in markets all over the world. In order to ensure a continued inflow of new improved drugs, the development work at the R&D department in Uppsala, Sweden, has intensified. Filling an unmet need among healthcare professionals and patients is the key in the work of developing new innovative products for treatment of opioid ­addiction in all phases. Commercial Products Phase Approved/Launched Exploratory Preclinical Registration 1 2 3 US EU RoW1 Zubsolv ® —Opioid Dependence Abstral® —Breakthrough Cancer Pain Partners: Kyowa Kirin, Sentynl Therapeutics Edluar® —Insomnia Partners: Mylan Development Projects Phase Approved/Launched Exploratory Preclinical Registration 1 2 3 US EU RoW1 OX124 Naloxone —Opioid overdose NEW FORMULATION TECHNOLOGIES OX125 Nalmefene —Opioid overdose OX338 Ketorolac —Acute moderate to severe pain OX382 Buprenorphine —Opioid Dependence OX-MPI BI2029539 —Microvascular disease Partners: Gesynta Pharma 1 Rest of the World, excluding US and Europe 14 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 PRODUC TS AND DE VELOPMENT Commercial Products ZUBSOLV ® ABSTRAL® EDLUAR® Short facts Short facts Short facts Technology Sublingual Technology Sublingual Technology Sublingual Indication Opioid dependence Indication Breakthrough cancer pain Indication Insomnia Commercial US, Orexo, Commercial US, Sentynl Therapeutics, Commercial Worldwide, Mylan rights ex-US Mundipharma1 rights ex-US, Kyowa Kirin rights Net Revenues SEK 657.8 million Royalty in SEK 118.8 million Royalty SEK 6.6 million in 2018 2018 in 2018 Partner Partner Partner Patent US and Europe until Patent US and Europe until Patent US until 2031, protection 2032 protection September 20192, Japan protection Europe until 2025 and Australia until 2024 Zubsolv is a product for the treatment Abstral is a rapidly disintegrating Edluar is based on Orexo’s sublingual of opioid dependence. Zubsolv has sublin­gual tablet for management of tablet technology and the active subcomparable efficacy and safety as well breakthrough cancer pain in patients stance zolpidem. The product offers as the same active components as already being treated with opioids. treatment for short-term insomnia. previously approved buprenorphine/ The product contains the pain-relieving Zolpidem is a ­substance that has naloxone sublingual formulations. substance fentanyl. Abstral allows been used in the treatment of insomHowever, Zubsolv offers unique doses to be customized according to nia for a long time. The Edluar tablet advantages specifically designed to individual requirements, which is essen­ is placed under the tongue, where meet the needs of our patients: tial for achieving optimal pain relief. it rapidly dissolves and the active • Higher bioavailability Product advantages include: ingredient is absorbed through the • Fast dissolve time • Rapid disintegration and absorption mucous ­membrane. • Preferred menthol flavor over mucous membrane under Edluar was approved by the US • Broadest range of dose strengths the tongue Food and Drug Administration, FDA, • Fast onset of pain relief in March 2009. In June 2012 Edluar The broad choice of six different • User friendly – tablet easy to dose, was approved for registration in strengths offers the potential for finer store and handle Europe. titration and individualized dosing with potentially fewer tablets compared The product was initially approved with existing substitution treatments. for sales in Europe in 2008. Approval In July 2013, Zubsolv was approved and launch in other major territories for the maintenance treatment of has followed, and Abstral is currently ­opioid dependence by the US Food available in multiple markets such as and Drug Administration, FDA, and in the US, Japan, South Korea, Middle August 2015 the product also received East, Israeli, Australia, Malyaisia and approval for induction treatment of ­Phillippines. Globally, the market for the same patient population. In Abstral has continued to grow rapidly November 2017 the EU Commission over the years, and in Europe Abstral approved Zubsolv for treatment of is the market leader among all fast-­ ­opioid dependence in Europe. Zubsolv acting fentanyl-based products. should be used as part of a comprehensive treatment plan, which includes counseling and psychosocial support. Treatment should be initiated under the direction of certified physicians. 1 As of April 13, 2019, Orexo will regain all rights to Zubsolv ex US, due to a portfolio re-organization at Mundipharma ² Royalty for sales in Europe will be received until December 31, 2019, when the European contract with Kyowa Kirin expires OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 15 PRODUC TS AND DE VELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS Short facts Unmet medical need OX124 API Naloxone In 2017 more than 70,200 Americans died of an overdose. An increasing proportion died as a result of the use of Technology Nasal ­synthetic opioid fentanyl and fentanyl analogs, which in Indication Rescue medication, 2017 were behind 30,000 of the deaths.1 Currently available opioid overdose naloxone-based rescue medications struggle to reverse Development phase Phase 1 effects of such opioids. Expected filing with FDA 2021 In-house or partnership In-house OX125 API Nalmefene See OX124 above. Technology Nasal Indication Rescue medication, opioid overdose Development phase Preclinical Expected filing with FDA 2022 In-house or partnership In-house OX338 API Ketorolac For many opioid dependent patients, their dependence starts with the first exposure to opioids to treat short-term Technology Sublingual pain, e.g., after an accident or minor procedure. It is Indication Acute moderate to severe pain ­estimated that about 8–12 percent 2 of people who have Development phase Preclinical been prescribed opioids for longer use will develop an addiction, and today approximately 4 to 5 million Americans Expected filing with FDA 2021 or 2022 are dependent opioid users. In-house or partnership In-house In the wake of the opioid crisis, there is a tremendous need to find non-opioid alternatives to effectively treat acute pain and to avoid exposure to opioids. OX382 API Buprenorphine Today, buprenorphine products to treat opioid dependence are only available in sublingual/buccal tablets and film Technology Oral formu­la­tions which generally are less convenient than an Indication Opioid dependence oral administration route. As supervised treatment may be Development phase Preclinical part of the patients care, e.g. for patients who receive treatment in methadone clinics, which is particularly Expected filing with FDA ­— ­common in Europe, the dissolve time can play a role in In-house or partnership In-house ­limiting patient access. — OX-MPI API BI1029539 Technology Oral Indication Microvascular disease Development phase Preclinical Expected filing with FDA — In-house or partnership Partnership with Gesynta Pharma AB 1 National Institute on Drug Abuse 2 Vowles et al. Rates of opioid misuse, abuse, and addiction in chronic pain: a systematic review and data synthesis, Pain (April 2015) 16 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 PRODUC TS AND DE VELOPMENT Concept Changes during the year High level timeline3 OX124 is based on a novel and unique tech­ After successful preclinical results the project The next step for the project is to continue to nology developed to provide a rapidly acting advanced into clinical stage development. further optimize the formulation and prepare for naloxone rescue medication with the aim to A human pharmacokinetic study, OX124-001, a pivotal pharmacokinetic bridging study in 2020 ­provide differentiated profile compared to assessing Orexo’s novel nasal spray formulations in consultation with FDA. Assuming further currently ­marketed products and other in 20 healthy volunteers was performed. The success­ful development, Orexo expects to file products under development. study was a cross-over, comparative bioavailablity OX124 with FDA in 2021 and start to launch the Naloxone is a full opioid receptor antagonist study comparing four development formulations product in the US in 2022. which reverses the effects of opioid agonists, of OX124 to Narcan® Nasal Spray 4 mg, the current including the life threatening respiratory depresmarket-leading naloxone rescue medication in sant effects occurring in an opioid overdose. the US. Positive results were received in beginning of 2019 showing that all formulations of OX124 were well tolerated and displayed substantially higher plasma concentrations of naloxone, ­sustained duration of elevated plasma concentrations, and equivalent or superior onset time when compared to Narcan. OX125 is based on a novel and unique technology The project was initiated and the positive To continue the formulation development and developed to provide a rapidly acting nalmefene results from the OX124 human PK-study meant following posivite results Orexo expects to file rescue medication with the aim to provide differthat a decisions were made to intensify the OX125 with FDA in 2022. entiated profile compared to currently marketed development of the project. products and other products under development. Nalmefene is a full opioid receptor antagonist which reverses the effects of opioid agonists, including the life threatening respiratory depressant effects occurring in an opioid overdose. Nalmefene is a stronger, longer acting antagonist compared with naloxone. OX338 is based on a new sublingual tablet The formulation development continued and Assuming further successful development, formula­tion of ketorolac for acute treatment of a Proof-of-Concept animal study was initiated. a pivotal pharmacokinetic and potentially also moderate to severe pain. Ketorolac is a potent Positive results from this study was obtained efficacy studies will be performed to allow NSAID with analgesic effect comparable to many early 2019 supporting further development and for an application for approval to the FDA opioids used for short term pain management planning for a human pharmacokinetic study in 2021/2022 time. and can thus replace opioids for many pro­ commencing during the second half of 2019. cedures and indications reducing overall o ­ pioid ­consumption. OX382 is being developed as an oral, swallow­ The formulation development has continued Proof-of-Concept in-vivo studies will be initiated able formulation containing buprenorphine and based on the insights gained from the result in beginning of 2019. Next phase is depending naloxone for the treatment of opioid dependin the first clinical study performed in beginning on results from this study. ence. Buprenorphine is a partial opioid receptor of 2018. agonist used in medically assisted treatment of opioid dependence to alleviate symptoms of withdrawal and naloxone, an opioid receptor antagonist, is part of the formulation as an abuse deterrent. A swallowable formulation offers ­several advantages over currently available administrations routes for certain patient groups and treatment settings. The lead candidate drug in the OX-MPI program, The project is developing according to plan. Fully managed by Gesynta Pharma AB. BI1029539, has been identified as a highly ­selective anti-inflammatory compound targeting microsomal prostaglandin E synthase (mPGES-1). 3 Timeline may change depending on trial outcomes and development strategy OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 17 KEY MARKET The US #opioidcrisis is the greatest health crisis in modern time Opioid abuse is currently the most common cause of death from drugs. The opioid problem in the US has caused an epidemic, where drug overdoses are claiming more and more lives. In addition to the unnecessary loss of life, the resources needed to address the issue are a huge economic burden. There is an increasing need for treatment, and the buprenorphine/naloxone market grew by over 14 percent in 2018.1 A global problem that has developed Market consists of three payer categories into an American health crisis The market for the treatment of opioid dependence using It is estimated that approximately 25 million people in the buprenorphine/naloxone can be divided into three different world are dependent on opioids. 2 The problem exists in payer categories, Commercial, which comprises private both developed countries and in less developed countries insurance companies, Cash & Vouchers, where patients but is by far the greatest in the US, where a fifth of those themselves finance their care, and Public, where care is dependent on opioids live.3 Worldwide at least 190,000 financed by public sector payers such as Managed Medicaid, people die prematurely each year as a result of drugs and FFS Medicaid and Medicare Part D. The Public category the majority of the deaths are caused by the use of opioids.4 ­differs from the other categories in that it is to a great extent The problem is acute in the US, where more than 70,2005 stringently controlled by insurance companies with regard died of an overdose in 2017. Approximately 70 percent of to what drugs may be prescribed and which physician a these deaths were caused by opioid abuse. In the same year patient can choose. Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBM) play the opioid crisis in the US was classified as a Public Health an important role, as they are responsible for assessing, on Emergency, which means that resources should be allobehalf of the insurance companies and employers, which cated to avert or avoid public health crises. In Europe, with drugs are to be covered by insurances. an estimated 1.3 million,6 high-risk opioid users, opioid addiction is not as great a problem as in the US. However, Publicly financed care growing fastest and there are several alarming signs that the problem is getting is characterized by price pressure worse. The number of overdose-related deaths has The Public category, publicly financed care, has grown the increased for the fourth consecutive year.7 fastest in recent years, driven by the fact that more and more people have gained access to publicly financed healthcare Opioid abuse costs societies substantial through the Affordable Care Act and due to the fact that resources employers have become more restrictive in offering private From an economic point of view opioid dependence is a healthcare insurances. The Commercial category has considerable problem. In addition to loss of life and lower ­displayed lower growth in comparison to the Public quality of life, large costs are associated with lower produc­category. tivity and a lack of resources, and there are also increased healthcare and correctional treatment costs. In the US costs related to opioid dependence are enormous and consider­ ably higher than previously calculated. The Council of ­Economic Advisors, which is an advisory committee to the American President, came out in 2017 with the report ­entitled “The Underestimated Costs of the Opioid Crisis”. 1 IMS Data This report shows that the cost to society of the opioid crisis 2 World Drug Report 2016 amounted to USD 504 billion in 2015, or 2.8 percent of 3 UNODC World Drug Report 2014 GDP. This amount is six times higher than the previous 4 World Drug Report 2017 5 Center of Disease Control calcula­tion, where loss of life as a result of overdoses had 6 European Drug Report 2017 not been taken into account. 7 European Drug Report 2018 18 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 KEY MARKET The market is generally characterized by price pressure. of patients will be treated with buprenorphine/naloxone This is above all true in the Public category, which is strinat the expense of other MAT treatments. Even though it is gently controlled and which has seen discount levels increase. ­predicted that the market will grow, the market dynamic can In comparison with other pharmaceutical markets, generics increase due to new treatment a ­ lternatives and greater have not had a significant price pressure effect. However, generic competition. generics are favored by the fact that many insurance companies in the Public category automatically give generics 8 IMS Data by year-end 2018/2019 priority and thus indirectly put pressure on com­panies with 9 C  larion Healthcare new products to lower the price if insurance companies are 10 IMS Data to deviate from this principle. Since the launch of Zubsolv®, the list price of generics has been on a par with or a little higher than that of the drugs sold under patent-protected brand names, but recently there have been campaigns from individual generic companies that have offered discounts to 14% pharmacies which have then reduced the price at the ­pharmacies to significantly lower levels. Market players The buprenorphine/naloxone market growth in 2018 Besides Orexo there are two other players in the market, Indivior and BioScience Delivery, who offer treatment with products under their own brand name. Indivior, who commercialize Suboxone® film, are the market leader, with a market share of just under 65 percent.8 However, their ­market share has displayed a negative trend in the past two years.8 12 million Orexo’s market share for Zubsolv amounts to just over 5 perEstimated number of Americans abusing opioids cent and the corresponding figure for BioScience Delivery and their drug, Bunavail, is approximately 0.5 percent.8 The 4 million remainder of the market is constituted by generic companies, whose share of the market has grown in recent years.8 Great need for treatment driving strong growth Estimated number of Americans who are considered A sharp increase in prescription of opioid painkillers over a to be in need of treatment little more than two decades is the primary reason that today there are an estimated 12 million people abusing opioids in the US.9 Approximately 4 million are considered to be in need of treatment.9 Of these, approximately 1.4 million receive so-called Medication Assisted Treatment, MAT, where the most common form of treatment is buprenorphine/naloxone, which is given to approximately 0.8 million.9 The market for buprenorphine/naloxone products has grown substantially in recent years. Annual growth is approximately 14 percent and the value of the market is estimated to be more than USD 2.8 billion.10 Considerable political and media focus has increased knowledge and awareness of opioid dependence and its risks, which has led to more people seeking help. The launch of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) healthcare reform, also known as Obama­care, has also resulted in more people gaining access to subsidized care. Dynamic market with a positive outlook Even though there are signs indicating that the number of prescriptions of opioid-based painkillers written out is declin­ ing in the US, there will continue to be a great need for treatment. An investigation carried out by Clarion Healthcare shows that the number of people in need of treatment will increase from today’s 4 million Americans to 6 million in 2023. The increase is primarily explained by the fact that both the number of patients in need of treatment and the number of patients receiving treatment will increase by approximately 50 percent. According to the study, an increasing number OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 19 SALES Zubsolv sales increased ® by 28 percent in the US Zubsolv hit a sales record in the US in 2018. This was driven by continuing strong growth in the market and considerably better market access. Approaching 2019, access to Zubsolv has further strengthened at the same time as the market is becoming increasingly dynamic, which can offer new opportunities to advance Zubsolv’s position. Zubsolv grew more than the market increase in fatal overdoses in recent years. People have Sales of Zubsolv increased by 28 percent in the US and even started to talk about a fentanyl crisis and fresh figures amounted to SEK 621.5 million in 2018. Measured in local show that in 2017 fentanyl-related mortality increased by currency sales increased by 25 percent. The market for 24 percent.2 buprenorphine/naloxone products displayed strong growth and grew by 14 percent. Sales performance was driven Improved access to treatment above all by considerably improved market access for Since the ceiling was lifted in 2016, which means that certiZubsolv. The strong position is explained by the new exclufied physicians may go from treating 100 patients to 275, sive contracts in the Commercial category, such as Humana more than 4,400 waivered physicians have been certified to Commercial and Envision RX, and by the recommended increase the number of patients they treat. The number of position at CVS Caremark. Access to patients also increased physicians newly waivered to treat their first opioid dependin the fastest growing category, Public, above all due to the ence patients has also risen steeply. Nurse practitioners and exclusive contract with Humana Medicare Part D. However, physicians assistants now total over 9,600 waivered to treat in November Zubsolv lost its exclusive position at Wellcare opioid dependency, which is considerably more than the Medicaid, which impacted sales volume negatively. previous year. While the number of prescribers is growing the market remains highly concentrated, with 6,000 prescribers Fentanyl behind more and more fatal overdoses accounting for approximately 80 percent of all p ­ rescriptions The opioid crisis continued to accelerate in the US. In 2017 written. A federal bill was approved in 2018 which amongst more than 70,200 Americans died from an overdose, an increase of 11 percent in comparison with 2016.1 Most overdoses are explained by abuse of opioids such as heroin and synthetic opioids such as fentanyl. Use of the latter opioid 1 Center of Disease and Control is increasing and is one of the explanations of the explosive 2 Center of Disease and Control ZUBSOLV US SALES, 1 2017 TO 2018 AND BEGINNING OF 2019 11% Tablet volume 400,000 300,000 The increase in number of overdose 200,000 deaths in the US, 2017 vs 2016 100,000 2017 2018 0 Jan Feb 2019 March April May June July Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb March April May June July Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Source: IMS Data 1 Four weeks rolling average 20 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SALES other things expands the waiver eligibility to additional The work of gaining access to other markets was begun. types of midlevel practitioners, and the application process However, sales developed more weakly than expected. In is now underway. December Mundipharma announced that they have decided to exit the partnership, due to a portfolio re-­organization, Improved market access in 2019 enabling Orexo to regain the ex-US rights on April 13, 2019. At the beginning of 2019, Zubsolv’s market access will further This offers Orexo the opportunity to choose the best route improve. Successful negotiations with insurance companies to maximize Zubsolv’s potential ex-US and to ensure that during the year mean that access in the Commercial category more patients gain access to the drug. continues to be the best in the market and will increase from A registration application was submitted during the year 96 to 97 percent with a new contract with the Blue Cross for approval of Zubsolv in Australia. North Carolina insurance company. The aim is to increase access to the fastest growing Public category, something Licensed products – Abstral® and Edluar® that was fulfilled when access to the category increased Royalties for Abstral amounted to SEK 118.8 million, which is from 32 to 38 percent. The improved position is explained an increase of 4.9 percent. Most markets continue to display by new contracts with FFS Medicaid in Ohio, A­labama, Texas, increased sales. In September 2019 the patents for Abstral Florida and Washington DC. Wellcare Medicaid’s decision to in the EU expire. As the EU agreement with Kyowa Kirin runs add generics to their list of drugs means that Zubsolv loses until December 31, 2019, Orexo expects that royalty for the its exclusive position. The decision will impact sales volume EU will decrease somewhat during the year compared to negatively, but will be partially compensated for by lower 2018, but will no longer be received in 2020. The EU’s share rebates. of Abstral’s total royalty amounts to approximately 80 percent. Royalties for Edluar amounted to SEK 6.6 million, which Zubsolv well positioned in a dynamic market is a large decrease during the year as sales the previous year The market is dynamic in nature and this can offer new came in at SEK 17.3 million. The decrease is explained by opportunities to advance the company’s position and thus delivery problems. expand the business in the US. Besides opportunities, also certain challenges are expected in connection with the launch of Suboxone® film generics, which can lead to increased price competition, but also open up for reim70,200 bursement of Zubsolv with payers that today only reimburse Suboxone film and thereby improve the market conditions. In order to ensure that Zubsolv continues to be a commercially attractive and a competitive product, measures have Americans died of an overdose in 2017, been taken, e.g. to lower production costs, to meet these mainly caused by use of opioids challenges. This proactive strategy, together with improved market access in the Commercial and Public categories, strengthens Zubsolv’s position in an increasingly competi24% tive market. Zubsolv® launched in Europe and registered in Australia The increase in number of overdoses related Zubsolv was launched by Mundipharma in Germany and to fentanyl in the US, 2017 vs 2016 Sweden, which resulted in a milestone payment of SEK 30.6 million. MARKET VOLUME ZUBSOLV US VOLUME ZUBSOLV US MARKET ACCESS PER PAYER CATEGORY PER PAYER CATEGORY PER PAYER CATEGORY Cash & Vouchers, 10% Cash & Vouchers, 13% % 100 Commercial 80 Cash & Vouchers Commercial, 55% Commercial, 37% Public 60 40 20 Public, 35% Public, 50% 0 Source: IMS Data Dec. OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 21 THE SHARE The share Orexo’s share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm and is available as American Depository Receipts (ADR) on OTCQX in the US. In 2018 the share price developed positively and the number of shares traded increased. In total Orexo had 6,362 shareholders and foreign ownership amounted to 47 percent. The Orexo share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm Mid Cap Issue and repurchase class C share under the symbol ORX and available as ADRs on OTCQX Orexo announced on June 15, 2018, that the company had under the symbol ORXOY. During the year the share price resolved to issue and immediately thereafter repurchased increased by 42.96 percent and the last price paid in 2018 325,000 class C shares. The shares were issued and was SEK 58.90 (41.20). This corresponds to a market capitalrepurchased in accordance with the Long-Term Incentive ization of SEK 2,032 million (1,423). The highest closing Program (LTIP) 2018, which was adopted by the Annual price during the year for the share was SEK 72.90 quoted General Meeting on April 12, 2018. on September 13. The lowest quotation was SEK 29.10 Danske Bank subscribed for the entire issue of new class on July 3. C shares at a subscription price of SEK 0.40 per share, equal to the quota value of the shares. The entire issue of class C Liquidity shares was thereafter repurchased by Orexo for SEK 0.40 In total 29 million (28) shares were traded in 2018, correper share. sponding to a value of approximately SEK 1,594 million (1,065). The purpose of the share issue was to enable the future The daily average trading volume was 117,726 shares, corredelivery of ordinary shares to those participating in LTIP sponding to a value of SEK 6.4 million. 2018. The class C shares were converted into ordinary shares prior to delivery to qualifying participants in LTIP Ownership 2018. The class C shares do not entitle to dividends. At year-end, Orexo had 6,362 shareholders (7,115), of which 572 were registered as legal entities and 5,790 as private Capital Markets Day individuals. Of the share capital, 53 percent (43) is held by On December 6, Orexo invited investors, analysts and media shareholders registered in Sweden and 47 percent (57) by to participate in a Capital Markets Day. The company was non-Swedish shareholders. The largest proportion of shareforemost represented by members of the Board of Directors holders registered outside Sweden can be found in ­Denmark and the management team. The keynote speaker of the day at approximately 34 percent (29). was the former Governor of New Jersey, Chris Christie, who The list on page 23 is by shareholder group, where a has also served as an advisor to President Trump on how to number of legal entities may be part of each group. combat the opioid crisis. KEY FACTS OWNERSHIP CATEGORIES, OWNERSHIP DISTRIBUTIONS DECEMBER 31, 2018 PER COUNTRY, DECEMBER 31, 2018 Orexo Share Listing: Nasdaq Stockholm, Sweden Private Individuals, Institutions, Germany, France, Number of shares: 35,450,456, of which 81.0% 19.0% 1.5% 0.5% 890,000 C shares US, Market Capitalization, 1.4% December 31, 2018: SEK 2,032,155 Sweden, 53.7% ISIN code: SE0000736415 Denmark, Ticker code: ORX 33.7% Orexo ADR Trading platform: OTC, US Deposit bank: Citibank N.A. ISIN code: US68616W1027 Ticker code: ORXOY Ratio: 1:1 22 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 US, Övriga, 3% 2% THE SHARE FIVE-YEAR PERFORMANCE SEK Thousands 500 12,000 375 9,000 250 6,000 125 3,000 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Orexo OMX Stockholm Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology PI OMX Stockholm Numbers of shares traded, thousands per month Source: Nasdaq Stockholm PERFORMANCE IN 2018 SEK Thousands 80 12,000 60 9,000 40 6,000 20 3,000 0 0 Jan Feb March April May June July Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Orexo Orexo OMX Stockholm Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology PI OMX Stockholm Numbers of shares traded, thousands per month Source: Nasdaq Stockholm SHAREHOLDERS, DECEMBER 31, 2018 OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE, DECEMBER 31, 2018 No. of No. of Common Share No. of Common Share Shares Capital % Shareholders Shares Capital % Novo Holdings A/S 9,643,184 27.2 1–500 4,439 648,163 1.83 HealthCap 3,960,020 11.2 501–1,000 727 612,474 1.73 Arbejdsmarkedets Tillægspension (ATP) 2,040,633 5.8 1,001–5,000 848 2,014,170 5.68 HealthInvest Partners 1,700,000 4.8 5,001–10,000 172 1,286,521 3.63 Anders Walldov direct and indirectly 1,550,000 4.4 10,001–15,000 42 538,202 1.52 Avanza Pension 1,116,398 3.1 15,001–20,000 31 547,358 1.54 Lancelot Asset Management AB 450,000 1.3 20,001– 103 28,913,568 84.07 Nordnet Pension Insurance 449,050 1.3 Total 6,362 34,560,456 100.00 Danica Pension 373,257 1.1 Tomas Lundqvist 354,537 1.0 Eccenovo AB 330,000 0.9 Acadian Asset Management 261,839 0.7 Analysts monitoring Orexo Life Insurance Skandia 251,583 0.7 • ABG Sundal Collier, Sten Gustavsson Huber, Reuss & Kollegen • Carnegie, Erik Hultgård Vermögensverwalt 230,000 0.6 • Edison Group, Andy Smith Total largest shareholders1 22,710,501 64.1 • Nordea, Hans Mähler and Klas Pyk Others 11,849,955 35.9 • Redeye, Klas Palin Total 34,560,456 100.0 1 A  s of December 31, 2018, the number of shares outstanding in the company was 35,450,456 of which 34,560,456 were common shares and 890,000 were C shares. All common shares carry one voting right and the C shares carry 1/10 of a voting right each. Thus there were 34,649,456 votes in the company as of December 31, 2018. Source: Monitor by Modular Finance AB OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 23 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T Sustainability Report 2018* Sustainability at Orexo 25 Sustainability management and policies 26 #opioidcrisis27 Anti-Corruption28 Human Rights 28 Environment29 Labor30 Statement by the CEO 31 * This sustainability report includes the parent company Orexo AB and its subsidiaries. 24 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y AT O R E XO Sustainability at Orexo Orexo’s ambition is to be recognized for the added value our products bring to our patients and we want to be a trusted partner for the way we work and operate when delivering benefits for patients, society, shareholders and other stakeholders – Orexo’s Business Compliance and Ethics Code. Orexo’s efforts to create added value for patients and other development by adopting globally recognized frameworks stakeholders and to ensure access to quality pharmaceutical and initiatives in order to meet goals within the 2030 products has a positive impact on several sustainability Agenda for Sustainable Development. aspects. In general the historical importance of adherence to local and global legislation and standards with regard to Orexo’s sustainability agenda good practices within pharmaceutical development and In order to define corporate sustainability priorities for the international business conduct has pushed the Company fiscal year Orexo drafted an activity plan early in 2018 based towards a more sustainable business. The threshold for being on an internal stakeholder dialogue. The plan was endorsed classified as a sustainable company is constantly increasing by Orexo’s Sustainability Group in the spring of 2017 and it and Orexo is committed to continuously addressing its footsets out Orexo’s ambitions and targets within the following print on social and environmental aspects. four areas: In April 2017, Orexo signed a letter of commitment to • Anti-corruption, see page 28. ­support the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Since • Human rights, see page 28. April 2018 Orexo is not only a signatory of the compact, but • Environment, see page 29. a participant, facilitating Orexo’s commitment to sustainable • Labor, see page 30. OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 25 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N AG E M EN T A N D P O L I C I E S Sustainability management and policies To demonstrate and implement Orexo’s commitment to The Swedish organization comprises Research and Develsustainable development and to raise knowledge internally opment and Corporate Headquarters, and is responsible for about the subject, the company established a Sustainability maintaining policies on a corporate level and enforcing Group in 2017. The group reports on an as-needed basis to global and local policies mainly in Sweden. The majority of the Board of Directors and includes relevant corporate Orexo’s commercial activities are managed by Orexo US, functions that can influence corporate policies and strateInc., which utilizes and enforces a Comprehensive Com­ gies. The group is led by Orexo’s Chief Financial Officer and pliance Policy Program adapted for federal and state-level is convened by Orexo’s Sustainability Manager law and expectations. Business Compliance and Ethics Code US Comprehensive Safety, Health Human Supplier Code Compliance and Environment Resources of Conduct Policies Policies Policies Business Compliance and Ethics Code U.S. Comprehensive Compliance Policies Orexo’s Business Compliance and Ethics Code acts as an Orexo US, Inc. adheres to rules and regulations set out on umbrella policy for all other policies and is based on legislaa federal and state level by enforcing a comprehensive policy tion, corporate values and recognized international standards, program that addresses the approach to marketing and such as the International Bill of Human Rights, the Declara­promotion of pharmaceutical products, including, but not tion of Helsinki1 and the UN Global Compact, and applies to limited to, aspects such as expense and aggregate spend all directors, officers, employees, consultants and temporary reporting and interaction with governments and healthcare staff at Orexo AB and its subsidiaries. The code also urges professionals. individuals to raise questions and report suspected violation of ethical business conduct, without retaliation or any threat Safety, Health and Environment Polices of retaliation. The Safety, Health and Environment policies and guidelines support managers and employees in their pursuit of a workSupplier Code of Conduct place free of injuries and illnesses and support the company’s As a company with most of its activities outsourced, Orexo’s precautionary approach to environmental challenges. main sustainability impacts and risks are within the supply of goods and services. Orexo’s supplier management is Human Resources Policies based on the company’s Supplier Code of Conduct, which The policies describe the relationship between the employer describes Orexo’s expectations for suppliers in a variety of and the employees and their respective obligations and rights. sustainability aspects. They cover matters such as recruitment, equal opportunities, In order to enforce the Supplier Code of Conduct, Orexo discrimination, conflict of interest and health insurance and utilizes processes and procedures to ensure that patient other employment benefits. safety, occupational safety and health, product quality and other applicable business compliance and ethics aspects of suppliers are acceptable. The processes and the procedures also ensure that applicable commercial aspects like supplier reliability, financial stability and future commercial implications for the supply chain are adequately considered. 1 A  recognized statement of ethical principles for medical research involving human subjects developed by the World Medical Association (WMA). 26 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T #OPIOIDCRISIS Substance use and substance-use disorders is a global Orexo’s key therapeutic area is ­public health burden and is also recognized by the United within treatment of opioid dependNations as one of the targets within the 17 Sustainable ence and ever since Zubsolv® was Development Goals that must be met to achieve the 2030 launched in the US, one of Orexo’s Agenda for Sustainable Development. main objectives has been to make Many countries still fail to provide adequate treatment and treatment available for more people. services to reduce the harm caused by substance abuse and Lately, Orexo has also put efforts only four countries worldwide have been classified as having into a broad development p ­ ipeline high levels of coverage of opioid substitution therapy and embracing all aspects of opioid needle and syringe programs. The result is that only one in addiction, from prevention to treatsix p ­ eople worldwide suffering from drug-use disorders ment. Provided that the development projects run receives treatment. 2 ­according to plan, the company will be able to replace The US is a large and rapidly growing market for opioid opioids in treatment of some acute pain conditions and dependence and Orexo has a broad presence in the country. thus minimizing the risk of developing addiction, saving The financial burden of the epidemic in 2015 was estimated lives through opioid overdose reversal and providing at $504.0 billion3 and approximately 70,200 deaths in 2017 ­prescribers with more options within drug substitution were related to drug overdose.4 Today, there is a broad therapy. ­political support for development and financing of measures that could curb the trend and address the lack of access to treatment. With the President’s signature of the “Support for Patients and Communities Act” in October 2018, there is 2 World Drug Report 2018 3  he Council of Economic Advisers, The Underestimated Cost T now also support in law for many of the improvements of the Opioid Crisis requested. 4 https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nvss/vsrr/drug-overdose-data.htm United Nations United Nations Sustainable Sustainable Development Goal 3 Development Goal 5 (SDG3) (SDG5) United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 3 United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 5 (SDG3) seeks to ensure healthy lives and promote (SDG5) seeks to achieve gender equality and well-being for all at all ages. empower all women and girls. Target number 3.5 is of especial importance Orexo AB took the Women’s Empowerment as it aims to strengthen the prevention and treatPrinciples Gender Gap Analysis Tool (WEPs tool) ment of substance abuse, including narcotic and updated the Equal Opportunities Plan during drug abuse and harmful use of alcohol. 2018. The plan was based on qualitative and quantitative data collected from the organization Follow OrexoABpubl on Twitter to read more through HR management systems, an employee about Orexo’s efforts to fight the #opioidcrisis. satisfaction survey and a specific survey on ­gender equality topics. OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 27 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T ANTI-CORRUPTION A recognized risk for businesses within the healthcare sector anonymous reports via the telephone or the Internet and is ethics and compliance violations in interactions with are also able to anonymously track the progress of their Healthcare Professionals (HCP), Healthcare Organizations reports. and Government Officials. The legislation in this area is Through the revision of Orexo’s corporate Business Comcomprehensive in the US, with the Physician Payments pliance and Ethics Code in 2017, the Ten Principles of the ­Sunshine Act as an example where transparent disclosure of UN Global Compact were further integrated with company expenses in relations with HCPs is required. In order to core values. The Code is enforced through onboarding complement the legislation and to communicate internally and continuous training and 91% of the organization have and externally what values should permeate Orexo’s business ­participated in training on compliance and ethics within the conduct, Orexo formed the global and local policy program business conduct. that was described earlier in the report. Following the positive outcome in the patent litigation against Actavis this year, Orexo decided to internalize the Commitment Target 2018 Progress contract field force in the US, adding 33 employees to We are recognized Maintain implemen­ Target met the payroll. All of them have been trained in Business as a reliable and tation of Corporate on-time ­Compliance and Ethics in accordance with Orexo US, Inc. professional partner Code of Conduct in-full guidelines. with high integrity 2017 2018 Performance (year-end data) (year-end data) Orexo US, Inc. adheres to rules and regulations set out on indicators Parent Parent company Group company Group a federal and state level by enforcing a comprehensive policy Implementation of program that addresses the approach to marketing and Code of Conduct sales of products, including, but not limited to, aspects as (of employees) 81% 89% 80% 91% expense and aggregate spend reporting and interaction with governments and healthcare professionals. Employees and other stakeholders are able to file confidential, HUMAN RIGHTS Through the Business Compliance and Ethics Code Orexo All suppliers are categorized in segments based on their supports the International Bill of Human Rights and the ILO complexity and criticality (Tier A-D; A highest, D lowest) and Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. initial and continual assessments are performed accordThe company’s highest risks for violation of these rights are, ingly. The sustainability assessments currently focus on a however, in the Supply Chain, beyond the direct control of handful of strategic suppliers and depending on the nature the company. Hence, in the Human Rights issue area the of the business and location of the assessed partner differcompany works on enhancing external performance and ent sustainability aspects are evaluated and audited. this commitment is enforced through the Supplier Code of Conduct and the Supplier Management Principles. Commitment Target 2018 Progress We train our employees and Full integration of applicable Safety, Health and Process updated and assess our partners to reduce Environment issues in Orexo’s tiered Corporate ­maintained risks Social Responsibility due diligence process Approved Tier A and new suppliers assessed Assessment completion 83% according to integrated process 28 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T Orexo’s main target for 2018 was to continue the integraAt the end of 2018 almost all tier A suppliers had been off tion of sustainability assessments into the Supplier Managesite audited with regards to all four sustainability issue areas ment Processes and to ensure that key suppliers were (Environment, Human Rights, Labor and Anti-Corruption), assessed according to the process. with some minor remarks that are being monitored. Performance of Orexo’s Supplier Management Process with regard to sustainability Performance Number of Sustainability Number of approved Suppliers with approved Suppliers Assessments performed open Sustainability issues ­indicators 1–6 7–14 15– Result Target 2018 Major Moderate Minor Tier A ∞ – – 83% 100% NONE NONE 2 Tier B – ∞ – 18% 20% NONE NONE NONE Tier C – – ∞ 0% 0% Tier D – – ∞ 0% 0% ENVIRONMENT Orexo focuses its efforts within Environmental Management The assessment is an effective tool to see where ‘violation’ to where the greatest risks of adverse environmental impact of a sustainability aspect is more likely to occur and also to are found and this risk-based approach identifies the supply address potential legislative compliance issues. of goods, product development and the handling of chemiDuring 2018 the company used the EAA as a base, and cals. Within these areas, the company is committed to started to complement it with a higher degree of detail to ­monitoring and improving energy efficiency, consumption find certain areas where Orexo could advance greater of materials and waste management and keeping emissions ­environmental responsibility. This environmental risk and of pharmaceutical substances at low levels. Orexo has an benefit analysis is yet to be finalized. Environmental Management System based upon ISO 14001 One aspect that is prioritized is reduction of the company’s (not certified). waste generation. Despite the intensification of activities at Orexo’s Environmental Aspect Assessment (EAA) is utilized the company’s Swedish research facility, the site was able to to identify the highest potential environmental impacts and reduce its waste generation by 25% during the year. indicate where the greatest return on invested efforts can be realized. Commitment Target 2018 Progress We are aware of our operational footFinalize the risk and benefit analysis to assess Environmental risk and benefit analysis print and we continuously assess and Orexo’s current Environmental footprint and thus ongoing, but not finalized minimize our environmental impact find improvement opportunities Performance indicators Waste sources 2017 2018 16,000 Combustible waste 14,000 [kg/employee at parent company] 53,8 47,1 12,000 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Combustible Other sorted Hazardous waste Paper OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 29 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T LABOR Through the Business Compliance and Ethics Code Orexo received positive comments from employees concerning supports the International Labour Organization’s Fundamental their ability to influence their working hours and working Principles and Rights at Work. Since the impacts of Orexo’s conditions and the opportunity to combine a career and outsourced business conduct are managed within the parenthood. In order to meet the employees’ high level of Human Rights issue area this section comprises information expectations on equality improvement, the company will on the performance within the Orexo Group. strengthen its efforts in this area. Orexo has slightly over a hundred employees in Sweden In 2017 a revised Safety & Health Risk Management Report and the USA. As a company with its roots in Sweden and a and a new incident reporting procedure were launched in subsidiary in another developed country, fundamental labor Sweden. The efforts to promote the use of incident reporting right standards such as abolition of child labor, maintaining have raised the number of “near-miss” reports significantly freedom of association and elimination of forced and comduring the last year, providing Orexo with new insights on pulsory labor are generally both ethically and legislatively how to enhance the health & safety of the employees. well developed. Orexo, however, recognizes the local and global challenges of inequality at work and work-related health issues. Reported accidents and incidents Through the Business Compliance and Ethics Code 14 Orexo condemns any form of harassment or discrimination, 12 including such characteristics protected by applicable laws 10 and regulations. To enforce the policy the Swedish organization maintains an Equal Opportunities Plan which has 8 been revised during the year. Orexo AB initially took the 6 Women’s Empowerment Principles Gender Gap Analysis 4 Tool (WEP’s tool) and then updated the Equal Opportunities Plan. The plan was based on qualitative and quantitative 2 data collected from the organization through HR manage0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ment systems, an employee satisfaction survey and a specific survey on gender equality topics. The parent company Incidents Accidents Incentive Target 2018 Status Our work on safety and Ensure a work environment with equal opportunities Equal opportunities assessment and issue health engage all employees and free from harassments mitigation according to plan Safety & Health Risk Management Report maintained S&H RM Report annual update performed and utilized to drive activities within prioritized areas on-time, in-full and identified risks are ­monitored and mitigated accordingly Performance ­indicators 2017 (year-end data) 2018 (year-end data) Parent company Group Parent company Group Types of employment 1 Number of employees 53 90 55 129 – employees with a permanent contract 98% 99% 98% 99% – employees with a temporary contract 2% 1% 2% 1% Temporary workers 10% 32% 13% 8% Gender equality Female employees 51% 56% 55% 60% – women in management positions 44% 47% 33% 42% – women in executive management team — 0% — 0% Women on board of directors — 29% — 29% Other data Employee satisfaction index 2 80 Not available 78 81 Employee absence due to illness 2% 1% 4% 2% 1 Employees = Orexo’s payroll; Workforce = Employees + Consultants 2 Springlife (Parent company), DecisionWise (Orexo US, Inc.). Score above 70 indicates that the conditions for employees are good. 30 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T Statement by the CEO Orexo’s Sustainability Report is prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and it also act as our Communication on Progress according to the reporting guidelines of the UN Global Compact. I am pleased to ­reaffirm Orexo’s support of the Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Nikolaj Sorensen President and CEO Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability statement To the general meeting of the shareholders of Orexo AB, Opinions corporate identity number 556500-0600. A statutory sustainability statement has been prepared. Engagement and responsibility Uppsala 19 March 2019 It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the statutory Ernst & Young AB sustainability statement for the year 2018 on pages 24–31 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Björn Ohlsson Annual Accounts Act. Authorized Public Accountant The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conduct­ed in accordance with International Standards on ­Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in ­Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 31 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Board of Directors’ Report The Board of Directors and the President of Orexo AB (publ), ­ corporate registration number 556500-0600, hereby submit the Annual Report and consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year January 1–December 31, 2018. Orexo’s registered office is in Uppsala, Sweden. Operations Orexo’s business model provides the opportunity to Orexo develops improved pharmaceuticals based on develop products with a lower level of development risk, ­innovative Drug Delivery technologies. The current focus is and in a shorter time, compared to the development of ­primarily on opioid dependence and pain but the aim is to new chemical substances. address other areas where the company’s competence and Orexo’s revenues derive from launched products and technologies can create value. The products are commer­royalties and milestone payments from licensing agreements. cialized by Orexo in the US or via partners worldwide. The main market today is the American market for Organization buprenorphine/naloxone products, where Orexo sells The US subsidiary, Orexo Inc., is responsible for the US com­Zubsolv® for treatment of opioid dependence. Zubsolv was mercialization of Zubsolv and possesses a full commercial approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on infrastructure. Since July 1, 2014 Orexo’s partner Syneos July 3, 2013, and launched on the US market on September (inVentiv Health) has acted as contracted sales force partner 16, 2013. with day-to-day management of field based activities conOrexo has to date developed the following proprietary ducted by Orexo. Sales force leadership is employed directly commer­cial products: by Orexo and ensures full control of all sales & marketing activ• Zubsolv, for treatment of opioid dependence, is approved ities. In October 2018, Orexo Inc. internalized all salesforce for use in the US and the EU. In the US the product is representatives, and Syneos remains a partner only to manage commercialized by Orexo whereas Mundipharma owns the back office functions for the salesforce operations. During the rights to Zubsolv outside of the US. Launch of Zubsolv the year a key focus area for the commercial organization was in a few countries in EU occurred in the first half of 2018. to improve the market access situation for Zubsolv in the US. The partnership with Mundipharma will end in April 2019. The development organization focused during the year All rights will be ransfered to Orexo then, and the work to on progressing the pipeline of internal development identify new partners has been initiated. ­projects. As a result, in the Q1 2018 Interim Report, Orexo • Abstral®, for the treatment of breakthrough pain in cancer was able to announce two new projects. The OX124 a patients, is approved for use in the EU, the US, Canada, ­rapidly acting naloxone medication for treatment of opioid Japan and a few additional markets. The product is sold overdose with a differentiated profile compared to currently in the US by Sentynl Therapeutics and outside of the US marketed products for which a successful human pharmaco­ by Kyowa Kirin. kinetic (PK) study, OX124-001, was initiated in 20 healthy • Edluar®, a sublingual tablet containing zolpidem to treat volunteers during Q4 2018 and with positive results cominsomnia, is approved for use in the US, Canada and the municated in beginning of 2019. The OX338 project based EU and sold in these markets by Mylan. on a new sublingual tablet formulation of Ketorolac for • Diabact®, a tablet for diagnosis of the gastric ulcer acute treatment of moderate to severe pain. In the Q4 2018 ­bacterium helicobacter pylori. This product was divested Interim report a new project was announced the OX125 together with the subsidiary Kibion in 2015. based on a novel and unique technology developed to ­provide a rapidly acting nalmefene medication for treatment The company focuses on developing and commercializing of opioid overdose with the aim to provide differentiated new, improved pharmaceuticals by combining well known profile compared to currently marketed products and other substances with innovative and proprietary formulation products under development. technologies. This results in new, patentable products that improve patient care and convenience. 32 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Another key focus area for the development organization Patent infringement litigation against Actavis was the work to improve efficiencies within manufacturing for their generic versions of Suboxone® and Subutex® with the aim of reducing cost of goods sold. tablets in the US Orexo has broad-based competence throughout the In March 2017, Orexo filed a patent infringement action in value chain, with a focus on pharmaceutical formulation, the United States District Court for the District of Delaware clinical development, registration, pharmaceutical manu­ against Actavis Elizabeth LLC, Actavis Pharma, Inc., and their facturing and commercialization. parent company Teva (collectively Actavis”). Orexo alleges Orexo works with highly competent external partners for that Actavis’s generic versions of Suboxone and Subutex the manufacture of products for commercial use, clinical tablets infringe Orexo’s US Patent 8,454,996 (the‘996 patent). trials and manufacturing. Actavis’s generic version of Suboxone was approved by the Orexo also collaborates with contract research organizaFDA in February 2013 and their generic version of Subutex tions for certain aspects of drug development, such as in February 2015. Orexo is seeking compensation for damages ­clinical studies. Orexo deploys a project led organization, in caused by Actavis’s infringement of the ‘996 patent since which skills are combined based on the specific demands the year of approval of these two products.The trial is of individual projects. scheduled for March 25–29, 2019. Orexo has established a Supplier Code of Conduct that will A court decision will follow closely after, with the possi­ guide in the procurement of goods and services and align bility to appeal from both sides. requirements and expectations between Orexo and suppliers. All new potential suppliers are assessed in accordance with Zubsolv US market access update the Supplier Code of Conduct. The assessment includes key During the year Orexo improved the market access for suppliers sustainability efforts and performance. ­Zubsolv in the US. Within the profitable commercial category At year end, Orexo had a total of 129 employees. access increased with the Blue Cross Blue Shield health plan wins. Additionally, access within the public category Key events increased during the year and Zubsolv moved into a 2018 was the third consecutive year with full year positive ­preferred product reimbursed accessible position on many earnings and positive cash flow and Orexo made progress state Medicaid Preferred Drug Lists in the last quarter of on several fronts. The pipeline of internal projects progressed 2018 which will give Zubsolv greater public access in 2019. well, market access for Zubsolv® in the US was significantly improved with impact from 2018 and the financial situation Financial Performance was improved with continued positive cash flow. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS SEK million 2018 2017 Paragraph IV litigation against Actavis regarding Zubsolv in the US Net revenues 783.1 643.7 On December 7, 2016, Orexo appealed the District Court’s Cost of goods sold –171.8 –164.4 decision relating to the validity of the ‘330 patent to the Gross profit 611.4 479.3 Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Actavis did not Selling expenses –191.4 –190.5 appeal the District Court’s decision relating to the validity Administrative expenses –166.7 –96.1 and infringement of the ‘996 patent, securing Zubsolv Research and development costs –166.8 –134.2 exclusivity on the US market until at least September 24, Other operating income and expenses 9.3 –1.1 2019. An oral session was held in the US Court of Appeals Operating earnings 95.8 57.4 for the Federal Circuit on October 4, 2017. Net financial items –3.6 –27.7 On September 10, 2018, the US Court of Appeals for the Earnings after financial items 92.2 29.7 Federal Circuit found Zubsolv US patent ‘330 to be valid, and Income tax 45.7 –6.5 reversed the invalidity decision previously rendered by the Net earnings for the period 137.9 23.2 District Court of Delaware in November 2016. The same Court also denied Actavis’s petition for rehearing regarding Revenues validity of the Zubsolv patent. The ‘330 patent and two new Net revenues Zubsolv US patents, 9,259,421 and 9,439,900, listed in the Net revenues were distributed as follows: Orange Book in 2016, are protecting Zubsolv in the US until 2032. Orexo then requested the US District Court of Delaware NET REVENUES to issue a judgment that Actavis’s generic Zubsolv products SEK million 2018 2017 infringe the ‘330 patent, and will not be approved by FDA until September 2032. Such a judgement was issued by the Zubsolv US 621.5 485.8 Court after the period, on January 10, 2019. Zubsolv – Rest of World 36.2 5.6 The infringement judgement implicates that Orexo has Zubsolv – Total 657.8 491.4 fully won this patent litigation case which is now declared Abstral – royalty 118.8 113.2 closed. Edluar – royalty 6.6 17.3 OX-CLI – 21.8 Total 783.1 643.7 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 33 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Commercial products EXPENSES FOR THE LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PROGRAM Total net revenues for the year amounted to SEK 783.1 million SEK million 2018 2017 (643.7). Higher Zubsolv® US revenue in 2018 explains the Administrative expenses –0.4 –1.4 increase. Zubsolv US revenue ended at SEK 621.5 million (485.8), Research and development costs –1.2 –1.2 28 percent above the previous year’s level. The US bupren­ Selling expenses –0.5 –0.4 orphine/naloxone market grew by low double digit rates. Total costs incentive programs –2.1 –3.0 Within the commercial category Zubsolv was nearly univer­sally reimbursed in 2018, primarily driven by the new Other income and expenses preferred position within CVS Caremark and with the excluOther income and expenses amounted to SEK 9.3 million sive preferred positions within Envision Rx and Humana. (–1.1). Included are exchange-rate gains/losses derived from More than 80 percent of the market growth occurred in the revaluation of operating receivables and payables in foreign public category, and Zubsolv had much improved access currency and income/expenses from activities outside the with the exclusive position with the Humana Medicaid scope of normal business operations. Part D plan from January 1, 2018. During Q4 Orexo shipped the last Zubsolv batches to Depreciation Mundipharma. These products were invoiced at cost Depreciation and amortization amounted to SEK 20.8 million according to the agreement. (20.8). This includes amortization of previously capitalized Total Abstral royalties during the year amounted to SEK R&D expenses related to the Zubsolv induction label. 118.8 million (113.2), with region RoW being the key growth driver. In September 2019, the patents for Abstral in the EU Net financial items will expire. As the EU contract with Kyowa Kirin runs until Net financial items amounted to SEK –3.6 million (–27.7) December 31, 2019, Orexo expects that royalty for the EU explained by higher financial income mainly due to will decrease slightly during the year compared to 2018, but exchange rate gains of SEK 32.3 million (0.0) derived from will cease for 2020. EU’s share of Abstral’s total royalty foreign currency bank accounts. amounts to approximately 80 percent. Royalty revenues from Edluar® during the year amounted Income tax to SEK 6.6 million (17.3) mainly explained by a temporary Income tax for the year amounted to SEK 45.7 million loss of business in US market due to supply issues which (–6.5) and was positively impacted by SEK 53.3 million due have now been resolved. to adjustments of the parent company’s deferred tax asset, driven by anticipated increased profitability. Expenses and earnings Cost of goods sold Net earnings Cost of goods sold amounted to SEK 171.8 million (164.4). Net earnings amounted to SEK 137.9 million (23.2). Approximately SEK 5 million relates to Zubsolv which was supplied to Mundipharma. The rest relates to Zubsolv for Financial position the US market. On December 31, 2018, cash and cash equivalents amounted to SEK 589.8 million (327.9) and interest-bearing liabilities to Selling expenses SEK 320.6 million (319.1). Selling expenses amounted to SEK 191.4 million (190.5) as The interest-bearing liabilities are all associated with cora result of tight cost control and a very targeted investment porate bonds. During Q4, 2017, Orexo refinanced the 2014 approach focusing on US districts with good market access corporate bond by issuing a new SEK 325.0 million bond and growth opportunities. and redeeming the 2014 bond. Positive cash flow from operating activities for the year Administrative expenses amounted to SEK 242.0 million (146.6) and was driven by a Administrative expenses amounted to SEK 166.7 million (96.1). positive contribution from both earnings and changes in The higher expense level in 2018 is explained by significantly working capital. higher legal costs related to protection of IP rights. Shareholders’ equity on December 31, 2018 was SEK 476.1 million (329.1) and the equity/assets ratio was 37 percent (33). Research and development costs The profitable business operations and the current cash Research and development costs amounted to SEK 166.8 position have secured Orexo a strong financial platform for million (134.2). During 2018 the focus was mainly on OX124, the execution of the company’s strategy. progressing other early stage projects and the supply chain optimization project. Investments Gross investments in tangible and intangible fixed assets Expenses for the long-term incentive program amounted to SEK 3.6 million (1.6). The Group’s total costs for employee share based incentive programs amounted to SEK 2.1 million (3.0). The table below shows how expenses for the long-term incentive program are distributed: 34 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Parent Company The payers are constantly reviewing their formularies and Parent company’s operations consist of Business Developthis can lead to significant changes in market ment, R&D, Global Lifecycle Management, Global regulatory, access. Orexo’s products are sold in a highly competitive Supply Chain and Group Business Support. Net revenues market, with competition from both other products and amounted to SEK 407.6 million (477.8), of which group ­internal other treatment methods, and the launch of new products sales amounted to SEK 246.0 million (320.0). E ­ arnings after by competitors is an inherent market risk. In all markets for financial items were SEK 52.0 million (35.1). As of December Orexo’s products there is intensive development of new and 31, 2018, cash and cash equivalents in the Parent Company improved treatments, which may prove to have a better amounted to SEK 303.2 million (215.1). clinical effect than those of today. Orexo is constantly working to proactively analyze these Outlook 2019 risks and develop action plans for alternative market sce­ For 2019 Orexo expects to improve the positive EBITDA on narios. This is being done together with local external a full year basis and on a quarterly basis the development expertise. will follow the same pattern as previous year. Orexo believes that the overall volume of Zubsolv® sales R&D does not achieve the expected results in the US in 2019 will increase due to new wins in several Development of a new product is by nature a complicated states in the public category of Medicaid and further growth and risky process that requires considerable financial in Humana Med D exclusive position, despite increased resources. Orexo’s strategy is to develop improved products competition from a potential launch of Suboxone® Film at a lower cost, in a shorter period of time and at a lower generics. However we do expect that a launch of correrisk by combining previously known substances with propriesponding generics will increase market risk and uncertainty tary technologies. The process is controlled by a multidiscibut will also offer opportunities. plinary organization that handles all critical issues during the The manufacturing efficiency program is aimed to development process on the way to an app­roved product. reduce the average Cost of Goods Sold (COGS) per tablet As Orexo is a relatively small organization, it is necessary to by 35 percent in H2, 2019 compared to 2017. focus on a small number of prioritized projects with high Full year OPEX is expected to stay at the same level as market potential. 2018 with approximately SEK 500 million. The final outcome The development of these prioritized projects towards is dependent on the cost of the IP litigation against Actavis an approved product may fail or be delayed due to several for their generic versions of Suboxone and Subutex® and ­factors, such as: possible appeals after the court hearing in the District Court • unfavorable results in clinical trials in March. • failure to gain the authority approval required for sales Additional investments may be needed if development of the pharmaceutical product programs reach clinical stage faster than anticipated. Orexo • a change in the requirements of the regulatory authorities. expects to advance at least one additional development program to phase I trial during 2019. During 2018 the development organization focused on The first new partnerships for Zubsolv outside the US is progress­ing the pipeline of internal development projects. expected to be initated in 2019. As a result, in the Q1 2018 Interim Report, Orexo was able The outlook is based on current exchange rates (January to announce two new projects. The OX124 a rapidly acting 2019). naloxone medication for treatment of opioid overdose with a differentiated profile compared to currently marketed Risks products. Positive results were received in beginning of 2019 Significant risks and uncertainties showing that all formulations of OX124 were well tolerated Significant risks are essentially the same for the Parent and displayed substantially higher plasma concentrations of ­Company and the Group. The risks may be classified as naloxone, sustained duration of elevated plasma concentrafinancial and operational. The financial risks are described tions, and equivalent or superior onset time when compared in Note 3 on pages 53–54. A summary description of the to Narcan®. The OX338 project based on a new sublingual ­operational risks attributable to research and development, tablet formulation of Ketorolac for acute treatment of produc­tion, sales and other risks is presented below. ­moderate to severe pain. Positive results from this study was obtained early 2019 supporting further development and Market risks planning for a human pharmacokinetic study commencing The main market risks for Orexo are price pressure, reim­burse­ during second half of 2019. ment restrictions by payers and the launch of new and In the Q4 2018 Interim report third new project was competing products, including the generic film in early 2019. announced the OX125 based on a novel and unique techFor Zubsolv to be successful in the US, it is of the utmost nology developed to provide a rapidly acting nalmefene importance that Zubsolv has access to patients and reimburse­ medication for treatment of opioid overdose with the aim to ment to the same extent as competitors. provide differentiated profile compared to currently marketed The US payer structure and reimbursement system is very products and other products under development. The large and complex and therefore Orexo has established its ­positive results from the OX124 human PK-study meant that own team of experienced people focusing only on improving a decisions were made to intensify the development of the market and reimbursement access for Zubsolv. project. OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 35 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Formulation development continued for the OX382 during High demands are placed on methods and processes and the year based on the insights gained from the result in the these must meet “Good Manufacturing Practice” standards first clinical study performed in beginning of the year. (GMP). Orexo constantly evaluates the fulfilment of GMP Besides current ongoing initiatives Orexo’s R&D focus is both internally and by all strategic subsuppliers. Orexo and directed towards exploratory work to develop new formulaits subsuppliers may be inspected by different authorities tion platforms and products. As soon as any of the explorathat have the power to grant approval. Orexo’s production tory work shows proof of principle and intellectual rights comprises highly potent controlled substances. There are have been secured details will be shared with the public. strict rules and laws for these regarding manufacturing, As with other R&D activities, there is a risk that the desired ­storage, handling, freight, import and export, and waste results are not met. management. Access to pharmaceutical ingredients may be uncertain and entail long delivery times. Orexo must Difficulties in obtaining and protecting patents therefore ensure that it can gain access to these substances Being able to obtain and maintain patents and other intelat an early stage. lectual property rights protecting Orexo’s technologies and To ensure safe supply of products that are vital to patients products is an important part of Orexo’s ability to create a significant inventory of Zubsolv must be maintained. long-term value for its shareholders. Obtaining patents ­Carrying a high inventory level creates a risk of write-offs of related to pharmaceuticals is a complex process that involves expired products. Orexo is constantly working to minimize both scientific and legal expertise. Even if a patent has been this risk by managing the inventory according to demand granted, it may later be challenged legally, declared invalid and by working to improve the product’s lifetime. During or bypassed, which may limit Orexo’s a ­ bility to market its 2018 Orexo continued to improve the product’s lifetime and new products. also to reduce the inventory level to an appropriate level. On September 10, 2018, the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit found Zubsolv® US patent ‘330 to be valid, Effect of political and regulatory decisions and reversed the invalidity decision previously rendered by The pharmaceutical market is greatly affected by political the District Court of Delaware in November 2016. The same decisions that may affect, for example, reimbursement Court also denied Actavis’s petition for rehearing regarding ­levels for pharmaceutical expenses and limits for the prevalidity of the Zubsolv patent. The ‘330 patent and two new scription of products. Especially the market for controlled Zubsolv US patents, 9,259,421 and 9,439,900, listed in the substances is under tight surveillance and control by Orange Book in 2016, are protecting Zubsolv in the US until authorities who can change the market conditions with new September 2032. Orexo then requested the US District ­policies and legislation. During 2016 the US Department of Court of Delaware to issue a judgment that Actavis’s generic Health and Human Services (HHS) announced an increase Zubsolv products infringe the ‘330 patent, and will not be in the buprenorphine patient cap from 100 to 275 patients approved by FDA until September 2032. Such a judgement and during 2017 HHS further allowed certified physician was issued by the Court after the period, on January 10, assistants and nurses to start prescribing buprenorphine 2019. The infringement judgement implicates that Orexo for treatment of opioid dependence. These changes are has fully won this patent litigation case which is now examples of political decisions with positive impact on the declared closed. market for Zubsolv. In March 2017, Orexo filed a patent infringement action in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware Dependence on key persons against Actavis Elizabeth LLC, Actavis Pharma, Inc., and their Orexo is dependent on a number of key persons within parent company Teva (collectively “Actavis”). Orexo alleges ­various different areas. The ability to recruit and retain that Actavis’s generic versions of Suboxone® and Subutex® ­qualified staff is of very great importance for ensuring that tablets infringe Orexo’s US Patent 8,454,996. Actavis’s there is adequate expertise in the company. generic version of Suboxone was approved by the FDA in February 2013 and their generic version of Subutex in Employees ­February 2015. Orexo is seeking compensation for damages Orexo offers a dynamic and innovative place to work. caused by Actavis’s infringement of the ‘996 patent since The company fosters an environment where employees the launch of these two products. The trial is scheduled for respect each other’s views, competences and decisions. March 25–29, 2019. A court decision will follow closely after, At Orexo, employees are given substantial responsibility and with the possibility to appeal from both sides. every person’s contribution is important. At end of period Orexo had 129 employees. Production process Production and packing of Orexo’s products is today done Environmental work entirely by external partners. The company has prepared a Sustainability Report in accordZubsolv is manufactured and packed by third party contracance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and according tors located in the US and the manufacturing and packing to the reporting guidelines of the United Nations Global facilities are carefully assessed against Orexo’s Supplier Compact. See pages 24–31. Code of Conduct. 36 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Remuneration The employment agreement with the Chief Executive Principles and guidelines for remuneration Officer may be terminated with six months’ notice. Employto senior executives ment agreements with the other members of the manageThe Board of Directors proposes that the Annual General ment may be terminated with a notice of between zero Meeting resolve to approve the Board of Directors’ proposal and six months. The Chief Executive Officer is entitled to concerning principles and guidelines for the remuneration severance pay equivalent to six months’ salary if employment of the company’s management in accordance with what is is terminated by the company. The other members of the stated below, to apply until the Annual General Meeting in management are entitled to severance pay equivalent to 2020. The Board’s proposal principally conforms to guidebetween 3 and 12 months’ salary if employment is termilines previously applied to the remuneration of the company’s nated by the company. management. “Management” here refers to the Chief ExecThe Board is entitled, if it assesses that this is warranted utive Officer and the other members of the management in an individual case, to assign company work to a Board group, which in addition to the Chief Executive Officer member over and above the Board assignment, in which comprised five persons at the end of 2018. case the Board member may be granted reasonable The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee to remuneration. draw up proposals regarding remuneration and other terms of employment for the management. Divergence from guidelines Orexo shall offer terms of employment that are in line The Board is entitled to deviate from the above guidelines with market rates so that the company can recruit and retain if the Board determines that there are special reasons in an skilled personnel. Remuneration to the management shall individual case that warrant such action. comprise a fixed salary, variable remuneration, long-term In 2018 the Board approved bonus beyond the guidelines incentive programs, pensions and other customary benefits. for the two US participants of the Management Team. This Remuneration is based on the individual’s commitment and was done as part of a special bonus scheme driven by US performance in relation to previously established goals, profit contribution to secure focus on profitability and to ­individual goals and goals for the entire company. Individual reflect American labor market that is requiring an increased performance is continuously evaluated. share of variable remuneration in order to attract and retain key employees. Fixed salary Fixed salary is generally reviewed on an annual basis and shall Largest shareholders be based on the qualitative performance of the individual. At year-end 2018 Orexo had two large shareholders with The fixed salary of the Chief Executive Officer and the holdings of more than 10 percent of the total number of manage­ment shall be in line with market conditions. shares; Novo Holding A/S 27.2 percent with 9,643,184 shares, and HealthCap 11.2 percent with 3,960,020 shares. Variable remuneration Variable remuneration shall take into account the individual’s Dividend level of responsibility and degree of influence. The size of The Board of Directors proposes that no dividend is paid for variable remuneration is based on the percentage of set the financial year 2018. goals met by the individual. Variable remuneration shall amount to no more than 40 percent of the fixed salary of Number of shares the Chief Executive Officer and 30 percent of the fixed ­salary Company shares total 35,450,456 – whereof 34,560,456 for the other members of the management. F ­ urthermore, are ordinary shares and 890,000 class C shares. There are the Board of Directors shall have the option of allocating 34,649,456 votes in the company. ­further variable non recurring remuneration to the management when the Board deems it to be appropriate. Proposed appropriation of profit The following funds are at the disposal of the Annual Long-term incentive programs ­General Meeting: Orexo has adopted equity-based incentive programs intended to promote the company’s long-term interests by SEK thousands motivating and rewarding the management of the company, Share premium reserve 1,198,323 among others. All incentive programs are performance Loss carried forward  –1,191,631 driven to align participant’s interest with shareholder interest. Profit/loss for the year 105,311 For a description of the company’s Long-Term Incentive Total112,003 Programs, please refer to Note 23, and to the company’s website, www.orexo.com. The Board proposes that the funds at their disposal SEK 112,003 thousands be carried forward. Other remuneration and terms of employment The Chief Executive Officer and the other members of the Corporate Governance management are covered by defined contribution pension Information on Orexo’s application of the Swedish Code plans. The pension premiums paid by the company to the of Corporate Governance and more can be found in the Chief Executive Officer and other members of management ­corporate governance report on page 79. amount to not more than 20 percent of the annual salary. OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 37 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Financial information in brief Group STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS INFORMATION SEK million 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Net revenues 783.1 643.7 705.9 646.2 570.3 Cost of goods sold –171.8 –164.4 –149.6 –150.2 –107.4 Gross Profit 611.4 479.3 556.3 496.0 462.9 Selling expenses –191.4 –190.5 –240.6 –297.5 –193.6 Administrative expenses –166.7 –96.1 –161.6 –141.5 –113.0 Research and development costs –166.8 –134.2 –132.3 –172.6 –197.8 Other operative income and expenses 9.3 –1.1 29.9 –65.0 16.5 Operating earnings 95.8 57.4 51.7 –180.6 –25.0 Net financial items –3.6 –27.7 –16.1 –23.0 –27.6 Earning after financial items 92.2 29.7 35.6 –203.6 –52.6 Income tax 45.7 –6.5 –6.5 –6.4 –4.0 Net earning for the year 137.9 23.2 29.0 –210.0 –56.6 BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION SEK million 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Intangible fixed assets 103.9 121.0 138.2 155.5 259.2 Tangible fixed assets 20.0 20.1 22.1 24.7 29.1 Deferred tax 92.8 28.3 24.8 18.0 3.0 Other financial assets 10.4 7.1 7.9 2.1 1.2 Inventories 173.6 250.2 344.2 402.6 488.2 Account receivable 264.5 218.4 178.5 167.8 142.1 Other current assets 31.6 30.9 20.7 51.2 31.5 Cash and bank balance 589.8 327.9 282.4 198.1 284.5 Total assets 1,286.7 1,003.9 1,018.8 1,020.0 1,238.8 Shareholders' equity 476.1 329.1 310.3 270.1 467.9 Interest-bearing liabilities 320.6 319.1 397.8 494.4 493.8 Non-interest bearing liabilities and provisions 489.9 355.7 310.7 255.5 277.1 Total shareholders' equity and liabilities 1,286.7 1,003.9 1,018.8 1,020.0 1,238.8 38 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT CASH FLOW INFORMATION SEK million 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 127.9 110.3 67.5 –47.2 –35.5 Cash flow changes in working capital 114.1 36.3 88.7 –62.0 –451.8 Cash flow from operating activities 242.0 146.6 156.2 –109.2 –487.3 Acquisition of tangible, intangible and financial assets –6.2 –1.6 –1.7 –4.0 –71.7 Sale of tangible assets – – 1.9 – – Sale of subsidiary – – 5.0 21.8 – Cash flow after investing activities 235.8 145.0 161.7 –91.4 –559.0 Amortization of loans – –404.7 –92.8 –1.2 –102.4 Borrowings – 319.2 – – 500.0 New share issues 0.1 0.1 2.2 3.8 189.7 Buyback of shares –0.1 – – – – Sales of treasury shares – – – – 152.0 Cash flow for the year 235.8 59.6 71.1 –88.8 180.3 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 589.8 327.9 282.4 198.1 284.5 OTHER KEY FIGURES 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 EBIT margin, % 12.2 8.9 7.3 –27.9 –4.4 Return on shareholder equity, % 34.3 7.3 10.0 –56.9 –18.0 Net debt, SEK million ­–269.2 –8.8 115.4 296.3 211.7 Debt/equity ratio, % 67.3 97.0 128.2 183.0 106.0 Equity/assets ratio, % 37.0 32.8 30.5 26.5 37.1 Number of shares, before dilution 34,560,456 34,540,271 34,477,423 34,478,622 32,700,348 Number of shares, after dilution 35,095,980 34,650,835 34,574,337 34,478,622 32,700,348 Earnings per share, before dilution, SEK 3.99 0.67 0.84 –6.09 –1.70 Earnings per share, after dilution, SEK 3.93 0.67 0.84 –6.09 –1.70 Number of employees at the end of the period 129 90 102 90 108 Shareholders’ equity, SEK million 476.1 329.1 310.3 270.1 467.9 Capital employed, SEK million 796.7 648.2 708.1 764.5 961.7 Working capital, SEK million –13.7 149.6 233.9 370.0 383.8 For alternative key figures see definitions and reconciliations of key figures on page 76 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 39 Financial Reports 2018 Consolidated Statement of Operations 41 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 41 Consolidated Balance Sheet 42 Changes in Consolidated Shareholders’ Equity 43 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 44 Parent Company Statement of Operations 45 Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income 45 Parent Company Balance Sheet 46 Changes in Parent Company Shareholders’ Equity 47 Parent Company Cash Flow Statement 48 Notes 49 Assurance of the Board of Directors and President 71 Auditor’s Report 72 Reconciliation of Key Figures 76 Definitions 77 40 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CO N S O L I D AT ED S TAT E M EN T O F O P ER AT I O N S A N D CO N S O L I D AT ED S TAT E M EN T O F C ­ OMPREHENSIVE INCOME Consolidated Statement of Operations SEK million Notes 2018 2017 Net revenues 5 783.1 643.7 Cost of goods sold 6 –171.8 –164.4 Gross profit 611.4 479.3 Selling expenses 6, 8, 9, 31 –191.4 –190.5 Administrative expenses 6, 8, 9, 29, 31 –166.7 –96.1 Research and development costs 6, 8, 9, 31 –166.8 –134.2 Other operating income 7, 10 18.5 38.1 Other operating expenses 6, 10 –9.2 –39.3 Operating earnings 95.8 57.4 Financial income 11 35.3 0.2 Financial expense 11 –38.9 –27.9 Earnings after financial items 92.2 29.7 Tax 12 45.7 –6.5 Net earnings for the year 137.9 23.2 Earnings for the year attributable to: Parent Company shareholders 137.9 23.2 Non–controlling interests – – Earnings per share during the year attributable to Parent Company shareholders (expressed in SEK) – before dilution 13 3.99 0.67 – after dilution 13 3.93 0.67 Consolidated Statement of C ­ omprehensive Income SEK million Notes 2018 2017 Net earnings for the year 137.9 23.2 Other comprehensive income Items that may subsequently be reversed to the statement of operations: Translation differences 16 7.0 –7.5 Other comprehensive earnings for the year, net after tax 7.0 –7.5 Comprehensive earnings for the year 144.9 15.7 Comprehensive earnings attributable to: Parent Company shareholders 144.9 15.7 Non–controlling interests – – OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 41 CO N S O L I D AT ED B A L A N C E S H EE T Consolidated Balance Sheet SEK million Notes 2018 2017 ASSETS Fixed assets Tangible fixed assets 8, 14 20.0 20.1 Intangible assets 8, 15 103.9 121.0 Deferred tax assets 30 92.8 28.3 Other financial assets 17 10.4 7.1 Total fixed assets 227.2 176.5 Current assets Inventories 18 173.6 250.2 Accounts receivable 19 264.5 218.4 Other receivables 20 5.9 7.4 Prepayment and accrued income 21 25.7 23.5 Cash and cash equivalents 17, 22 589.8 327.9 Total current assets 1,059.5 827.4 TOTAL ASSETS 1,286.7 1,003.9 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders’ equity Share capital 23 14.2 14.1 Other contributed capital 23 1,853.6 1,851.6 Reserves 16 –0.3 –7.3 Profit carried forward including net earnings for the year 24 –1,391.4 –1,529.3 Total shareholder's equity 476.1 329.1 Long–term liabilities and provisions Provisions 24 6.5 5.8 Interest bearing liabilities 17, 25 320.6 319.1 Total long–term liabilities 327.1 324.9 Current liabilities Accounts payable 17 47.7 45.5 Provisions 24 265.8 200.9 Other liabilities 26 4.9 6.3 Accruals 26 165.0 97.2 Total current liabilities 483.4 349.9 Total liabilities 810.5 674.8 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 1,286.7 1,003.9 42 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 C H A N G E S I N CO N S O L I D AT ED S H A R EH O L D ER S ’ EQ U I T Y Changes in Consolidated Shareholders’ Equity Profit carried Other forward including Total Attributable to Parent Company shareholders¹ contributed Net earnings for shareholders’ SEK million Notes Share capital capital Reserves the year equity Opening balance at January 1, 2017 13.9 1,848.6 0.2 –1,552.4 310.3 Comprehensive income Net earnings for the year 23.2 23.2 Other comprehensive income Translation differences –7.5 –7.5 Total comprehensive income 0.0 0.0 –7.5 23.2 15.7 Transactions with shareholders Share based compensation 23 3.0 3.0 New share issues 0.1 0.1 Total transactions with shareholders 0.1 3.0 3.1 Closing balance at December 31, 2017 14.1 1,851.6 –7.3 –1,529.3 329.1 Opening balance at January 1, 2018 Comprehensive income Net earnings for the year 137.9 137.9 Other comprehensive income Translation differences 7.0 7.0 Total comprehensive income 0.0 0.0 7.0 137.9 144.9 Transactions with shareholders Share based compensation 23 2.1 2.1 New share issues 0.1 –0.1 0.0 Total transactions with shareholders 0.1 2.0 0.0 0.0 2.1 Closing balance at December 31, 2018 14.2 1,853.6 –0.3 –1,391.4 476.1 1 There are no non–controlling interests The number of outstanding shares has increased from 35,104,585 per 31 December 2017 to 35,450,456 per 31 December 2018. This has been done through issuance of 325,000 C shares and 20,871 from exercise of options. The quota value per share on December 31, 2018 is 0.4. OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 43 CO N S O L I D AT ED C A S H F LO W S TAT E M EN T Consolidated Cash Flow Statement SEK million Notes 2018 2017 Operating earnings 95.8 57.4 Adjustment for non-cash items 32 61.9 87.9 Interest received 3.1 0.2 Interest paid –14.8 –15.6 Tax paid –18.1 –19.6 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 127.9 110.3 Changes in working capital Change in inventories 83.5 83.2 Change in receivables –22.3 –70.5 Change in current liabilities 52.9 23.6 Cash flow from operating activities 242.0 146.6 Investing activities Acquisition of tangible fixed assets 14 –2.9 –1.1 Acquisition of intangible assets 15 –0.7 –0.5 Acquisition of financial assets –2.5 – Cash flow from investing activities –6.2 –1.6 Financing activities New share issue 0.1 0.1 Buyback of shares –0.1 – Issuance of corporate bonds 25 – 319.2 Buyback of corporate bonds 25 – –404.7 Cash flow from financing activities 0.0 –85.4 Cash flow for the year 235.8 59.6 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 327.9 282.4 Exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents 26.1 –14.1 Change in liquidity 261.9 45.5 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 22 589.8 327.9 44 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 PA R EN T CO M PA N Y S TAT E M EN T O F O P ER AT I O N S A N D PA R EN T CO M PA N Y S TAT E M EN T O F CO M P R EH EN S I V E I N CO M E Parent Company Statement of Operations SEK million Notes 2018 2017 Net revenues 5 407.6 477.8 Cost of goods sold 6 –116.2 –167.4 Gross profit 291.4 310.4 Selling expenses 6, 8, 9, 31 –10.3 –73.3 Administrative expenses 6, 8, 9, 29, 31 –135.2 –67.3 Research and development costs 6, 8, 9, 31 –138.3 –105.3 Other operating income 7, 10 63.2 38.1 Other operating expenses 6, 10 –12.6 –39.3 Operating earnings 58.1 63.3 Other interest income and similar income 11 32.8 1.0 Other interest expenses and similar expenses 11 –38.9 –29.2 Net financial items –6.1 –28.2 Earnings before tax 52.0 35.1 Tax on earnings for the year 12 53.3 7.6 Net earnings for the year 105.3 42.7 Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income SEK million Notes 2018 2017 Net earnings for the year 105.3 42.7 Other comprehensive income for the period, net after tax – – Total comprehensive income for the period 105.3 42.7 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 45 PARENT COMPANY BAL ANCE SHEE T Parent Company Balance Sheet SEK million Notes 2018 2017 ASSETS Fixed assets Patents and intellectual property rights and proprietary intangible asset 8, 15 103.9 121.0 Equipment, renovation of the property of others 8, 14 20.0 19.8 Deferred tax assets 30 60.9 7.6 Shares and participations in group companies 27 152.3 150.6 Total fixed assets 337.1 299.0 Current assets Inventories 18 155.3 186.3 Accounts receivable 19 63.0 61.1 Tax claims 12 2.7 2.7 Other receivables 20 3.2 4.7 Receivables from group companies 85.7 79.1 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 21 12.2 10.8 Cash and bank 22 303.2 215.1 Total current assets 625.3 559.8 TOTAL ASSETS 962.4 858.8 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders’ equity Restricted shareholders’ equity Share capital 23 14.2 14.1 Statutory reserve 290.8 290.8 Total restricted shareholders’ equity 305.0 304.9 Non-restricted shareholders’ equity Share premium reserve 23 1,198.1 1,195.9 Accumulated deficit –1,191.4 –1,234.1 Net earnings for the year 105.3 42.7 Total non-restricted shareholders’ equity 111.9 4.5 Total shareholders’ equity 416.9 309.4 Long-term liabilities Other provisions 24 4.9 4.9 Long-term liabilities 25 320.6 319.1 Total long-term liabilities 325.5 324.0 Current liabilities Accounts payable 19.6 28.9 Other liabilities 26 5.0 6.6 Liabilities to group companies 143.2 169.1 Accrued expenses and deferred income 26 52.3 20.8 Total current liabilities 220.1 225.4 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 962.4 858.8 46 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CHANGES IN PARENT COMPANY SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUIT Y Changes in Parent Company Shareholders’ Equity Accumulated Share deficit including Total Statutory premium Net earnings shareholders’ SEK million Notes Share capital reserve reserve for the year equity Opening shareholders’ equity at January 1, 2017 13.9 290.8 1,192.9 –1,234.1 263.5 Net earnings for the year 42.7 42.7 Other comprehensive income – Total comprehensive income 42.7 42.7 Share based compensation 23 3.0 3.0 New share issues 0.1 0.1 Closing shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2017 14.1 290.8 1,195.9 –1,191.4 309.4 Opening shareholders’ equity at January 1, 2018 Net earnings for the year 105.3 105.3 Other comprehensive income – Total comprehensive income 105.3 105.3 Share based compensation 23 2.1 2.1 New share issues 0.1 0.1 Closing shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2018 14.2 290.8 1,198.1 –1,086.2 416.9 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 47 PA R EN T CO M PA N Y C A S H F LO W S TAT E M EN T Parent Company Cash Flow Statement SEK million Notes 2018 2017 Operating activities Operating earnings 58.1 63.3 Adjustment for non-cash items 32 14.4 30.4 Interest received 0.5 0.9 Interest paid –14.8 –15.6 Tax paid – – Cash flow from operating activities before change in working capital 58.2 79.0 Change in working capital Change in inventories 31.0 83.3 Change in accounts receivable and other current receivables –1.9 –85.5 Change in current liabilities –5.4 19.7 Cash flow from operating activities 81.9 96.5 Investing activities Acquisition of tangible fixed assets 14 –2.9 –1.1 Acquisition of intangible assets 15 –0.7 –0.5 Cash flow from investing activities –3.6 –1.6 Financing activities New share issue 0.1 0.1 Buyback of shares –0.1 – Issuance of corporate bonds 25 – 319.2 Buyback of corporate shares 25 – –404.7 Cash flow from financing activities 0.0 –85.4 Cash flow for the year 78.3 9.5 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 215.1 211.7 Exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents 9.8 –6.1 Change in liquidity 88.1 3.4 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 22 303.2 215.1 48 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES Notes NOTE 1 GENERAL INFORMATION Orexo AB (publ) 556500-0600, the Parent Company, and its sub­ The Parent Company is the limited liability company Orexo AB sidiaries (together the Group) are together an integrated pharma (publ), with its registered office in Uppsala, Sweden. The address of ­company with commercial operations in the United States and R&D the company’s head office is Virdings allé 32 A, Uppsala, Sweden. in Sweden. The company develops improved products based on The Parent Company’s share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. ­proprietary drug delivery technology. Orexo is responsible for the The Board of Directors approved these consolidated financial commercialization of its proprietary product Zubsolv®, for ­treatment ­statements for publication on March 19, 2019 of opioid dependence, on the American market. The statement of operations and balance sheet will be presented to the Annual General Meeting on April 11, 2019 for adoption. NOTE 2 SUMMARY OF IMPORTANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The most significant accounting policies applied during the preparation of lease contracts premises. The in-depth effect on the balance sheet of these consolidated financial statements are specified below. Unless in the Group as of January 1, 2019, are a lease asset (right-of use) and otherwise stated, these policies have been applied consis­tently for all a leasing debt respectively of SEK 74.1 million each. years presented. 2.2 Consolidated financial information 2.1 Basis for preparation of the financial statements Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements for Orexo were prepared in Subsidiaries are all companies where the Group has a controlling accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, RFR 1 Supplemeninterest. The Group controls a company when it is exposed to or is tary Accounting Rules for Groups, as well as International Financial entitled to a variable return from its holding in the company and Reporting Standards (IFRS) and interpretations as adopted by the EU. is able to impact the return through its interest in the company. It has been prepared in accordance with the cost method unless Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements as other­wise stated below of the date on which the controlling interest is transferred to the Group. The Parent Company applies the same accounting policies as the They are excluded from the consolidated financial statements as of Group. Any deviations that occur between the policies of the Parent the date on which the controlling interest ceases to apply. Company and the Group are due to restrictions in the ability to apply The purchase method is used to recognize the Group’s business IFRS to the Parent Company pursuant to the Swedish Annual Accounts combinations. Act (ÅRL) and the Pension Obligations Vesting Act and, in some Intra-Group transactions, balance sheet items and non-realized gains instances, for tax purposes. and losses resulting from intra-Group transactions are elim­inated. Where necessary, the accounting policies for subsidiaries have been 2.1.1 Amendments to accounting policies and disclosures adjusted to guarantee consistent application of the Group’s policies. IFRS 16 Leasing has not entered into force at the closing date and it has not been applied in the preparation of the Group and the parent 2.3 Segment reporting company financial reports, see (b) below. Other new or changed Operating segments are recognized in a manner that corresponds standards or interpretations published by the IASB are not expected to to the structure of internal reports submitted to the chief operating have any impact on the Group’s or the parent company’s financial decision maker. The chief operating decision maker is responsible for statements. the allocation of resources and assessment of the operating ­segments’ results. For the Group, this function has been identified as Executive (a) New and amended standards applied by the Group Management. Executive Management assesses the operation in its • IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers, replaces all of the entirety, i.e. as one segment. earlier published standards and interpretations that handle revenue with one overall model for revenue recognition. The Group applies 2.4 Translation of foreign currency the new standard in its entirety from January 1, 2018 and an evalua(a) Functional currency and reporting currency tion has been made regarding IFRS 15 and its effects on the com­ Items included in the financial reports of the different units in the pany’s accounts which did not result in material changes except Group are valued in the currency used in the economic environment ­further disclosure requirements, see Note 5. The Group applies the in which each company mainly operates (functional currency). In the standard retroactively for each previously reported reporting period. consolidated financial statements SEK is used, which is the Parent • IFRS 9 Financial instruments, comprises accounting for financial Company’s functional currency and reporting currency. assets and liabilities and replace IAS 39. The Group applies it the new standard in its entirety as of January 1, 2018 and one assessment of (b) Transactions and balance sheet items IFRS 9 and its effects on the company’s accounts shows that there Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional is no material impact. ­currency using the exchange rates prevailing on the transaction date. Exchange-rate gains and losses arising from the payment of such trans(b) New standards and interpretations of existing standards actions and in the translation of monetary assets and ­liabilities in foreign that have not yet been applied by the Group currency at the closing date are recognized in the statement of operaIFRS 16 Leases will replace IAS 17. According to the new standard, most tions among Other operating income and Other operating expenses. leased assets must be recognized in the balance sheet and the lessee The parent company’s bank balances in foreign currency are transshall divide the cost into interest payments and depreci­ation of the lated to the functional currency according to the exchange rates asset. The standard is applied by the Group and the Parent Company applicable on the transaction date. Exchange-rate gains and losses as from ­January 1, 2019. Orexo applies the simplified transition method arising from the translation are recognized in the statement of operaand the main impact on Orexo’s accounts derive from the accounting tions financial income and expenses. OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 49 NOTES (c) Group companies ­ mortization. Amortization is applied straight-line in an effort to a The earnings and financial position of all Group companies (none of distrib­ute the cost of patents and rights across their estimated useful which use a high inflation currency as their functional currency) that life. The following amortization periods are applied: use a functional currency other than the reporting currency are Patents and rights 3–5 years restated at the Group’s reporting currency as follows: IT systems 5 years • assets and liabilities for each of the balance sheets are restated at the exchange rate applicable on the closing date, (c) Proprietary intangible asset • income and expenses for each of the statements of operations The proprietary intangible asset consists of clinical studies and are translated at an average currency exchange rate, and registra­tion expenses for these that are considered to contribute to • all exchange-rate differences are recognized in other compre­hensive future economic advantages for the Group. These studies are linked income. to products that have already been approved and commercialized. Other clinical studies are carried as an expense. Exchange-rate differences arising as a consequence of the translation The assets have a limited useful life and are recognized at cost less of net investment in foreign operations for such investments are recaccumulated amortization. Amortization is applied straight-line in an ognized in the consolidated financial statements. An accumulated gain effort to distribute the cost of proprietary intangible assets across their or loss in shareholders’ equity is recognized in the statement of operaestimated useful life, which for held assets is 10 years. tions when a foreign operation is divested either wholly or in part. Goodwill and adjustments of fair value arising in the event of acqui­ 2.7 Impairment of non-financial assets sition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities for this Assets with an indeterminate useful life are not depreciated/amortized operation and translated at the exchange rate on the closing date. in consolidation but are instead reviewed annually, or in the event of any indication of a decline in value, to identify any impairment require2.5 Tangible fixed assets ment. Assets that are depreciated/amortized are a ­ s­sessed in terms of Tangible fixed assets are recognized at cost, less depreciation. the value of decline whenever events or c ­ onditions indicate that the ­Subsequent expenditures are added to the carrying amount of the asset carrying amount is perhaps no longer recoverable. An impairment loss or recognized as a separate asset, depending on which is appropriate, is recognized in the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount only when it is probable that the future economic b ­ enefits related to exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the the asset will accrue to the Group and the cost of the asset can be higher of the asset’s fair value less selling expenses and value in use. measured reliably. Expenses incurred for repairs and maintenance are In the case of assets other than financial assets that were previously recognized as costs. impaired, a test is conducted on the closing date to determine Tangible fixed assets are depreciated over the estimated useful life whether a reversal is warranted. of the asset. When the depreciation amount for assets is determined, the asset’s residual value is taken into account where appropriate. 2.8 Inventories Straight-line depreciation methods are used for all types of tangible Inventories are recognized at the lower of cost and net sales value. fixed assets. The following depreciation periods are applied: Cost is determined on the basis of the first in, first out (FIFO) principle. Improvements leasehold 20 years The cost for finished products and work in progress consists of raw Machinery and equipment 5 years materials, direct salaries, other direct costs and attributable indirect Computers 3–5 years manufacturing costs (based on normal manufacturing capacity). The net sales value is the estimated sales price in current operations, In the event that an asset’s carrying amount exceeds its estimated less deductions for applicable variable selling expenses. Tests for recoverable value, the asset is immediately impaired to its recover­able obsolete stock is performed on quarterly basis based on sales forecast value under “Other operating income” and “Other operating expenses”. and shelf life of material in inventory. The residual value and useful life of assets are tested on every closing date and adjusted where necessary. 2.9 Financial instruments Gains and losses from sales are determined by means of a com­ Financial instruments are recognized in the balance sheet when the parison between the sales proceeds and carrying amount and are Group becomes a party in accordance with the contractual terms of recog­nized as “Other operating income” and “Other operating the instrument. A receivable is recognized when the company has expenses” in the statement of operations. performed and there is a contractual obligation for the counterparty to pay. A liability is recognized when the counterparty has performed 2.6 Intangible assets and there is a contractual obligation to pay. The business model for Intangible assets are recognized in the balance sheet when it is which the financial asset or liability was acquired or entered into and ­probable that the future economic benefits related to the asset will the nature of the contractual cash flows is crucial for the classification. accrue to the Group and the asset’s value can be measured reliably. Group financial assets and liabilities are classified in the cate­gories Development expenses are capitalized and recognized in the balance shown below: sheet as intangible assets if the criteria for recognition in the balance • Financial assets at amortized cost sheet as stipulated in IAS 38 Intangible Assets are satisfied. • Financial liabilities at amortized cost Group intangible fixed assets consist of: The Group does not actively trade in financial instruments that are not (a) Acquired research and development related to the Group’s operations. Because of this, the financial assets Acquired R&D consists of acquired individual projects and the surplus and liabilities recognized in the balance sheet are primarily cash and values arising in conjunction with business combinations. Ongoing cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and interest-­ R&D projects acquired through business combinations are recognized bearing ­liabilities. During the financial year and the comparative year, at cost as “Acquired R&D”. Expenses for continuing research in acquired the Group did not have any financial instruments that are valued at fair projects are booked as they arise until the project reaches the stage value, either through profit or other comprehensive income. During that the activation criterias under IAS 38 are met. Following initial the comparative year, the Group held financial assets classified as loan recog­ni­tion, the assets are recognized in line with the cost method, receivables and accounts receivable according to IAS 39. These have meaning that Acquired R&D is recognized at cost after deductions for in all material respects been reported in the same way as financial any accumulated amortization and impairment. Amortiza­tion accordassets at amortized cost according to IFRS 9. ing to plan commences when the R&D project in question results in Financial assets classified at amortized cost are initially measured a product that can be used. at fair value with the addition of transaction costs. Receivables against customers are initially recognized at the invoiced value. After the (b) Patents and rights first accounting opportunity, the assets are valued according to the Patents and rights are recognized at cost. Patents and rights have effective interest method. Assets classified at amortized cost are held a limited useful life and are recognized at cost less accumulated according to the business model to collect contractual cash flows 50 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES that are only payments of principal amounts and interest on the outDeferred income tax is calculated using tax rates (and legislation) standing capital amount. The assets are covered by a loss reserve for that have been decided or announced by the closing date and are expected loan losses. expected to apply when the deferred tax asset in question is realized Financial liabilities recognized at amortized cost are initially m ­ easured or the deferred tax liability is settled. at fair value including transaction costs. After the first accounting date, Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is likely that they are valued at accrued acquisition value according to the effective future taxable income will be available, against which temporary interest method. differ­ences can be used. Current and deferred tax is recognized in the statement of 2.10 Offset of financial instruments ­operations, except when the tax refers to items that are recognized Financial assets and liabilities are offset and recognized at a net directly against shareholders’ equity or in other comprehensive amount in the balance sheet only when there is a legal right to o ­ ffset income. In these cases, tax is also recognized in shareholders’ equity the recognized amounts and an intention to settle with a net amount or in other comprehensive income. or simultaneously realize the asset and settle the liability. 2.17 Employee benefits 2.11 Cash and cash equivalents (a) Pension obligations Cash and cash equivalents include cash, bank balances and other A defined-contribution pension plan is a pension plan according ­current investments that mature within three months of the date of to which the Group pays fixed fees to a publicly or privately adminisacquisition and which are exposed only to a minor risk of value trated pension insurance scheme and for which the Group has no fluctuation. ­further payment obligations once the fees are paid. The Group uses only defined-contribution pension plans. Prepaid 2.12 Accounts receivable fees are recognized as an asset to the extent that cash repayments or Accounts receivable are reported at amortized cost less depreciation. a reduction in future payments may be credited to the Group. A provision for value loss in accounts receivable is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not receive all the amounts (b) Share-based payments due pursuant to the original conditions underlying the receivables. The Group has a number of share-based payment plans whereby the The size of the provision is determined as the difference between company receives services in return for the Group’s equity instruments. the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of the estimated Information on these can be found in Note 23. future cash flows, discounted using an effective rate of interest. The pro­vision amount is recognized in the statement of operations. Employee stock options program The value of the employee stock options program is recognized 2.13 Provisions as a personnel cost, with a corresponding increase in share equity. Provisions are recognized in the balance sheet when the Group has a The total amount that is expensed is based on the fair value of the legal or informal undertaking as a result of an event that has occurred allotted options: and when it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required • including all market-related conditions, to settle the undertaking. • excluding any effect of service conditions and non-market-related The provision is recognized in the amount expected to be required vesting conditions (for example, the employee remains employed to settle the undertaking. at the company for a stipulated period of time), and excluding the effect of conditions that are not vesting conditions, 2.14 Interest-bearing liabilities • including internal operational targets approved by the Board. Interest-bearing liabilities are reported at accrued acquisition value. Borrowings are subsequently recognized at amortized cost and any Non-market-related vesting conditions are taken into account in the difference between the amount received (net after transaction costs) assumption of the number of options that are expected to be vested. and the repayment amount is recognized in the statement of operaThe total cost is recognized over the entire vesting period, which is tions allocated over the borrowing period by applying the effective the period during which all of the stipulated vesting conditions are to interest method. be fulfilled. At the end of each reporting period, the company reviews Borrowings are classified as a current liability unless the Group has its assessment of how many shares can be expected to be vested an unconditional right to defer payment of the liability by at least based on the non market-­related vesting conditions. Any divergences 12 months. from the original assessments prompted by the review are recognized in the statement of operations and a corresponding adjustment is 2.15 Shareholders’ equity made in shareholders’ equity. Transaction costs that may be directly attributed to the issuance of The company issues new shares when the stock options are exernew shares or options are recognized net after tax in shareholders’ cised. Received payments, after deductions for any directly attribut­able equity as a deduction from the issue proceeds. ­transaction costs, are credited to share capital (the quotient value) and The following are recognized as “Other contributed capital”: other contributed capital when the stock options are exercised. • The difference between the share’s quotient value and the Social security expenses on the benefits that are expected to arise ­redemption price of exercised warrants. in conjunction with value increases are recognized over the vesting • The difference between the share’s quotient value and the calcuperiod with due consideration of value changes. lated value of newly issued shares and warrants (option premium). • Employee stock options, value of employees’ services. Share awards The fair value of the performance based share awards that are allotted 2.16 Current and deferred income tax to employees free of charge are entered as an expense over the vesting The tax expense for the period comprises current tax calculated on period, which corresponds to the period when the remuneration is the basis of the taxable earnings for the period according to current vested and the services are performed. The fair value is calcu­lated as tax rates. The current tax expense is adjusted by changes in deferred of the day the share awards are allotted and recognized in shareholder tax assets and liabilities attributable to temporary differences and equity over the vesting period. Assessment of how many shares are non-utilized losses. expected to be vested is based on non-market-­related vesting condiThe current tax expense is estimated on the basis of the tax regula­ tions. Estimates are reconsidered at the end of each reporting period tions on the closing date that are decided, or have essentially been and any deviations are recognized in the statement of operations and decided, in the countries in which the Parent Company and its subsidcorresponding adjustments are made in shareholders’ equity. iaries are active and generate taxable income. Social security expenses on the benefits that are expected to arise Deferred tax is recognized on all temporary differences that arise in conjunction with value increases are recognized over the vesting between carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their value for period with due consideration of value change. tax purposes in the consolidated financial statements. OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 51 NOTES (c) Severance payments 2.19 Leasing Severance payments are made when the Group serves notice to an Leases where the lessor maintains all risks and benefits of ownership employee prior to the normal pension date or when an employee of the asset or assets are classified as operating leases. Leasing fees ­voluntarily accepts redundancy in exchange for such remuneration. are expensed on a straight-line basis in the income statement during The Group recognizes severance payments when it is clearly obliged the contract period. Initial consideration is given to any incentives to give notice to an employee according to a detailed formal plan received upon the signing of the lease. Orexo has only entered into with no possibility of it being revoked, or to provide remuneration in leases that are reported as operating leases. conjunction with termination of employment as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. 2.20 Cost of goods sold Cost of goods sold consists of the cost of goods for the products that (d) Accounting policies for bonus plans the Group sells. This includes costs for raw materials, direct and indirect The Group has a bonus system that covers members of the Executive cost of goods. Management team and key persons. The bonus system is based on achievement of company goals and is paid out in proportion to annual 2.21 Basis for preparation of the financial statements salary. During the fiscal year, the estimated bonuses vested for the for the Parent Company year are calculated and expensed. Orexo AB, the Parent Company, has prepared its annual accounts in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish 2.18 Revenue recognition Financial Accounting Standards Council’s recommendations RFR 2. Revenues comprise the fair value of goods and services sold, ex­clud­ing RFR 2 stipulates that the Parent Company must apply International value-added tax, rebates, returned goods and after eliminated intraFinancial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, to the Group sales. Revenues are recognized as follows: extent that this is possible within the framework of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Pension Obligations Vesting Act and taking (a) Sale of goods into account the relationship between accounting and tax­ation. Revenues from the sale of goods are recognized on the date when The recommendation specifies the exceptions and additions to be ownership rights are transferred to the customer, which usually is when made in relation to IFRS. the goods are delivered to the retailers which are the Group’s customers. Consequently, the Parent Company applies the policies presented The transaction price is usually not known at the time of delivery, as the in the consolidated financial statements, with the exceptions outlined final price depends on the discount that will be paid to the public or below. The policies are applied consistently to all years pres­ented, private insurers which pays the patients’ drug costs. Because the final unless otherwise stated. transaction price is not known, the Group estimates a discount deduction from a statistical model that is based on prescription data. Retailers Presentation forms have the right to return unsold goods, and therefore the Group estimates The statement of operations and balance sheet comply with the a deduction for expected future returns. Revenues from the sale of goods forms set down in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. is only reported to the extent that it is very likely that a substantial reversal of accumulated revenue which is reported does not occur when (a) Shares and participations in subsidiaries the uncertainty associated with the estimated price deduction ceases. Shares and participations in subsidiaries are recognized at cost with deductions for any impairment. (b) Royalty revenues When there are indications that shares and participations in subsidiRoyalties are normally received on a rolling basis when distributors aries have declined in value, an estimate is made of the recoverable recognize sales. Recognition is in the same period during which sales amount. If this is lower than the carrying amount, impairment is were made. When royalties are paid in advance, the revenue is recogapplied. Impairment losses are recognized in the items “Results from nized in the periods that sales are recognized. In cases where royalty participations in Group companies”. income for the period is not known, these are estimated based on the company’s forecast. Income from royalties is reported only to the (b) Group and shareholders’ contributions extent that it is very likely that an essential reversal of reported accuShareholders’ contributions granted are recognized as an increase in mulated revenues does not occur when the uncertainty associated the value of shares and participations. An assessment is then made as with the estimated sales ceases. to whether there is a need for impairment of the value of the shares and participations in question. (c) License revenues In the recognition of Group contributions, the Group can either Revenue from milestone payments is reported at that time when the apply the main rule or the alternative rule. The rule chosen shall be commitment to transfer intellectual property rights to the counterparty applied consistently to all Group contributions. has been fulfilled, and the uncertainty about it that the milestone will Under the main rule, Group contributions received from subsidiaries be achieved has ceased. Orexo’s license agreement usually includes are recognized as revenue in the Parent Company’s statement of one or more of the following types milestone payments: operations and Group contributions granted by the Parent Company • One-time compensation when entering into an agreement. ­Usually are recognized as an increase in participations in affiliated companies. refers to the right to register, market and sell Orexos patent protected Under the alternative rule, both contributions received and contributions products within a specified geographical area but can also constitute granted are recognized as appropriations. The Group did not have any compensation for technology or knowledge transfer that must take Group contributions during the period. place to the partner. • Compensation for research collaboration. These are obtained c) Deferred income tax ­continuously and is reported over the time it relates and the work is Amounts allocated to untaxed reserves represent taxable temporary ­performed. Milestones fall out when research goals or sales t­ argets differences. Due to the relationship between accounting and taxation, have reached according to definitions in each agreement, for example however, in a legal entity deferred tax liabilities on untaxed reserves when granting of patent, termination of clinical trial or approval of are recognized as part of untaxed reserves. registrations. Such remuneration is reported when all the conditions for remuneration according to the agreement is met, and the d) Leasing ­uncertainty thus has ceased. All leasing agreements, irrespective of whether they are financial or operational, are recognized as operational leasing (rental agreements). (d) Interest income Interest income is recognized over the time to maturity using the effective interest method. 52 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES NOTE 3 FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Group’s operations are exposed to a number of risks. These risks maturity of financial assets. At year-end, all of Orexo’s cash and cash can be categorized into operational risks and financial risks. The finanequivalents were invested in short-term assets. cial risks are described below. Orexo’s policy is that all financial investments apart from bank ­balances must be made in financial instruments with high liquidity and Financial risks and policies low credit risk. To efficiently manage financial risks, Orexo has drawn up a series of The Group had interest-bearing liabilities totaling SEK 320.6 million guidelines and a detailed financial policy in respect of the manner in on December 31, 2018 and these are attributable to a corporate bond which such risks are to be managed and mitigated. Orexo’s financial loan. This loan has a variable interest rate, STIBOR +4.5 percent policy also establishes the distribution of responsibility and reporting ­(STIBOR is calculated as zero at the lowest). instructions for Executive Management. The main purpose of Orexo’s The impact on earnings of a change in interest rates of 0.5 percent financing operation is to limit negative deviations in the results, sharewould entail an increase/decrease of SEK 1.6 million. holders’ equity and cash flow as the result of fluctuations in interest rates or exchange rates and underlying market c ­ onditions. 3.3 Credit risk and counterparty risk The President of the Group is responsible for producing, imple­ment­ Credit and counterparty risk is the risk that the counterparty will not ing and following up the Group’s financial policy, which is subse­quently fulfill its undertakings to repay a liability or pay interest on such a approved by the Board of Directors. The Group’s CFO is responsible ­liabil­ity and the risk associated with balances with credit institutions. for the day-to-day financial administration and reports regularly to the For the Group, there are mainly two categories of payment flows in Group President. which credit risks could arise: in the subsidiary Orexo US Inc’s sales to distributors and in the payment flows from Orexo’s license agree3.1. Currency risks ments with other parties. Orexo’s financial statements are prepared in SEK. The Group sells its With regard to Orexo US Inc’s distributors, credit risks are reviewed products in countries other than Sweden and receives revenues in on an ongoing basis based on the customer’s financial position and currencies other than SEK, primarily in dollars and euros. Revenues and other factors. expenses in foreign currency give rise to transaction exposure. The An extensive evaluation of the counterparty is always undertaken Group has assets (accounts receivable and liquid funds) and liabili­ties prior to the signing of a license agreement. (accounts payable) in foreign currencies, as well as investments in the Accounts receivable are continuously monitored, with checks form of net wealth in foreign subsidiaries. This gives rise to translation ­performed on due customer invoices. Of total accounts receivable at exposure. December 31, 2018, the four largest customers accounted for 72 perA substantial share of Orexo’s currency exposure is attributable to cent. No other single customer accounted for more than 2 percent of the sale and manufacture of Zubsolv® in the US and royalty income for total accounts receivable. Note 19 presents the amounts due. the Group’s products in currencies other than SEK. The license agreeThe Group’s financial transactions shall only be carried out with banks ments written with counterparties are frequently denominated in or financial instruments with an official rating not below A1/P1/K1. some other currency than SEK, primarily USD and EUR. The Group has the option of hedging transaction exposure. 3.4 Liquidity risk The financial policy permits exchange-rate hedging instruments to be Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that Orexo will be unable to fulfill its used to eliminate or minimize the currency risks arising in the Group. undertakings to repay or refinance its debts on time or at a reasonable Currency hedging must always be linked to a confirmed underlying cost. Liquidity risk is managed by means of sufficient cash and cash exposure. The permitted hedging instruments are currency futures, equivalents to ensure continuing operations. acquired currency options (call and put options), currency accounts Cash flow forecasts are prepared each month. Executive Manageand loans in foreign currency. No hedging instruments have been ment continuously monitors forecasts to ensure that the Group used by the Group during the year. has sufficient cash funds to meet the requirements of continuing A substantial share of Orexo’s operating expenses is in currencies ­business operations. other than SEK, primarily USD, which leads to a certain amount of The table below shows the Group’s contractual non-discounted ­currency risks. During the 2018 fiscal year, sales in USD accounted for cash flows from financial liabilities, distributed on the basis of the 83 (83) percent of net revenues and sales in EUR accounting for 17 (17) period remaining to maturity on the closing date. percent. During the same period, 77 (77) p ­ ercent of total operating expenses were in foreign currency with 61 (74) percent in USD and Less than Between Between 1 (1) percent in EUR. At December 31, 2018 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years In currencies in which the Group has flows in the same currency, Accounts payable 47.7 — — the flows are to be matched to the greatest extent possible. A change in the value of USD against SEK of 10 percent and with Accrued costs 165.0 — — ­balance sheet exposure at the closing date entails a change in other Borrowings 14.6 14.6 337.9 operating income and expenses of approximately SEK 5,8 million. The corresponding change in EUR entails a change of approximately Less than Between Between SEK 0.03 million and has no material impact. At December 31, 2017 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years The effect of the change in the value of USD on earnings is primarily Accounts payable 45.5 — — due to the fact that a large part of the Group’s internal receivables and Accrued costs 97.2 — — liabilities are attributable to Orexo Inc in the USA. Translation exposure arises when the Group’s equity is influenced by exchange-rate fluctuaBorrowings 14.6 14.6 352.5 tions when assets and liabili­ties for foreign subsidiaries are translated to SEK. This exposure is not hedged at present. A 10 percent movement in USD entails an impact on equity of approximately SEK 9.1 million. 3.5 Commercial market risk and inventory risk Orexo’s most important market risks are price pressure, limited 3.2 Interest-rate risk reimburse­ments and the launch of new competing products. The primary objective of Orexo’s interest-rate risk management is to To be successful in the US it is of the utmost importance that Zubsolv reduce the negative effects of interest-rate movements on earnings. obtains reimbursements on a par with those of competitors. Due to the To reduce the impact of interest-rate movements on earnings, Orexo complex American market, with many different payers and a compli­ mainly uses short-term investments and aims for the time to maturity cated reimbursement system, Orexo has established a professional of financial liabilities to correspond as far as possible to the time to team focusing only on improving market access and reimbursement for Zubsolv. The payers are constantly reviewing their formularies and OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 53 NOTES Note 3 cont. this can lead to significant changes in market access. By the end of ­ epending on the phase of development that the R&D projects are in. d 2018 Zubsolv® had access to 97 percent of the commercial category Future incoming and outgoing payments are adjusted to the level of and 38 percent of the public category in the US. probability and subsequently discounted by applying an interest rate Orexo’s products are sold in a market characterized by tough compethat reflects the cost of capital and risk. tition from other products and methods of treatment and there is always No indication of impairment need has been identified during a risk that competitors launch new products. In all of Orexo’s markets the year. there is intense development of new and improved treatments that can prove to have a better clinical effect than those that already exist. (b) Royalty revenues Orexo is constantly and proactively working to analyze these risks Royalties may be impacted by external factors, including sales limitaand develops action plans for different market scenarios. This work is tions or price regulations initiated by authorities in the countries in done in collaboration with local external specialists. which sales are conducted. This is out of the control of the company In order to secure delivery of the products which are critical for and information of this nature does not normally reach the company patients, Orexo must hold considerable inventories of Zubsolv. until it has occured. When reporting the royalty income, an estimate High inventory levels entail a risk of impairment of products that have of the sale of the period is required. expired. Orexo is constantly working to minimize this risk by adapting inventories to demand, and through the work on improving the (c) Revenues from sale of goods ­product’s shelf life. Revenues from Zubsolv are recognized when they are delivered to Being able to obtain and maintain patents and other intellectual wholesalers. Revenues for Zubsolv are calculated as gross income property rights protecting Orexo’s technologies and products is an invoiced to wholesalers, with a deduction for actual and estimated important part of Orexo’s strategy of creating long-term value for its discounts to public and private insurance providers (”the payers”), business. Obtaining patents related to pharmaceuticals is a complex provi­sions for potential returns, costs for patient support programs process that involves both scientific and legal expertise. Even if a patent and fees to wholesalers and distributors. Since not all of the volume has been granted, it may later be challenged legally, declared invalid invoiced to wholesalers has reached patients at the closing date, or bypassed, which may limit Orexo’s ability to market new products. ­several of the deductions from gross income are partly based on For an update on ongoing litigation cases see the section ‘Corporate estimates. Governance Report 2018’. (d) Inventory valuation 3.6 Capital structure In order to ensure safe supply of Zubsolv in the American market, The Group’s objective for its capital structure is to safeguard the Group’s Orexo has established inventory level of raw materials, semi-finished ability to continue its operations so it can generate a return for the products and finished products. The valuation of the inventory and shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, as well as maintain the assessment of the risk of potential depreciation of receivables is an optimum capital structure to keep capital costs down. based on continually updated market forecasts and assumptions The Group’s capital is assessed on the basis of its equity/assets ratio. regarding the shelf-life of various chemical compounds. The shelf-life The equity/assets ratio at December 31, 2018 and 2017 is p ­ resented in of semi-finished products and finished products is based on docuthe table below: mented stability studies. 2018 2017 (e) Deferred tax assets Shareholders’ equity 476.1 329.1 Orexo has significant loss carry-forwards as historically the company Total assets 1,286.7 1,003.9 has made losses. Carry-forwards losses are activated only to the Equity/assets ratio 37% 33% extent that it is probable that the deductions can be offset against ­surplus on future taxation. The loss carry-­forwards for tax purposes in the Group amounted to SEK 1,414 million (1,459) at December 31, 2018 from which SEK 60.9 million has been activated. NOTE 4 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES 4.2 Critical judgments in the application of the company’s accounting policies AND JUDGEMENTS (a) Assessment as to whether a license agreement entails Estimates and judgments are continuously evaluated and are based the divestment or a transfer of rights on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of Certain license agreements entail that global rights are transferred to future events deemed reasonable under prevailing circumstances. a business partner. Since Orexo retains the intellectual property rights, which may also be retrieved under certain circumstances, these 4.1 Critical estimates and assessments for accounting purposes agreements are not recognized as though the licensing agreement The Group makes assessments and assumptions about the future. implies a divestment. For Orexo, this means that these assets remain The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom correin the balance sheet item “Acquired research and development” spond to the actual results. Estimates and assumptions that entail a significant risk of material adjustment to the recognized amounts of (b) Revenue recognition assets and liabilities during the next fiscal year are outlined below. Executive Management assesses the probability of whether future financial value will accrue to the Group on the basis of a number of (a) Impairment testing of proprietary intangible assets factors, such as the customer’s payment history and credit worthiness. Amortization of proprietary intangible assets was begun in August 2015 If the Group deems a receivable to be doubtful, a provision is made after the FDA approved Zubsolv for initiation of buprenorphine for until it is possible to determine whether or not the Group will receive maintenance treatment of patients with opioid depen­dence. Impairpayment. ment will be carried out over a period of 10 years. T ­ esting to ensure During the year, the Group received lump-sum payments from a that the carrying amount does not exceed the recoverable amount is number of collaboration partners. These payments have been in the thereby only carried out in the event of a negative event that can create form of payments both with and without demands for future services an urgent need for impairment. This impairment testing comprises a in return from the Group. A licensing agreement permits Orexo’s partrisk analysis that includes experience-based estimates of the amount ners to register, market and sell the Group’s patented products within of future incoming and out­going p ­ ayments. The probability of the a certain geographic area for a specified time. Lump-sum payments occurrence of income-­generating events and the probability that the received and considered remuneration for this exclusivity are recogprojects will result in products that reach the market are estimated nized directly. Wherever lump-sum payments are considered to be based on available industry statistics. These probabilities vary remuneration for future services in return, the revenue is distributed 54 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES over time based on the implications of such services, e.g. when a (c) Research and development lump-sum payment is received and a research collaboration agreeCosts attributable to research are expensed as they arise. Assessments ment is in place, remuneration is distributed straight-line over the time of which costs can be capitalized or not are done continuously. Costs the research collaboration continues. attributable to development projects are recognized as intangible A milestone payment is an item of revenue related to achieved goals assets in the balance sheet when these costs are expected to generate specified in the agreement with the partner in question. Such goals financial benefits in the future. Other development costs are expensed may include the start of clinical trials or the granting of product regisas they arise. Development costs that are expensed are not recognized tration approval by an authority. Revenues from intermediate mileas an asset in subsequent periods. In 2018 these costs amounted to stone payments are recognized once the goal has been achieved and SEK 166.8 million (134.2). the Group has fulfilled its undertakings. NOTE 5 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS 2018 Group Zubsolv® Abstral® Edluar® OX-CLI Total Type of revenue Sales, products 626.9 — — — 626.9 Royalties 0.1 118.8 6.6 — 125.4 Milestones 30.8 — — — 30.8 Total revenue from contracts with customers 657.8 118.8 6.6 0.0 783.1 Geographical markets US 621.5 4.8 0.7 — 627.0 EU 36.2 90.1 1.2 — 127.5 Rest of the world — 24.0 4.7 — 28.6 Total revenue from contracts with customers 657.8 118.8 6.6 0.0 783.1 2017 Group Zubsolv Abstral Edluar OX-CLI Total Summa Sales, products 491.4 — — — 491.4 Royalties — 113.2 17.3 — 130.5 Milestones — — — 21.8 21.8 Total revenue from contracts with customers 491.4 113.2 17.3 21.8 643.7 Geographical markets US 485.5 5.1 10.2 — 501.0 EU 5.6 88.6 0.8 21.8 116.8 Rest of the world — 19.5 6.3 — 25.8 Total revenue from contracts with customers 491.4 113.2 17.3 21.8 643.7 2018 Parent Company Zubsolv Abstral Edluar OX-CLI Total Type of revenue Sales, products (intragroup) 246.0 — — — 246.0 Sales, products 5.3 — — — 5.3 Royalties 0.1 118.8 6.6 — 125.4 Milestones 30.8 — — — 30.8 Total revenue from contracts with customers 282.2 118.8 6.6 0.0 407.6 Geographical markets US 246.0 4.8 0.7 — 251.3 EU 36.2 90.1 1.2 — 127.5 Rest of the world — 24.0 4.7 — 28.6 Total revenue from contracts with customers 282.2 118.8 6.6 0.0 407.6 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 55 NOTES Note 5 cont. 2017 Parent Company Zubsolv® Abstral® Edluar® OX-CLI Total Summa Sales, products (intragroup) 320.0 — — — 320.0 Sales, products 5.6 — — — 5.6 Royalties — 113.2 17.3 — 130.5 Milestones — — — 21.8 21.8 Total revenue from contracts with customers 325.6 113.2 17.3 21.8 477.8 Geographical markets US 320.0 5.1 10.2 — 335.2 EU 5.6 88.6 0.8 21.8 116.8 Rest of the world — 19.5 6.3 — 25.7 Total revenue from contracts with customers 325.6 113.2 17.3 21.8 477.8 Sales, products products where the transfer of the intellectual property rights has Revenues for the sale of goods are reported in its entirety at the time already taken place are reported when the sale of the goods that form when the control of the goods is transferred to the counterparty, the basis of royalties takes place. The Group usually does not receive which is usually when the goods are delivered to the wholesalers who information on actual sales in connection with the financial statements, are the Group’s customers. The transaction price is usually not known and therefore estimates earned royalties during the end of the period. at the time of delivery, as the final price is dependent on the discount The estimate of earned royalties is associated with significant uncerthat will be paid to the public or private insurers who pay patients’ tainty, see Note 4. drug costs. Since the final transaction price is not known, the Group estimates a discount deduction based on a statistical model that is Milestones based, among other things, on prescription data. The cumulative Revenues from milestone payments are reported at the time when ­discount deduction is reported in the item provisions, and amounted the obligation to transfer intellectual property rights to the counterparty to SEK 225.2 million (176.2) at the balance sheet date. Retailers have has been fulfilled, and the uncertainty about the milestone being the right to return unsold goods, and the Group therefore estimates a achieved has ceased. In practice, this means that revenue from milededuction for expected future returns. The accumulated return stone payments for such products where the transfer of the intellectual deduction is reported under the item provisions, and amounted to property assets has already taken place are reported when the SEK 40.6 million (24.7) at the balance sheet date. During the period, ­milestones are achieved. the Group reversed provisions for discounts and returns from previous periods to an amount of SEK 21.0 million (0.0). Estimates of discounts Other and returns are associated with significant uncertainty, see Note 4. The Group’s sales are mainly based on payment terms on 0–45 days, and no elements of significant financing components exist. The Group Royalties reports receivables against counterparties at the time of sale, and at Revenues from royalties are recognized at the time when the commit­ the balance sheet date there were no contractual assets or contractual ment to transfer intellectual property rights to the counterparty has liabilities. No significant unfulfilled or partially fulfilling performance been fulfilled, and the sales that form the basis of royalties have commitments existed on the balance sheet date. occurred. In practice, this means that revenues from royalties for such NOTE 6 COSTS BY TYPE OF COST Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Raw materials and consumables 171.8 147.6 116.2 150.6 Other external expense 361.3 298.9 168.3 212.7 Personnel costs 165.1 157.2 66.1 68.8 Depreciation/amortization and impairment 20.8 20.8 20.6 20.6 Total 718.9 624.5 371.2 452.7 56 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES NOTE 7 OTHER OPERATING INCOME Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Exchange gains 18.5 13.3 18.5 13.3 Other income — 0.2 44.7 0.2 Gains on disposal of assets — 24.6 — 24.6 Total 18.5 38.1 63.2 38.1 Other income refers to a transfer pricing related regulation, i.e. the profit of the US subsidiary is regulated to a percentage of sales. Excess profit goes to the parent company. NOTE 8 DEPRECIATION/AMORTIZATION AND IMPAIRMENT Depreciation, amortization and impairment are divided up by function as follows: Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Tangible fixed assets Sales 0.2 0.2 — — Administration 1.8 1.8 1.8 1.8 Research and development 1.0 1.1 1.0 1.1 Total tangible fixed assets 3.0 3.1 2.8 2.9 Intangible assets Administration 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.1 Research and development 17.6 17.6 17.6 17.6 Total intangible assets 17.8 17.7 17.8 17.7 Total depreciation/amortization and impairment 20.8 20.8 20.6 20.6 NOTE 9 REMUNERATION TO EMPLOYEES Average number of employees 2018 ­Average 2017 ­Average number of number of Group employees Of whom men employees Of whom men Sweden 55 25 54 24 USA 48 17 42 18 Total for Group 103 42 96 42 2018 ­Average 2017 ­Average number of number of Parent Company employees Of whom men employees Of whom men Sweden 55 25 54 24 Total for Parent Company 55 25 54 24 Group Parent Company Costs and remuneration to all employees and Board, SEK thousands 2018 2017 2018 2017 Salaries, remuneration and social security fees Salaries and other remuneration to the Board, President and Executive Management 27,279 28,415 15,957 16,781 Salaries and other remuneration to other employees 89,632 89,669 30,448 30,046 Pension cost for the Board, President and Executive Management¹ 2,080 1,565 1,794 1,288 Pension cost for other employees¹ 8,829 9,580 6,563 7,183 Social security fees for the Board, President and E ­ xe­cutive Management 2 4,152 5,800 3,571 5,146 Social security fees for other employees² 13,745 13,839 9,513 10,021 Other personnel costs 17,122 16,165 2,460 3,391 Total 162,839 165,032 70,305 73,856 Pertains in its entirety to defined-contribution pension plan. 1 Pertains to estimated costs for social security fees for employee stock option program. 2 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 57 NOTES Note 9 cont. Costs and remuneration to the Board, President and senior executives 2018 Basic salary/ Variable Share-based Other Total SEK thousands Board fees ­remuneration Other benefits Pension costs payment ­remuneration ­remuneration Board of directors Martin Nicklasson, Chairman 700 — — — — — 700 Henrik Kjaer Hansen, Board member 200 — — — — — 200 Raymond Hill, Board member 200 — — — — — 200 Staffan Lindstrand, Board member 300 — — — — — 300 Kristina Schauman, Board member 400 — — — — — 400 David Colpman, Board member 200 — — — — — 200 Kirsten Detrick, Board member 200 — — — — — 200 Subtotal 2,200 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 2,200 President and senior executives Nikolaj Sørensen, President and CEO 3,126 1,228 104 575 317 — 5,349 Other senior executives (5) 15,342 4,530 215 1,506 603 — 22,195 Total 20,668 5,758 319 2,080 920 0.0 29,744 Costs and remuneration to the Board, President and senior executives 2017 Basic salary/ Variable Share-based Other Total SEK thousands Board fees ­remuneration Other benefits Pension costs payment ­remuneration ­remuneration Board of directors Martin Nicklasson, Chairman 650 — — — 122 — 772 Michael Shalmi, Board member 200 — — — — — 200 Raymond Hill, Board member 200 — — — — — 200 Staffan Lindstrand, Board member 250 — — — — — 250 Kristina Schauman, Board member 400 — — — — — 400 David Colpman, Board member 200 — — — — 176 376 Kirsten Detrick, Board member 200 — — — — — 200 Subtotal 2,100 0.0 0.0 0.0 122 176 2,398 President and senior executives Nikolaj Sørensen, President and CEO 3,012 1,198 102 647 506 — 5,465 Other senior executives (5) 14,701 5,232 256 918 1,009 — 22,117 Total 19,813 6,430 358 1,565 1,637 176 29,980 Board members and senior executives 2018 2017 Number on the closing date Number on the closing date of whom men of whom men Group (incl. subsidiaries) Board members 7 71% 7 71% President and other senior executives 6 100% 6 100% Parent Company Board members 7 71% 7 71% President and other senior executives 4 100% 4 100% Other benefits refers primarily to company car and travel between The number of shares and options held by the President and s­ enior the place of residence and the workplace. executives is shown in the information regarding the Board on page 86 Other senior executives, as of December 31, 2018 refers to Robert A. and Management on page 87. Refer to Note 23 for a description of the DeLuca, Michael Sumner, Johannes Doll, Jesper Lind (senior executive share-based remuneration. until December 31, 2018), Henrik Juuel (CFO until October 31, 2018) and Joseph DeFeo (CFO from November 1, 2018). 58 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES NOTE 10 EXCHANGE-RATE DIFFERENCES The statement of operations includes exchange-rate differences on operating receivables and operating liabilities as follows: Restated Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Other operating income 18.5 13.3 18.5 13.3 Other operating expenses –12.3 –17.4 –12.3 –17.4 Total 6.2 –4.1 6.2 –4.1 NOTE 11 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Financial income Interest income from group — — — 0.1 Other interest income 3.0 0.1 0.5 0.1 Buyback of corporate bonds — 0.1 — 0.1 Exchange rate effect 32.3 — 32.3 — Other financial income — — — 0.7 Total financial income 35.3 0.2 32.8 1.0 Financial expenses Interest expense from corporate bonds –14.8 –14.8 –14.8 –14.8 Other interest expense –0.1 — –0.1 — Borrowingcosts, corporate bonds –1.6 –7.1 –1.6 –7.1 Exchange rate effect –22.4 –6.0 –22.4 –7.3 Total financial expenses –38.9 –27.9 –38.9 –29.2 Net Financial items –3.6 –27.7 –6.1 –28.2 NOTE 12 TAX Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Current tax –18.8 –10.0 — — Deferred tax 64.5 3.5 53.3 7.6 Total 45.7 –6.5 53.3 7.6 Difference between the Group's tax expense and tax expense based on current tax rate Recognized pre-tax earnings 92.2 29.7 52.0 35.1 Tax under current tax rate –20.3 –6.5 –11.4 –7.7 Tax effect of foreign tax rates –0.7 –5.0 — — Tax effect of non-taxable income — — — — Tax effect of non-deductible costs –0.3 –0.2 –0.3 –0.2 Recognized carry-forward losses 60.9 7.6 60.9 7.6 Unrecognized carry-forward losses 11.5 7.9 6.5 7.9 Effect of change in tax rate –5.4 –10.3 –2.4 — Tax on earnings for the year according to the statement of operations 45.7 –6.5 53.3 7.6 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 59 NOTES NOTE 13 EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per share before dilution are calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the Parent Company by a weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period, as shown in the presentation below. Group 2018 2017 Earnings used for the calculation of earnings per share before dilution, MSEK 137.9 23.2 Average number of shares before dilution 34,560,456 34,540,271 Earnings per share before dilution (SEK per share) 3.99 0.67 Average number of shares after dilution 35,095,980 34,650,835 Earnings per share after dilution (SEK per share) 3.93 0.67 Options outstanding 1,627,514 1,664,510 For calculating the earnings per share after dilution, the weighted average number of common shares outstanding is adjusted for the dilution effects of all potential common shares. The potential common shares in the Parent Company are represented by employee stock options and share rights. 2018 2017 Average number of shares before dilution 34,560,456 34,540,271 Potential shares from options and share rights 535,524 110,564 Average number of shares after dilution 35,095,980 34,650,835 NOTE 14 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Improvement expenses Group Equipment and machinery Computers other's property Total Fiscal year 2017 Opening balance 33.7 3.6 36.2 73.5 Acquisitions 1.1 — — 1.1 Outgoing accumulated acqusitions 34.8 3.6 36.2 74.6 Ingoing depreciation –31.6 –3.0 –16.8 –51.4 Depreciation –0.9 –0.4 –1.8 –3.1 Accumulated depreciation –32.5 –3.4 –18.6 –54.5 At December 31, 2017 Cost 34.8 3.6 36.2 74.6 Accumulated depreciation and impairment –32.5 –3.4 –18.6 –54.5 Carrying amount 2.3 0.2 17.7 20.1 Fiscal year 2018 Opening balance 34.8 3.6 36.2 74.6 Acquisitions 2.9 — — 2.9 Outgoing accumulated acqusitions 37.7 3.6 36.2 77.5 Ingoing depreciation –32.5 –3.4 –18.6 –54.5 Depreciation –1.0 –0.2 –1.8 –3.0 Accumulated depreciation –33.4 –3.5 –20.4 –57.5 At December 31, 2018 Cost 37.7 3.6 36.2 77.5 Accumulated depreciation and impairment –33.4 –3.5 –20.4 –57.5 Carrying amount 4.3 0.1 15.8 20.0 60 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES Note 14 cont. Improvement expenses Parent Company Equipment and machinery Computers other's property Total Fiscal year 2017 Opening balance 30.2 1.8 36.2 68.2 Acquisitions 1.1 — — 1.1 Outgoing accumulated acqusitions 31.3 1.8 36.2 69.3 Ingoing depreciation –28.7 –1.0 –16.7 –46.5 Depreciation –0.7 –0.4 –1.8 –2.9 Accumulated depreciation –29.4 –1.4 –18.5 –49.4 At December 31, 2017 Cost 31.3 1.8 36.2 69.3 Accumulated depreciation and impairment –29.4 –1.4 –18.5 –49.4 Carrying amount 1.9 0.4 17.7 19.8 Fiscal year 2018 Opening balance 31.3 1.8 36.2 69.3 Acquisitions 2.9 — — 2.9 Outgoing accumulated acqusitions 34.2 1.8 36.2 72.2 Ingoing depreciation –29.4 –1.4 –18.5 –49.4 Depreciation –0.7 –0.3 –1.8 –2.8 Accumulated depreciation –30.1 –1.7 –20.3 –52.2 At December 31, 2018 Cost 34.2 1.8 36.2 72.2 Accumulated depreciation and impairment –30.1 –1.7 –20.3 –52.2 Carrying amount 4.1 0.1 15.9 20.0 NOTE 15 INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Proprietary ­intellectual Group Acquired R&D Patents and rights ­property right Other Total Fiscal year 2017 Opening balance 435.1 27.4 153.6 12.2 628.3 Acquisitions – – – 0.5 0.5 Outgoing accumulated acqusitions 435.1 27.4 153.6 12.7 628.8 Accumulated amortization and impairment –435.1 –27.4 –21.8 –5.8 –490.1 Amortization – – –15.3 –2.4 –17.7 Accumulated amortization and impairment –435.1 –27.4 –37.1 –8.2 –507.8 At December 31, 2017 Cost 435.1 27.4 153.6 12.7 628.8 Accumulated amortization and impairment –435.1 –27.4 –37.1 –8.2 –507.8 Carrying amount 0.0 0.0 116.5 4.5 121.0 Fiscal year 2018 Opening balance 435.1 27.4 153.6 12.7 628.8 Acquisitions — — — 0.7 0.7 Outgoing accumulated acqusitions 435.1 27.4 153.6 13.4 629.5 Accumulated amortization and impairment –435.1 –27.4 –37.1 –8.2 –507.8 Amortization — — –15.4 –2.4 –17.8 Accumulated amortization and impairment –435.1 –27.4 –52.5 –10.6 –525.6 At December 31, 2018 Cost 435.1 27.4 153.6 13.4 629.5 Accumulated amortization and impairment –435.1 –27.4 -52.5 –10.6 –525.6 Carrying amount 0.0 0.0 101.1 2.8 103.9 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 61 NOTES Note 15 cont. Proprietary ­intellectual Parent company Acquired R&D Patents and rights ­property right Other Total Fiscal year 2017 Opening balance 435.1 27.4 153.6 12.2 628.3 Awcquisitions – – – 0.5 0.5 Outgoing accumulated acqusitions 435.1 27.4 153.6 12.7 628.8 Accumulated amortization and impairment –435.1 –27.4 –21.8 –5.8 –490.1 Amortization – – –15.3 –2.4 –17.7 Accumulated amortization and impairment –435.1 –27.4 –37.1 –8.2 –507.8 At December 31, 2017 Cost 435.1 27.4 153.6 12.7 628.8 Accumulated amortization and impairment –435.1 –27.4 –37.1 –8.2 –507.8 Carrying amount 0.0 0.0 116.5 4.5 121.0 Fiscal year 2018 Opening balance 435.1 27.4 153.6 12.7 628.8 Acquisitions — — — 0.7 0.7 Outgoing accumulated acqusitions 435.1 27.4 153.6 13.4 629.5 Accumulated amortization and impairment –435.1 –27.4 –37.1 –8.2 –507.8 Amortization — — -15.4 –2.4 –17.8 Accumulated amortization and impairment –435.1 –27.4 –52.5 –10.6 –525.6 At December 31, 2018 Cost 435.1 27.4 153.6 13.4 629.5 Accumulated amortization and impairment –435.1 –27.4 –52.5 –10.6 –525.6 Carrying amount 0.0 0.0 101.1 2.8 103.9 Proprietary intangible asset at December 31, 2018 Research and development costs A proprietary intangible asset amounting to SEK 101.1 million (116.5) is Research and development costs during the period amounted to attributable to expenses for clinical studies and a registration expense SEK 166.8 million (134.2). for these studies. Executive Management assesses that these will give the Group future economic benefits in the form of expanded use of Parent Company intangible assets comprise patents, rights, a proprieZubsolv®. The expanded label (initiation of treatment of opioid dependtary intellectual property right and IT systems. ence) was approved by the FDA, the US Food and Drug Administration, in August 2015 and in conjunction with this amortization was begun and will occur over a time period of 10 years. During the year there was no impairment of proprietary i­ntangible assets. 62 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES NOTE 16 RESERVES Translation reserve Total Opening balance at January 1, 2017 0,2 0,2 Translation differences –7,5 –7,5 Closing balance at December 31, 2017 –7,3 –7,3 Translation differences –7.0 –7.0 Closing balance at December 31, 2018 –0.3 –0.3 NOTE 17 INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS IN THE GROUP Classification and categorization of assets and liabilities in the Group 2018 Loans and accounts Total financial Non-financial December 31, 2018 ­receivable assets assets Total Assets Tangible fixed assets — 0.0 20.0 20.0 Intangible fixed assets — 0.0 103.9 103.9 Deferred tax asset — 0.0 92.8 92.8 Inventories — 0.0 173.6 173.6 Financial assets 10.4 10.4 — 10.4 Accounts receivable 264.5 264.5 — 264.5 Other current receivables — 0.0 5.9 5.9 Prepaid expenses and accrued income — 0.0 25.7 25.7 Cash and cash equivalents 589.8 589.8 — 589.8 Total assets 864.7 864.7 421.9 1,286.7 Financial l­iabilities ­measured at Total financial Non-financial December 31, 2018 amortized cost liabilities liabilities Total Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Shareholders’ equity — 0.0 476.1 476.1 Long-term liabilities, provision — 0.0 6.5 6.5 Borrowings 320.6 320.6 — 320.6 Accounts payable 47.7 47.7 — 47.7 Provisions — 0.0 265.8 265.8 Other current liabilities 135.1 135.1 2.8 137.9 Prepaid expenses 22.3 22.3 9.7 32.0 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 525.7 525.7 760.9 1,286.7 . OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 63 NOTES Note 17 cont. Classification and categorization of assets and liabilities in the Group 2017 Accounts receivable Total financial Non-financial December 31, 2017 and loans assets assets Total Assets Tangible fixed assets — 0.0 20.1 20.1 Intangible fixed assets — 0.0 121.0 121.0 Deferred tax asset — 0.0 28.3 28.3 Inventories — 0.0 250.2 250.2 Financial assets 7.1 7.1 — 7.1 Accounts receivable 218.4 218.4 — 218.4 Other current receivables — 0.0 7.4 7.4 Prepaid expenses and accrued income — 0.0 23.5 23.5 Cash and cash equivalents 327.9 327.9 — 327.9 Total assets 553.4 553.4 450.5 1,003.9 Financial l­ibailities ­measured at Total financial Non-financial December 31, 2017 amortized cost liabilities liabilities Total Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Shareholders’ equity — 0.0 329.1 329.1 Long-term liabilities, provision — 0.0 5.8 5.8 Borrowings 319.1 319.1 — 319.1 Accounts payable 45.5 45.5 — 45.5 Provisions — 0.0 200.9 200.9 Other current liabilities 2.0 2.0 12.2 14.2 Prepaid expenses 86.4 86.4 2.9 89.3 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 453.0 453.0 550.9 1,003.9 For all items above, with the exception of borrowings and bonds, the Other borrowings have variable interest rates so book values in all carrying amount is an approximation of the fair value, and therefore material deemed to approximate fair values. Description of Company’s these items are not divided up into levels in the measurement hierarchy. borrowings can be found in Note 25. The bond whose fair value is valued according to Level 2 amounted to SEK 327.4 million (based on liquid trading price), the carrying value amounted to SEK 320.6 million. 64 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES NOTE 18 INVENTORIES NOTE 20 OTHER RECEIVABLES Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Raw materials 109.8 124.4 109.8 124.4 VAT receivable 2.7 2.1 2.7 2.1 Work in progress 44.1 60.5 44.1 60.6 Tax receivable¹ 2.7 2.7 — — Finished products 19.7 65.3 1.4 1.3 Other 0.5 2.6 0.5 2.6 Total 173.6 250.2 155.3 186.3 Total 5.9 7.4 3.2 4.7 The cost of goods from inventory expensed in the Group amounted ¹ See Note 12. to SEK 172.7 million (148.0) and in the Parent Company to SEK 111.7 million (153.8). NOTE 21 PREPAID EXPENSES AND ACCRUED INCOME NOTE 19 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE Group Parent Company Impairment losses on accounts receivable amounted to SEK 0.3 million (0.0) in the Group. The carrying amount corresponds to fair 2018 2017 2018 2017 value since all receivables are current and are due within one year. Prepaid rents 4.1 4.1 4.1 4.1 In the Parent company Impairment losses on accounts receivable amounted to SEK 0.0 million (0.0). The carrying amount corresponds Other interim receivables 21.5 19.4 8.1 6.7 to fair value. Total 25.7 23.5 12.2 10.8 Carrying amounts in SEK per currency for the Group’s accounts receivable are as follows: Group Parent Company NOTE 22 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2018 2017 2018 2017 Group Parent Company SEK 3.0 — 3.0 — 2018 2017 2018 2017 USD 210.7 164.0 9.2 6.7 EUR 50.8 54.4 50.8 54.4 Cash and bank balances 589.8 327.9 303.2 215.1 Total 264.5 218.4 63.0 61.1 Total 589.8 327.9 303.2 215.1 Credit concentration The Group has no unused credit facilities at December 31, 2018. The Group has a limited number of customers, which means that a certain risk of credit centration exists. Reported amounts in SEK million per currency for the Group’s cash and cash equivalents is presented below: Of the Group’s total accounts receivable, SEK 236.3 million (190.1) is held by the Group’s four largest customers. Each of the following: Group Parent Company Group 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 SEK 25.7 36.1 11.6 21.9 Customer 1 78.8 67.7 USD 482.2 223.9 209.7 125.4 Customer 2 61.3 48.4 EUR 81.9 67.6 81.9 67.6 Customer 3 51.0 46.3 GBP 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.2 Customer 4 45.1 27.8 Total 589.8 327.9 303.2 215.1 Total 236.3 190.1 Accounts receivable due At December 31, 2018, accounts receivable amounting to SEK 40.5 million (12.5) fell due for payment without any impairment requirement being considered necessary. These apply to a few independent customers who have previously settled their overdue invoices. An age analysis of these accounts receivable is presented below: Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Less than 30 days 34.4 9.9 — — 31 days and older 6.1 2.6 — — Total 40.5 12.5 0.0 0.0 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 65 NOTES NOTE 23 SHARE-RELATED PAYMENTS Orexo has introduced share-based payments in the form of share Cost per fiscal year Total cost awards and employee stock options designed to motivate and reward through ownership, thereby promoting the company’s long-term 2017 –3.0 interests. Share awards and employee stock options are vested provided 2018 –2.1 that the holder remains employed or is a Board member in Orexo on Exercise price, this date, see below for detailed descriptions of the ­performance weighted ­criterias for the specific programs. Employee stock options/share awards allotted Number average As of December 31, 2018 there were a total of 1,784,814 options outstanding, providing e ­ ntitlement to subscription for 877,719 new At Dec 31, 2016 1,784,794 63 shares in Orexo and 750,962 provide entitlement to an exchange for Allotted during the period 298,000 – shares in Orexo. The number of share awards is 750,962 and each Redeemed during the period –20,871 23 share award provides entitlement to one share. Options and share Forfeited during the period –397,413 80 awards are paid for through shareholders’ equity. Options and share options whose earnings are dependent on At Dec 31, 2017 1,664,510 75 non-market conditions of performance are valued with the Black & Allotted during the period 399,650 – Scholes model, and options and share options whose earnings are Redeemed during the period –15,368 37 dependent on performance conditions that are market terms are Forfeited during the period –421,278 88 ­valued through Monte Carlo simulations. The share price and the risk-free rate used are the valid ones at the At Dec 31, 2018 1,627,514 78 valuation date. The volatility taken into account in the valuation is based on the historical volatility of the stock over a period of 2–7 years. Volatility, Value per Number Number Value per option, option Employee stock options/share outstanding at vested at Dec Exercise ­allotted weighted Value per weighted Maturity awards per year Dec 31, 2018 31, 2018 price, range option, range average share, range average date 2011 (LTIP2011) 95,909 95,909 29.0—47.8 7.37 35% 28.2 28.2 2021-02-16 2013 (LTIP2011) 607,401 569,068 51.8—131.6 15.5—44.04 35% 24.2—130.6 53.6 2021-02-16 2014 (LTIP2011) 173,242 54,442 112.9—165.1 25.7—57.04 35% 106.6—166.8 151.3 2021-02-16 2016 (LTIP2016) 140,831 0 0.0 20.4—49.5 35% 49.5 49.5 2019-05-30 2017 (LTIP2017) 214,913 0 0.0 7.5—27.4 35% 27.4 27.4 2020-06-21 2018 (LTIP2018) 395,200 0 0.0 7.1—30.2 38% 30.2 30.2 2021-06-30 Total employee stock options/share awards 1,627,514 Volatility, Value per Number Number Value per option, option Employee stock options/share outstanding at vested at Exercise ­allotted weighted Value per weighted Maturity awards per year Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2017 price, range option, range average share, range average date 2009 (LTIP2008) 31,250 31,250 51.0 12.0 35% 45.8 45.8 2018-12-31 2011 (LTIP2011) 95,909 95,909 29.0–47.8 7.7 35% 28.2 28.2 2021-02-16 2011 Board 4,118 4,118 0.4 43.3 35% 43.7 43.7 2018-12-31 2013 (LTIP2011) 662,178 533,178 51.8–131.6 15.5–44.0 35% 24.2–130.6 53.6 2021-02-16 2013 Board 157,300 157,300 52.4 15.5–19.7 35% 57.2 57.2 2018-04-11 2014 (LTIP2011) 219,421 47,221 112.9–165.1 25.7–57.0 35% 106.6–166.8 151.3 2021-02-16 2015 (LTIP2015) 24,297 0 0.0 13.3–78.8 35% 78.9 78.9 2018-06-18 2016 (LTIP2016) 179,787 0 0.0 20.4–49.5 35% 49.5 49.5 2019-05-30 2017 (LTIP2017) 290,250 0 0.0 7.5–27.4 35% 27.4 27.4 2020-06-21 Total employee stock options/share awards 1,664,510 During 2018 the company allotted 399,650 employee stock options, of the allocated share awards pertaining to performance target 1 2018 of which the CEO and other senior executives were allotted 164,000, will forfeit. In total 421,278 options were forfeited during 2018. corresponding to 41 percent. The financial and operational targets set Changes in and holdings of employee stock options/share awards by the Board for 2018 reached a score of 100 percent and hence none at the closing date for the CEO and Board members. 66 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES Note 23 cont. Number outstanding Number outstanding Owned by at Jan 1, 2018 Change at Dec 31, 2018 CEO Nikolaj Sörensen 411,494 61,154 472,648 Board member Martin Nicklasson 157,300 –157,300 0 Board member Henrik Kjaer Hansen 0 — 0 Board member Raymond Hill 4,118 –4,118 0 Board member Staffan Lindstrand 0 — 0 Board member Kristina Schauman 0 — 0 Board member Kirsten Detrick 0 — 0 Board member David Colpman 0 — 0 Performance criteria LTIP 2011 Performance criterion 1 LTIP2011 is a stock option program where half of the options are This target pertains to the fulfilment of the financial and operational vested based on the stock price development and the remaining are targets for the financial year 2016, 2017 and 2018 as established by the vested based on the company’s operational performance and time. Board of Directors and relates to Orexo’s key KPIs such as revenue, profitability and achieved milestones, etc. Performance achievement Performance criterion 1 of individual targets is weighted into an overall average performance For any vesting of share-price based performance shares to occur, achievement. The outcome will be measured linearly, meaning that the increase in the share price shall correspond to the amounts set none of the Share Awards will vest unless a minimum threshold of forth below. The increase in the share price as set forth below shall 100 percent of the overall average performance of the financial and be calculated for a period not exceeding five years, meaning that the operational targets is achieved for LTIP2017 and LTIP2018. For LTIP2016, share price must have been achieved within a continuous fi ­ ve-year 80 percent of the overall average performance of the financial and period. operational targets has to be acheived. All Share Awards will vest and entitle to one share each if 100 percent of the overall average performance is acheived. When calculating the overall performance Increase Vesting percent of Shareprice shares (also stipulated Share price in fulfillment of Performance criterion 2 below) achievement, individual targets may account for a maximum of 120 percent achievement, but the overall average performance is capped > 60 percent 33 percent at 100 percent. If the minimum threshold is achieved, 80 percent of > 100 percent 66 percent Share Awards subject to Performance T ­ arget 1 will vest. > 150 percent 100 percent Performance criterion 2 These categories correspond to an average annual return over five This target pertains to the development of the Orexo share price over years of approximately 10, 15 and 20 percent respectively. the period from the date of the 2016 Annual General Meeting up to and including April 14, 2019 for LTIP2016, from the date of the 2017 Performance criterion 2 Annual General Meeting up to and including April 5, 2020 for LTIP2017 In addition to satisfaction of Performance Criterion 1, for any vesting and from the date of the 2018 Annual General Meeting up to and to occur the share price shall have outperformed the NASDAQ OMX including April 11, 2021 for LTIP2018. The share price will be measured Stockholm Biotechnology PI Index for a 90-day period immediately as the volume weighted average share price 60 trading days prior to prior to such day when Performance Criterion 1 above is satisfied. the measurement date for LTIP2016, LTIP2017 and LTIP2018. The The determination of satisfaction of Performance Criterion 2 shall be measurement dates are date defined as the date of the 2016 Annual made continuously as long as Performance Criterion 1 is satisfied, General Meeting and April 14, 2019, the 2017 Annual General Meeting where the above-mentioned 90-day period shall be the period immeand April 5, 2020 and the 2018 Annual General Meeting and April 11, diately prior to each such determination. The Board shall be entitled to 2021. Should the Orexo share price increase by 60 percent, then 100 determine that the Performance Shares have not been vested to the percent will be allotted, 66 percent will be allotted should the Orexo extent that it has been established that vesting has occurred on the share price increase by 40 percent and 33 percent will be allotted basis of manifestly misstated information. should the Orexo share price increase by 20 percent. In between these figures, allotment of shares on the basis of the Share Awards will Performance criteria LTIP 2016, LTIP 2017 and LTIP 2018 occur linearly. These categories correspond to a three-year average LTIP2016, LTIP2017 and LTIP2018 are share-based programs where annual increase of approximately 17 percent, 12 percent and 7 percent half of the shares are vested based on the share price development per annum. In addition to satis­faction of Performance Target 2 set out and the remaining vested based on the company’s operational above, for any vesting to occur, the developmentof the Orexo share ­performance and time. price shall have outperformed the Nasdaq Stockholm Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology PI during the measurement period from the date of the 2016 Annual General Meeting up to and including April 14, 2019 for LTIP2016, from the date of the 2017 Annual General Meeting up to and including April 5, 2020 for LTIP2017 and from the date of the 2018 Annual General Meeting up to and including April 11, 2021 for LTIP2018. OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 67 NOTES Note 25 cont. NOTE 24 PROVISIONS Parent Group Company Group Parent Company 2017-12-31 Long-term provisions 2018 2017 2018 2017 Interest-bearing liabilities 319.1 319.1 On January 1 5.8 1.2 4.9 1.3 Accrued interest costs 2.0 2.0 Additional provisions 1.5 7.7 — 3.7 321.1 321.1 2018-12-31 Utilized during the year — –0.1 –0.1 –0.1 Interest-bearing liabilities 320.6 320.6 Reversed unused amounts -0.8 –3.0 0.1 — Accrued interest costs 2.0 2.0 Per December 31 6.5 5.8 4.9 4.9 322.6 322.6 Long-term provisions primarily refer to estimated costs for social ­security fees in respect of employee stock option programs. Group Parent Company NOTE 26 ACCRUED EXPENSES Short-term provisions, AND OTHER LIABILITIES rebates and chargebacks 2018 2017 2018 2017 Group Parent Company On January 1 200.9 163.9 0.0 0.0 Other liabilities 2018 2017 2018 2017 Additional provisions 786.4 529.9 — — Utilized during the year -718.4 –477.3 — — Employee withholding tax 1.7 1.5 1.7 1.5 Reversed unused amounts -21.0 — — — Deduction, social security Exchange rate difference 18.0 –15.6 — — fees 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 Per December 31 265.8 200.9 0.0 0.0 Deduction, special salary tax 2.0 2.1 2.0 2.1 Other current liabilities — 1.6 0.1 1.9 Short-term provisions primarily refer to estimated costs for accrued rebates and pass-through. Sum Other liabilities 4.9 6.3 5.0 6.6 Group Parent Company Accrued expenses 2018 2017 2018 2017 NOTE 25 BORROWINGS Accrued salaries 15.3 12.2 2.5 2.9 Accrued vacation pay 4.7 5.3 4.7 5.3 Parent Group Company Accrued social security fees 2.4 2.7 2.4 2.7 Accrued expenses interest January 1, 2017 400.6 400.6 rates 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 Repurchase bond –404.7 –404.7 Other accrued expenses 47.4 43.2 — — Net gain/loss from repurchase –0.1 –0.1 Trade allowance 40.2 15.9 — — Issuance of bonds 319.2 319.2 Wholesaler fee reserve 53.0 15.9 40.7 8.0 Interest expenses 14.8 14.8 Sum Accrued expenses 165.0 97.2 52.3 20.8 Interest paid –15.6 –15.6 Sum Other liabilities and Recognition of loan issuance cost 7.1 7.1 Accrued expenses 169.9 103.6 57.3 27.4 Other non-cash items –0.2 –0.2 January 1, 2018 321.1 321.1 Repurchase bond 14.8 14.8 Interest paid –14.8 –14.8 Recognition of loan issuance cost 1.5 1.5 December 31, 2018 322.6 322.6 The long-term portion consists of a bond loan amounting to a total of SEK 325 million. It matures on November 13, 2021. The loan has a variable interest rate of STIBOR 3 months +4.5 percent (STIBOR is calcu­lated as zero at the lowest) and has a total framework amount of SEK 500 million. There are no covenants. The loan agreement contains limitat limitations regarding any change in the company’s ownership structure, so-called change-of-control. In 2017, the company redeemed the previous bond of SEK 342 million. 68 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES NOTE 27 SHARES IN SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES Direct and indirect Accumulated Carrying holdings Dec 31, 2016 Corp. Reg. No. Reg. office Number of shares Shareholding Cost/Contribution impairment amount Pharmacall AB 556569‑1739 Uppsala 1,000 100% 0.1 — 0.1 Biolipox AB 556588‑3658 Stockholm 12,883,944 100% 505.8 –399.8 106.0 Orexo US Inc 101013414 USA 100 100% 44.6 — 44.6 All holdings are owned directly. Change in carrying amount of direct holdings Opening Closing 2017 carrying amount Acqusition Contribution Sales Impairment carrying amount Pharmacall AB 0.1 — — — — 0.1 Orexo US Inc 43.7 — 0.8 — — 44.5 Biolipox AB 106.0 — — — — 106.0 Total 149.8 0.0 0.8 0.0 0.0 150.6 Opening Closing carrying 2018 carrying amount Acquisition Contribution Sales Ipairment amount Pharmacall AB 0.1 — — — — 0.1 Orexo US Inc 44.5 — 1.7 — — 46.2 Biolipox AB 106.0 — — — — 106.0 Total 150.6 0.0 1.7 0.0 0.0 152.3 NOTE 28 PLEDGED ASSETS AND CONTINGENT NOTE 29 AUDITORS’ FEES LIABILITIES Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Audit assignment Chattel mortgages for bank Ernst & Young 2.6 3.1 2.6 3.1 commitment — — — — Non-auditing assignments Guarantee commitment — — — — Ernst & Young 0.3 0.1 0.3 0.1 Total 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Tax advice Ernst & Young — 0.1 — 0.1 No collateral or contingent liabilities exist as at 31 December 2018. Other services Ernst & Young — 0.3 — 0.3 Total 2.8 3.6 2.8 3.6 NOTE 30 DEFERRED TAX The tax-loss carry-forward in the Group amounts to SEK 1,414 million to the company’s assessment, corresponds to the amount that meets ­(1,459) as of December 31, 2018 and refers to the Swedish companies. the requirements for capitalization according to IAS 12. There is no Deferred tax assets of SEK 60.9 million have been capitalized as of time limit for when the remaining tax-loss carry-forwards can be December 31, 2018 of the total loss carry-forwards, which, according utilized. Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Deferred tax assets Capitalized tax loss carryforwards 60.9 7.6 60.9 7.6 Temporary differences in current provision 31.9 20.7 — — Total 92.8 28.3 60.9 7.6 Temporary differences for short-term provisions are related to nonDeferred tax assets have, in view of the taxable income attributable deduct­ible short-term provisions for sales rebates, returns, distribution to the Swedish companies in recent years, been reported only insofar and other relevant deductions in Orexo Inc. Deferred tax of SEK 60.9 as management estimates that there are factors convincingly suggestmillion relating to Swedish companies in the Group has been activated ing that sufficient taxable surpluses will be generated in the future. during the period. OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 69 NOTES NOTE 31 UNDERTAKINGS NOTE 33 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Undertakings relating to operational leasing in which Purchases and sales between Group companies Group companies are the lessees The following transactions took place between the companies The Group leases various types of machinery and other technical in the Group: plant in accordance with cancelable operational leasing agreements. 2018 2017 Leasing expenses relating to leasing of equipment, machinery and computers amounting to SEK 0.3 million (0.4) and leasing expenses Forward invoicing of costs relating to rental agreements amounting to SEK 15.6 million (16.1) are Orexo US Inc 3.5 0.4 included in the income statement. Sale of goods and services The Orexo Group has two rental agreements. Orexo AB has entered into a rental agreement that runs until December 31, 2019. Orexo US Orexo US Inc 246.0 318.7 Inc’s rental agreement runs until April 30, 2024. The nominal value of Total 249.5 319.1 future leasing fees for lease agreements that cannot be terminated is as follows: The Group has no losses or doubtful credits on receivables from related parties. Group Parent Company Remuneration and other commitments regarding pensions and 2018 2017 2018 2017 similar benefits to Board members and the President and CEO, see Note 9. Falls due for payment within There have been no other related party transactions. one year 21.4 19.0 13.3 16.8 Falls due for payment later than one year but within five years 58.4 35.2 39.9 35.2 Falls due for payment later NOTE 34 EVENTS AFTER THE CLOSING DATE than 5 years 0.2 — — — Total 80.0 54.2 53.2 52.0 Positive results the OX124 human PK-study of new internasal Naloxone formulations for reversal of effects occuring in an opioid overdose. IFRS 16 Leases will replace IAS 17. According to the new standard, most leased assets must be recognized in the balance sheet and the The US District Court of Delaware issued a final, non-appealable lessee shall divide up the cost into interest payments and depreciation judgement that Actavis’s generic Zubsolv products infringe the US of the asset. The standard will be applied by the Group and the Parent ­patent ´330, preventing Actavis from launching their infringing Company as from January 1, 2019. Orexo applies the simplified transi­generics in the US until 2032. tion method and the main impact on Orexo’s accounts arise from the reporting of lease contract for premises. The opening effect on the consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2019 is that a lease asset (right-of-use asset) and a lease liability are added, each at SEK 74.1 NOTE 35 APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT million. The Parent company will apply the simplification rule in RFR 2 and will therefore continue to report leasing costs in accordance with Proposed appropriation of profit existing rules for operational leasing. The following funds are at the disposal of the Annual ­General ­Meeting: SEK thousands Share premium reserve 1,198,323 NOTE 32 DISCLOSURES ON Loss carried forward –1,191,631 THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT Profit/loss for the year 105,311 Total 112,003 Group Parent Company The Board proposes that the funds at their disposal SEK 112,003 2018 2017 2018 2017 ­thousands be carried forward. Adjustments for items not included in cash flow comprise the following: Depreciation and impairment 20.8 20.8 20.6 19.6 Gain/loss on disposal — — — — Change in provisions 45.6 59.9 –0.1 3.9 Change in fair value of financial instruments — — — — Share based payments 2.1 3.0 2.1 3.0 Exchange rate income and expense –6.5 4.2 –6.5 3.9 Other non-cash items — — –1.7 — Total 61.9 87.9 14.4 30.4 70 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ASSUR ANCE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND PRESIDENT Assurance of the Board of Directors and President The Board of Directors and President hereby give their The Board of Directors’ Report for the Group and the assurance that the consolidated financial statements have ­ arent Company presents a true and fair review of the Group’s P been prepared in accordance with the International Financial and the ­Parent Company’s operations, financial positions and Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and present earnings and describes the significant risks and uncertainties a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position and facing the Parent Company and the companies included earnings. The Annual Report has been prepared in accordin the Group. ance with generally accepted accounting principles and presents a true and fair view of the Parent Company’s ­financial position and earnings. Uppsala, Sweden, March 19, 2019 Orexo AB (publ) Martin Nicklasson Chairman of the Board Raymond G. Hill Staffan Lindstrand Kristina Schauman Board member Board member Board member Henrik Kjaer Hansen David Colpman Kirsten Detrick Board member Board member Board member Nikolaj Sørensen President and CEO Our audit report was submitted on March 19, 2019 Ernst & Young Aktiebolag Björn Ohlsson Authorized Public Accountant OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 71 AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s Report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Orexo AB, corporate identity number 556500-0600. Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsi­ Opinions bilities section. We are independent of the parent company We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated and the group in accordance with professional ethics for accounts of Orexo AB for the year 2018. The annual accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are ­ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requireincluded on pages 32-71 in this document. ments. This includes that, based on the best of our knowlIn our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared edge and belief, no prohibited services referred to in the in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the to the audited company or, where applicable, its parent parent company as of 31 December 2018 and its financial company or its controlled companies within the EU. performance and cash flow for the year then ended in We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolisufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our dated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the opinions. Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 December 2018 Key Audit Matters and their financial performance and cash flow for the year Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in then ended in accordance with International Financial our professional judgment, were of most significance in our Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Annual Accounts Act. The statutory administration report is the current period. These matters were addressed in the consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, consolidated accounts. the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, We therefore recommend that the general meeting of but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. shareholders adopts the income statement and balance For each matter below, our description of how our audit sheet for the parent company and the group. addressed the matter is provided in that context. Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the consolidated accounts are consistent with the content of ­Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statethe additional report that has been submitted to the parent ments section of our report, including in relation to these company’s audit committee in accordance with the Audit matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements. Basis for Opinions The results of our audit procedures, including the procedures We conducted our audit in accordance with International performed to address the matters below, provide the basis Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing for our audit opinion on the accompanying financial standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those statements. Revenue from contracts with customers Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter Revenue from contracts with customers for 2018 was MSEK 783.1 I In our audit we have reviewed the company’s processes over in the consolidated income statement and MSEK 407.6 MSEK in the ­revenue recognition, and reviewed significant agreements to assess ­parent company income statement. whether the accounting for these is compliant with relevant standards. As is stated in Note 5, revenue from the sale of goods is calculated We have also performed sample testing of accruals. net of deductions including actual and estimated rebates to public and We have also reviewed the calculation models on which the deducprivate insurers and provisions for potential returns. These gross-to-net tions from gross sales are based, as well as the reasonableness of adjustments are based partly on management’s estimates. The extent key assumptions on which the calculations are based, such as the of deductions of revenue from rebates and returns and the accounting distri­bution between different payer categories and expected future for royalties connected to licensing agreements are affected by estireturns. mates and judgments made by management. Finally, we have reviewed disclosures provided in the annual report. A description of the judgments on which revenue recognition is based is provided in the section “Important estimations and judgments for accounting purposes” in Note 4. In summary, revenue recognition for the group contains significant elements of judgment, and for this reason revenue recognition has been determined to be a key audit matter. 72 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 AUDITOR’S REPORT Other Information than the annual accounts Auditor’s responsibility and consolidated accounts Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about This document also contains other information than the whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as annual accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due pages 1–31 and 76–88. The Board of Directors and the to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that ­Managing Director are responsible for this other information. includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted accounts does not cover this other information and we do in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing not express any form of assurance conclusion regarding this standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstateother information. ment when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and error and are considered material if, individually or in the consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the inforaggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence mation identified above and consider whether the information the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and annual accounts and consolidated accounts. ­consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also take into As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism assess whether the information otherwise appears to be throughout the audit. We also: materially misstated. • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of If we, based on the work performed concerning this the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether ­information, conclude that there is a material misstatement due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures of this other information, we are required to report that fact. responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is We have nothing to report in this regard. sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting Responsibilities of the Board of Directors from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as and the Managing Director fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts and • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control consolidated accounts and that they give a fair presentation relevant to our audit in order to design audit procedures in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the Managing the company’s internal control. Director are also responsible for such internal control as they • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from related disclosures made by the Board of Directors and material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. the Managing Director. In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ accounts, The Board of Directors and the Managing Director and the Managing Director’s use of the going concern are responsible for the assessment of the company’s and the basis of accounting in preparing the annual accounts and group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, consolidated accounts. We also draw a conclusion, based as applicable, matters related to going concern and using on the audit evidence obtained, as to whether any material the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of cast significant doubt on the company’s and the group’s Directors and the Managing Director intends to liquidate the ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude company, to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw but to do so. attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board in the annual accounts and consolidated accounts or, if of Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion other things oversee the company’s financial reporting about the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. process. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause a company and a group to cease to continue as a going concern. OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 73 AUDITOR’S REPORT • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of Basis for opinions the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including We conducted the audit in accordance with generally the disclosures, and whether the annual accounts and accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities consolidated accounts represent the underlying trans­ under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s actions and events in a manner that achieves fair Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent presentation. company and the group in accordance with professional • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise the financial information of the entities or business activities ­fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these within the group to express an opinion on the consolidated requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have accounts. We are responsible for the direction, supervision obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for and performance of the group audit. We remain solely our opinions. responsible for our opinions. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other and the Managing Director matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit. We must The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for also inform of significant audit findings during our audit, appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal including any significant deficiencies in internal control that of a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether the we identified. dividend is justifiable considering the requirements which We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statethe company’s and the group’s type of operations, size and ment that we have complied with relevant ethical requirerisks place on the size of the parent company’s and the ments regarding independence, and to communicate with group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and them all relationships and other matters that may reason­ position in general. ably be thought to bear on our independence, and where The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s applicable, related safeguards. organization and the administration of the company’s From the matters communicated with the Board of Direcaffairs. This includes among other things continuous assesstors, we determine those matters that were of most signifiment of the company’s and the group’s financial situation cance in the audit of the annual accounts and consolidated and ensuring that the company’s organization is designed accounts, including the most important assessed risks for so that the accounting, management of assets and the material misstatement, and are therefore the key audit matters. company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a We describe these matters in the auditor’s report unless law reassuring manner. The Managing Director shall manage the or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter. ongoing administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matters take Report on other legal and regulatory requirements measures that are necessary to fulfill the company’s account­ Opinions ing in accordance with law and handle the management of In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consoliassets in a reassuring manner. dated accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of Orexo AB for the year 2018 and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit be appropriated (loss be dealt with) in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for the ­financial year. 74 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s responsibility As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, auditing standards in Sweden, we exercise professional and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of the audit. The examination of the administration and the assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss is or the Managing Director in any material respect: based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission audit procedures performed are based on our professional which can give rise to liability to the company, or judgment with starting point in risk and materiality. This • in any other way has acted in contravention of the means that we focus the examination on such actions, Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles areas and relationships that are material for the operations of Association. and where deviations and violations would have particular importance for the company’s situation. We examine and Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed approtest decisions undertaken, support for decisions, actions priations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our opinopinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of ion concerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations Companies Act. of the company’s profit or loss we examined whether the Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always Ernst & Young AB, Jakobsbergsgatan 24, 111 44, Stockholm, detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to was appointed auditor of Orexo AB by the general meeting the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the of the shareholders on the 12 April 2018 and has been the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the company’s auditor since the 15 April 2016. Companies Act. Uppsala 19 March, 2019 Ernst & Young AB Björn Ohlsson Authorized Public Accountant OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 75 DEFINITIONS Reconciliations and Definitions of Key Figures Group Key figures and certain other operating infromation per share are reconciled as follows: EBITDA SEK million 2018 2017 EBIT 95.8 57.4 Depreciation and amortization 20.8 20.8 EBITDA 116.6 78.2 Return on shareholders’ equity 2018 2017 Average shareholders’ equity 402.6 319.7 Net earnings 137.9 23.2 Return on shareholders’ equity % 34.3 7.3 Net debt SEK million 2018 2017 Current and long-term interest-bearing liabilities including pension liabilities 320.6 319.1 Cash and cash equivalents. –589.8 –327.9 Net debt –269.2 –8.8 Operating expenses SEK million 2018 2017 Selling expenses –191.4 –190.5 Administrative expenses –166.7 –96.1 Research and development costs –166.8 –134.2 Other operating income and expenses 9.3 –1.1 Operating expenses –515.6 –421.9 US EBIT SEK million and EBIT margin % 2018 2017 Consolidated operating earnings 95.8 57.4 Non US related items impacting operating earnings –102.5 –16.3 US EBIT 198.3 73.7 US EBIT margin % 31.9 15.2 76 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 R ECO N C I L I AT I O N S A N D D EF I N I T I O N S O F K E Y F I G U R E S Key figures and certain other operating information per share are defined as follows: Margins Definition/calculation Purpose Gross margin Gross profit divided by net revenues Gross Margin is used to measure the relative direct profitability from sold products Operating margin Operating earnings as a percentage of Operating profit margin is used for measuring the operational (EBIT margin) net ­revenues ­profitability Return Definition/calculation Purpose Return on equity Net earnings for the period as a percentage Return on equity is used to measure profit generation, given the of average shareholders’ equity resources attributable to the owners of the Parent Company Capital structure Definition/calculation Purpose Net Debt Current and long-term interest-bearing liabilities The net debt is used as an indication of the ability to pay off all debts including pension liabilities, less cash and cash if these became due simultaneously on the day of calculation, using equivalents only available cash and cash equivalents Debt/equity ratio Total liabilities divided by shareholders’ equity The debt/equity ratio measures how much debt a company is using to finance its assets relative to the amount of value represented in shareholder’s equity. Equity/assets ratio Shareholders’ equity as a percentage of total This ratio is an indicator of the company’s leverage used to finance assets the firm Working capital Current assets less current liabilities Working capital is used to measure the company's ability, besides cash and cash equivalents, to meet current operational obligations Capital employed Interest-bearing liabilities and shareholders’ equity Capital employed measures the amount of capital used and serves as input for the return on capital employed Gross investments Value of investment before amortization Gross investments is a measure of the company’s investments in ­tangible and intangible fixed assets Data per share Definition/calculation Purpose Number of shares Shares at the end of the period adjusted for the Is used to calculate earnings per share after dilution after dilution dilutive effect of potential shares Earnings per share, Net earnings for the period after tax divided by The earnings per share before dilution measures the amount of before dilution the average number of shares outstanding before net profit that is available for payment to its shareholders per share dilution during the period before dilution Earnings per share, Net earnings for the period after tax divided by The earnings per share after dilution measures the amount of net after dilution the average number of shares outstanding after profit that is available for payment to its shareholders per share after dilution during the period dilution Other definitions Definition/calculation Purpose Gross Revenues Grand total of all invoiced sales transactions Reflects the company’s invoiced revenues without any deductions reported in a period, without any deductions Net Revenues Gross Revenues less deductions for sales rebates, Reflects the company’s invoiced revenues after deductions sales allowances, distribution, sales returns and other relevant deductions Gross to net ratio Net Revenues divided by Gross Revenues Reflects a relative portion of net revenue as percentage of gross revenue Operating expenses An expense incurred in daily operating activities. Operating expenses reflect costs for selling, administration, research Expense related to financing is not considered part and development, depreciation and other operating income and of daily operating activities. operating expenses US EBIT (SEK) US net revenues (SEK) less consolidated US cost of Profit measure which illustrates direct contribution (SEK) from goods sold (SEK) less US operating expenses (SEK) US business EBIT Earnings before net financial items and tax, the This measure enables the profitability to be compared across same as Operating earnings ­locations where corporate taxes differ and irrespective the financing structure of the company EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and Profit measure which is more closely correlated with cash flow as amortization. EBIT plus depreciation non-cash items like Depreciation and Amortization are excluded Earnings after Operating earnings (EBIT) plus financial income Earnings after financial items reflects earnings after, any results financial items less financial expense from participations in Group and associated companies, results from securities and receivables that fall within the type of fixed assets as well as interest expenses and interest income OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 77 Corporate Governance 2018 Corporate Governance Report for Orexo AB (publ)  79 Auditor’s report on the corporate governance statement 84 Glossary  85 Board of Directors 86 Management87 78 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CO R P O R AT E G O V ER N A N C E R EP O R T Corporate Governance Report for Orexo AB (publ) Orexo is a Swedish public limited liability company, with its registered office in Uppsala, Sweden. The company’s shares are listed on Nasdaq (Mid Cap) Stockholm under the symbol ORX and with American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) traded on OTCQX under the symbol ORXOY. Corporate Governance in Orexo is based on applicable laws, rules and recommendations such as the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance (“the Code”), Orexo’s articles of association and internal regulations and guidelines. The aim of corporate governance at Orexo is to create a clear division of roles and responsibilities between shareholders, the Board of Directors and Management. Internal governance, control and risk management concerning financial reporting are fundamental factors in Orexo’s business control. Nomination Examples of internal rules of significance Committee for corporate governance Proposal Election Election • A rticles of Association Election Shareholders through • Formal work plan for the Board of Directors (including General Meeting Reporting terms of reference for Board Committees) Remuneration Election • Terms of reference for the President Control Committee • Guidelines for remuneration of senior executives Board of Directors Reporting Auditors Audit Committee • Finance policy • IR policy Control President and CEO • IT policy • Financial guidelines • HR guidelines Control Executive Management • Business Compliance and Ethics code Shareholders The governance, management and control of Orexo are Orexo’s share has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since divided between the General Meeting of Shareholders, 2005. At year-end, the total number of shares amounted to the Board of Directors and the President. 35,450,456 (35,104,585), distributed among 6,261 shareholders (7,115). Examples of external regulations influencing The 10 largest shareholders held 62.7 percent (59.1) of corporate governance the outstanding shares, management 0.2 percent (0.2) and • Swedish Companies Act other shareholders 37.1 percent (40.7). At December 31, 2018, • Regulations governing external reporting, such as two shareholders each held shares representing 10 percent the accounting law and the Annual Report law or more of the company – Novo Holding A/S, 27.2 percent, • Nasdaq Stockholm rules for issuers and HealthCap, 11.2 percent. Non-Swedish shareholders • OTCQX rules for companies trading ADRs on OTCQX accounted for approximately 47 percent (57) of the total • Swedish Code of Corporate Governance (the Code, number of shares. Institutions and industrial owners hold www.bolagsstyrning.se) the majority of shares. At year-end, 81 percent (77) of the OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 79 CO R P O R AT E G O V ER N A N C E R EP O R T shares were held by legal entities, and 19 percent (23) by • Ernst and Young Aktiebolag was re-elected as auditor. ­private individuals. Since November 13, 2013, the share is • A resolution was adopted that fees for Board members available in the US as an ADR on the OTCQX market. should amount to a total of SEK 2,200,000, with SEK 600,000 paid to the Chairman of the Board, SEK 200,000 Articles of Association to each of the other Board members, and a total of SEK The Articles of Association are adopted by the General 400,000 distributed between the members of the Audit Meeting of Shareholders and outline a number of mandatory Committee, so that the Chairman of the committee tasks of a fundamental nature for the company. Notification receives SEK 200,000 and SEK 200,000 is distributed of the convening of the General Meetings is issued through between the other committee members for their work on an advertisement being placed on Orexo’s website and in the committee. The fee may be invoiced by a company Postoch Inrikes Tidningar (Official Swedish Gazette). in such a way that it is cost-neutral for Orexo. Confirma­tion that a General Meeting has been convened • The Board’s motion concerning guidelines for remunerashall be announced in the Svenska Dagbladet newspaper. tion to the management was approved. The Articles of Association state that Orexo shall conduct • The motion concerning the appointment of a Nomination research and development, and manufacture, market and Committee for AGM 2019 was approved. sell pharmaceuticals and diagnostic preparations. Orexo’s The balance sheet and income statement for the Parent Articles of Association also state that the Board of Directors Company and the Group for the 2017 fiscal year were shall have its registered office in Uppsala, Sweden, and shall adopted. consist of a minimum of three and a maximum of nine • The Annual General Meeting granted Board members members, with a maximum of three deputies. The Articles and the President discharge from liability for the 2017 of Association contain no special provisions on the appoint­fiscal year. ment or dismissal of Board members. Amendments to the • A resolution was adopted in accordance with the Board’s Articles of Association are made in accordance with the proposal concerning authorization of the Board to resolve provisions of the Swedish Companies Act following a to issue shares. ­resolution of the General Meeting. The complete Articles • A resolution was adopted in accordance with the Board’s of Association are available at www.orexo.com. proposal concerning authorization of the Board to ­repurchase and transfer the company’s own shares. Annual General Meeting • The Board’s motion concerning a long-term incentive Orexo’s highest decision-making body is the General Meeting, program for senior executives and key employees was at which every shareholder who is entered in the share regapproved. ister and who has provided notification of their attendance • A resolution was adopted in accordance with the Board’s within the stipulated time is entitled to participate and vote proposal concerning authorization of the Board to issue for the amount of shares held. Shareholders can also be and repurchase Class C shares and transfer of own represented by proxy at General Meetings. One share entitles ­ordinary shares. the holder to one vote at General Meetings, and there are no limits as to how many votes each shareholder can cast Complete information about the 2018 Annual General at a General Meeting. Resolutions at General Meetings are Meeting can be found at www.orexo.com. passed with a simple majority, unless the Companies Act stipulates a higher percentage of the shares and votes Annual General Meeting 2019 repre­sented at the Meeting. The Annual General Meeting of Orexo will be held on The Annual General Meeting elects members to the Thursday, April 11, 2019, at 4:00 p.m. at the company’s Board of Directors and sets Board fees. The other mandatory premises at Virdings allé 32 A, Uppsala, Sweden. tasks of the Annual General Meeting include adopting the company’s balance sheet and income statement, passing Nomination Committee resolutions on the appropriation of earnings from operations, The 2018 Annual General Meeting adopted a resolution that remuneration guidelines for senior executives and decisions the Company should have a Nomination Committee. The concerning discharge from liability for Board members and Nomination Committee represents the company’s sharethe President. The Annual General Meeting also elects the holders. It is tasked with creating the best possible basis for the company’s auditor and sets the auditors’ fees. In accordance General Meeting’s resolutions regarding the election of Board with the Articles of Association, the Annual General Meeting members and Board fees and with submitting proposals shall be held in either Uppsala or Stockholm. concerning, for example, the appointment of auditors and auditors’ fees. The Nomination Committee comprises repreAnnual General Meeting 2018 sentatives of the three largest shareholders in terms of voting The Annual General Meeting was held on Thursday, April 12, rights on the final banking day in August 2018, in addition to 2018 in Uppsala. At the Meeting: the Chairman of the Board. The composition of the Nomina­ • Raymond G. Hill, Staffan Lindstrand, Martin Nicklasson, tion Committee was announced on Orexo’s website and in a Kristina Schauman, David Colpman and Kirsten Detrick press release on October 8, 2018. The Committee held 1 (1) were re-elected as Board members. Henrik Kjaer Hansen meeting during the year. was elected as a new member of the board, Through the Chairman of the Board, the Nomination • Martin Nicklasson was re-elected as Chairman of the Board. Committee reviewed the evaluation of the Board’s work and received information regarding developments in the company. 80 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CO R P O R AT E G O V ER N A N C E R EP O R T The principal requirements to be imposed on the Board of sentations by the Audit Committee and President, the Board Orexo and the importance of independent Board members reviews all interim reports prior to publishing. The company’s were discussed. No special remuneration was paid for long-term targets and strategy and its budget are evaluated ­participation in the Nomination Committee. and approved by the Board. At each Board meeting, the President or another senior executive reports on the business Nomination Committee for the Annual General Meeting 2019: situation and the status of relevant projects. Name Representatives In addition to the statutory Board meeting, at least six Michael Shalmi Novo Holding A/S, and Chairman of the scheduled Board meetings must be held. At the Board Nomination Committee meeting during which the annual audit is to be considered, Björn Odlander HealthCap the Board meets with the auditors without the participation of the company’s management. Claus Berner Møller Arbejdsmarkedets Tillaegspension (ATP) It is incumbent upon the Board to ensure that the guideMartin Nicklasson Chairman of the Board of Orexo lines for remuneration to senior executives approved by the Annual General Meeting are followed and that the Annual Combined, the Nomination Committee represents about General Meeting proposes guidelines for remuneration to 45 percent of the number of shares and votes in the company, senior executives. based on shareholder data at the time of appointment. Each year, the Board’s work is evaluated by way of discussions and through external assessment. The results of the Board of Directors evaluation are presented to the Board and Orexo’s NominaThe Board of Directors have a responsibility to the sharetion Committee and form the basis for proposals for Board holders for the Group’s management and organization. members. In matters concerning ownership. They monitor the president’s work and continuously follows Orexo is represented by the Chairman of the Board. the business development and the reliability of the internal ­During the year, the Board held 12 (16) meetings, of which control within the company. The Board’s responsibility is 8 (8) were telephone conferences or meetings by circulation. regulated in the Companies Act and the formal work plan The Board mainly addressed and resolved on issues that is established annually. The formal work plan establishes ­concerning the company’s strategic direction, the status of the division of the Board’s work between the Board in its ­projects, the follow-up of financial performance, financing, entirety and the Board’s various committees and between investment matters, external reporting, budget planning and the Board and the President. It also sets out the items to be follow-up. These issues are addressed by the Board in its addressed at Board meetings and the manner in which the entirety. Orexo’s auditor participated at the Board meeting President provides the Board with information and reports. that approved the financial statements and presented the The Board has appointed Audit and Remuneration audit at this meeting. ­Committees from within its ranks. At year-end, Orexo’s Board of Directors consisted of ChairRemuneration of the Board man Martin Nicklasson and Board members David Colpman, The 2018 Annual General Meeting resolved that Board fees Raymond G. Hill, Staffan Lindstrand, Henrik Kjaer Hansen, should amount to SEK 2,200,000, of which SEK 600,000 Kristina Schauman and Kirsten Detrick. For a more detailed was to be paid to the Chairman of the Board, SEK 200,000 description of Board members, please refer to page 86. to each of the other Board members, and a total of SEK 400,000 to be divided among the members of the Audit The work of the Board Committee, so that the Chairman of the committee The Board’s formal work plan establishes the items to be receives SEK 200,000 and the other committee members addressed at the scheduled Board meetings. Following pre­ share SEK 200,000. COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD Present at Present at Remuneration Present at Name Function Independent Elected Board meetings Committee Audit Committee Martin Nicklasson Chairman of the Board 2012 12/12 5/5 3/4 David Colpman Board member 2015 10/12 – – Kristina Schauman Board member 2012 12/12 – 4/4 Michael Shalmi Board member 2010 3/4 5/5 – Henrik Kjaer Hansen Board member 2018 8/8 – – Raymond G. Hill Board member 2008 10/12 5/5 – Staffan Lindstrand Board member 2002 10/12 – 4/4 Kirsten Detrick Board member 2016 10/12 – – Independent in relation to Orexo and its management Independent in relation to Orexo, its management and the company’s largest shareholders OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 81 CO R P O R AT E G O V ER N A N C E R EP O R T and Raymond G. Hill. During the year, the Remuneration Composition of the Board Committee was convened on 5 (2) occasion and managed Board members, their positions and whether or not they other issues with written communication. are considered to be independent in relation to Orexo, its management and the company’s largest shareholders are Evaluation of the Board’s and President’s work stated in the table on page 23. Orexo’s Board of Directors is The work of the Board, similar to that of the President, is deemed to have satisfied the requirements of the Code in evaluated annually in a systematic and structured process. respect of independence, as all members elected by the The Nomination Committee is informed of the results of Meeting have been deemed to be independent in relation the evaluation. to Orexo and its management and all of these members, with the exception of two, have also been deemed to be Auditors independent in relation to the company’s largest Orexo’s auditors is the auditing firm EY, with Authorised shareholders. ­Public Accountant Björn Ohlsson as auditor in charge. At the Annual General Meeting 2018 EY was re-elected as Audit Committee auditors until the Annual General Meeting 2019. The external Orexo’s Audit Committee is primarily concerned with auditors discuss the external audit plan and risk management ­ensuring compliance with established principles for financial with the Audit Committee. The auditors perform a review of reporting and internal controls. The Audit Committee must the interim report for the third quarter, and audit the annual also remain informed about the audit of the Annual Report accounts and consolidated financial statements. The auditors and consolidated accounts, inspect and monitor the imparalso express an opinion on whether this Corporate Governtiality and independence of the auditor, paying particularly ance Report has been prepared in accordance with, and close attention to instances where the auditor provides the whether certain disclosures herein are consistent with, the company with services outside the scope of the audit, and annual accounts and consolidated financial statements. assist in the preparation of proposals to the General Meeting The auditors report the results of their audit of the annual in respect of auditor selection. The Audit Committee presents accounts and consolidated financial statements, their the final version of Orexo’s interim reports and of the Annual review of the Corporate Governance Report in the auditor’s Report to the Board for approval and publication. The Audit report, and a separate opinion on the Corporate GovernCommittee meets prior to the publication of each interim ance Report, in a presentation to the AGM. In addition, the report, in connection with the auditor’s review of the internal auditors present detailed findings from their reviews to the control over the financial reporting and when otherwise Audit Committee three times per year, and to the Board in necessary. The aforementioned issues are addressed by the its entirety once per year. Committee and the Board makes resolutions on the basis of For information regarding fees for the company’s auditors, the proposals produced. Orexo’s auditor attends the meetings see Note 29. of the Audit Committee before the publishing of the interim reports and to present the outcome of the review of the President and the Management internal control. Matters addressed in the Audit Committee The President leads the work of the Management Team and is reported to the Board on a regular basis and the minutes makes decision in consultation with them. At the end of 2018 are distributed to the Board. the Management Team consisted of five persons in addition During the year, the Audit Committee was convened on to the President. The Management Team hold regular meet­ 4 (4) occasions. At least one of the members of the Comings under the supervision of the President. For a more mittee must be independent in relation to the company and detailed description of the CEO and the management, see Executive Management, and also be independent in relation page 87. to the company’s largest shareholders and have accounting or auditing expertise. The Committee is currently made up Board of Directors’ Report on Internal Control of Kristina Schauman (Chairman), Martin Nicklasson and and Risk Management regarding Financial Reporting Staffan Lindstrand. The aim of Orexo’s risk management systems and processes is to ensure that the shareholders can have the utmost Remuneration Committee ­confidence in the financial operation and presented reports, The Remuneration Committee is tasked with addressing including the information given in this Annual Report and all matters concerning salaries and other terms of employment, interim reports. Orexo has established a methodology for pension benefits and bonus systems, including any allocation developing, implementing, driving and evaluating internal of equity instruments under the terms of approved incentive controls and risk management in respect of all parts of the programs for the President and the senior executives and company, including financial reporting. managers, as well as remuneration issues of principle nature. This methodology conforms to internationally established The Committee shall meet as often as required. The above standards in the industry and comprises a framework with issues are addressed by the Committee and the Board makes five principal components: control environment, risk assessresolutions on the basis of the proposals from the Committee. ment, control activities, information and communication, The Committee should possess the requisite knowledge and follow-up and evaluation. and expertise to deal with issues related to the remuneration of senior executives. The Remuneration Committee comprises Martin Nicklasson (Chairman), Henrik Kjaer Hansen 82 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CO R P O R AT E G O V ER N A N C E R EP O R T Control environment that correct financial and other corporate information is Pursuant to the Swedish Companies Act, the Board of Direccommunicated to employees and other stakeholders. tors is responsible for the internal control and governance of The Board receives monthly reports concerning financial the company. To maintain and develop a functional control performance, commercial performance and the status of environment, the Board has implemented a process of risk Orexo’s development projects and other relevant information. mapping and established a number of basic control docuThe corporate intranet provides detailed information ments and procedures that are of importance to financial about applicable procedures in all parts of the company reporting. These include the formal work plan for the Board and describes the control functions and how they are of Directors and the terms of reference for the P ­ resident, implemented. which are reviewed and approved annually by the Board. The security of all information that may affect the market In addition, the control environment is continuously value of the company and mechanisms to ensure that such updated and secured by means of continuous monitoring and information is communicated in a correct and timely fashion regular evaluations of risk profiles within various functions. are the cornerstones of the company’s undertaking as a Responsibility for the daily work of maintaining the control listed company. These two factors, and the procedures for environment is primarily incumbent on the President. managing them, ensure that financial reports are received He reports regularly to the Board of Directors and the Audit by all players in the financial market at the same time, and Committee pursuant to established procedures. In addition, that they provide an accurate presentation of the company’s the Board also receives regular reports directly from the financial position and performance. These procedures are company’s auditor. Company managers have defined continuously updated to secure compliance with the EU authorities, control functions and responsibilities within their Market Abuse Regulation (MAR). respective areas for financial and internal controls. Follow-up Risk assessment Orexo’s management conducts bi-weekly performance Orexo regularly conducts evaluations of financial risks and follow-​up, with an analysis of deviations from the budget other risks that may impact financial reporting. These reviews and plans. Orexo’s controller function also conducts extend to all parts of the company and are carried out to monthly controls, evaluations and follow-ups of financial ensure that there is no significant risk of errors occurring in reporting. Because much of the company’s product develfinancial reporting. There are several areas where the control opment is carried out in project form, this is followed up on of financial information is particularly important, and Orexo a continuous basis from a financial perspective. Routines has established a risk map that highlights a number of key and reporting is implemented to secure continuous follow-­up potential risks in the financial reporting system. on all aspects of the Zubsolv business, e.g. manufacturing, The company continuously monitors and evaluates these sales performance, wholesaler orders, sales force perforareas and regularly examines other areas in order to create a mance, inventory levels etc. The Board of Directors and set of control procedures that will minimize the risks and the Audit Committee review the Annual Report and interim impact in these areas. In addition, new and existing risks are reports prior to publication. The Audit Committee discusses identified, addressed and regulated through a process of special accounting policies, internal control framework, discussion in forums such as the the Management Team, risks and other issues associated with the reports. The comThe Board of Directors and Audit Committee. pany’s external auditor also participates in these discussions. Control activities Internal audit In light of the risks identified on the risk map, and the conOrexo has no separate internal audit function. The Board tinuous monitoring of the methods used to manage financial annually evaluates the need for such a function and, considinformation, Orexo has developed control activities that ering the size and structure of the company, has found no ensure good internal control of all aspects of financial basis for establishing a separate internal audit function. reporting. A number of policy documents and procedures The Board of Directors monitors the internal control over have been applied throughout the year to manage reporting financial reporting through regular follow-ups by the Audit and accounting. Standard procedures, attestation systems, Committee and the Board. financial guidelines and the risk map are examples of such policy documents. Further information about Orexo’s corporate governance The finance and and controller functions are responsible The following information is available at www.orexo.se ­ for ensuring that financial reporting is correct, complete (in Swedish) and www.orexo.com (in English): and timely. Orexo strives to continually improve its internal • Articles of Association control systems and has, on occasion, engaged external • Information about the Swedish Code of Corporate specialists when validating these controls. ­Governance • Information from General Meetings of previous years Information and communication • Information from the Nomination Committee Orexo is a listed company in one of the most regulated • Information about remuneration principles for senior ­markets in the world – healthcare. In addition to the highly executives exacting requirements that Nasdaq Stockholm and the • Corporate governance reports from 2009 onwards supervisory authorities impose on the scope and accuracy • Information for the 2019 Annual General Meeting (convenof information, Orexo also employs internal information ing notice, Nomination Committee proposals, presentation and communication control functions designed to ensure of the work of the Nomination Committee, etc.). OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 83 A U D I TO R ’ S R EP O R T O N T H E CO R P O R AT E G O V ER N A N C E S TAT E M EN T Auditor’s Report on the Corporate Governance Statement To the general meeting of the shareholders of Orexo AB, Opinions corporate identity number 556500-0600. A corporate governance statement has been prepared. ­Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the Engagement and responsibility ­second paragraph points 2–6 the Annual Accounts Act and It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law corporate governance statement for the year 2018 on pages are consistent with the annual accounts and the consoli79–83 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the dated accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Annual Accounts Act. Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Uppsala, Sweden, March 19, 2019 Our examination has been conducted in accordance with Ernst & Young AB FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit Björn Ohlsson ­conducted in accordance with International Standards on Authorized Public Accountant ­Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in ­Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with s­ ufficient basis for our opinions. 84 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GLOSSARY Glossary Alfentanil HHS A potent synthetic opioid analgesic drug, used for anesthesia in The US Department of Health and Human Services. surgery In Vitro studies American Depositary Receipt (ADR) In an in vitro study; living matter is examined outside of its An instrument that is issued by a depositary bank that represents ownnatural context e.g. in a test-tube. ership of a company’s underlying shares. ADR programs are created to IP facilitate US investors to hold shares in non-US companies and trade Intellectual Properties. them in the same way as US securities. Naloxone ANDA An opioid inverse agonist used to counter the effects of opioids. An Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) is an application for a US generic drug approval for an existing licensed medication or LTM approved drug. Last Twelve Months. Breakthrough pain NSAID A short, intensive period of pain that occurs in addition to chronic levNon-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs which are active against pain, els of long-term pain even though these are treated by regular inflammation and fever. painkiller.s NTRx Buprenorphine Tablets per prescription divided by 30. A potent opioid partial agonist first used as a pain-relieving substance, Opioids but now most commonly used to help patients withdraw from more Collective term for compounds that act via opioid receptors on addictive opioid drugs such as morphine. nerve cells, mainly in the central nervous system. CARA PBM (Pharmacy Benefit Manager) The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) became law in the US in July 2016. CARA authorizes a series of grants aimed at Responsible for management of costs associated with prescription among other things developing treatment programs which further pharmaceuticals and recommendations on behalf of insurance expands buprenorphine prescribing rights to nurse practitioners and ­companies and employers in the US. physician assistants. PGE Cash & vouchers payer category Prostaglandin (PG) E2 – biologically active mediator derived from One of the three distinct payer categories in the US market for ­arachidonic acid and involved in inflammatory conditions. ­treatment of opioid dependence. In this category, the patient is p ­ aying Phase I studies for the prescriptions out of pocket. Studies mainly of the safety of a drug. Performed on healthy CHMP human volunteers. The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use. Phase II studies CLI Studies of the safety and efficacy of a drug in appropriate doses. Cysteinyl Leukotriene Inhibitor. ­Performed on a limited number of patients. Phase III studies Clinical studies/Clinical trials Studies of the safety and efficacy of a drug in human beings. Studies of the safety and efficacy of a drug in a clinical setting. ­Performed on a large number of patients. Commercial payer category Preclinical development/Preclinical studies One of the three distinct payer categories in the US market for ­treatment of opioid dependence. The commercial category is funded Studies of the safety and efficacy of a drug prior to evaluation in by private insurances or employers. humans. Can be performed on animals and in various cell systems. Proof of Concept studies Drug delivery The process through which a pharmaceutical may be introduced A Proof of Concept study is performed to get a first indication of to the patient that enables the active compound to function as an idea’s practical feasibility. intended. Public category EMA One of three distinct payer categories in the US market for t­ reatment The European Medicine Agency. of opioid dependence. The public category covers state and federal funded reimbursement programs i.e. Managed Medicaid, FFS Medicaid, FDA Medicare Part D. The US Food and Drug Administration. Reimbursement Fentanyl Contribution from the state or insurance company in order to reduce An opioid with a similar effect on human patients as morphine. the price of drugs / treatment for the patient Sublingual Used mainly within anesthesia and analgesia. Under the tongue. GMP Zolpidem Good Manufacturing Practice. A pharmaceutical substance used to treat temporary or short-term insomnia. OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 85 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board of Directors Martin Nicklasson, Chairman of David Colpman (b. 1961) Raymond G. Hill (b. 1945) Kristina Schauman (b. 1965) the Board of Directors (b. 1955) Board member since 2015. Board member since 2008 Board member since 2012. Board member since 2012 B.Sc. Pharmacy. B. Pharm., Ph.D., D.Sc (Hon) F. M.Sc. Business and Administration. M.Sc. Pharm. PhD and Associate Other appointments: Director Med. Sci. Other appointments: Board Professor at the Faculty of of Colpman Consulting Ltd since Other appointments: Visiting ­member and Chairman of the ­Pharmacy, Uppsala University. 2014. Member of the Royal ­Professor at Bristol and Imperial Audit Committee of ÅF AB, Other appointments: Chairman of ­Pharmaceutical Society. Board Universities. Member of UK Billerud­Korsnäs AB, Coor Service the Board of Zealand Pharma A/S member of HRA Pharma and ­Government Advisory Council Management AB and Ellos Group and Kymab Ltd. Board member of Forendo Pharma Ltd. on Misuse of Drugs. President Holding AB. Board member of Basilea Pharmaceutica Ltd. Previous appointments: Former Emeritus at the British Pharma­ BEWiSynbra Group AB and N ­ ordic ­Member of the Royal Academy Head of Global Business Develop­ cological Society; Member of the Entertainment Group AB. of Engineering Sciences (IVA). ment 2012–2014, Senior Vice PresPharmaceutical Sciences Expert Previous appointments: Board Previous appointments: CEO at ident of Business Development at Advisory Panel, Royal Pharma­ member Livförsäkringsbolaget Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB Shire plc 1999–2012. ­Various busiceutical Society. Non-Executive Skandia ömsesidigt and Apoteket 2007–2010. Astra/AstraZeneca ness development and commerDirector of Covagen (sold to AB. CFO at OMX, Carnegie, 1978–1989 and 1991–2007, cial positions at Glaxo Wellcome, J&J Sep 2014), Asceneuron, ­Apoteket AB, CEO at Apoteket AB e.g. responsible for global drug Novo Nordisk and Boots Addex and Avilex. and Group Treasurer at Investor AB. development and marketing and Pharmaceuticals. Previous appointments: 25 years Holds 20,000 shares (and 4,000 business development within Holds 1,580 shares.1 of experience from pharma­ceuti­ by legal entity).1 AstraZeneca Ltd., and CEO cals industry, mostly in basic drug of AstraZeneca Sweden AB. discovery research, initially for CEO of Astra Hässle AB and Kirsten Detrick (b. 1965) Parke Davis, followed by Smith Henrik Kjaer Hansen (b. 1976) responsible for R&D within KABI. Kline & French and then Merck. Board member since April 2016. Board member since 2018. Holds 14,300 shares.1 Executive Director of PharmacolMBA. BSc. in Business Administration ogy at the Neuro­science Research Other appointments: Managing and a MSc. in Applied Economic Centre 1990–2002, followed by Director at Takeda Austria GmbH and Finance at Copenhagen a position as Executive Director, and Takeda Osteuropa Holding ­Business School. Licensing a ­ nd External Research, GmbH since July, 2016. Other appointments: Senior Europe for Merck until 2008. Previous appointments: Vice ­Director, Principal Investments, Does not hold any shares.1 ­President Global Marketing, Novo Holdings A/S. Board Therapeutic Area Commercial ­member of Xellia Pharmaceutical. Lead – GI at Takeda PharmaceutiPrevious appointments: Prior to cals, Executive Director positions Staffan Lindstrand (b. 1962) joining Novo Holdings A/S, Kjaer within US as well as Global MarBoard member since 2002. Hansen was employed as a Senior keting and Commercialization at M.Sc. in Engineering. Vice President in Moelis & Co. in Amgen Inc. 2004–2013, ­Various Other appointments: Partner London, focusing on healthcare marketing and commercial of HealthCap since 1997, M&A transactions. Other previous ­positions at Bristol-Myers Squibb Board member of HealthCap AB, employments include Deutsche 1991–2004. Former member of ­PulmonX Inc., Doctrin AB and Bank and ABN AMRO, all in the Board of Southern California The Swedish Association of London. Biomedical Council and member Exchange-listed Companies. Does not hold any shares.1 of Healthcare Businesswomen’s Previous appointments: Ten years Association. in investment banking. Does not hold any shares.1 Holds 981 shares.1 1 As of December 31, 2018 86 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 MANAGEMENT Management ¹ Nikolaj Sørensen (b. 1972) Johannes Doll (b. 1981) Joseph DeFeo (b. 1961) Robert Rönn (b. 1976) Chief Executive Officer since FebEVP and Head of Corporate EVP and Chief Financial Officer VP and Head of R&D as of January ruary 2013, employed since 2011. ­Development since 2016. since November 1, 2018. Joined 2019, employed since 2007. B.Sc., and M.Sc., Copenhagen Johannes Doll has worked as an Orexo US Inc. in 2013 as Vice MSc in Chemical Engineering and Business School, Denmark. advisor to Orexo since 2013. ­President, Finance & Administration. PhD in Medicinal Chemistry, Previous appointments: Senior MBA, McCombs School of Business Bachelor degree in accounting Uppsala University, Sweden. management positions at Pfizer at the University of Texas, US. and from Clarion University, US, and a Previous appointments: Head of Inc. with a focus on commercialia Master in Management (Dipl. MBA in finance from St. Joseph’s Pharmaceutical Development & IP zation in Europe and Chairman of Kaufmann), WHU Otto Beisheim University, US. at Orexo AB since 2016 and prior the Board and Managing Director School of Management, Germany. Previous appointments: Previous to that extensive experience of at Pfizer AB. Prior to Pfizer Nikolaj MBA. appointments: Prior to joining drug discovery and development, Sørensen served as a management Previous appointments: Johannes Orexo, Joseph DeFeo has worked as well as patent prosecution and consultant at Boston Consulting Doll has worked with McKinsey & in several senior finance positions litigation, from various key positions Group (BCG), leading several Company from 2004 to 2013, among others establishing of at Biolipox AB and Orexo AB. ­projects within M&A, commercial advising clients in the global US operations for a large Italian Holds 125 shares and stock transformation, and turn-arounds. pharma­ceutical and private equity pharma­ceutical company, Head options/share awards entitling Holds 38,000 shares and stock industry, with a focus on M&A, of International Treasury and led to 16,759 shares. 2 options/share awards entitling commercial transformation, and finance for the commercial operato 472,648 shares. 2 turn-arounds. tions in the US for two major Holds 10,000 shares and stock pharma­ceutical companies. options/share awards entitling Holds stock options/share awards Robert A. DeLuca (b. 1961) to 51,265 shares. 2 entitling to 57,101 shares. 2 President of Orexo US Inc. since 2013. R. Ph. Michael Sumner (b. 1965) Cecilia Coupland (b. 1976) Other appointments: Member of Chief Medical Officer since 2013. VP and Head of Operations the St. John’s College of P­ harmacy MB BS, MRCP (UK), MBA. as ­of January 2019, employed ­ Dean’s Advisory Board, American Other appointments: Scientific since 2006. Society of Addiction Medicine, Advisory Board FirstString MSc in Chemical Engineering, Academy of Managed Care PharResearch Inc. Uppsala University, Sweden. macy and the American and New Previous appointments: Extensive Previous appointments: Head of Jersey Pharmacists Associations. experience within the pharma­ Supply Chain & Planning at Orexo Previous appointments: Extensive ceutical industry from Novartis since 2014 and prior to that experience establishing commerPharmaceuticals, Aventis Behring, extensive experience of global cial operations in the US with a Novo Nordisk and prior to joining pharmaceutical manufacturing combined background in market Orexo held the position of Vice and supply chain management, access, marketing, and sales. Has President Clinical and Medical as well as drug development and held leadership positions at multi­ Affairs at Shire. project management, from various national pharmaceutical companies Holds 2,300 shares and stock key positions at AstraZeneca and including Sanofi-Aventis, Schering options/share awards entitling Orexo AB. Plough, Berlex and Pharmacia, to 88,840 shares. 2 Holds stock options/share awards and most recently served as Chief entitling to 14,883 shares. 2 Commercial Officer at Archimedes Pharmaceuticals. Holds 2,703 shares and stock options/share awards entitling 1 Management as of January 1, 2019 to 265,627 shares. 2 2 As of December 31, 2018 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 87 S H A R EH O L D ER I N F O R M AT I O N Shareholder Information 2019 Annual General Meeting and a certificate of registration or equivalent together with The Annual General Meeting of Orexo AB will be held the notification of attendance. A proxy form is available at on Thursday, April 11, 2019 at 4.00 pm CET at Orexo AB, www.orexo.com. Virdings allé 32A in Uppsala, Sweden. The visiting address Shareholders whose shares are registered in the name of is Rapsgatan 7E. a nominee/custodian must temporarily re-register their shares in their own names to be entitled to participate in the Registration, etc. meeting. Shareholders must inform their nominee/custodian Shareholders who wish to participate in the meeting must of such reregistration well before Friday, April 5, 2019 by be recorded in the share register maintained by Euroclear which date such re-registration must have been executed. Sweden AB on Friday, April 5, 2019, and notify Orexo of their Full information about the Annual General Meeting can intention to attend the meeting not later than the same day, be found on the company’s website, www.orexo.com. Friday, April 5, 2019 by post to Orexo AB, P.O. Box 303, SE 751 05 Uppsala, Sweden, by telephone +46 (0) 18 780 88 00, or by e-mail to lena.wange@orexo.com. The notification shall set forth the name, personal/corpoContact Investor Relations rate identity number, the number of shares held, telephone +46 (0)18 780 88 00 number (daytime) and, where applicable, number of assistants ir@orexo.com or (not more than two) that the shareholder intends to bring lena.wange@orexo.com to the meeting. Shareholders to be represented by proxy should submit a power of attorney ­(original document) Financial Calendar 2019 2019 Annual General Meeting April 11, 2019, at 4.00 pm CET Interim Report Q1 2019 May 2, 2019 at 8.00 am CET Interim Report Q2 2019 July 11, 2019 at 8.00 am CET Interim Report Q3 2019 October 24, 2019 at 8.00 am CET Full Year Report 2019 incl. Q4 January 30, 2020 at 8.00 am CET 88 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ABOUT OREXO Orexo develops improved pharmaceuticals based on innovative drug delivery technologies. The focus is primarily on opioid addiction and pain but the aim is to address therapeutic areas where our competence and technologies can create value. The products are commercialized by Orexo in the US or via partners worldwide. The main market today is the American market for buprenorphine/naloxone products, where Orexo sells the product Zubsolv®. Total net sales for 2018 amounted to SEK 783.1 million and the number of employees was 129. Orexo is listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm Mid Cap (ORX) and is available as ADRs on OTCQX (ORXOY) in the Production Solberg US. The head office, where research and development is also performed, is situated in ­Uppsala, Sweden. For more information about Orexo please visit, www.orexo.com. You can also follow Orexo on Twitter, @orexoabpubl, LinkedIn and YouTube.
