NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 NGK Group Philosophy NGK Group Philosophy Our Mission Enriching Human Life by Adding New Value to Society. Our Values Quality of People Embrace challenges and teamwork. Quality of Product Exceed expectations. Quality of Management Social trust is our foundation. CONTENTS NGK Group Philosophy 1 Social 40 Value Creation by the NGK Group 2 Governance 83 Competitive Strength 4 GRI Guidelines Comparison Table 112 Message from the President 6 Corporate Outline and Organization 119 CSR Management 12 Subsidiaries and Affiliated Companies 120 Position on SDGs 15 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance 121 Environmental 16 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Establishing the NGK Group Philosophy The NGK Group has used the occasion of our 100th anniversary to take a new look at the philosophical framework and established the NGK Group Philosophy. Simply put, we seek to capitalize on our history of diversification and global expansion within many different industrial fields, driven by our unique ceramics technology, in order to contribute to the future for energy, the protection of the globalization, and advances in industrialization, all for the sake of bringing happiness and wellbeing into the lives of people everywhere. We made the NGK Group Philosophy straightforward and concise so that it can be easily understood by the NGK Group’s many and varied employees throughout Japan and around the world. We hope that it will serve as the foundation for all members of the NGK Group to act in unity and with a common purpose so that we can achieve our best performance. Visit the “About NGK” section of our website to read the NGK Group Philosophy. https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/info/governance/ Editorial Policy The NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 reports details of the NGK Group’s ESG information. Stakeholders can find separate information on what strengths the NGK Group has to offer, how we are creating value, how we plan to grow further, and how we are contributing to sustainable development of society and the entire world in the NGK Report 2019. This data book has been prepared and edited in line with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards. Target Organization Indicated along with each article and data report included in this data book. Target Period April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019 NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 1 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Value Creation by the NGK Group Using Advanced Technology to Power a Unique “Value Creation Engine” Thanks to the unique ceramics technology it has cultivated over many years, the NGK Group is able to develop a wide variety of high-quality products that it seeks to offer in a growing range of overseas markets. As a result, the NGK Group creates diverse value, which helps to address society’s challenges. Society’s challenges Social infrastructure building Spread and expansion of renewable energy Environmental pollution prevention IT innovation Input (fiscal 2018) Value creation engine of the NGK Group Financial capital • Total assets 863.6 billion yen • Cash and cash NGK Group Philosophy equivalents 124 billion yen Manufactured capital Enriching Human Life by • Capital expenditures 105.3 billion yen Adding New Value to Society. • Tangible fixed assets 326.1 billion yen Intellectual capital • Investment in R&D 23.3 billion yen • Number of patents held 4,346 Quality improvement Human capital Ceramics • Employees 20,000 people technology See “Competitive Strength” Social and relationship capital on our website. • Consolidated Domestic 21 companies Global business subsidiaries Overseas 36 companies Diversification development Natural capital • Electricity 930,000 MWh • Gas 142 million Nm3 • Oil 2.11 million liters materials 180,000 • Raw metric tons • PRTR-listed substances 694 metric tons Corporate governance • Water 4.53 million m3 See pp. 83–111 “Corporate Governance.” NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 2 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Competitive Strength https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/sustainability/value02.html Reference Business Overview https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/info/division/index.html URL Position on SDGs https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/sustainability/management02.html Output Results Values provided by the NGK Group (fiscal 2018) Consolidated Supporting social infrastructure Power business net sales Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy for all 463.5 billion yen Insulators are indispensable to stable power supply NAS® batteries allow stable supply of renewable energy Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization, and foster innovation Net income attributable Ceramics used in electronics make ICT cheap and Insulators NAS batteries to owners of the parent ubiquitous Ceramics used in semiconductor manufacturing Ceramic products business equipment let the semiconductor industry be the 35.5 billion yen foundation for modern daily life Metal products are widely used in mobile phones, automobiles, industrial equipment, and other devices that undergird modern life ROE Protecting the environment Ceramics for NOx sensors 7.6 % Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy for all purifying automobile exhaust Ceramics for purifying automobile exhaust make exhaust gas clean, thus enabling clean usage of fossil fuels Electronics business Total sales of products Take urgent action to combat climate change contributing to environand its impacts mental protection NAS batteries aid in the fight against climate change by allowing stable supply of renewable energy 258.9 billion yen Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas, and marine resources for sustainable development Ceramic membrane filters purify wastewater to Ceramics for Berylliumprevent marine pollution electronic and copper Social contribution electrical devices products spending Improving people’s lives Process technology business Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for 0.3 billion yen all at all ages Ceramics for purifying automobile exhaust make exhaust gas clean Avoided NOx Ensure availability and sustainable management emissions of water and sanitation for all Ceramic membrane filters provide highly safe water Ceramics for semiconductor Industrial machinery and 4 million metric tons per year Ceramic membrane filters purify wastewater Make cities and human settlements inclusive, manufacturing devices Note: Assumes exhaust systems are safe, resilient, and sustainable equipped on new automobiles that equipment do not have equivalent systems. NAS batteries enable innovation in urban energy management for the creation of sustainable cities NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 3 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Competitive Strength Competitive Strength Built on the Relentless Pursuit of Ceramics Manufacturing Optimization From its very beginning, the NGK Group has sought to reexamine conventional ceramics manufacturing practices in light of the latest science and technology in order to help it identify the optimal combination of process conditions for each of its products. And after nearly 100 years, this pursuit of optimization has accrued a wealth of technology and expertise from which the NGK Group draws its competitive strength. Mixing, molding, and firing. A puzzle with endless combinations. Ceramics manufacturing is patient, methodical work, it. Finally, you perform firing to achieve the optimal which requires you to blow life into inanimate material microstructure and component structure in your that is hard and brittle. You start by choosing from product. among tens of thousands of raw ingredients that will This interconnected series of processes involves an provide the best combination suited to your needs, and almost unlimited number of parameter combinations. then you mix them. After you have calculated what Each product is like its own, complex jigsaw puzzle, and shape your product needs to have after firing, you mold every piece is essential. ■NGK Core Technologies Material technologies Production/process technologies Microstructure Material function Mixing techniques Molding techniques Drying techniques Firing techniques Processing techniques control technology development (blend, knead) (shape) (dry) (bake) (cut, shave) technology Crystal shape/size Corrosion-resistant/ Translucent Blending techniques Press molding Convective heat Pressureless Cutting techniques insulating materials materials (mix powders) (pack powder into mold) drying sintering Pore shape/size Heat-resistant Dielectric/piezoKneading techniques Extrusion molding materials electric materials (mix powder and liquid) (force clay through die) Dielectric drying Hot pressing Grinding techniques Highly thermal Semiconductor Dispersion techniques Casting Continuous firing Polishing techniques Crystal orientation conductive materials materials (dissolve powder into liquid) (pour clay into mold) Microwave drying techniques (CMP, mechanical (tunnel kiln) polishing) Ion conducting Monocrystalline Tape casting Atmospheric control Lattice defects materials materials (make into thin sheets) Electric current drying techniques NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 4 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Production control worksite capabilities Key technology in the manufacture of the HONEYCERAM® ceramic catalytic converter Blend Pulverize substrate for automobile exhaust purification Dry In order to ensure product uniformity, it is essential that we Raw materials perform on-site analysis, evaluation, production control, and other Mold measures that allow us to control the production process in line with Mix the slight variations in raw materials Fire characteristics of each lot. Analyze, evaluate Process Achieving uniformity in mass production can take 10 years or more Uniformity, i.e., little to no variation, is essential for we steadily work to improve these to achieve uniformity industrial products. This is particularly true for insulators, in mass production. Finalizing each process takes a which the NGK Group has been manufacturing since its great deal of time; with difficult products it can take 10 founding. A single broken insulator will knock out the years or more. At NGK, our starting point is, and has entire power transmission line; thus, strict quality control always been, an uncompromising management policy has always been necessary. As a result, the pursuit of combined with methodical diligence on the job. This is uniformity has become embedded in the very corporate the reason why NGK products—from insulators to DNA of the NGK Group. HONEYCERAM, NOx sensors, NAS® batteries, and We methodically search for the optimal and most semiconductor manufacturing equipment products—are cost-efficient combination of parameters to use in the so far beyond anything our competitors have to offer. mixing, molding, firing, and other processes, and then Parts structural design Analytical/evaluative techniques Control techniques (observe, measures, calculate) Techniques to Mass production Techniques to make Measuring/analytical Non-destructive Simulation techniques Production control Quality control combine differing techniques differing materials techniques testing materials into parts (CAE) (D) (Q) Originally developed Ceramic–ceramic Wet chemical Thermal stress Global production Direct bonding production equipment composite parts analysis, fluorescent Penetrant testing calculations control QC training X-ray analysis Global production Metal–ceramic X-ray Ultrasonic flaw Mechanical stress Small-group Plating system composite parts crystallographic detection calculations Big data analysis analysis activities Metal–metal Mechanical property Worksite Glass bonding composite parts measurements X-ray CT scans Life prediction Structural reforms (intensity, Young’s modulus) capabilities Thermal property CVD measurements Image analysis (thermal expansion coefficient, thermal conductivity, softening/melting point) Electrical properties Electrode printing (dielectric breakdown strength, resistance, electric conductivity) Optical properties Sputtering (linear transmittance, total-light transmittance) NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 5 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Message from the President Establishing our philosophical framework: A clearer and more memorable expression of our core convictions In January 2019 we announced the NGK Group everyone in the NGK Group. There are approximately Philosophy as our revised philosophical framework. Our 20,000 employees in 20 countries around the world who mission is “Enriching Human Life by Adding New Value make up the NGK Group. As our business has to Society,” and we seek to achieve this by focusing on diversified and expanded globally, the employee the values we have set for ourselves with regard to makeup of the NGK Group has been changing quality of people, quality of products, and quality of significantly. In order for there to be mutual respect and management. group cohesion from which our best performance can In revising the philosophical framework, we sought be attained, it is important that everyone in the Group is to ensure, through the words we chose, that our committed to the common mission and share the same philosophy is both memorable and easily grasped. The values. Thus, we have chosen simple and concise NGK Group is committed to preserving the global wording that resonates universally and is accessible environment, fostering the development of industry, among all NGK Group members who have different creating a brighter energy future, and contributing to the cultures and languages. wellbeing and happiness of people around the world. It This new expression of our corporate philosophy is a is this longstanding desire to be such a company core around which the NGK Group can come together through the products and services that we offer which to not only further refine our ceramics technologies but we have encapsulated within a clearer and more also to revisit our founding principles as we keep memorable corporate philosophy. working to improve the quality of the products that we We also sought to ensure that our corporate provide and the work that we perform in pursuit of our philosophy is expressed in a way that can be shared by corporate mission. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 6 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Capitalizing on What We Have Built to Become a Truly Global Company On May 5, 2019, the NGK Group marked the 100th anniversary of its founding. The journey of growth that has brought us here would not have been possible without the support of our customers, shareholders, local communities of where we do business worldwide, and our many other stakeholders. For this I offer my heartfelt gratitude. Looking ahead, we want to capitalize on all that the NGK Group has built up to this point and apply our unrivaled technological strength to the development of products that exceed society’s expectations and allow us to contribute to the world as a truly global company. We would like you to expect to see further development of the NGK Group in the future. NGK Insulators, Ltd. President Corporate culture reform: Facilitating essential work performance The NGK Group needs to do better on a variety of One department, which is 70% female, has created different fronts. Regrettably, since the start of my tenure a workplace built based upon the needs of women and as president, the NGK Group was found in 2015 to have ensuring a healthy work-life balance. In one of the engaged in an anti-trust laws violation issue and, in product engineering departments, where the busy pace 2018, to have caused the non-conformity in testing of work is almost constant, a series of small procedure of insulators and related products. These improvements and novel rules have been introduced, problems stem from a longstanding and lingering lack of which ensure employees are actually able to get time frank communication. off. In order to try and effect a fundamental cultural shift These examples are the results of an invigoration of in this regard, I have increased the number of visits I corporate culture within the NGK Group that has been make to our many different workplaces. So far I have occurring in the wake of personnel system reforms averaged around 70 workplace visits per year. During implemented in 2017. This innovation in corporate my visits I make myself available to employees so that culture is taking place alongside ongoing and persistent they can tell me about any problems or concerns they communication efforts aimed at encouraging employees may have, or about any ideas they may have for to focus on what is essential in their work and have the improvements. Recently, my efforts are being rewarded courage to abandon what is not. In fact, just by talking as more and more employees share their thoughts with with employees, I increasingly get the sense that me and talk about what initiatives they are undertaking. attitudes are changing. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 7 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Message from the President However, in order to ensure the continued followed up on the status of implementation. We call momentum of these sorts of initiatives, the attitudes of these initiatives “quality management,” and by ensuring those at the management level need to change so that their thorough, company-wide implementation we seek they can lead by example. Ten senior executives, to alter the corporate culture in ways that will facilitate an including executive vice presidents, have announced improvement in the quality of work we perform. changes they are making in their department and have Instituting the ESG Committee: Clarifying and ranking priorities With the aim of achieving sustainability on a global about environmental practices, quality, safety, and other scale, increasing attention has been paid in recent years corporate policies at NGK. Through these discussions to sustainable development goals (SDGs) and we seek to clarify what our priorities are and to prioritize environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) them. Right now, with our current Five-Year policies. In order to strengthen the NGK Group’s Environmental Action Plan set to conclude in fiscal 2020 initiatives in these areas, we established the ESG and deliberations beginning for the next five-year plan, Committee in April for which I serve as chairman and we are solidifying our policies with regard to reducing which is attended by other board members. CO2 emission intensity and increasing the amount of At the meetings of this committee, I and the other renewable energy we purchase. senior management engage in wide-ranging discussion Business overview and future outlook: No change in production increase investments Fiscal 2018 was a year of drastic market fluctuations. deficits for the Power Business, shrinking profits in the Initial performance predictions were revised for the latter Electronics Business, and operating loss on liquidation half of the year and, later, had to be revised downward of our Chinese insulator manufacturing subsidiary. even further, ultimately resulting in decreased profits Fiscal 2019 also presents us with a chaotic global compared to the previous year despite achieving economic situation stemming from economic friction record-high sales. Group performance was negatively between the U.S. and China, Brexit, problems in the impacted by a variety of factors, including expanding Middle East, and many other factors. Nevertheless, for our automotive-related business, we anticipate that the more stringent exhaust standards being enacted in various countries will drive major demand for gasoline particulate filters (GPFs) used to remove particulates from gasoline-powered automobile exhaust. Also, there was overall business growth for automotive diesel particulate filters (DPFs), spurred on primarily by demand from large vehicles. Sales of NOx sensors are also growing as a result of more and more customers utilizing multiple NOx sensors per vehicle. These are contributing to an overall upward trend that is expected to continue for automotive-related products. Looking at our electronic components-related business and other business segments, the situation is good with a host of new products coming out one after another. In the power business segment, NGK is removing unprofitable NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 8 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index products, conducting large-scale streamlining via plant is characterized by its integrated production redeployment, and taking steps to improve productivity system that will boost output by roughly 30% and so as to return to profitability as quickly as possible. productivity by around 40% compared with existing Currently, there is no change in the status of the plants. This will enable us to finally meet customer roughly 300 billion yen NGK is investing to increase demand. production. For GPFs this year, in addition to starting up In Fujiyoshida, Yamanashi Prefecture, we will be a second plant in China, NGK will increase production in launching a new plant that will help us meet the growing Poland as well. Also, the new plant in Tajimi, Gifu demand for electronic components, as well as handle Prefecture will begin production of ceramics for production of new products being introduced more semiconductor manufacturing equipment in the fall. This widely on the market. Strengthening Our Global Production System (Major Bases) Ceramic products business base Process technology business base NGK Ceramics Polska 2nd plant NGK Ceramics Polska 1st plant NGK Insulators Ishikawa Plant Increase production capacity of SiC-DPFs Facilities for assembling sensors Increase capacity of raw material (No. 2 Building) mixing equipment NGK Insulators Ishikawa Plant Production facilities for sensor elements Belgium Poland U.S. (California) Ishikawa Gifu (Tajimi) U.S. (Arizona) U.S. (North Carolina) Aichi (Komaki, Chita) China Mexico Thailand Indonesia South Africa NGK Ceramic Device Tajimi Plant NGK Ceramics Suzhou 2nd plant NGK Ceramics (Thailand) Increase production capacity of ceramic products for semiconductor Mass production of GPFs Mass production of LSH manufacturing equipment NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 9 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Message from the President From the various initiatives undertaken by NGK have began mass production this April. Used as a power emerged new products that anticipate future demand. A source, these batteries can be used to improve security good example is the EnerCera® chip-type ceramic and convenience, such as by incorporating them into secondary battery. These lithium-ion secondary credit cards to power fingerprint authentication or batteries utilize NGK’s own crystal-oriented ceramic wireless communication. They attracted a high degree plate as electrodes to achieve high energy density within of interest from automakers at CES, due to the fact that a small and thin body. They have been well received in these batteries can be used with smart keys to resolve the industry. One prominent technology journal has the recent problem of car theft that has arisen as a lauded their outstanding performance, and at the CES result of thieves performing fraudulent unlocking via 2019, the world’s largest consumer electronics trade exploitation of weak electromagnetic signals. We are show, the batteries received the Innovation Award. very excited about the future of this product. Following sample shipments to customers, we R&D: Investing financial and human resources in targeted fields to meet the needs of the era In order to ensure the continued growth of the NGK Group We are already developing and introducing products to meet in the medium and long term, we must keep developing these needs. products focused on the needs of the next era. This is Another commercial application that we are currently why we treat active investment of human and financial developing and which is geared towards PHVs and EVs is resources into R&D as a fundamental part of our business. an all-solid-state battery that we call “all-ceramic battery.” For the current term, we plan on spending 25 billion Many companies make use of a sulfide-based electrolyte, yen on R&D, which is equivalent to 5% of our sales. This but the NGK Group has adopted an oxide-based ceramic amount is roughly double what it was five to six years ago. material, which is highly safe. While this makes it more This means there are many research fields we should difficult to manufacture due to the fact that crystalline invest in. In addition to basic R&D activities, we also orientation technology is required, we are well along in the pursue development and joint research focused on the development process thanks to our existing ceramic specific needs of customers. material technologies, which we can capitalize upon. Our R&D policy is to target growth markets and those Additionally, a demonstration testing with large ceramic fields where our distinctive technology can give us a membranes for CO2 separation that we are currently competitive advantage. We have adopted this policy developing will be launched soon. When CO2 is injected into based on past experience that has taught us that trying to oil fields, it improves the fluidity of the highly viscous crude cover as many fields as possible ends up producing very oil and allows more of it to be extracted, but the associated little in any one field. For example, it was by successfully gas that emerge with oil extrusion contain CO2 as a capitalizing on our own crystalline orientation technology contaminant to methane gas that is major component of the that we developed EnerCera®. associated gas. These membranes would be used to One product that has emerged from our R&D for separate CO2 from useful methane gas. This separated CO2 which we anticipate future demand is our gallium nitride can once more be injected into the oil field. Not only does (GaN) wafers. These wafers are incredibly defect-free (i.e., this increase the amount of crude oil extracted, it traps a little positional aberrations of atoms in GaN crystals), portion of the CO2 within the ground, thereby helping to making them suited for use in the base substrates of mitigate global warming. semiconductor laser devices, power semiconductors, and With regard to the development of solid oxide fuel cells 5G high-frequency wireless communication amplifiers (SOFCs), a basic agreement has been concluded by four (high-frequency devices). These wafers are already companies in the Morimura Group—Noritake, TOTO, NGK available for commercial applications in semiconductor Spark Plug, and NGK Insulators—to establish a four-party laser devices. However, just like silicon wafers, this joint venture. material is one that will underpin a variety of different SOFC systems are small-scale power generation industries, which means it has interesting potential in systems that achieve output efficiency equal to or exceeding power semiconductors and high-frequency devices, as that of large, cutting-edge thermal power stations. There is well. As plug-in hybrid vehicles (PHVs) and electric great expectation surrounding this technology in terms of vehicles (EVs) become more widespread, a variety of how it can contribute to the realization of a low-carbon commercial applications for these wafers will emerge, society. The details of the joint venture is now under such as in the light source of laser headlights, or in the discussion by the four participant companies. on-board inverter required for electrification of vehicles. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 10 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Towards the next hundred years: Charting our path for the decade to come and beyond We see our current blueprint for NGK up through 2030 such a way that a relationship of trust is established. On as being realistic. In the areas of automobiles, the occasion of our 100th anniversary, I want that semiconductors, batteries, and much more, our existing thought to be the starting point of our new journey. derivative technologies have a variety of potential We have cultivated a great many seeds that can grow applications that will keep current growth trends going. into future business. If we sow them with confidence, I However, with regard to questions of social structure believe they will reward us with results. Our preparations and humanity’s needs from 2030 onward, more study is for the next five to ten years are largely in place. And it is needed. Global demographics are inexorably changing, my hope that we will look to the future beyond that and and it will not be long until the central loci of growth shift make use of this year as a fresh start. to Asia and Africa. How will these changes affect spending consumption, and what is required to adapt to them? What will already well-established developed countries need in this changing world? Extrapolating backward from these predictions, what do we need to be doing now in order to prepare? We should be devoting our creativity and time to considering these questions. Moreover, the fate of humanity depends on whether we can reduce CO2. Surely this is a challenge that the entire world needs to come together to address. In this sense, it is a challenge that presents us with business opportunities. For example, in order to meet the ever-growing need for renewable energy, storage batteries such as our NAS® batteries capable of large-scale and long-term power discharge are indispensable. Reflecting upon the situation in the NGK Group reveals that we, too, need to invest more time and resources on achieving better thermal efficiency, cutting energy consumption, and reducing emissions connected with our use of kilns to fire ceramics. In the mind of the public, having a focus on ESG is taken as a given, and there has been a pronounced trend among investors as well to choose companies that emphasize ESG. Discussion of how best to incorporate ESG into corporate policies is ongoing. In January of each year, I announce to the company my key kanji character for that year, but this year I have forgone a single kanji in favor of a key phrase: “Never forget the first resolution.” When I reflect on past incidents such as the non-conformity in testing procedure of insulators and the related products, I wonder if they were due in some degree to arrogance on our part. Such an attitude is out of alignment with the founding spirit of our first president, Kazuchika Okura, who declared, “We do this to serve our country, and not for our own profit.” This is the sentiment I wanted to convey with this year’s key phrase. I want all of our employees to think once more about why companies exist. A company’s survival depends upon its ability to operate within the rules of society in NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 11 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index CSR Management CSR Activities Concepts and Systems The NGK Group seeks to provide new value to society with our unique technology, and contribute to improving quality of life, foster the development of industry, and conserve the global environment. It seeks to do all of this in a way which is socially responsible and which wins the positive expectations and trust of society. NGK Group Code of Conduct Initiatives KPIs 1. Realization of a Sustainable ● Quality objectives ● Overhaul and thorough strengthening of Number of inspection sites, time spent quality assurance measures on inspections Society We will create new value through the provision of products ● Introduction of QuiC quality improvement activities and services that contribute to society, protect the world ● Strengthening of quality management system (QMS) training Number of participants environment, and strive to realize a sustainable society. ● Quality-related education ● Signed on to UN Global Compact Number of participations in study group, ● Participation in outside study groups number of participants 2. Respect for Human Rights ● Human rights due diligence We will strictly comply with international ● Education via in-house training ● Diversity promotion Number of participants standards of human rights and respect the ● Expansion of job opportunities for the disabled Employment rate of persons with disabilities diversity of all people. Number of female managers (percentage) ● Establishment and publication of helpline Number of helpline consultations ● Anti-harassment training ● Acquisition of international standards certification External certification coverage rate 3. Provide a Safe and Enjoyable ● Initiatives to reduce long work hours Rate for taking of paid leave ● Initiatives to facilitate work-life balance Work Environment ● Raising of mandatory retirement age, etc. Number of system users We will provide a safe and enjoyable work environment that is comfortable for everyone to ● Investigation of how to achieve organizational activation Frequency work in for all. ● Labor–management initiatives ● Human resource development Number of participants Training cost ● NGK Group Code of Conduct ● Compliance-related education Number of sessions Number of participants ● Quality-related education ● Helpline Number of sessions, number of participants ● Restructuring of quality-related activity framework ● Initiatives to strengthen compliance with the Competition Law Number of sessions, number of participants 4. Honest Business Activities ● Implementation of bribery-related education Number of participants We will undertake fair and transparent business ● E-learning Number of participants activities with integrity and strictly comply to international standards, laws and regulations of Number of participants each country and region. ● Lectures Number of e-learning participants ● Utilization of administration systems ● Study groups Coverage rate Number of participants ● Corporate risk surveys (CRS) Response rate, improvement rate ● Establishment of a helpline Results ● Raising of awareness about whistleblower system (hotline) 5. Disclosure of Company ● Publication of NGK Report and NGK Sustainability Data Book Information and Accountability ● Website ● News releases We will increase healthy and transparent management by active disclosure of information ● Investor relations (IR) Frequency, number of participants and discussion with stakeholders. ● Booths at IR and investment fairs ● Business results briefing sessions 6. Permeate Social Responsibility ● Establishment of helpline for business partners into our Supply Chain We will promote a structure that fulfills societal ● Thorough enforcement of CSR Procurement Guidelines and responsibilities to our trade counterparts and the Green Procurement Guidelines supply chain overall. ● Written consent ● Individual visits Rate of consent Number of visits ● Development and provision of products contributing to Sales ratio environmental protection 7. Preservation of Environment ● Five-Year Environmental Action Plan ● Introduction of environmentally friendly processes ● Net-zero energy buildings Achievement rate of five-year plan We will work to preserve and resolve the (ZEBs) ● Reduction in CO2 from distribution processes problems of the world environment. ● Biodiversity surveys of company-owned site ● Acquisition of ISO 14001 certification Rate of acquisition 8. Cooperation with the Region ● Support for foreign students ● Science volunteers Number of supporters, amount of money and Society We will contribute to the expansion of the region ● Participation in Table for Two initiative, provision of marathon Number of meals, number of participants and society as a good corporate citizen. volunteers NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 12 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Relationship to SDGs 7.1 11.1 6.1 7.2 11.3 3.9 9c 13.1 14.1 6.3 7.3 11.6 7a 11b 9.1 9.4 7b 9.5 9b 5.2 8.7 16.2 10.2 5.1 8.5 10.3 5c 10.4 16.1 6.2 4.4 16.5 16.1 16.7 12.7 5.2 16.2 7.1 7.2 11.6 6.1 7.3 13.1 14.1 11b 7a 13.1 6.3 12.2 13.2 6.4 12.5 13.3 15.1 6.6 15.4 15.5 12.4 NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 13 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Revision Process for the NGK Group Code of Conduct In setting CSR promotion items, we have disclosed eight items in the NGK Group Code of Conduct in order to establish a framework that is integrated with the Code of Conduct while disclosing information and restructuring activities. Items are selected after studying Selected items are evaluated Employees’ opinions are Approval by the Board trends evident in the Japan Business by management and gathered and a broad range of Directors Federation (Keidanren), United discussed by the CSR of feedback is incorporated Nations, industry, ISO 26000, etc. Committee Awareness of Evaluation by Gather employee current societal Specified management opinions situation (1) United Nations (2) Keidanren (3) Industry trends (4) ISO 26000 SDGs Charter of RBA Code of Guidance on Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Corporate Conduct Social United Nations Global Compact 10 Principles Behavior Responsibility Within society there is an accelerating trend towards respect for human rights, safe and Awareness of current comfortable working environments, and other conditions that will contribute to the societal situation realization and growth of a sustainable society. Reference URL NGK Group Code of Conduct https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/sustainability/guideline/index.html CSR Promotion Framework ESG Committee Chair: President To promote CSR activities, the NGK Group has established the CSR Committee, the CSR Committee Compliance Helpline Environmental Protection Committee, the Subcommittee Chair: Director and Quality Committee, the Safety and Health Senior Vice President Committee, and the Internal Controls Quality Committee Security Committee. Subcommittee Chair: Director and In terms of legal and corporate ethics Senior Vice President President compliance activities, the CSR Committee Environmental Social Contribution discusses items necessary to assist Protection Committee Subcommittee decision-making by the president and CSR Chair: Director and Committee chair. Also, in April 2019, the Senior Vice President ESG Committee was established with the Safety and Health Committee president serving as its chair. In line with Chair: Director the NGK Group Philosophy, this and Senior Vice President committee discusses management issues Internal Controls pertaining to ESG. Committee Chair: Director and Senior Vice President NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 14 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Position on SDGs The NGK Group is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, which advocates for independent action on the part of companies. We believe that addressing a broad range of social problems through our business activities, while measuring progress against indicators such as the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the UN, is an important corporate social responsibility. Goals Values provided by the NGK Group • Creating appropriate employment helps to end poverty End poverty in all its forms everywhere • NGK’s climate change countermeasures help mitigate natural disasters End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition, and promote • The social infrastructure created by NGK products helps secure equal access to work opportunities sustainable agriculture Ensure healthy lives and promote • Ceramics for purifying automobile exhaust make exhaust gas clean well-being for all at all ages Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning • Creating appropriate employment gives people the chance to have equal access to education opportunities for all • The social infrastructure created by NGK products helps provide more opportunities for women to enhance Achieve gender equality and empower their abilities all women and girls • Securing equal opportunities for women to participate and be leaders in society Ensure availability and sustainable • Ceramic membrane filters provide highly safe water management of water and sanitation • Ceramic membrane filters purify wastewater for all • Insulators are indispensable to stable power supply Ensure access to affordable, reliable, • NAS® batteries allow stable supply of renewable energy sustainable, and modern energy for all • Ceramics for purifying automobile exhaust make exhaust gas clean, thus enabling clean usage of fossil fuels Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable • Creating appropriate employment and providing employees with a satisfying work environment contributes to economic growth, full and productive economic growth employment, and decent work for all Build resilient infrastructure, promote • Ceramics used in electronics make ICT cheap and ubiquitous inclusive and sustainable industrialization, • Ceramics used in semiconductor manufacturing equipment let the semiconductor industry be the foundation for modern daily life and foster innovation • Metal products are widely used in mobile phones, automobiles, industrial equipment, and other devices that undergird modern life Reduce inequality within and • We prevent discrimination and take prompt and appropriate action when violations occur among countries Make cities and human settlements • NAS® batteries enable innovation in urban energy management for the creation of sustainable cities inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable Ensure sustainable consumption and • We efficiently use the natural resources used to make ceramics production patterns Take urgent action to combat climate • NAS® batteries aid in the fight against climate change by allowing stable supply of renewable energy change and its impacts Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas, and marine resources for • Ceramic membrane filters purify wastewater to prevent marine pollution sustainable development Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage • We protect biodiversity on land owned by NGK forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to • We comply with the rules and regulations of the countries and regions in which do business, and ensure respect justice for all, and build effective, accountable for and strict compliance with international treaties and inclusive institutions at all levels Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for • We encourage and promote effective partnerships among governments, corporations, and society as a whole sustainable development NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 15 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Environmental NGK’s Core Policy on the Environment 17 Environmental NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 Five-Year Environmental Action Plan 18 Five-Year Environmental Action Plan Progress Report 19 Environmental Management Frameworks and Environmental Management System 20 Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact 24 Preventing Global Warming 26 Promoting Effective Use of Resources 30 Protecting Biodiversity 32 Environmental Education and Communication 34 Creating Products That Contribute to the Environment 36 Environmental Accounting 39 NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 16 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Environment In addition to promoting the development and popularization of products and services that can help reduce the load on the environment, the NGK Group is endeavoring to preserve the global environment by improving manufacturing processes and developing and introducing manufacturing technology that has less environmental impact. Activities covered All NGK Group sites • NGK Headquarters, Nagoya Site, Chita Site, Komaki Site, Ishikawa Plant, Tokyo Main Office, Osaka Branch, and six other sales offices • Group companies: 57 consolidated subsidiaries NGK’s Core Policy on the Environment Recognizing that protecting the environment is a vital issue activities into harmony with the environment. On the basis that all of humanity must face, the NGK Group formulated of this policy, the NGK Group works to reduce the its Core Policy on the Environment in April 1996 based on environmental impact of business activities, and actively Environmental Philosophy and Guidelines for strives to help protect the environment by developing Environmental Action in order to bring its corporate products and technologies to that end. NGK’s Core Policy on the Environment Environmental Philosophy (revised in June 2019) The NGK Group continues our commitment to improving the global environment through our “Triple E” businesses representing the energy, ecology, and electronic sectors. Guidelines for Environmental Action 1. Strive to develop, design, and manufacture products that contribute to the environment and products with low environmental impact. 2. Work to reduce the environmental impact arising from business activities. Conduct design reviews to scientifically study and evaluate the environmental impact of business activities. • Promote energy conservation measures for all processes and facilities, and make efforts to control CO2 emissions. • Promote resource saving and recycling, and make efforts to control the generation of by-products. • Through the appropriate use and control of chemical agents, work to reduce the risks inherent in toxic substances. • Give precedence to environmentally friendly materials, parts, products, and facilities in procurement and purchasing, strengthening cooperative alliances with our business partners. 3. Enhance environmental management systems from a global perspective while continuously reducing our environmental impact. 4. Not only abide by environmental laws, regulations, and other requirements, but also institute voluntary standards and work to improve our own environmental conservation. 5. Provide environmental information to the public at the appropriate time and pursue dialogue with all stakeholders. Proactively develop social action programs. Also, engage in education and publicity in order to improve employees’ environmental consciousness. The site reports posted on the website contain details regarding the environmental impact of each of NGK Group’s sites and manufacturingrelated group companies both within Japan and overseas, as well as environmental conservation activities in which they are currently engaged. https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/sustainability/sitereport/ NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 17 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Five-Year Environmental Action Plan The NGK Group has established the Fourth Five-Year management/response, both being major challenges for Environmental Action Plan (2016–2020). To achieve the which socially responsible corporate action is required with goals of the Plan, we are promoting environmental greater urgency. activities, setting annual targets. Base Year, Target Year, Control Scope Outline of the Fourth Five-Year Environmental Action Plan (2016–2020) Base Year: Fiscal 2013; Target Year: The NGK Group organizes environmental initiatives by Fiscal 2020 creating five-year action plans. The Fourth Five-Year The new Five-Year Environmental Action Plan has been Environmental Action Plan, initiated in fiscal 2016, has designed to correspond with the business initiative of been formulated to broadly encompass major global New/Reformed Manufacturing Structures. Accordingly, the environmental challenges that businesses are expected to base year and target year of the Plan have been set to take, and to select two key issues each for two groups of coincide with the initiative. In principle, activities will be themes, namely, priority themes and focus themes. managed on a consolidated basis, embracing those The two priority themes are: environmental/social based in and outside Japan, in place of the previous contribution through products; and reducing CO2 method of managing domestic and overseas activities emissions and discarded materials. The first priority theme separately. The consolidation method has been adopted directly reflects the core concept of the corporate to improve management efficiency and effectiveness in philosophy, while the other theme closely relates to NGK’s response to the recent changes in our global production mediumto long-term initiative of New/Reformed output structure, particularly increased amounts from Manufacturing Structures for increasing competitiveness. overseas manufacturing sites as well as from production For focus themes, we have also set two issues: chains through multiple global locations. biodiversity conservation and water resource risk Mediumto long-term Socially important NGK Group philosophy management strategies environmental issues Our mission Commitment to biodiversity conservation New/reformed manufacturing structures (Involvement in the Aichi Targets) Enriching human life by adding (Creating resilient and efficient new value to society. manufacturing sites) Commitment to water resource risk management Incorporated into the Fourth Five-Year Environmental Action Plan Priority theme Priority theme Focus theme Environmental/ Reducing CO2 Actions for social contribution emissions and biodiversity conservation through products discarded materials Actions for water (Development and distribution of products contributing to (Cutting energy and raw resource risk material costs) environmental protection) management NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 18 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Five-Year Environmental Action Plan Progress Report The initiatives planned under the Fourth Five-Year Progress for items other than these, however, proceeded Environmental Action Plan and their progress (targets and according to plan. For fiscal 2019, we have set goals results for fiscal 2018; targets for fiscal 2019 and 2020, based on predictions that negative factors will disappear; the final year) are summarized in the table below. for example, volume is forecast to bounce back in core In fiscal 2018, compared to forecasts at the start of the products. The NGK Group is working in concert to period, due to negative factors such as lower sales volume undertake environmental activities that will enable us to in core products, we failed to achieve annual goals for a meet target goals for fiscal 2020, the final year of the number of the items for which we set numerical goals. Fourth Five-Year Environmental Action Plan. FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 Take action Category Item KPI Selfin 11 of the Target Result evaluation*1 Target Target 17 SDGs Develop and distribute products Sales growth (%) Increase by 43% from Increased by 44% from ○ Increase by 52% from Increase by at least contributing to (consolidated) FY2013 FY2013 FY2013 60% from FY2013 environmental protection Environmental/ • At least 99% of NGK’s • 99.5% agreed (100% Maintain in Japan, social contribution suppliers in Japan agree including suppliers survey overseas Maintain in Japan, through products Promote green to comply with the CSR who partially agreed) Plan progress (%) Procurement Guidelines • Unable to get useful ○ efforts methods procurement expand overseas (including situation Environmental/social contribution • Survey of overseas information on with other companies) efforts methods overseas activities Send instructors to guest lecture programs, Continually enhance Contribute to local Sent instructors to Send instructors to Plan progress (%) participate in local ○ actions partnering communities elementary schools guest lecture programs environmental protection with communities activities Provide environmental Promotion of • Provide environmental • Provided training education for Continually enhance environmental Raise education for programs by job grade employees, disseminate environmental training communication environmental Plan progress (%) employees ○ • Installed environmental policy, and information awareness • Encourage participation “green curtains” encourage participation disclosure in environmental events in environmental events Promote actions Extended My Action Extend My Action Continue to expand based on Declaration project to Declaration project to employee participation Expand and enhance biodiversity Plan progress (%) Group companies Group companies in ○ content of Aichi in My Action conservation Japan Targets actions Conservation of in Japan Declaration project guidelines (approx. 1,300 people) biodiversity Basic unit per Reduce by 14% from Reduced by 13% from Reduce by 17% from Reduce by 20% from net sales Reduce CO2 FY2013 FY2013 FY2013 FY2013 (consolidated) emitted from manufacturing*5 Reduction rate Reduce by 18% from Reduce by at least Reduced by 14% from Reduce by 16% from against BAU (%)*2 FY2013 (upward revision 18% from FY2013 FY2013 FY2013 (consolidated) from initial 15% target) Prevention of Environmental impact reduction global warming Reduce CO2 Basic unit per Increased by 3.4% per Reduce by 1% per Reduce by 1% per Reduce by 1% per year emitted from transport volume*3 year on five-year year on five-year year on five-year on five-year average*4 supply chains (non-consolidated) average*4 average*4 average*4 Basic unit per Reduce by 28% from Reduced by 30% from Reduce by 30% from Reduce by 30% from Reduce discarded net sales ○ FY2013 FY2013 FY2013 FY2013 materials (consolidated) emitted from Reduction rate Reduce by 23% from manufacturing*5 Reduce by at least Reduced by 20% from Reduce by 22% against BAU (%)*2 FY2013 (upward revision 23% from FY2013 FY2013 from FY2013 (consolidated) from initial 20% target) Promote resource Recycling rate Effective use of At least 99% 99.2% ○ At least 99% Maintain at least 99% recycling (Japan) resources Manage and Continue water risk Strengthen actions by surveys, give feedback Completion of water Give feedback production bases for respond to water Plan progress (%) ○ on survey results to risk surveys on survey results evaluating risks and resource risks bases streamlining water use Notes: *1: Self-evaluation standards for achievement level: ○: Target achieved; : Target not achieved *2: Reduction rate against BAU (business as usual) indicates the percentage rate of emissions reduction resulting from implemented actions compared to a case in which no improvement action was taken since fiscal 2013. By not incorporating the influence of foreign exchange movements and other factors, this indicator allows a direct grasp of the efforts by each site. *3: NGK basic unit per transport volume expresses in metric ton-kilometers the amount of crude oil equivalent fuel used. *4: Based on the computation criteria stipulated in the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. *5: Covers all manufacturing sites of the NGK Group. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 19 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Environmental Management Frameworks and Environmental Management System The NGK Group promotes environmental conservation ① NGK Environmental Protection Committee activities in accordance with our Core Policy on the In principle, meets twice each year. Other meetings are Environment through initiatives pertaining to environmental held at the discretion of the chair. management frameworks and the Environmental Management System (EMS) implemented by global Group companies working in conjunction with one another. Governing Structure President makes decision in light of Executive Committee Chair deliberations (As of April 2019, Director and Vice President) Consolidated Environmental Appointed by NGK Environmental Protection Committee Management Promotion System Vice Chair Chair (As of April 2019, General Manager of Environmental Management Dept.) In addition to environmental management systems built independently at each site of NGK (Nagoya, Chita, Executive Vice President, Vice Presidents responsible for Komaki, Ishikawa), we have established a consolidated Headquarters Departments, Group Executives, General management system to control environmental activities at Managers, General Manager of Pollution Control at each site, General Manager of Environmental Management Dept., all Group companies in and outside Japan under the General Manager of Safety and Health Management, General leadership of each Business Group. The Five-Year Manager of Corporate Strategy Office, General Manager of Environmental Action Plan and the related annual plan are Corporate Communications, General Manager of Human Members Resource Dept., General Manager of Group Compliance, shared across the entire Group via the Business Groups to General Manager of Finance & Accounting Dept., General be incorporated into activity plans of each Group Manager of Legal Dept., General Manager of General Affairs company. Dept., General Manager of Purchasing Dept., General Manager of Construction & Maintenance Dept., General To promote unified environmental management for the Manager of Global Engineering Center, and others entire Group, annual liaison meetings are held for Group designated by the Committee Chair companies in Japan, while headquarters personnel visit Group companies outside Japan on a regular basis. Thus, we create interactive discussion and support opportunities to address issues facing each company. ② Environmental Expert Committee In principle, meets twice each year. Meets before the NGK President Environmental Protection Committee to review and ① discuss items to be reported to the committee. NGK Environmental Protection Committee NGK Environmental Protection Committee Chair Governing Structure (Director and Vice President) Expert Environmental Management ② Committee Chair General Manager of Environmental Management Dept. Headquarters Environmental Expert Committee Vice Chair General Manager of Construction & Maintenance Dept. ③ General Manager of Business Planning Dept., persons in charge of promoting environmental activities in each Nagoya EPC Members division, Group Manager of Environmental Management Dept., others designated by the Expert Committee Chair Chita EPC Ceramic Process Power Products Electronics Technology Business Group Business Group Business Group Business Group Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental Komaki EPC Management Management Management Management ③ Environmental Committees at Each NGK Site (Nagoya Site, Chita Site, Komaki Site, Ishikawa Plant) Ishikawa Plant In principle, meets twice each year in each area. Thoroughly conveys matters determined by the NGK Group Group Group Group Environmental Protection Committee, and communicates ④ companies in companies in companies in companies in and outside and outside and outside and outside and discusses issues and topics in each area (all four ⑤ Japan Japan Japan Japan areas meet twice each year for a total of eight meetings). NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 20 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index ④ Sharing Information with ⑤ Sharing Information with Group Companies in Japan Group Companies Outside Japan The Environmental Performance Questionnaire is used to The Environmental Performance Questionnaire is used to conduct an annual survey into the status of compliance conduct an annual survey into the status of compliance with environmental laws at each company. The annual with environmental laws at each company. Group liaison meeting for all Group companies that are involved companies that are involved in manufacturing receive in manufacturing is also held, and periodic on-site regular audits to monitor management systems and observations are carried out. This enables the Group-wide conditions. The Group provides support for improving policy on environmental initiatives to be conveyed to corporate governance structure and facilities as required. manufacturing Group companies and each company’s environmental management status and information on effective initiatives to be shared, thus promoting the unification of Group companies in Japan environmental conservation activities. History of NGK’s Environmental Activities Environmental Protection Committee and Environmental Three-year and long-term plans for reduction of CO2 April 1972 Preservation Office (currently, Environmental Management March 2004 emissions instituted Dep.) established June 1992 Waste Countermeasures Commission established Company-wide medium-term plan for the reduction in March 2005 by-products established NGK’s Voluntary Plan for Environmental Conservation March 1993 Guidelines for Environmental Action revised; established April 2005 Green Procurement Guidelines revised Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) and 1,1,1-trichloroethane December 1994 abolished October 2005 Third-party review of environmental performance begun February 1995 Internal environmental audit conducted April 2006 2nd Five-Year Environmental Action Plan established April 1996 NGK’s Core Policy on the Environment established Initiated environmental surveys of September 2006 Group companies outside Japan December 1996 CO2 Countermeasures Commission established Introduction of a consolidated goal for CO2 and by-products May 2007 for Group companies in Japan NGK’s three production bases (Nagoya, Chita, and Komaki) March 1998 simultaneously received ISO 14001 certification April 2008 Establishment of the Environmental Management Department March 1999 Environmental Report published Introduction of goals to reduce CO2 by-products, and January 2009 chemical substances for Group companies outside Japan April 1999 Environmental accounting introduced Expanded scope of goals to reduce CO2 by-products, and October 1999 Green Purchasing Commission established January 2010 chemical substances for Group companies outside Japan November 1999 Environmental audits of Group companies in Japan started Formulated the 3rd Five-Year Environmental Action Plan, April 2011 “by-products” renamed “discarded materials.” Environmental Partnership Organizing Club (EPOC) February 2000 established and active participation therein begun Three NGK sites (Nagoya, Chita, and Komaki) received March 2012 integrated ISO 14001 certification Chemical Substances Safety Committee established; October 2000 Chemical Substances Management System introduced The Ishikawa Plant received ISO 14001 certification (joint March 2013 certification with three NGK sites) March 2001 1st Five-Year Environmental Action Plan established NGK established the Environmental Expert Committee as the Compilation of environmental performance data for April 2001 authority handling matters related to CO2 discarded materials Group companies in Japan started April 2013 and other important environmental management items (created through the combination of the former CO2 October 2001 Operating of Recycling Yard begun Countermeasures and Recycling Promotion Commission) Compilation of environmental performance data for NAS Battery wins the Gold Prize at the 2015 Aichi January 2002 February 2015 Group companies outside Japan started Environmental Awards New “Green Management” three-year management plan April 2002 instituted April 2016 Formulated the 4th Five-Year Environmental Action Plan Moves made toward a full business group environmental management system; “Waste Countermeasures Commission” April 2003 renamed “Recycling Promotion Commission” and “wastes” January 2018 NGK’s ISO 14001 certification upgraded to 2015 version renamed “by-products.” NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 21 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Environmental Management System Environmental Risk Management (ISO 14001, etc.) Initiatives At the NGK Group, each manufacturing site has The NGK Group encourages the acquisition of ISO 14001 individually established environmental management or third-party certifications (such as Eco Stage 2 or Eco systems to prevent environmental pollution. Action 21 in Japan) meeting this standard to In fiscal 2018, the NGK headquarters conducted systematically and continuously develop its environmental audits at 22 manufacturing bases in Japan and 11 conservation activities in line with NGK’s Core Policy on overseas, with a focus on environmental risk control. the Environment. Under this initiative, a total of 44 Based on audit results, problems were remedied and manufacturing sites, including those in Nagoya, Chita, support was provided for improvements as part of efforts Komaki, and Ishikawa, have been certified appropriately. to improve the management level for the entire Group. We will work to expand the certification initiative within the Group, particularly targeting new plants. The Group will make effective use of these environmental management Regulatory Compliance systems going forward with the intention of reinforcing its NGK conducts monitoring and assessments as well as environmental management. vigorous control of exhaust and wastewater produced from its sites, observing relevant regulations and Certification of Environmental Management System As of March 2019 environmental preservation-related and other agreements No. of No. of with control authorities. Additionally, we organize Categories manufacturing bases environmental management specialist seminars on a bases certified regular basis for all Group companies in Japan to keep NGK 4 4 responsible persons updated on related topics, thereby enhancing our capabilities to prevent environmental Power Business 6 3 pollution. Ceramic Products Business 1 1 Domestic Group Electronics Business 12 12 Environmental Patrols and Emergency Response Drills Process Technology Business Group 4 4 NGK implements environmental patrols in line with annual Power Business 4 3 plans to prevent environmental pollution and conducts response drills based on emergency scenarios to minimize Ceramic Products Business 9 9 damage. Overseas Group In fiscal 2018, environmental patrols were conducted Electronics Business 5 5 at the Nagoya, Chita, and Komaki sites and the Ishikawa Plant to prevent atmosphere and water pollution, ensure Process Technology Business Group 4 3 the appropriate management of chemical substances, and Since fiscal 2016, the method of counting manufacturing bases that suppress noise and vibrations. Response drills based on have EMSs was changed so that it counts the number of sites and emergency scenarios were also conducted at these four the number of plants separately. areas. Going forward, NGK will continue to proactively engage in patrols and drills in an attempt to improve operational methods and mitigate environmental risks. Environmental Audits NGK conducts internal audits and external audits (renewal Activities Conducted in FY2018 audits) of the environmental management system at the Noise Chemical Atmosphere Water and Nagoya, Chita, and Komaki sites, as well as the Ishikawa vibrations substances Plant. Group companies also conduct these same internal Environmental patrols 3 2 15 2 audits, and external reviews of the environmental Nagoya management systems are conducted by external auditors Emergency response 4 2 ー 2 at all Group companies. drills In fiscal 2018, in the same way as with the previous Environmental patrols 1 2 1 2 year, there were no significant findings. In the event of a Chita Emergency response significant finding, the relevant division and Environmental 4 5 ー ー drills Management Dept. work together to review and implement countermeasures, as well as inform Environmental patrols 1 1 1 1 Komaki environmental committees in each area in an attempt to Emergency response 10 11 ー ー horizontally deploy these measures. drills Environmental patrols 2 2 2 2 Ishikawa Emergency response 4 3 ー 1 drills Note: “—” indicates emergency response drills were considered of low importance and not conducted. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 22 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Chemical Management System Since fiscal 2006, the NGK Group has been reducing the confirms with, and provides guidance to, the departments amounts used of organic solvents covered by PRTR and that will use the chemical on important matters regarding switching to substitute chemicals at its manufacturing the chemical’s use and disposal. The departments using bases in Japan. As a result of these efforts, in fiscal 2010 the new chemicals thus take the lead in proper we reduced by 30% against fiscal 2005 the atmospheric management of the substances. Thanks to these efforts, emissions of these substances. atmospheric emissions of organic solvents and other For NGK sites on a non-consolidated basis, strict PRTR-listed substances at NGK decreased in fiscal 2018 checks are carried out when new substances come into against fiscal 2005 by 59%. We are transferring this use as part of efforts to maintain and raise the level of success to our main overseas manufacturing bases so management. For example, before purchasing a new that they lead to a lower environmental impact for the chemical substance, the Chemical Substances Safety NGK Group as a whole. Committee decides whether it should be used, then Chemical Management Flowchart Department using Division checking (safety and health, Purchasing Departments Department using chemical chemicals environment, construction and maintenance) Department Confirm SDS (safety data sheet) Review of new chemical substances Register Appropriate control at departments Details of intended substance, Guidance (on use, storage, disposal, etc.) purchasing (Implementation of guidance items, apply for permission to use to division using chemical information inventory control) Permission and Purchasing registration information Tools and methods Application process Purchasing system Chemical Substances Safety Committee Chemical substances inventory control system Substances contained, relevant regulations, Substances, regulations, abatement equipment, disposal method, etc. registration of storage facilities Strengthening of Global Environmental In fiscal 2018, the NGK headquarters conducted Management audits at 22 manufacturing bases in Japan and 11 overseas, with a focus on environmental risk. Based on In accordance with the Guidelines for Environmental audit results, problems were remedied and support was Action, the NGK Group horizontally deploys domestic provided for improvements as part of continuing efforts to environmental impact reduction initiatives in Group mitigate environmental risks throughout the Group. companies outside Japan while creating mechanisms to strictly comply with amendments to environmental laws Strengthening Environmental Management and regulations to propel our global environmental Linked to Business Planning management to the next level. The NGK Group aims to build an environmental Mitigating Environmental Risks throughout management system that can cope with changes in both the Group our business plan and the state of the social environment. Initiatives aimed at reducing environmental impact in All NGK Group companies in and outside Japan have accordance with business plans include conducting completed acquisition of ISO 14001 or third-party biannual forecast estimates and achievement evaluations certifications meeting this standard and implement in each business group, product line, and manufacturing environmental management in line with environmental base to determine which initiatives to pursue next. management systems. These efforts include the establishment of the Certification upgrade to the 2015 version of ISO 14001 Environmental Expert Committee under the NGK has been completed for the most part in fiscal 2018. The Environmental Protection Committee as a company-wide few companies that have not yet acquired certification for decision-making body. The Environmental Expert the environmental management system standard have Committee facilitates discussions among managers from launched the certification process. planning and production divisions who formulate and NGK shares information regarding changes in domestic promote actual business planning in each business environmental laws and regulations with Group companies division, strengthening the company-wide environmental and has created a structure to ascertain the status of management system. Going forward, we will continue to responses to these changes. Overseas, NGK headquarters strengthen management integration with the aim of is enhancing its ability to regularly ascertain the status of promoting environmental management that combines responses and management in terms of important legal global environmental protection and corporate growth. and regulatory system revision information in the countries and regions where Group companies are located. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 23 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact The diagram below shows aggregate inputs to and well as substances that are discharged into the outputs from manufacturing operations of the entire NGK atmosphere and into water. Group at all domestic and overseas sites in fiscal 2018. Data up until fiscal 2017 covered only manufacturing Inputs represent data for raw materials and energy etc. bases, but from fiscal 2018 non-manufacturing bases were and outputs for manufactured products and services as included in order to expand the disclosure of information. NGK Group Material Balance (Input and Output) Items in parenthesis indicate data from non-consolidated NGK production bases (Headquarters, Nagoya Site, Chita Site, Komaki Site, Ishikawa Plant) INPUT OUTPUT Energy Emissions into the atmosphere Gas Electric power (natural gas conversion) (light oil conversion) Oil Energy-origin CO2 Other greenhouse gases 930 GWh 142 million Nm3 2.11 million L 960x103 metric tons of CO2 5x103 metric tons of CO2 (250 GWh) (20 million Nm3) (0.28 million L) (164x103 metric tons of CO2) (1x103 metric tons of CO2) NGK PRTR listed substances 154.6 metric tons (2.8 metric tons) Group Total amount of discarded Raw materials PRTR listed Water materials generated Emissions into water substances 58x103 metric tons Effluent 180x103 metric tons 694 metric tons 4.53 million m3 (11x103 metric tons) 2.81 million m3 (35x103 metric tons) (219 metric tons) (1.60 million m3) Recycled (1.37 million m3) 43x103 metric tons (11x103 metric tons) PRTR listed substances Disposed of externally 0.3 metric tons 16x103 metric tons (0 metric tons) (0.3 metric tons) Breakdown of energy-origin CO2 emissions Group overall NGK non-consolidated Products and services Customers Global environment 323x103 44x103 metric tons metric tons 960x103 164x103 metric tons metric tons 637x103 120x103 metric tons metric tons Scope 1 Scope 2 Notes: 1. A new calculation method has been adopted for NGK CO2 emissions on a non-consolidated basis. The calculation now uses the CO2 conversion factor determined in the Enforcement Ordinance for the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures (revised in May 2016). 2. Environmental performance values in this report have been rounded off for convenience; therefore the sum of individual values may not match the totals. 3. “Discarded materials” indicates the total amount of industrial waste and valuables. Environmental Data Trends Category Sites Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Category Sites Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 covered covered 10 metric 3 GHG emissions (Scope 1) Group tons 317 320 323 Total water consumption Group Million m3 4.09 4.32 4.53 103 metric GHG emissions (Scope 2) Group tons 562 612 637 VOC emission Group Metric tons 155.4 145.3 145.2 GHG emissions (Scope 3) See page 29 Non10 metric 3 ー 877 1,047 PRTR listed substance emission Group Metric tons 163.1 154.6 154.9 consolidated tons Non103 metric Purchased goods and services consolidated tons ー 762 863 Total water discharge Group Million m3 2.79 2.87 2.81 Non103 metric 103 metric Capital goods consolidated tons ー 84 152 Total amount of discarded materials generated Group 59 59 58 tons Non10 metric 3 Percentage of manufacturing sites certified Fueland energy-related activities consolidated tons ー 16 18 for environmental management system Group ー 90% 88% 88% Non103 metric Upstream transportation and distribution consolidated tons ー 11 8 Note: Covers manufacturing sites Non10 metric 3 Waste generated in operations consolidated tons ー 1 3 Business travel Non10 metric 3 ー 1 1 consolidated tons Employee commuting Non103 metric ー 2 2 consolidated tons Upstream leased assets Non10 metric 3 ー 0 0 consolidated tons NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 24 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index INPUT 1. Energy Electric power: Consumption amount of electric power Gas: Consumption volume of each type of fuel gas converted into natural gas volume =Σ(Consumption volume of each fuel gas × Unit heating value of each fuel gas / Unit heating value of natural gas) <Unit heating value of fuel gas> Natural gas: 43.5 MJ/Nm3 City gas: 45.0 MJ/Nm3 LPG: 50.8 MJ/kg LNG: 54.6 MJ/kg Oil: Consumption volume of each type of fuel converted into light oil volume =Σ(Consumption volume of each fuel × Unit heating value of each fuel / Unit heating volume of light oil) <Unit heating value of fuel> Light oil: 37.7 MJ/L Fuel oil A: 39.1 MJ/L Kerosene: 36.7 MJ/L Gasoline: 34.6 MJ/L 2. Water Total consumption volume of city water, industrial water, well water, and rainwater 3. PRTR Substances Total amount handled of Japan’s PRTR Type 1 listed substances 4. Raw materials Total weight of raw materials used in product manufacturing OUTPUT 5. Energy-origin CO2 emission volume Energy-origin CO2 emission volume = Σ(Consumption of each energy × CO2 conversion factor of each energy) <CO2 conversion factor of energy> (Unit of electric power factor: kgCO2/kWh Unit of fuel factor: kgCO2 / fuel unit) Electric power Japan: Emission coefficient for each electric utility in Japan (figure released on December 27, 2018 by Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry); United States: 0.709; Belgium: 0.292; France: 0.061; Poland: 0.986; South Africa: 1.096; China: 0.983; Thailand: 0.687; Indonesia: 0.790; Australia: 1.390; Mexico: 0.741; Malaysia: 0.543 Fuel Natural gas (Nm3): 2.22; City gas (NGK on a non-consolidated basis) (Nm3): 2.244; City gas (except NGK on a non-consolidated basis) (Nm3): 2.23; LPG (kg): 3.00; LNG (kg): 2.70; Light oil (L): 2.58; Fuel oil A (L): 2.71; Kerosene (L): 2.49; Gasoline (L): 2.32; Industrial steam (MJ): 0.06 6. Emission volume of other greenhouse gases Emission volume of other greenhouse gases = Active mass × Emission factor × Global warming potential <Global warming potential> CO2: 1; CH4: 25; N2O: 298; HFC: Differs by type; PFC: Differs by type; SF6: 22800; NF3: 17200 7. Effluent Total amount of effluent excluding rainwater 8. PRTR listed substances Emissions into water: Total emission amount of Japan’s PRTR Type 1 listed substances into public waters Emissions into atmosphere: Total emission amount of Japan’s PRTR Type 1 listed substances into atmosphere 9. Total amount of discarded materials generated Total amount of discarded materials generated = Externally disposed amount*1 + Externally recycled amount Recycled amount: Externally recycled amount = Paid disposal*2 + Valuable amount (selling off) *1 Externally disposed amount: Direct disposal by landfill, or simple incineration *2 Paid disposal: Outsourcing disposal and paying for recycling NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 25 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Preventing Global Warming The NGK Group strives to reduce CO2 emissions, a major CO2 emissions / basic unit per net sales* (NGK Group) cause of global warming, by setting and working toward Basic unit per net sales CO2 emissions achievement of emission reduction targets. (x103 metric tons) 100 Annual target NGK is a member of the Japan Climate Leaders’ 100 91 2,000 89 86 Partnership (Japan-CLP), a business coalition in Japan 83 80 90 that aims to create a low-carbon society throughis 80 83 81 86 87 1,600 engaged in decarbonizing business, trial business Target for the final year 1,200 60 collaborations, policy creation and publicity activities, and 870 907 795 817 cooperation with like-minded international organizations. 40 751 756 800 20 400 Management of Climate Change Risks 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Action plans proposed by the NGK Environmental Protection Base year Emissions volume Basic unit per net sales Target Committee are deliberated on by the Board of Directors *Basic unit per net sales calculated with the value in fiscal 2013 set at 100. before being carried out under group environmental management. In fiscal 2019, the ESG Committee, made up CO2 emissions / reduction rate against BAU* (NGK Group) of management and chaired by the President, was launched Total CO2 emissions Reduction rate against BAU (%) to discuss important tasks and strategies and create action Annual target (x103 metric tons) 20 2,000 plans related to ESG. The ESG Committee discusses the 18 18 management of climate change risks. 15 16 15 14 1,500 11 12 Target for the Reducing CO2 Emissions Associated with 10 112 143 185 145 final year 94 Upward revision from 1,000 Manufacturing Activities initial 15% target By creating and implementing annual improvement plans 5 795 817 870 907 500 751 756 in line with the business plans of each of our manufacturing sites both within Japan and overseas, the 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) NGK Group has been making steady progress toward Base year Emissions volume Reduction amount from BAU achieving the CO2 emissions reduction targets set under Reduction rate against BAU Target our Five-Year Action Plan. * Reduction rate against BAU: The percentage rate of emissions reduction resulting from In fiscal 2018, the start of production at a new factory implemented actions against a computed value for the hypothetical absence of the actions. and, the commencement of mass production of new products, and a temporary decrease in demand for main products combined to present difficulties in our efforts to Adoption of Environmentally Friendly reduce CO2 emissions. As a result, we were unable to Production Processes achieve the target for CO2 emissions per unit of net sales that we set under the Five-Year Action Plan. Through the introduction of highly efficient equipment and Furthermore, due to the effects of a drop in production the promotion of the collection and use of exhaust heat volume, there was a worsening of the reduction rate and improved production efficiency, the NGK Group against BAU, an indicator newly introduced under the makes efforts to reduce environmental impacts resulting Five-Year Action Plan to help visualize the effect of from production. Also, our Reformed Manufacturing measures to reduce emissions. Structures aimed at enhancing competitiveness For fiscal 2019, we forecast a recovery in demand for core products. We will intensify our efforts to achieve our significantly contribute to the realization of eco-processes. reduction targets under the Five-Year Action Plan. To this We will create further advanced eco-processes through end, we will carry out efforts such as a focus on boosting our New/Reformed Manufacturing Structures. production efficiency at the new factory and in new product production, and full-fledged cost-savingby Change in CO2 emissions from continuous kilns by year of introduction thoroughly implementing reduction measures at our bases. Believing that preventing future global warming is one Per-unit emissions (index value) of our most important duties as a company, from a 120 long-term perspective we have already started deliberating 100 1984=100 100 on how to further reduce CO2 emissions after the end of our current Five-Year Action Plan. As part of this we are 80 considering where we want to be as a company during the period between 2030 and 2050, and the policies that 60 55 we will need to implement to realize that. 39 40 31 Note: In calculating CO2 emissions under our environmental action plan, considering consistency with the target values from the past, we use the following CO2 conversion factors, which differ 20 from the figures in the section titled “Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact.” CO2 emission volume = Σ (Consumption of each energy × CO2 conversion factor of each energy) <CO2 conversion factor of energy> 0 (Unit of electric power factor: kgCO2/kWh Unit of fuel factor: kgCO2 / fuel unit) 1984 2002 2011 2015 (FY) Electric power: Japan: 0.42; United States: 0.709; Belgium: 0.292; France: 0.061; Poland: 0.986; South Africa: 1.096; China: 0.983; Thailand: 0.687; Indonesia: 0.790; Australia: 1.390; Mexico: Note: Change in CO2 emissions from continuous kilns, which constitute 0.741; Malaysia: 0.543 major production equipment Fuel: Natural gas (Nm3): 2.02; City gas (Nm3): 2.29; LPG (kg): 3.007; LNG (kg): 2.70; Light oil (L): 2.64; Fuel oil A (L): 2.677; Kerosene (L): 2.49; Industrial steam (MJ): 0.06 NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 26 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Examples of initiatives aimed at reducing CO2 emissions Category Measures Effects (fiscal 2018) Main production efficiency initiatives at overseas sites Highly efficient • Introduction of innovative production processes CO2 reduction effect (13,700 metric tons) manufacturing processes • Facility improvements Japan: 5,000 metric tons • Operational improvements Overseas: 8,700 metric tons Promoted energy savings at overseas sites Of which Group company • An English version of the voluntary energy-saving guidelines and a best practice • Production process improvements energy-saving diagnostics brochure created and distributed to overseas sites Japan: 2,700 metric tons • Headquarters staff visited overseas sites and conducted activities with local employees Overseas: 7,100 metric tons Horizontally deployed main improvements • General-purpose equipment energy savings • Replaced boilers with more efficient models General-purpose equipment Japan: 2,300 metric tons • Eradicated air and steam leaks from plumbing energy-saving activities Overseas: 1,600 metric tons • LED lighting • Renewed air-conditioning equipment and eliminated wasteful air conditioning Measures to Reduce CO2 Emissions digital formats. Copies have been distributed to each and Effects manufacturing site in and outside of Japan to be kept handy at worksites for easy reference. This is expected to As we continue to expand overseas manufacturing, the help enhance activities to reduce CO2 emissions. NGK Group is particularly striving to raise manufacturing efficiency at our overseas sites in order to reduce the CO2 emissions of the Group as a whole. We have made steady progress by introducing the innovative manufacturing processes and improvements to facilities and operations that we have implemented to date in Japan in our overseas manufacturing sites, as well as promoting energy-saving activities for general-purpose equipment. In fiscal 2018, these initiatives achieved an annual CO2 reduction effect of approximately 13,700 metric tons (a reduction rate of 1.5%), 60% or more of which was (3) Efforts to Conserve Energy within Buildings achieved by improvements carried out at our overseas sites. Whenever there is the opportunity to build or renovate a building, we actively endeavor to utilize high-efficiency Energy-Saving Activities for Generalequipment and introduce renewable energy, and carefully Purpose Equipment and Buildings consider each location so as to be able to effectively utilize any natural advantages, such as low-temperature waste The NGK Group has been actively promoting energy-saving heat from adjacent factories and natural ventilation/ activities in relation to general-purpose equipment, such as lighting, to achieve significant energy savings. The lighting, air conditioners, boilers, and compressors. The administration/welfare wing, which is currently under headquarters plays a central role in this in terms of sharing construction in Mizuho, Nagoya, is going to be a zero know-how among different manufacturing locations, energy building (ZEB) that achieves a reduction in CO2 thereby achieving more efficient activities. emissions of 54% from the official standard. Our initiative Whenever our buildings are built or altered, we ensure to use pioneering CO2 reduction technology for this that large-scale energy-saving measures and ZEB (zero building was recognized by the Japanese government, energy building) principles are incorporated. and the construction project was adopted as a Leading Sustainable Building Project (CO2 Reduction) by the (1) Headquarters Supporting Energy-Saving Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. Activities at Overseas Manufacturing Sites We have many more construction/renovation projects The headquarters Engineering Department has, over the lined up as part of our plans to reorganize corporate years, sent personnel to overseas manufacturing sites to structure and update old buildings, all of which will include perform energy audits and, as necessary, help local staff energy saving and ZEB measures. develop and carry out effective energy-saving measures using the know-how gained from practices in Japan. These efforts have produced solid results at overseas companies, including NGK Ceramics Polska. (See “Global Warming Countermeasures Taken by Group Companies.”) (2) Creating and Distributing a Printed Version of the Energy-Saving Brochure and Guidelines We have created a printed version (Japanese, English) of our energy-saving guidelines and brochure of best Concept drawing for the administration/welfare wing in Mizuho practices, both of which were previously available only in (scheduled for completion in December 2019) NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 27 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Global Warming Countermeasures Taken by Group Companies NGK Stanger Pty. Ltd. NGK Metals Corporation NGK Stanger collects and recycles gas-filled switches NGK Metals is reducing CO2 emissions by updating that are being disposed of by clients. These units control systems and improving the operation of contain sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) for insulation production equipment. Among various efforts, a purposes, and as it has a very high global warming particularly distinctive effect resulted from automating potential, the company collects all SF6 when the control units of the oil circulation system for rolling disassembling the unit without allowing it to be mills. The automation eliminated unnecessary released into the atmosphere. The total amount of SF6 around-the-clock operation, a measure taken to recovered in fiscal 2018 was approximately 570 kg, address inefficient activation/deactivation processes, which is the equivalent of approximately 13,600 metric as well as simplifying complex manual processing. This tons of CO2. change helped reduce electric power consumption as well as CO2 emissions. NGK Ceramics Polska Sp. z o.o. Since 2011, NGK Ceramics Polska has been focusing on improving processes for manufacturing SiC-based DPFs, its main product. Target areas include particularly energy-intensive calcination and drying processes, for which we have carried out various measures to reduce our CO2 emissions. To further improve our performance, we will introduce new measures, including technologies provided by the Nagoya Site. Transport volume / basic unit per transport volume Reduction of CO2 from Logistics Basic unit per transport volume (KL/100,000 ton-kilometer) Transport volume (10,000 ton-kilometers) NGK has worked to reduce CO2 emissions from logistics, 5 4.72 4.74 10,000 4.61 setting a target of reducing the basic unit per transport 4.14 4.17 volume by 1% year-on-year on a five-year average, as 8,000 4 required by the Energy Conservation Act. To achieve this target, we have implemented a number of measures, 3 6,000 including improving loading efficiency and promoting a modal shift. In recent years, the basic unit per transport 2 4,000 volume has shown a tendency to deteriorate due to a 3,121 3,221 3,092 2,715 2,776 decline in the volume of goods transported by sea on 2,000 account of a change in the product mix. In fiscal 2018, the 1 five-year average deteriorated by 3.4% year-on-year. 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Transport volume (other) Ocean transportation Land transportation Basic unit per transport volume NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 28 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Reporting Scope 3 CO2 Emissions The NGK Group reports Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emission logistics was 1,047,000 metric tons, which was over six data for the Group overall and for NGK independently in times more than the 164,000 metric tons of NGK in-house relation to logistics (for shipment from NGK). In addition to CO2 emissions (sum of Scope 1 and 2), and that Category this, starting in fiscal 2017, NGK has been calculating 1 (purchased goods and services) amounted to over 80% Scope 3 emissions on a non-consolidated basis in of total CO2 emissions. NGK will continue to develop response to emerging expectations for businesses to calculation methods that can ascertain CO2 emission expand the relevant data reporting scope to include levels in relation to a greater range of items. supply chain CO2 emissions levels. Please note that the calculation used for Scope 3 data In fiscal 2018, NGK established calculation methods was carried out in accordance with Basic Guidelines for all categories involving only NGK logistics (upstream Regarding the Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from NGK) and obtained a total. As a result, NGK through the Supply Chain (Ver. 2.2) (Ministry of the confirmed that the total volume of CO2 emission from NGK Environment; Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry). CO2 emissions Category (103 metric tons) Category 1: Purchased goods and services* 863 Category 2: Capital goods 152 Category 3: Fueland energy-related activities 18 Category 4: Upstream transportation and distribution 8 Category 5: Waste generated in operations 3 Category 6: Business travel 1 FY2018 Scope 3 Data Category 7: Employee commuting 2 (NGK non-consolidated, upstream only) Category 8: Upstream leased assets 0 Total 1,047 *Resale items are included in Category 1. Introduction of Green Power As part of our corporate activities aimed at harmony with the environment, NGK began introducing “green power” (energy sources such as wind and solar power and biomass fuels) in 2002, earlier than any other company. The Green Power Certification System contract we signed with Japan Natural Energy Company Limited calls for them to generate two million kilowatt hours of biomass-generated electricity for us each year. This accounts for about 60% of the power consumed annually at the NGK headquarters building, attaining a reduction effect of approximately 1,000 metric tons of CO2 emissions per year, or the annual amount of CO2 absorbed by approximately 71,000 cedar trees. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 29 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Promoting Effective Use of Resources To boost yield from manufacturing process improvements, the NGK Group reuses in-process materials in an effort to curb discarded materials while also focusing efforts on recycling to reduce final disposal volumes to promote resource recycling. Reducing Discarded Materials from Promoting Resource Recycling Manufacturing Activities At the NGK Group, we promote resource recycling In the same way as for CO2, the NGK Group works to initiatives, pursuing rigorous sorting and separating suppress the generation of waste (discarded materials) by practices and seeking out new methods of recycling. formulating and managing annual improvement plans with In fiscal 2017, we started sharing information with our the aim of achieving the waste reduction targets contained production sites in Japan regarding waste recycling in the Five-Year Plan. methods and companies that can process such waste. In fiscal 2018, as with CO2, there were numerous factors This has allowed us to choose highly reliable waste that hampered waste reduction, such as the start of a new processing contractors and continue to improve waste plant and the start of mass production of new products. recycling efficiency. Through such ongoing efforts, we However, the basic unit per net sales steadily improved over have managed to sustain a domestic recycling rate of the previous year, so were able to achieve our fiscal year 99% or higher since fiscal 2013, which is the target set target as well as the target under our Five-Year Plan ahead under the Five-Year Plan. of schedule. This was thanks to the continuing Meanwhile, at our Group companies outside Japan, improvement activities of our manufacturing divisions, such where the situation varies according to country and region, as improving the material utilization rate and production suitable targets are set taking into account circumstances yield, and recycling within each process. Meanwhile, the specific to each location. The recycling rate for our 22 reduction rate against BAU, which indicates the rate of manufacturing Group companies overseas has remained improvement in the basic unit per production volume from at over 90%, based on calculations that exclude three the fiscal 2013 level, was 20%, thus falling short of the fiscal companies that generate non-recyclable waste. year target of 23%. This was due to a temporary drop in demand for some of the products for which we had achieved dramatic improvements. For fiscal 2019, we Group Company Outside Japan forecast volume to rebound to the levels of two years ago. Implementation Examples In fiscal 2019, we will accelerate and advance efforts up At Group companies outside Japan, waste material to now with the goal of further improvement. separation management is strictly enforced. Waste Amount of discarded materials generated / basic unit separation rules are posted where waste materials are per net sales* (All NGK Group manufacturing sites) Amount of stocked and color-coordinated containers are provided for Basic unit per net sales discarded materials each category of waste to avoid confusion. (x103 metric tons) 100 Annual target Improvement over 100 previous year 250 87 83 Less than 80 85 72 70 70 200 81 81 72 70 150 60 Target for the final year 40 100 60 62 64 59 59 58 20 50 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Base year Emissions volume Basic unit per net sales Target *Basic unit per net sales calculated with the value in fiscal 2013 set at 100. Discarded materials / reduction rate against BAU* NGK Ceramics Europe (All NGK Group manufacturing sites) Amount of Reduction rate against BAU (%) discarded materials Annual target (x103 metric tons) 25 23 250 22 22 20 20 200 18 Target for the 15 final year 150 12 Upward revision from initial 20% target 10 8 100 8 12 17 15 6 5 50 60 62 64 59 59 58 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Base year Reduction amount from BAU Amount of discarded materials NGK Ceramics USA Reduction rate against BAU (%) Target BAU rate * Reduction rate against BAU: The percentage rate of emissions reduction resulting from implemented actions against a computed value for the hypothetical absence of the actions. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 30 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Risk Management of Water Resources and Response Promoting Efficient Water Use at The NGK Group recognizes the management of water Group Companies resources as an important issue for the company in NGK Ceramics Mexico, S. de R.L. achieving a sustainable society, and promotes relevant de C.V. initiatives as described below. We strive to use precious water resources as appropriately and efficiently as possible, including Water Risk Evaluation the recycling of water used inside plants, at Group companies located in highly water-stressed To ascertain water supply risks for each of our production regions. facilities in and outside Japan, the NGK Group performed For example, at NGK Ceramics Mexico, a simplified internal survey to assess water shortage risks manufacturing process waste water is filtered based on the water supply capacity of rivers in the using reverse osmosis membranes and the respective regions. For production facilities located in recycled water is reused as coolant and boiler areas where there is a risk of water shortages, particularly water or sprinkled on vegetation. overseas, we commissioned a third party to conduct a comprehensive survey. As part of that survey, in addition to the water supply capacity of rivers, factors such as groundwater, seasonal fluctuations in water supply capacity, and the holding capacity of dams are evaluated and used to create water supply/demand forecasts. The risk of water-related disasters (flooding, landslides) and water quality deterioration (public health, ecosystem) is also analyzed as part of a comprehensive risk assessment. These efforts allow us to determine waster risk at all overseas manufacturing sites, information that we share among all of our sites. Although no serious water-related risks have been Filtration device using reverse osmosis membranes identified to date at any of our facilities, we stay abreast of regulatory trends and we strive to make more efficient use of water. Water Usage Guidelines NGK created guidelines (an implementation status checklist) aimed at appropriate water usage and, in fiscal 2015, launched inspections to ascertain the efficiency of water usage at all manufacturing sites in and outside of Japan. Going forward, we will enhance these guidelines through internal and external case studies while encouraging efforts at each location to strengthen the operational structure against a future tight water supply. Cooperation with Suppliers Believing that it is important to address issues related to water resources throughout the supply chain, the NGK Group asks its suppliers to practice water resource-related risk management and efficient water usage in accordance with the CSR Procurement Guidelines. In fiscal 2018, 99.5% of companies in NGK’s domestic supply chain agreed to our request. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 31 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Protecting Biodiversity In the NGK Group, we view the challenge of protecting biodiversity as an integral part of achieving a sustainable society, and towards that end we are undertaking the following activities. Activities for Achieving the Aichi Targets The NGK Group has been pushing forward with activities pursuant to the Aichi Targets (international goals for biodiversity) agreed upon at the 10th Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP 10). Since fiscal 2016 under the current Five-Year Plan, we have done biodiversity surveys of company-owned sites, taken part in the Ministry of the Environment’s “My Action Declaration” initiative, and worked in unison with our suppliers. Promoting Participation in the “My Action Declaration” Initiative In fiscal 2017, as a way of raising awareness among employees, we began promoting participation in the “My Action Declaration” initiative led by the Japan Business Federation and the Ministry of the Environment. This project aims to have by 2020 a million people make a declaration to take action to conserve biodiversity. Declarations have been received from a total of 4,800 employees who promised to take a personal interest in and work My Action Declaration card to protect the biodiversity around them. We have also expanded this initiative throughout NGK Group companies in Japan and so far a cumulative total of 6,200 group employees have made the declaration (as of March 2019). Aichi Targets NGK Activities Employee environmental education, next-generation education, People are aware of the value of biodiversity and actions to be cooperation with suppliers, promoting participation in My Action Target 1 Spread awareness Declaration initiative, encouraging employees to participate in taken to conserve it. volunteer activities Expanding sales of products contributing to environmental Sustainable production Stakeholders at all levels have taken steps to achieve sustainable Target 4 and consumption production and consumption. protection, CO2 reduction, effective use of resources, cooperation with suppliers Inhibit loss of all The rate of loss of all natural habitats, including forests, is at least Voluntary employee participation in forestation and other Target 5 natural habitats halved, and degradation and fragmentation is significantly reduced. environmental conservation activities, biodiversity survey/appropriate control of company-owned site Control pollution by Pollution from use of chemicals, including fertilizers and Chemical substance management, management of exhaust and Target 8 chemical substances, agrichemicals, has been brought to levels that are not detrimental wastewater, expanding sales of products that prevent air pollution, etc. to the ecosystem. cooperation with suppliers Target 9 Alien species Invasive alien species are controlled or eradicated. Biodiversity survey/appropriate control of company-owned site At least 17% of terrestrial and inland water areas and 10% of Voluntary employee participation in forestation and other Target 11 Conserve protected coastal and marine areas are placed under appropriate environmental conservation activities areas conservation management. Voluntary employee participation in forestation and other Ecosystems that provide essential natural services are restored Target 14 Ecosystem services and safeguarded. environmental conservation activities, biodiversity survey/appropriate control of company-owned site Notes: 1. Source: “Guidelines for Action by the E&E Industries concerning Biodiversity Conservation” (The Biodiversity Working Group, The 4 Electrical and Electronic Industry Associations) 2. NGK activities commenced in fiscal 2016 are marked in red. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 32 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Cooperation with Suppliers We have added to the CSR Procurement Guidelines items pertaining to water resource-related initiatives and biodiversity conservation initiatives. We have won the agreement of 95% of our suppliers in Japan to comply with the expanded Guidelines. Biodiversity Survey of Company-Owned Site At an NGK employee welfare facility located on the outskirts of Nagoya City, we carry out periodic summer and winter surveys of birds, plants, and insects. Among the diversity of wildlife confirmed, no alien species that require urgent action has been found, meaning that biodiversity is being adequately maintained. The results of the surveys are displayed on panels at the facility in order to raise awareness of the area’s biodiversity among facility users. Biodiversity survey NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 33 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Environmental Education and Communication In accordance with the Guidelines for Environmental Employee Volunteers Teaching Action under NGK’s Core Policy on the Environment, we Parent-Child Insect Classes conduct ongoing environmental education and awareness activities aimed at increasing employee environmental Every summer at Tsuruma Park in Nagoya’s Showa Ward, awareness. Our aim is to deepen the understanding of NGK employees and Executive Vice President Kanie teach environmental problems among each employee to Summer Break Insect Observation classes for children and inculcate an awareness of environmental conservation their parents (hosted by the Nagoya City Greenery activities. Association), explaining the various names and We also conduct environmental events and provide ecosystems of insects living in the park. information to a wide range of stakeholders, including This annual event has been attended by a cumulative on-site classes at elementary schools, to increase total of 600 people since 2007. environmental awareness. Participating in Local Environmental Education Offering Guest Lectures at Elementary Schools and Children’s Centers NGK sends instructors to participate in lectures and workshops for young people that are hosted each year by EPOC (Environmental Partnership Organizing Club)*. In fiscal 2018, the program was held at Misaki Elementary School in Toyoake, Aichi Prefecture, where our instructors offered a class on water resources and usage, in which children could experience how soil can purify water. So far, a cumulative total of 2,300 people have Sharing Information with Other Companies participated in environmental education programs with The EPOC* subcommittee chaired by NGK organizes which NGK is affiliated. seminars and field trips several times a year under the theme of corporate environmental management (low carbon, resource recycling, biodiversity, water resources, environment-related laws, etc.) and sends out information to members. *EPOC (Environmental Partnership Organizing Club): A voluntary organization consisting mainly of companies in the Chubu region of Japan, which was established in 2000. Its purpose is to spread information regarding the environment with the aim of building a recycling-oriented sustainable society. NGK has been involved in the planning and management of this organization since its establishment. EPOC currently has approximately 270 members. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 34 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Raising Environmental Awareness NGK Eco Point System NGK promotes its Eco Point System in an effort to Environmental Education inside the contribute to regional environmental improvement. Company Employees earn points for environmental behavior We conduct position-based training related to conducted at work and in the home, a portion of which is environmental management systems to familiarize converted into cash and donated to local employees with the aims and content of NGK’s government-managed funds (environmental funds). environmental policies. We also provide specialized In addition to the company’s three sites in Nagoya, environmental training courses for personnel who will be Komaki and Chita and the Ishikawa Plant, the system was directly involved in environmental management, as well as newly introduced to the Tokyo Main Office and Osaka special environmental training for the entire workforce. Branch and sales offices in fiscal 2016. For our special environmental training in fiscal 2018, we invited a representative from Daikin Industries, Ltd. to give a lecture on how the company strives to reduce environmental impact at its sites and through its products, the connection between SDGs and business, and a Donation of NGK Eco Points long-term environmental vision. The NGK Eco Points earned by individual employees through their engagement in environmental activities are aggregated on an Promoting the Acquisition of Qualifications annual basis for each site (Nagoya, Chita, Komaki, To continue conducting environmental conservation Ishikawa), and top scorers are commended every activities in compliance with laws and regulations, we year. For earned points, employees select from two make an effort to develop and increase the skills of legally options: exchange for eco goods or donate to qualified personnel. We provide support in each local funds. The number of employees choosing department for the acquisition of environment-related legal donation is growing every year, indicating qualifications targeting managers engaged in pollution increasing environmental awareness. prevention required for the management of each site. We systematically educate Qualified Energy Managers in the Engineering Department, and Special Controlled Industrial Waste Managers and others involved in waste-related activities in the Environmental Management Department and other business divisions. Qualifications Acquired as of March 31, 2019 (NGK) Special Waste Pollution Control Managers Qualified Controlled Disposal Energy Industrial Facility Noise/ Managers Waste Technical Air Water Vibration Managers Managers 79 94 27 20 16 4 Hiroyuki Mizuno, director of the Nagoya Municipal Environmental Affairs Bureau (left); Keisuke Kono, last year’s leading Eco Point earner for the Nagoya district (center, Sensor Purchasing); Kunikazu Hamaguchi, environmental manager at Support for Acquisition of Eco Test the Nagoya Site Certification With the aim of ensuring that each employee acquires a strong environmental awareness and a wide range of knowledge with respect to the environment, NGK encourages employees sitting the Eco Test* by lending them reference materials and subsidizing test-related expenses. To date, a total of 808 people—more than 19% of all NGK employees—have passed the test. In fiscal 2018 alone, 90 employees passed the test. *The Eco Test is an environmental and social certification test administered by the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry focused on a wide-range of environmental issues. Year 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 No. of successful 94 94 120 125 90 examinees NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 35 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Creating Products That Contribute to the Environment The NGK Group considers contributing to society through NGK Group Products Contributing to business activities to be one of its most important Environmental Protection missions. For nearly a century since its founding, NGK has made use of accumulated technologies to develop and HONEYCERAM® provide products and technologies that reduce burdens HONEYCERAM is a ceramic substrate for catalytic on the global environment. converters to purify harmful contents in the exhaust of automobiles. It carries a catalyst that detoxifies harmful substances by chemical reaction, and its honeycomb Development and Distribution of Products structure provides a greater contact surface area for the Contributing to Environmental Protection exhaust and thus gives better purifying performance. Under our fourth Five-Year Environmental Action Plan Since the launch of mass production in 1976, over 1.5 initiated in fiscal 2016, NGK has set a goal of increasing billion units have been shipped of this essential ceramic sales of products that contribute to environmental product for purifying exhaust. NGK’s HONEYCERAM protection by 60% compared with fiscal 2013 (and eliminates a total of four million metric tons of NOx per maintaining the sales percentage for products contributing annum*1, equivalent to double the annual NOx emissions to environmental protection at over 50% of all products). in Japan*2. In fiscal 2018, sales of products that contribute to *1 Assumption based on installation of exhaust gas system in new cars environmental protection increased by 44% over fiscal that are not equipped with such systems 2013, exceeding the fiscal year goal of 43%. In fiscal *2 Source: OECD Environmental Statistics (2012) 2019, we are working toward this target by increasing 4 sales of and spreading the use of these products. There are a total of nine products that contribute to NOx elimination: million metric tons annually environmental protection: seven from previous and two— gallium nitride (GaN) wafers and micro-lenses for ultraviolet LEDs—registered in June 2019. We are currently developing other products that contribute to environmental protection; for example, zinc rechargeable batteries, fuel cells, and CO2 separation membranes. Definition of NGK products that contribute to environmental protection: 1) Certified or awarded by third-party institutions 2) Control or reduce impact on the Earth’s environment 3) Reduce impact on the local environment Sales growth for products contributing to environmental protection (NGK Group) Diesel Particulate Filters (DPF) Sales growth (%)* Target for the final year 180 The DPF is a porous ceramic filter used worldwide in the 160 152 160 exhaust systems of diesel vehicles. With a pore structure, 144 144 the filter ensures particulate matter (PM) is captured to purify 137 140 Target: 126 126 the exhaust emitted from diesel vehicles. NGK is the only 120 Annual target Increase 100 100 by 60% company to produce two types of DPFs based on both cordierite and silicon carbide. NGK’s ceramics technologies 80 Base year support further developments for diesel vehicles. 60 The honeycomb structure, where the inlet and outlet of the 40 through-holes are alternately sealed, enables the thin ceramic 20 walls to efficiently capture PM while exhaust passes through. 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 99 *Figures are indexed with fiscal 2013 set at 100. Eliminates up to % of PM NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 36 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Gasoline Particulate Filters (GPF) NAS® Batteries GPFs are ceramic filters that remove particulate matter One of the most frequent uses of the NAS battery is for (PM) from the exhaust of gasoline-powered vehicles. stabilizing the supply of renewable energy. While electricity We developed this filter based on diesel particulate from renewable sources, such as wind and solar power, is filter (DPF) technology, and succeeded in producing a GPF clean and, in principle, unlimited, its major limitation is that that can achieve high performance (captures more PM) its output is affected by weather conditions, resulting in and low pressure loss (lower fuel costs and higher output) supply instability. The NAS battery resolves this limitation at the same time through the use of our proprietary by storing excess renewable energy when generation micropore creation and control technologies. We were the exceeds demand, and supplying the stored energy to the first to commercialize a GPF in 2012, and commenced grid when renewable output is low or demand is high. mass production in January 2016 at one of our NAS systems enable the global growth of stable subsidiaries. renewable energy. As automobile emission regulations throughout the world become stricter, we expect that demand for GPFs will increase. To respond to this demand increase, we are boosting production capacity. NGK was the world’s first manufacturer to commercialize the NAS battery megawatt-class storage system. Featuring a large capacity, high energy density, and long life, the battery can support the reliable, long-term stable supply of electricity. Also, the NAS system allows for a more compact housing compared with conventional lead-acid batteries. NAS systems are the world’s most popular grid-scale battery storage In-vehicle high-precision NOx Sensors NGK developed the world’s first in-vehicle sensor to Installed at over 200 locations worldwide with a measure concentrations of nitrogen oxides (NOx) in exhaust in real time with high precision. Specifically, the 560 MW/4000 MWh capacity sensor is capable of measuring NOx concentration at the (As of June 2019) parts per million (ppm) level and can thus detect even very small amounts of the noxious substance. The sensor supports precise control of the exhaust purification device used in diesel vehicles, which leads to a reduction in NOx emissions and helps to promote the use of clean diesel vehicles. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 37 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Low-Level Radioactive Waste Treatment Gallium Nitride (GaN) Wafers Systems This low-defect density gallium nitride (GaN) wafer uses NGK has developed a wide range of systems to safely NGK’s original crystal growth method covering the entire treat low-level radioactive waste generated from nuclear wafer. With the Minamata Convention on Mercury going facilities and has supplied these systems to nuclear power into effect in August 2017, there is expected to be high stations and related facilities across Japan. The systems demand for high-output, high-efficiency semiconductor are developed utilizing NGK’s proprietary treatment lasers using GaN wafers as a substitute for technology and high-performance filter-based dust ultra-high-pressure mercury lamps. It was against this collection technology. background that we released the gallium nitride (GaN) We undertake a variety of engineering projects wafer in April 2018. It is expected to see use in light including design, manufacturing and site construction, and sources for projectors, stadium lighting, car headlamps, also provide a long-term maintenance service to deliver and other products. stable and high-level radioactive decontamination. NGK The gallium nitride (GaN) wafer was also developed thereby provides essential support for the safe and stable with a view to application in high-frequency devices for operation of nuclear facilities. next-generation 5G wireless base stations, and power In addition, we focus on the development of new devices key to realizing a low-carbon society such as systems for treating various types of radwaste expected to inverters for electric vehicles and power conversion be generated from the decommissioning and dismantling equipment for photovoltaic power. of aging nuclear reactors. Importance of Treating Radioactive Waste When treating and disposing of waste generated in radiation-controlled areas, including nuclear power stations, it is critically important to prevent the spread of radioactivity via the release of radioactive matter. This requires special treatment and disposal methods that differ from those for general waste. Gallium nitride (GaN) wafers Micro-Lenses for Ultraviolet LEDs Like the gallium nitride (GaN) wafer, micro-lenses for UV LEDs are made from transparent quartz glass developed by NGK and are used in UV LEDs instead of mercury lamps. Mercury lamps are currently used in light sources Wavelength Control Drying Systems used in applications such as the sterilization of water and air. Factors such as the Minamata Convention going into Our wavelength control drying system uses a proprietary effect are increasing the likelihood that mercury lamps will heater unit developed in-house to promote the be banned and sparking interest in UV LEDs that do not evaporation of solvents. use mercury. NGKs micro-lenses for UV LEDs are This system uses specific infrared frequencies to characterized by a cavity that holds a UV LED chip, a effectively facilitate evaporation, shortening drying time to feature that improves UV LED efficiency and lowers costs. approximately ½ to ⅓ of that required for conventional drying methods using heat, and reducing power consumption by 30 to 50%. It is also possible to suppress binder segregation, which is an expression of variations in concentration that occur due to drying of the soluble component in films during drying, by 30 to 40% (in-house binder segregation study). Micro-lenses for ultraviolet LEDs NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 38 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Environmental Accounting As an important index of environmental management, NGK conducts environmental accounting and announces the results. In addition to announcing environmental conservation costs (capital investment, expenses), economic benefits, and cost effectiveness, information on the environmental efficiency of CO2 and discarded materials has been added since fiscal 2007. Capital investment (NGK and Group companies in Japan) Expenditures (NGK and Group companies in Japan) (¥100 million) (¥100 million) 31.7 15 14.8 0.1 30 1.9 29.0 0.4 28.0 27.8 26.0 3.4 1.8 1.8 2.5 1.9 2.6 12 4.0 5.2 2.8 5.1 3.2 0.3 5.9 2.1 20 9 3.9 4.7 0.1 4.2 8.0 0.1 0.4 11.0 0.2 7.8 0.2 0.2 0.1 7.5 6 6.0 0.1 6.3 6.4 4.9 0.4 7.7 4.9 9.2 10 3.3 2.9 2.0 3.0 3.6 2.9 2.2 3 0.1 1.6 2.9 8.3 7.8 6.8 8.2 2.9 6.2 3.9 1.0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Pollution Global Resource Pollution Global Resource Upstream/ prevention environment recycling prevention environment recycling downstream Research & Environmental Research & development Other Administration Social activity development remediation Economic benefits (NGK and Group companies in Japan) (¥100 million) 10 8 6.5 6.3 6 5.5 2.1 5.1 2.3 1.4 4.4 4 2.2 1.6 1.4 1.4 1.5 0.5 0.4 1.0 0.2 1.0 2 0.9 0.4 1.3 0.3 0.1 2.3 1.4 1.6 1.6 1.1 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Discarded materials Discarded materials Resource conservation (gain on sale) (disposal decrease) (containers) Resource Resource conservation Energy conservation (water) savings (raw materials) Cost-effectiveness (NGK and Group companies in Japan) Environmental efficiency (consolidated) (%) (%) 30 150 144 25.2 139 21.7 124 123 120 20 124 15.5 119 117 18.2 115 17.2 111 100 10 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Benefit Net sales Cost-effectiveness = CO2 eco-efficiency = Cost CO2 emissions Discarded materials Net sales = eco-efficiency Total discarded materials generated Note: The above charts do not include data for NGK Electronics Devices, Inc. and other manufacturing subsidiaries from fiscal 2014 to fiscal 2015. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 39 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Social Communication with Stakeholders: Basic Approach 41 Targeted Stakeholder and Response Policies 42 NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 Human Rights Initiatives 44 Customers: Basic Approach 45 Quality Activity System 46 Enhancing the Elimination of Quality Risks Company-Wide 47 Quality Activities at Overseas Production Bases 49 QuiC Activities to Improve Quality with Full Employee Participation 50 Strengthening Quality Education 51 Social System for Making Use of Customer Feedback in Management 52 Employees: Basic Approach 53 Safety and Health 55 Diversity 59 Work-Life Balance 63 Human Resource Development 67 Labor-Management Initiatives 71 Implementation of Fair, Free, and Transparent Transactions: Basic Approach 72 Fair and Honest Procurement Partner Evaluations and Extensive Resource Diversification 73 Promotion of CSR Procurement 74 Supply Chain Risk Assessment, Communication Activities with Procurement Partners 75 Local Communities: Basic Approach 76 Providing Scholarships and Assistance to International Students 77 Social Contribution Activities in Collaboration with Local Communities and NPOs 78 Support for Volunteer Activities by Employees 81 Interacting with Local Communities 82 NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 40 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Communication with Stakeholders The NGK Group promotes shareholder-oriented management emphasizing capital efficiency across the entire Group and strives to improve corporate value with the goal of realizing sustainable growth. Basic Approach NGK is engaged in the maximization of corporate value institutional investors, conducting biannual earnings through two-way communication with shareholders and presentations and overseas IR road shows led by senior investors, including efforts to provide accurate and timely management. explanations regarding management conditions and As for dialogue with individual investors, we had a polices. booth at the Nomura IR Asset Management Fair 2019, NGK makes best efforts to promote constructive sponsored by Nomura Investor Relations Co., Ltd. dialogue through sincere responses to requests for The details of these dialogues are regularly reported to interviews with shareholders and investors, questions the Board of Directors. This management feedback is raised at General Meeting of Shareholders, and inquiries used to improve management efficiency and transparency. sent through NGK’s website. These responses are Shareholder and investor dialogues are conducted facilitated under the guidance of the directors in charge of with the objective of increasing corporate value and capital the Finance & Accounting Department, which work in efficiency, as well as promoting sustainable growth. The close cooperation with the Corporate Strategy Office, the disclosure of material information not already publicly Corporate Communications Department, and the Legal available within the context of these dialogues constitutes Department when necessary. damage to the equality between shareholders. In principle, NGK also places importance on direct dialogue with NGK does not disclose unannounced material information. Disclosure and Explanation of Corporate Information • We will promptly and accurately disclose any information required by society. • We will listen to stakeholder opinions with the utmost sincerity and take responsibility to respond to them. Reference NGK Group Code of Conduct URL https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/sustainability/guideline/ NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 41 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Targeted Stakeholder and Response Policies In addition to promoting understanding regarding the NGK Group among customers, suppliers, shareholders, Customers investors, regional communities, governments, international organizations, universities, research institutes, Universities and Suppliers and employees, we are continuously improving our Research activities and initiatives through dialogue with all of our Institutes stakeholders. In fiscal 2018, we again conducted the CSR Monitor NGK Governments Survey, which targets general consumers. and Group Shareholders International and As a result of this survey, it was revealed that among Investors Organizations the NGK Group’s CSR activities, general consumers are interested in global environmental conservation. We will incorporate the opinions gathered through the Regional Communities Employees surveys into our CSR reporting for next year and beyond, as well as our future CSR activities. Connection with Customers Connection with Regional Communities To earn and maintain the trust of customers, we engage in We proactively engage in social contribution activities in the creation of new value through the provision of response to community needs with the intent of becoming products and services realizing global environmental a corporate citizen trusted by society with concern for conservation and social safety and peace of mind from a social issues in all countries and regions where we do long-term and global perspective. business. Connection with Suppliers Connection with Governments and With a basic policy centered on the three principles of International Organizations openness and fairness, partnership, and relationship with We proactively participate in international initiatives and society, the NGK Group is engaged in fair, free, and other activities in order to realize mutual cooperation as transparent business transactions with the procurement key actors seeking to resolve social problems. partners in our supply chain. We also established a supplier helpline to provide unwavering support for important inquiries in an effort to build and maintain fair Connection with Universities and supplier relationships. Research Institutes Through research and educational activities based on Connection with Shareholders and industry-academia collaboration, we have been pushing forward with the development of scientific technologies Investors and other technologies that will contribute to solving social The NGK Group aims to meet expectations for enhanced problems. corporate value through dialogues and efforts to disclose information pertaining to management, finance, products, and services in a timely and appropriate manner. Connection with Employees The NGK Group strives to create a safe and comfortable workplace environment with respect for employee humanity. We also support the growth of human resources and fair treatment enabling each employee to maximize their skills. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 42 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Implementation Status of Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholders Objectives Communication methods Frequency Official website Regularly Customers Contact desk Regularly Enhance customer services (including general consumers) Quality improvement Participation in exhibitions A few times a year Open innovation Regularly Financial results presentations Once a year Realize fair, free and transparent transactions Suppliers Exchange information with suppliers Supplier helpline Regularly Establish better supply chain Individual visits to suppliers in Japan and overseas Regularly General Meeting of Shareholders Once a year Twice a year each in Japan Information sessions and overseas Individual visits and interviews Regularly Shareholders Enhance corporate value and Investors Participation in IR events Once a year Countermeasures for socially responsible investment (SRI) Regularly Official website Regularly Collaborative activities with NPOs, etc. Regularly Volunteer activities by employees Regularly Regional Contribute to regional communities Communities as a trusted corporate citizen Social contribution activities in cooperation with labor unions Regularly Invitation to plant tours and events Regularly Governments and Promote initiatives to solve social problems Participation in international initiatives Regularly International Organizations Develop scientific technologies Universities and Develop technologies that will contribute to Joint research Regularly Research Institutes solving social problems Company newsletter Once a month Global MIZUHO English-version company newsletter Twice a year Video news Twice a month Intranet Regularly Respect the human rights of employees Develop safe and comfortable workplace Labor-Management Advisory Board meetings / environments Once a year / Twice a year Regular Labor-Management Council meetings Employees Conduct surveys on workplace environment and employee satisfaction Survey on workplace vitality Once in two years Inculcate corporate philosophy and policies CRS (Corporate Risk Survey) Once a year Expectation survey on CSR promotion actions Once a year Helpline Regularly Hotline Regularly NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 43 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Human Rights Initiatives Having established respect for human rights in its Code of *1: Adopted on December 10, 1948 at the Third United Nations General Assembly Session, this declaration expresses the rights to which all Conduct, the NGK Group uses its intranet, which is human beings in all nations are inherently entitled (General Assembly available to all domestic Group company employees, to Resolution 217 (III)). The formal name is the Universal Declaration of explain and disseminate the United Nations “Universal Human Rights. Declaration of Human Rights”*1 and “Guiding Principles on *2: Based on the “Report on Human Rights and Transnational Corporations Business and Human Rights.”*2 Taking the signing of the and Other Business Issues” by John Ruggie, UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Business and Human Rights (at that time). UN Global Compact in 2015 as an opportunity, NGK has been actively spreading awareness for protecting human Reference rights by holding seminars on the subject. Page Compliance Education P100 The UN Global Compact is a global framework for realizing sustainable growth through companies and organizations acting as good members of society. Participating corporations support ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption required in the practice of corporate activities. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Eliminating Harassment Commencing Human Rights Due Diligence When hiring or promoting personnel to key positions, NGK The NGK Group has commenced human rights due provides these personnel with harassment elimination diligence across the Group as of fiscal 2016. training. In reference to the RBA (Responsible Business Alliance) Code of Conduct and the United Nations’ Harassment Elimination Training Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the NGK Group set specific survey items with support from Item FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 external consultants. We embarked on the activities involving Group companies in Japan in November 2016. In Sessions held 6 11 6 5 5 fiscal 2017, we began gradually expanding the scope of No. of 203 277 326 350 464 activities to our headquarters and overseas Group participants companies. Note: Human rights due diligence are steps that a company must take to recognize and deal with negative impacts on human rights. It involves the formulation of policies related to human rights, assessment of impacts of corporate activities on human rights, and follow-up and disclosure of performance results. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 44 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Customers Guided by the Corporate Philosophy, which puts customers first, the NGK Group considers the provision of products and services that contribute to a better social environment to be one of its most important missions in an effort to create quality from the customer’s perspective. Basic Approach The NGK Group engages in the creation of quality from the customer’s perspective by defining Quality Objectives Quality Policy each year in accordance with the Quality Policy based on NGK is dedicated to quality and committed to providing the NGK Group Code of Conduct. valuable products and services that are trusted by our customers and respected by society. Initiatives for Fiscal 2019 Quality Objectives 2019 In fiscal 2018, we undertook product quality initiatives Thorough examination and strengthening of the Quality Assurance System. focused on expanding the existing QRE-P* operations protocol to both established and new products. In addition, with the launch of a quality compliance program focused on maintaining and improving the operational systems that are in place in each workplace to ensure that promises made to customers are fulfilled, we expanded the scope of our quality-related activities to include work quality. For fiscal 2019, we have developed quality guidelines to clearly specify essential quality assurance items at every stage of new product development for product quality. And for work quality, we are working to reorient management’s thinking from a quality management perspective and to strengthen the mechanisms in place to incorporate contractual content into operations. Our Quality Objective for fiscal 2019 is a continuation from fiscal 2018, as we recognize that insufficient progress has been achieved on the initiatives begun in fiscal 2018. *QRE-P (Quality Risk Elimination Process): An operational protocol intended to more effectively eliminate quality-related risks at every stage when bringing products to market, from product planning to mass production. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 45 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Quality Activity System The NGK quality activity system consists of a company-wide the responsible division. In the case of an external issue, the system, led by the Quality Committee Chair, and business CSR Committee Chair will direct necessary arrangements to division internal activity systems, led by the heads of each take an appropriate response without delay. business division. In terms of company-wide activities, the Starting in fiscal 2018, we have sought to address Quality Committee was established to function as a non-conformity issues in the delivery tests by codifying deliberative body assisting the Quality Committee Chair, standardized rules that will further strengthen our quality while business division internal activity systems were put in compliance. In addition we have expanded quality-focused place for each business line, creating appropriate quality activities for “work quality” as well as “product quality”. systems for each. Quality assurance, quality control, quality In terms of organizational structure, we have made improvements, and quality education activities are promoted revisions to the members of the Quality Committee to ensure by the acquisition of ISO 9001 or IATF 16949 certification. that quality activities are directly overseen by senior In the event of a serious quality-related issue, the CSR management, and, with regard to the Power Business Committee Chair and the Quality Committee Chair will Group and its compliance issue, we have assigned discuss and cooperate in making a response. Technical customer quality assurance duties to a quality assurance issues are discussed at Quality Review meetings, as department, which is independent of the Business Group necessary, to plan countermeasures, and the Quality carrying out the business activities. Committee Chair supervises execution of the measures at Quality Activity System ■Quality policy/objectives deliberation Social Quality Committee ■Discussion of quality activities responsibility Quality Review meeting ■Technical discussion of critical quality issues Corporate value Quality Activities Meeting QuiC Steering Meeting Society ■Follow status of quality activities ■Improvement activities ■Quality surveillance Suggestion Review Committee Business Groups Quality Activities Quality compliance program Products/ Quality assurance Quality control Quality improvement Work quality improvement services activities activities activities activities Quality Design and Production Manufacturing Clerical/sales Procurement Customer Assurance development engineering division divisions division Customers Department division division satisfaction Group companies Acquisition of ISO 9001 or IATF 16949 Certification FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Percentage of ISO 9001 certified sites (%, Group) 100 100 100 97 97 Note: In FY2017 and 2018, NGK Ceramics (Thailand) Co., Ltd. was preparing to obtain certification. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 46 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Enhancing the Elimination of Quality Risks Company-Wide NGK Group Quality Activity Rules Four Rules for Quality Activities The NGK Group promotes restructuring of its quality activities to respond more precisely to increasing and ○ Quality confirmation rule diversifying quality demands from customers in different Establish milestones, from development to start of target markets. In particular, quality activity rules have production, and confirm conformance with six been formulated to enhance the elimination of quality risks quality levels when production processes change. in the market; we are promoting the establishment and improved effectiveness of the rules. ○ DR* function strengthening rule Register DR plans with quality risks of medium or Seeking Greater Effectiveness high level as important DR subjects with from Quality Activities and Innovation participation of company-wide DR reviewers. The in Operational Procedures Quality Management Department head holds company-wide DRs for cases with particularly high Since fiscal 2017, we have been promoting Quality Risk risk level. Elimination Process (QRE-P) activities throughout the NGK Group. Through these activities, we can identify procedural innovations in product realization in order to ○ Quality monitoring rule eliminate risk while improving quality. In fiscal 2018, we Monitor and share information company-wide with revised regulations in around 40% of our divisions. In fiscal respect to quality status changes or problems 2019, we will continue to revise the regulations in around concerning products or markets. Manufacturing 75% of our divisions. defects and customer complaints are shared A lot of practice and experience are necessary to company-wide every month through reports to the reach the level of understanding required to be in charge. Quality Management Department, and the Staff members deepen their understanding by working appropriateness of countermeasures is discussed. closely with the person in charge. ○ Handling major customer complaints rule In the event of a serious customer complaint, including a potential complaint, the situation is promptly reported to the Quality Committee Chair to formulate company-wide countermeasures. * Design Review NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 47 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Activities to Strengthen DR Functions The increasing and diversifying quality demands from including awareness and review of each DR. In addition, customers call for the integration of knowledge among each division is required to prepare and utilize the DR various members, not only from the design division but evaluation indicators to check by themselves of their level also from the manufacturing and production engineering and to encourage their improvements. divisions, throughout the development process. For this Furthermore, NGK organizes a company-wide DR reason, the NGK Group considers the Design Review (DR) (quality review meeting) for quality issues that are difficult to be the most critical activity. DRs are conducted when to solve by one division. At this meeting, relevant development milestones are reached or when production engineers and experts from across the company discuss processes change. Critical DRs are conducted by broad aspects of issues related to the reliability and safety reviewers from throughout the company to support the of products. elimination of quality risks. We are also deploying the above-mentioned QRE-P The DR Guidelines were created to promote DR approach to facilitate improvement of design level at the discussions and to thoroughly eliminate quality risks. We pre-DR period as well as to ensure the more effective are constantly enhancing the effectiveness of DRs through utilization of organizational knowledge and experience efforts to spread these guidelines company-wide, from DRs. Designers DR participants Ultimate Goal Product design and process design consideration Discussion and (DR preparation) deliberation at DR To eliminate quality risks by improving DR DR Guidelines Key concepts and perspectives ● Search systematically for influential factors where modified or changed, check for risks with no omissions. ● Discuss the basis for risk assessments, get opinions ● Exchange knowledge that makes for better design with everyone NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 48 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Quality Activities at Overseas Production Bases From their inception, overseas production bases have Strengthening Quality Education at created quality systems appropriate to their situations and Overseas Production Bases acquired ISO 9001 or IATF 16949 certification. Monthly reports from each base regarding customer In fiscal 2018, six improvement activities award recipients complaints and the status of manufacturing quality are took part in overseas training as well as ran quality-related discussed at quality activity meetings, enabling the entire education seminars at two overseas bases of NGK Group NGK Group to evaluate the quality status in a timely companies in the U.S. manner. Moreover, quality activity rules and annual quality The aim of the seminars was to foster a greater push objectives are distributed in an attempt to develop and for improvement activities by discussing their significance, enhance quality activities. introducing the activity ideas of the award recipients, and encouraging a greater emphasis on production costs and losses. In conjunction with this, the local staff and the award recipients partook in awareness-raising training focused on plant-related problems. Later, the award recipients offered ideas for addressing these problems by introducing improvement activities in Japan. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 49 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index QuiC Activities to Improve Quality with Full Employee Participation Since 2003, the NGK Group has held QuiC (Quality up Offering Award Recipients an Opportunity innovation Challenge) quality improvement activities in to Visit Overseas Sites which all employees participate. These activities consist of quality improvement activities by small groups or From the end of October to the beginning of November, individuals and suggestions that strive to enhance the four fiscal 2017 QuiC Outstanding Proposal quality of production; best practices are then shared by the Commendation recipients and two fiscal 2018 QuiC Grand entire NGK Group. Every July, NGK holds a company-wide Prize recipients visited NGK-Locke Polymer Insulators contest at its headquarters to highlight examples of (NLPI) and NGK Metals (NMC), two Group companies in outstanding improvement activities with the intent of the U.S. At the company, visitors and local employees horizontal expansion throughout the company. conducted improvement point (awareness) training and In fiscal 2018, the contest was held twice: once in May shared opinions on best practices. and once in July. Continuing from last year, the This program is organized to help participants better manufacturing and non-manufacturing divisions’ activities understand the importance of the mother factory in Japan, were once again held in May and July 2019. as well as to encourage self-development. It is also The non-manufacturing divisions’ contest began with a expected to inspire the local workers to appreciate the keynote speech in the morning, followed in the afternoon importance of quality improvement, thus accelerating the by the introduction of eight non-manufacturing practices, overall efforts of the Group. including those from two Group companies in Japan. For In December, another six fiscal 2017 Outstanding the manufacturing divisions’ contest, 13 practices were Proposal Commendation recipients and 10 fiscal 2018 introduced, including those from three overseas plants and Excellence Award and Special Award recipients visited five Group companies in Japan. Around 600 NGK Group Okinawa to attend a nationwide QC Circle Conference and employees and executives attended the competition. participate in discussion sessions. FY2018 suggestion activity participation rate Manufacturing divisions 100% Non-manufacturing divisions 92% Number of suggestions Approx. 28,000 Training at NGK Metals Expanding Improvement Activities to Overseas Production Bases The NGK Group is working to expand improvement At the non-manufacturing divisions’ contest held in May, the President’s Special Award was presented to the activities to overseas production bases. General Affairs Department at Komaki, who worked to During the overseas training period in 2018, we visited continue the summer festival and reduce the burden on the staff. two Group companies in the U.S. and implemented the following. • Introducing NGK’s quality improvement activities, significance, manufacturing cost, and concept of manufacturing costs and losses to local staff • Observed the factory with local staff, discussed how to identify problems and solve them • Presented examples of improvement in Japan At manufacturing divisions’ contest held in July, ACIn won the Grand Prize for maximizing equipment capacity through a rigorous process of trial and error. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 50 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Strengthening Quality-Related Education In order to facilitate greater product value and to better NGK, along with other Group companies, is meet the expectations of customers, the NGK Group continuously working to improve quality management provides employees with quality-related education focused system (QMS) training, which incorporates real-life topics on acquiring skills that can be used to incorporate specific into practical training and the promotion of operational customer needs into new products. improvement measures. Main Practical Programs Strengthened in FY2018 Program name Number of days and participants Objective 20 days; Learn statistical quality control methods and apply them to solving problems QCI 49 (manufacturing staff in their third year) relevant to the individual participant’s operational duties 50 days; Quality Basic II 60 (engineering staff in their third year) and 1 from Learn basic quality control methods and apply them to solving real-life problems Group company Quality Control Training for 3 days; 10 from Akechi Insulators 10 days; 19 from Soshin Electric QCI level practical training implemented by NGK Group Companies (Nagano and Miyazaki) Learning from Failure and 9.5 days (including 7-day exercises and 1-day Improve analytical skills and the ability to identify broader applications so that Methods of Creation presentation); 119 (total number of participants) failures can be actively capitalized upon as resources for future potential Design reviews: 0.5 day (twice); Develop an understanding of in-house initiatives to functionally strengthen DR, and Quality Basic III-3 49 (total number of participants) engage in classroom and hands-on learning on effective risk elimination procedures Develop an understanding of product liability laws, including how such laws have Product liability seminar: 0.5 day; 17 been applied in specific B2B cases, in order to heighten participants’ mindfulness of quality-related risks Understand basic approaches to preventive action and recurrence prevention; Prevention Training Seminar to increase awareness: 1 day; 14 understand risk examination procedures Issue examination and discussion: 3 days; 25 Perform risk examination using actual quality issues faced Preventive Action by (total number of participants) course participants Lecture on ISO/IATF standards: 1 day; 98 and 11 from Develop an understanding of the intent and key requirements of standards Group company Internal quality auditor training: 2 days; 81 and 10 QMS Training Cultivate and certify internal quality auditors from Group company Strengthening internal auditing capability: Strengthening QMS, quality compliance, and process auditing ability 1 day; 116 and 5 from Group company Points of Strengthening Quality-Related 53 Employees Pass Self-Maintenance Expert Education Test (Grade 1: 30 Employees, Grade 2: 23 Employees) • Quality Basic III-3 Design Review Fifty-three manufacturing division and engineering center Design review simulation training run by outside instructors employees who are engaged in NGK’s voluntary was held after basic instruction in effective risk elimination maintenance activities passed the Self-Maintenance procedures. This training helped participants reinforce Expert Test (Japan Institute of Plant Maintenance) what they have learned while fostering greater conducted in October (Grade 1: 30 employees, Grade 2: attentiveness to design checkpoints as well as overlooked 23 employees). This qualification is given to those who areas in risk elimination. possess a broad range of knowledge and skills necessary • Prevention concerning quality management, safety, and machinery In response to concerns about insufficient attentiveness to maintenance, and are certified to have the ability of quality-related risks in the market, a seminar on product planning and implementing voluntary maintenance liability laws, which included real-life B2B examples, was activities and giving instruction. NGK will continue to held in conjunction with the Legal Department. encourage employees to acquire such qualifications in order to improve quality management capabilities at manufacturing sites. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 51 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index System for Making Use of Customer Feedback in Management Establishment of a Customer Customer Cards Consultation Helpdesk We also respond to various customer feedback provided As the top industrial ceramics manufacturer in the industry, on customer cards sent from the customers who NGK makes use of its accumulated technologies to purchased the C1. manufacture and sell C1 home-use water purifiers and Information on the customer card is added to a list and promotes the creation of mechanisms for reflecting then used to improve the service we provide for our customer feedback. customers, such as notifying them when it is time to We set up an C1 inquiry service for customers to replace the cartridge. create a mechanism for reflecting customer feedback in our products and services. During fiscal 2018, we received around 7,000 inquiries via phone and e-mail on various issues, including installation methods, product performance, requests for catalogs, and requests for repair and installation. Customers Inquiries Answer Customer consultation helpdesk Full-time staff Quality information liaison committee Product (important issue improvements Regular countermeasures) meetings Engineering divisions Associated companies Quality assurance division Enhanced customer service through information sharing NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 52 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Employees The NGK Group implements a human resource system which enables every employee to perform at their full potential under fair treatment. Basic Approach In the NGK Group Code of Conduct revised in January 2019, our relationship with employees is based on the idea of “Respect for Human Rights” and “Provide a Safe and Enjoyable Work Environment” and defined as follows. Respect for Human Rights • We will strictly comply with international standards of human rights and respect the diversity of all people. • We will respect human rights and undertake business activities without the use of forced labor or child labor. • We will respect the individuality and independence of each employee and not engage in discrimination on the basis of race, citizenship, gender, age, religion, belief, existence of handicaps, sexual diversity or any other aspect. • We will prevent the occurrence of harassment in the workplace and take prompt and appropriate action in the case where it occurs. Provide a Safe and Enjoyable Work Environment • We will provide a safe and enjoyable work environment that is comfortable for everyone to work in for all. • We will strictly comply with laws and regulations of each country and region relating to labor, safety and sanitation. • We will aim to harmonize work and life, and support a variety of working styles. • We will build up a relationship of trust through sincere debate and discussion with employees. • We will give educational opportunities to employees and provide opportunities to stretch their motivation and abilities. Basic Information on Employees Number of NGK Group Employees Competition of NGK Group Employee Composition by Region Number of employees Other 0.9％ FY2014 16,217 North and Central America Japan 15.6％ FY2015 16,657 FY2018 37.4％ FY2016 17,517 Europe 20,115 FY2017 18,783 20.7％ FY2018 20,115 Asia 25.4％ Note: Regular employees (includes employees from outside companies who have been temporarily assigned to the NGK Group, but excludes employees from the NGK Group who have been temporarily assigned to outside companies) NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 53 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index NGK Employee Status in FY2018 Gender 3,807 548 Men Women Note: Regular employees (excludes employees from NGK Group companies or outside companies who have been temporarily assigned to NGK, but includes employees from NGK who have been temporarily assigned to NGK Group companies or outside companies) Full-time employees Employment type 4,355 507 389 Contract employees Temporary employees Average age 39.0 years old (Men: 38.1 / Women: 39.1) Average length of service 14.1 years (Men: 14.1 years / Women: 15.1 years) Average salary 7,888,094 yen (No. of Turnover Ratio (No. of persons) Voluntary Turnover Ratio persons) Number of New Hires Remaining at the Company (3 years) New graduate Retention in FY2018 FY2018 Retention rate hires in 2016 2019 Voluntary Turnover ratio 1.42% (62) 1.15% (55) Total 158 150 94.9% turnover ratio Men 1.21% (46) Men 0.96% (40) Men 127 124 97.6% Women 2.92% (16) Women 2.52% (15) Women 31 26 83.9% Revision of the Human Resource System Key Points of the Revised System for General Employees • Developing a mechanism whereby all employees can Qualifications challenge to qualify for a higher job grade. In April 2017, NGK revised its human resource system for • Clarifying the definition of each qualification. general employees to enable all employees, from the young to the experienced, to work with enjoyment and • Shifting from age-based evaluation to effortand result Evaluation based evaluation. fulfillment. As NGK develops its businesses globally and promotes the creation of new products and businesses, it Retirement • Maintaining the same level of salary after age 60. is essential to motivate young and mid-level employees at age 65 who will take on future key roles and encourage them to demonstrate their full potential. The revised system aims to build the environment that makes these possible. NGK Definition of General Employees Group S: Key personnel (management) candidates and advanced specialists Group M: Operational and on-site leaders Group J: Personnel who seek to actualize, and be utilized to, their full potential NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 54 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Safety and Health In 2007, NGK introduced an Occupational Safety and Structure to Promote Safety and Health Management Health Management System (OSHMS) in line with its Safety and Health Policy. The OSHMS serves as a Board of Directors mechanism for the ongoing, systematic implementation of President employee health and safety initiatives. Since then, we have ensured that this system is diligently implemented and that Safety and Health risk assessment-based safety measures are strictly Committee followed. As a result, in 2017 the Japan Industrial Safety Safety and Industrial Health and Health Association (JISHA) issued the first ISO-45001 Management Department (secretariat) private certification in Japan to our Nagoya Site. This was followed by other sites in 2018, namely the Chita and • Nagoya Site Responsible business group Komaki Sites, and now all of our business sites and plants (including Ishikawa district) • Chita Site • Komaki Site throughout Japan have received ISO-45001 private • Tokyo Main Office Group companies Group companies certification and JIS Q 45100 2018 DRAFT certification. in Japan outside Japan We also make a concerted effort to promote better Safety and Health (13 manufacturing (16 manufacturing Committee at each site bases) bases) health and wellbeing among our employees, for which we have been included in the 2019 “White 500” list under the Health and Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program, run by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and Nippon Kenko Kaigi. Safety and Health Policy Health Declaration Maintaining the safety and health of each employee Health Declaration of the NGK Group constitutes the basis for a company’s operation and existence At NGK, we consider employee health and safety to be of fundamental 1. Comply with occupational safety and health laws and company regulations. importance to the company’s operation and are, therefore, proactive 2. Engage in activities in line with the OSHMS* to continuously raise the safety about developing dynamic, people-friendly work environments and a and health standards. health-conscious corporate culture, which contribute to better health for each and every employee. 3. Promote safety and health activities under enough education and training and good communication with employees. 4. Reduce the risks of hazards and toxicity and prevent accidents to provide a comfortable work environment. 5. Prevent employees’ health hazards and enhance health promoting activities. *OSHMS: Occupational Safety and Health Management System Activities to Promote Safety and Health Management in FY2018 Main points Priority activities Improve managers’ risk management • Expanding practical risk assessment seminars to technical workplaces skills • Improving the level of hazard source identification activities at each production site Improvement of • Reviewing work instruction and risk assessment activities NGK the self-management system • Actively developing “Near miss” activities and incorporating them into risk assessment (non-consolidated) Improvement of hazard awareness and • Launching hazard simulation/hazard prediction training school run by in-house instructors strengthening of hazard prediction ability Promotion of health hazard prevention • Analyzing and responding to stress check results at priority workplaces • Making improvements to mitigate potential for operations to negatively impact health Strengthening of compliance and • Developing mechanisms to ensure legal compliance Group companies in augmentation of risk identification • Promoting risk assessment activities and outside Japan and awareness-raising systems • Acquire international standards certification (newly acquired by six companies) Activities to Promote Safety and Health Management in FY2019 Medium-term action plan FY2019 action items Priority activities • Focus on identifying risks for ancillary, irregular, and non-standard operations Identify serious hazard risks and Evaluate rotating equipment, explosion, • Identify high-risk operations and implement hard infrastructure measures strengthen preventative measures and electrocution risks • Clarify and raise awareness of risk confirmation rules • Fully resolve outstanding issues at each company and perform follow-up auditing Develop a more fully integrated Set in place governance systems at • Follow up on certification-related work by companies not yet ISO 45001-certified governance structure Group companies • Develop a more comprehensively delineated governance structure for each Business Group Implement job grade-specific training • Assess current level and specify target personnel for training Improve on-sight management (division general managers, • Strengthen risk assessment training (facilities and equipment, operations) strength of persons in charge plant managers, managers) • Implement worksite capability consultation committees for each job grade NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 55 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Enhancing Safety and Health Activities NGK views the enhancement of safety and health activities structure mechanisms at NGK and other Group as one of its top priorities. As such, we developed a companies. medium-term action plan in fiscal 2016 built around the In addition, we have promoted the acquisition of key themes of compliance, risk reduction, and enhanced international occupational safety and health management governance and have undertaken activities based upon it. system certification by all manufacturing-related Group During fiscal 2018, which was the final year of this plan, companies in Japan and overseas. As of the end of fiscal our focus was on ensuring thorough implementation of 2018, more than half of all Group companies have risk reduction measures as well as developing and ISO-45001 or OHSAS-18001 certification. maintaining robust legal compliance and governance Work-Related Accidents (NGK) Work-Related Accidents (Group companies outside Japan) (Cases) (Cases) 15 50 42 12 12 11 40 12 9 30 28 8 6 8 6 9 20 Data not available 17 3 30 3 3 9 3 10 20 2 4 3 2 3 8 0 1 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Non-lost worktime accidents Lost worktime accidents Non-lost worktime accidents Lost worktime accidents Work-Related Accidents (Group companies in Japan) Severity Rate (the number of lost workdays per 1,000 hours worked) (Cases) 15 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 13 12 10 NGK 0.000 0.007 0.0036 0.0002 0.7430 9 7 8 8 Group companies 7 – – 0.0086 0.0000 0.0004 6 in Japan 6 5 Group companies 7 – – 0.0403 0.0219 0.0154 outside Japan 3 6 7 4 3 0 1 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Year) Non-lost worktime accidents Lost worktime accidents Rate of Lost-Worktime Injuries (NGK) (the number of lost-worktime accidents per a million hours worked) Non-Lost Worktime Accidents by Type (past 7 years; NGK) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Fall on same level/fall from height 2 111 Caught in/between All industry total 1.66 1.61 1.63 1.66 1.83 3 Cut Manufacturing 18 1.06 1.06 1.15 1.02 1.20 Total Collision industry total 7 NGK company-wide total 0.00 0.29 0.34 0.11 0.40 54 cases Flying and falling objects Electric shock Group companies – – 0.50 0.00 0.14 8 Traffic accidents in Japan Group companies 13 Exposure to high or low temperatures – – 1.42 0.91 0.34 outside Japan Contact with hazardous materials Number of Deaths from Work-Related Accidents Rate of Occupational Disease (NGK) (NGK and Group companies in Japan) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 0 0 0.11 0 0.10 (Person) 0 0 0 0 1* *In fiscal 2018 there was one work-related fatality. This fatality was the result of a traffic accident involving the truck of another company, which struck an NGK employee in a crosswalk. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 56 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index External Certification on Occupational Safety and Health Management System In order to help reach our medium-term safety and health Rate of Acquiring Management System Certification: targets, we encourage all companies within the NGK Group to End of FY2018 acquire international occupational safety and health NGK (Site and factory) 100％ management system (OSHMS) certification. With regard to NGK Insulators (non-consolidated), in 2018 Manufacturing Group companies in Japan 58% （7/12） the Chita and Komaki Sites joined the Nagoya Site in securing Manufacturing Group ISO-45001 certification. Now all NGK business sites and 40% （6/15） companies outside Japan plants in Japan have integrated ISO-45001 certification. In addition, 14 manufacturing-related Group companies in Japan and overseas have ISO-45001 or OHSAS-18001 certification. Acquisition of Management System Certification (as of end of FY2018) NGK All sites and plants acquired ISO-45001 and JIS Q 45100 certifications Group companies Five companies acquired ISO 45001 certification: NGK Okhotsk, Energy Support, NGK Ceramic Devices, NGK Fine Molds, Ikebukuro Horo Kogyo. in Japan Two companies acquired OHSAS-18001 certification: NGK Adrec and Akechi Insulators. Six companies acquired OHSAS 18001 certification: ACC, ACP, ACS, ACE, ACU, and ACM. Note: Group company ACC: NGK Ceramics Suzhou ACE: NGK Ceramics Europe outside Japan ACP: NGK Ceramics Polska ACU: NGK Ceramics USA ACS: NGK Ceramics South Africa ACM: NGK Ceramics Mexico Establishment of Hazard Simulation and Hazard Prediction Training School To help lower the incidence of work-related accidents caused by younger and less experienced employees, in June of 2018 we replaced NGK’s old and simple training center with a 450 m2 Hazard Simulation and Hazard Prediction Training School at the Chita Site where we have begun running safety training courses taught by specialist employees with a great deal of outside expertise. The Training School features equipment, mannequins, and other tools that enable participants to learn first-hand about occupational hazards, such as becoming entangled or crushed by cranes or rotary devices. Also, in addition to general hazard training, more practical simulation training is incorporated into training programs that are aimed at heightening participants’ hazard awareness. In fiscal 2018, approximately 1,400 employees participated in these training programs. Hosting a Safety Process Expert Meeting (PEM) NGK’s Ceramic Products Business Group invites overseas Department provided a progress report on the NGK production site safety and health managers to its yearly Group’s occupational safety and health action plans and Safety Process Expert Meeting (PEM) to review and policies, incidence of accidents, and other relevant discuss ways to improve safety levels across the NGK information. Afterwards, all participants toured the Group. In fiscal 2018, a total of 29 employees from company’s manufacturing operations and identified HONEYCERAM® production bases in Japan and overseas sources of potential danger as well as the good points and gathered at NGK Ceramics Europe in Belgium to points to improve for the countermeasures in place. These exchange safety-related information and ideas. discussions produced a number of new insights and Additionally, the Safety & Industrial Health Management greater awareness. TOPIC Company-Wide Forklift Safety Tournament The Safety & Industrial Health Management Department held the second Forklift Safety Tournament at the Chita Site. The aim of this tournament is to serve as a complement to knowledge and skill acquisition done through classroom learning and competition, seeking to promote greater safety awareness for forklift operations by further invigorating forklift safety activities at individual work sites. Continuing from the previous, the company-wide tournament was held with the hope that it would serve as a venue for idea and information exchange between work sites. On the day of the tournament, 16 employees selected from the Nagoya, Chita and Komaki sites, as well as the Ishikawa Plant, competed against one another in a demonstration of knowledge and technical skill. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 57 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Restricting Long Work Hours Overtime Work Hour Trends: General Employees Hours worked Since July 2016, we lowered the maximum amount of (per person) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 overtime work to 70 hours per month (with an upper limit of Annual fixed 300 hours per half-year). We strive to reduce overtime by 1,919 1,919 1,919 1,919 1,919 working hours clarifying work priorities at each division, revising the Annual actual 2,077 2,087 2,069 2,072 2,081 cross-sectional division of roles within a department, and working hours other improvements. Average overtime 24.5 24.9 23.7 24.3 25.2 work per month Following Up on Employees Working Consultations by Employees Working Long Hours Long Hours Interviewees FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 (persons) NGK provides employees working long hours, including General 63 154 68 65 101 non-regular and part-time employees, with ongoing employees opportunities to meet with industrial physicians for health Managers 46 72 40 20 142 consultations and exams. The results are reported to and followed up on by Safety and Health Committees at each Note: Numbers of people shown are cumulative totals. worksite. Also, the medical status of employees working long hours and the condition of those who need medical treatment are reported at monthly Safety and Health Committee meetings in an effort to thoroughly promote the reduction of overtime work. Promotion of Activities Supporting Mental and Physical Health Four Types of Care for Mental Health Four Types of Care 1 2 We facilitate the widespread implementation of ongoing Line care mental and physical health promotion activities, centering Self-care (care by supervisors) 4 types Note: Recent, selective introduction on the four types of care for mental health promoted by 3 4 the Ministry of Health, Labor, and Welfare. Care by industrial of care Care by resources health staff within In fiscal 2018, we carried out stress checks for all business sites outside business sites employees. The results were subjected to group analysis. We are improving workplace environments where stress levels are high—such as by providing training for managers—and confirming the effectiveness of these improvement measures. Position-Based Mental Care Education Position-Based Mental Care Education at NGK (Persons) We also conduct ongoing stratified mental care education. FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Continuing on from the previous fiscal year, in fiscal 2017 we selectively provided mental health education to New hires 56 199 234 158 192 managers in order to further enhance our recent key General 291 272 325 181 306 initiatives on line care (care by supervisors). We are also employees incorporating it into the job grade-specific education for Managers 95 87 450 63 69 new managers to deepen their understanding of mental health. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 58 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Diversity It is NGK Group’s basic policy to recruit human resources Appointment of Female Key Personnel and offer stable employment and equal opportunities (Management Staff) regardless of race, nationality, gender, age, religion, creed, disability, or gender identity/sexual orientation. Also, in an The NGK Group strives to increase opportunities for aim to promote autonomy and independence, NGK motivated and skilled people to enhance their skills maintains the human resource systems necessary to regardless of gender. We are also engaged in creating provide employees with fair compensation commensurate comfortable working environment for women. The number with their degree of contribution to the company. of female key personnel (management staff) of NGK in fiscal 2018 was 20. Note: Excluding new graduates planned to NGK New Graduate Hires transfer from temporary to regular positions. (Persons) Ratio of Female Employees University graduate Junior college/ High school Joined company vocational graduate, FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Total Men Women school graduate other Ratio of female 12.9% 12.6% 12.7% 12.5% 12.6% April 2015 38 29 9 0 60 employees*1 Ratio of female 16.1% 15.6% 15.5％ 15.1％ 15.2％ April 2016 94 67 27 0 46 general employees*2 *1: Ratio among all employees April 2017 65 50 15 0 51 *2: Ratio among all general employees April 2018 104 72 32 0 47 Female Key Personnel (Managers) April 2019 96 69 27 0 47 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Ratio of female key 1.5% 1.8% 1.8％ 2.0％ 2.2％ NGK Mid-Career Hires (Persons) personnel* University University Other Other No. of persons 14 14 16 17 20 Joined company Total graduate graduate men women men women No. of department 2 3 3 4 4 April 2014–March 2015 49 15 4 30 0 managers or higher * Ratio among all key personnel April 2015–March 2016 200 69 12 116 3 Ratio of Women in Managerial Positions at April 2016–March 2017 158 66 15 73 4 Group Companies Outside Japan April 2017–March 2018 135 58 12 63 2 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 April 2018–March 2019 115 72 12 29 2 16.6% 15.3% 21.0% 16.0% System to Promote Diversity Promoting Women’s Active Participation At NGK, the Human Resources Department plays a central through the Revised Human Resource System role in promoting diversity, including through nursing care NGK has revised its human resource system, aiming to support and promotion of women’s active participation. enable employees in general employment positions who Regarding human rights issues, NGK strives to were engaged in routine tasks to take on a broader range educate employees by distributing booklets on human and a higher level of work. rights on occasions such as training for the recently The new human resource system supports career promoted employees. A helpline is also available for advancement of individual employees. They can take the consultation on these issues. initiative to challenge to move up to a higher job grade. Promoting the Success of Women Establishment of a Career Consultation Launch of Women’s Active Participation Helpdesk Promotion Project In March 2016, we established a career consultation Previously, the Human Resources Department has played helpdesk for female employees to discuss career-related a central role in NGK’s efforts to promote more active concerns. At the helpdesk, certified career consultants participation by women, such as by expanding support provide support and consultation services to employees, systems and providing training to supervisors. However, while strictly observing confidentiality. Since May 2017, we the new Women’s Active Participation Promotion Project have expanded the service to make it available not only to launched in fiscal 2018 goes well beyond the Human women but to all employees. Resources Department to incorporate members representing a broader, company-wide perspective. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 59 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Introduction of System to Support Early Certified as a Company Promoting Women’s Return from Parental Leave Active Participation by Nagoya City* We have introduced a system to encourage and support In recognition of our efforts to create a workplace employees so that they can return from maternity and environment that encourages women’s active participation childcare leave and resume their careers at an early stage. such as revising our system for transferring to career-track Reference System to support positions, we were certified as a Company Promoting P64 Page early return from parental leave Women’s Active Participation by Nagoya City in January 2012 and recertified in January 2018. Training for Employees Returning from *A system for certifying companies that conduct outstanding initiatives in the areas of (1) awareness improvement, (2) work-life balance, and (3) Childcare Leave promotion of women’s active participation. Training was provided for female employees returning after the end of their designated childcare leave period, as well as for their supervisors. During this training, participants were offered advice on how to orient their focus and coordinate their schedule in balancing work and family responsibilities, as well as how to go about developing a January 2012 medium-to-long-term career plan. Despite being from Company Promoting Women’s Active Participation (Nagoya City) different departments, all of the participants were alike in that they faced the challenges of balancing childrearing with work, and through their interactions with one another, they were Submitting Our Action Plan for Promoting able to share their stories, their struggles, and their advice. Women’s Active Workplace Participation to MHLW Group J Clerical Staff Career Design Training In January 2019, in accordance with the Act on Promotion In line with the revisions made to NGK’s human resource of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the system for general employees in April 2017 (job grade Workplace, NGK submitted a general employer action standardization and extension of the mandatory retirement plan to the Aichi Labor Bureau, which is overseen by age to 65), Group J clerical staff were provided with career MHLW. design training intended to serve as an opportunity for In this plan, NGK sets the goal of hiring more female them to think about their future career path and work employees. Accordingly, the proportion of women among style. Through this training, participants examined the new hires increased from 16% in fiscal 2012 to 31% in expectations of those around them, their own skills and fiscal 2018. values, and then objectively considered their career goals We will keep working on the initiatives according to the from a medium-to-long term perspective and what they action plan to accomplish our goals. need to do to achieve them. Participants not only utilized information provided by their instructors but also engaged Ratio of Women among New Graduate Hires at NGK in solo and group work to facilitate a deeper level of Hiring self-awareness and discovery. target FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Ratio of female university 29% 23% 31% 28% Certified as an “L-Boshi” Company for graduates (total) Excellence in Promoting Women’s Active University 30% 42% 27% 42% 44% (administrative-related) Participation University 20% 13% 20% 22% 24% In March 2017, NGK was certified as an “L-Boshi” (engineering-related) company by the Minister of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW). This certification is granted to companies that Action Plan have done excellent jobs in accordance with the Act on Issues Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in • Although there is no gender gap in terms of criteria for the Workplace. promotion and service years, the number of women in Each applicant for the certification is evaluated on five management positions is small. criteria: recruitment, employment continuity, working hours, percentage of female managers, and diverse career Goals paths. By meeting four of these five criteria, NGK has • Foster a corporate culture that promotes women’s active received the second highest certification of the three levels. participation. • Increase the number of candidates for managers by 1.5 times. Create an environment that makes it easier for Initiative 1 women to achieve a work-life balance. Increase the ratio of women among new graduate Initiative 2 hiresand diversify career opportunities. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 60 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Promoting Participation of Older Employment of Persons with Disabilities Employees NGK undertakes a variety of initiatives aimed at employing As part of changes made to the NGK Insulators personnel people with disabilities, such as accepting students from system in April 2017, the mandatory retirement age has special-needs schools as trainees and attending been raised to 65. Salary levels, bonuses, and benefits employment seminars for people with disabilities. have all been kept at the same level as of age 60. Our goal In fiscal 2018, three of our new hires were people with is to ensure employees to work without worries even after disabilities. Additionally, NGK has hired its first visually they turn 60. More robust systems and support have been impaired employee. In terms of the legally mandated introduced for employees with illness or nursing care employment rate, because the total number of employees needs, such as more flexible work schedules offering at NGK continues to grow, employees with disabilities shorter hours and three-day work weeks, or a lump sum remain around 1.9% of all employees. However, we nursing care support allowance for employees caring for continue to work to improve this by accepting students their parents or spouse. from special-needs schools as trainees and attending employment seminars for people with disabilities. Also, in addition to new hires, we are working to increase the number of mid-career hires who are people with I want to keep delivering new products disabilities. to the world right up until retirement Number and Percentage of Employees with Disabilities (NGK) I turned 60 in 2017, which is the same year that (%) (Persons) NGK raised the mandatory retirement age. My job 2.5 90 is designing and drawing plans for new sensors 2.23 2.18 used in automobiles. I have worked with sensors 2.03 for the past 36 years, having been involved with 2.0 1.92 70 1.90 everything from sensor design to production 62 57 technology and production control. There are a lot 56 56 55 of young developers working in the same office 1.5 50 with me, so I also help to train them. I have so much that I have to do, but it also means that I have new and interesting challenges every day. 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Before the raise of mandatory retirement age, employees had the option of applying to be rehired mostly as a support role, but now that I am able to remain right on the front line, it naturally enhances my sense of motivation. I have three and a half years until mandatory retirement age of 65. Until then, my primary goal is to keep delivering new sensors to the world. I will also devote my energies to help my young colleagues become worthy successors. Advanced Development Department, Sensor Division, Ceramic Products Business Group Nobukazu Ikoma NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 61 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Various Systems to Make Use of Diverse Promoting the Regular Employment of Human Resources Manufacturing Contract Employees The NGK Group implements systems promoting the NGK established a system for appointing manufacturing utilization of human resources based on the idea that contract employees to become regular employees, and 37 personnel diversity is linked to innovation in organizational employees were appointed in fiscal 2018. Excellent culture. employees are identified through biannual personnel assessments and recommended by division heads to sit for the regular employee promotion exam. Those who Human Resource Utilization Systems Aligned pass the exam become regular employees. with Employee Individuality and Skills Excellent workers out of the ones who transfer to regular employment positions also have a chance for To open the way for employees to take full advantage of promotion to two higher ranks of company qualification. their individuality and skills, NGK adopts an internal job In fiscal 2018, two employees underwent accelerated application system, in which open positions are promotion via this system. announced internally and eligible applicants are appointed. There is also a career follow-up system for career track Transfers from Contract Manufacturing Worker registration enabling applicants to register their work to Regular Employee (NGK) history, qualifications, and desired position to provide an opportunity for individuals to carry out their work duties FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 with a sense of satisfaction. And an FA (free agent) system Converted (persons) 27 25 15 20 37 allows employees to register their personal aspirations and preference of jobs to appeal themselves within the company. Accelerated Promotions (NGK) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Internal Job Application System (NGK) Promoted (persons) 4 11 11 6 2 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Applications 19 28 17 32 28 (cases) Recruits (persons) 23 36 28 50 40 Management of Follow-up System to Fit Applicants Young Employees in the Workplace 12 23 11 15 7 (persons) To prevent career mismatches, there is a follow-up system Successful applications 8 9 4 5 2 for younger employees in NGK. For career-track (persons) employees, we conduct surveys and interviews about their jobs and work environment in their second year; and for Career Follow-Up System manufacturing technology staff, we do this in their second or third year of employment. If they desire, feedback is FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 provided to their superiors, leading to younger employees’ Registered job stability. A job rotation system is also provided mainly 2 2 0 3 4 (persons) to young career-track employees. After working with us for Transferred (persons) 1 0 0 1 0 four to six years, they are transferred to a different job— potentially overseas or outside their current department. Come-Back System In fiscal 2016, NGK launched the Come-Back System to rehire people who had left our company for various reasons (e.g., job change, studying abroad, job transfer of a spouse, etc.) as mid-career employees. Reference Come-Back System URL https://www.ngk.co.jp/recruit/comeback/ NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 62 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Work-Life Balance To promote a work-life balance and reduce long working Rate of Paid Leave Utilization (NGK) hours, in fiscal 2011, NGK formulated specific rules based （%） on initiatives that had been conducted by 75 72.5 labor-management over the previous three fiscal years. 70 69.1 68.7 67.5 We keep track of social changes, such as changing 65.2 attitudes toward work as well as legislative amendments, 65 62.6 and strive to respond to these changes flexibly and 60 properly by improving systems and revising operations. 55 Nine Rules for Promoting a Work-Life Balance 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) No more than 70 hours of overtime work per month. Overtime work exceeding 45 hours per month limited to For the sixth consecutive year, six months each year. 99% of employees used six At least six days of paid leave must be taken each year. or more granted days of paid leave No more than 300 hours of overtime work per six months. For more than 10 consecutive years, In principle, there will be no overtime work on refresh days the average number of days used for granted paid leave exceeded 10 (Wednesdays and Fridays). If overtime is necessary, a prior permit application must be For more than five consecutive years, submitted. usage of granted paid leave exceeded 60% In principle, work must not be performed for more than seven days straight. If work in excess of seven days straight is necessary, a prior permit application must be submitted. Enhancing Systems for Supporting Written applications must be submitted when requesting Work-Life Balance employees to work on holidays or late at night. NGK offers flexible systems to help employees maintain a balance between work and family life. To support childcare and nursing care, we are enhancing financial support by providing a babysitter expense subsidy system, and a Initiatives to Limit Overtime Work lump-sum payment system for nursing care support. And in consideration of the working environment, we offer If, for any reason, overtime work in excess of 45 hours per support via a shortened working hour system. month appears likely, the reason for the increase in Further, we continue to enhance the soft infrastructure overtime work must be confirmed through prior NGK has in place to support these employees. For labor-management consultations to level out the time employees seeking to balance their career with childcare, periods and workloads or increase the number of we offer pre-maternity leave interviews, pre-reinstatement employees. interviews during the childcare leave period, career consultations, and other consultation resources. For employees undertaking nursing care, we offer nursing Countermeasures for Mitigating Increased care-related information sessions and distribute nursing Overtime Working Hours care handbooks, as well as facilitate consultation services Each year, NGK discloses statistics on hours worked and which make use of outside resources. paid leave utilization to its Labor Union for discussion and countermeasure deliberation purposes. When cases of long working hours are found, Labor Union meets with each workplace to devise countermeasures. When long working hours are found for employees who have been temporarily assigned overseas, they must submit in writing the reason for the long working hours and undergo a health check. These measures are taken to maintain their health, and the written report is used to identify the reasons for long working hours and to develop countermeasures. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 63 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Enhancement of Work-Life Balance Systems put their children in non-registered daycares. These systems are part of the initiatives we undertake to support In 2010, NGK made a major revision to its human resource employees’ careers after they have returned to work. Also, in system, and we have since been continuously enhancing our addition to childcare and nursing care, we launched a support measures by identifying employees’ needs. One system for flexible work arrangements to help employees recent example is the establishment of a system in 2013 to who need to attend to a health condition of their own that allow employees to take a leave of absence for requires repeated and ongoing treatment, thereby finding a accompanying a spouse posted overseas for work. balance between work and medical care. In fiscal 2016, we responded to the needs of employees who In fiscal 2018, we investigated how to improve the would like to gradually increase their working hours linking efficiency and productivity of workplaces by offering with their child’s growth. The accommodation was made employees greater flexibility in terms of work style and possible by relaxing restrictions set up for children’s age for environment, so that they can work to their potential while which the exemption from unscheduled work and limitation maintaining a healthy work-life balance, regardless of when on overtime work apply. We have also introduced Childcare or where they work. It was in this context that we introduced Concierge* services for employees working in the Tokyo a telecommuting system intended to help address the needs metropolitan area, where it is difficult to find daycare centers. of employees with children or family members who require In fiscal 2017, we established an early reinstatement care, or who have a serious illness themselves. lump-sum system for employees who return to work early *Services to help facilitate the process of finding a daycare center and from their childcare leave (within 11 months of the start of returning to work. They include tailored support for individual employees their childcare leave). We also established a non-registered during childcare leave to help them find a daycare center and giving advice in daycare subsidy system to help subsidize employees who preparation for their return to work. System to Support Employees to Balance Work and Childcare at Each Stage Interview (employee, supervisor, and HR) Interview (employee, supervisor, and HR) ▲ ▲ ▲ During pregnancy Before/after birth During childcare leave Balancing work and care Measures on health management Time off before/after birth Childcare leave Shortened working hours Overtime work exemption Special paid leave when a Continuing the childcare leave Flex time system spouse gives birth Late-night working hours Unscheduled work exemption exemption Childcare leave (using Limitation on overtime work accumulated vacation days) Work systems Flex time system Late-night working hours exemption Half-day paid leave Caring for a family member (using accumulated vacation days) Caring for a child Childcare Concierge (for those living in the Tokyo Priority use of a commuter metropolitan area) parking lot (in Nagoya) Other systems Non-registered daycare expense subsidy Babysitter expense subsidy Family Fund Maternity gift Financial support Elementary school enrollment gift Health systems Lump-sum birth allowance Insurance insurance benefits Employment Lump-sum childcare leave insurance allowance During the time off before/after Lump-sum payment made six Salary birth, pay 2/3 of the standard Unpaid months after returning to work daily wage (330,000 yen) During the time off before/after Bonus birth, pay a bonus calculated Unpaid with a 2/3 attendance rate Systems to Support Early Return from Systems to Support Early Return from Parental Leave Parental Leave NGK has systems to encourage and support employees A lump-sum payment for early return who have taken maternity and childcare leave so that they Licensed daycare center expense subsidy can return to their careers at an early stage. These systems are aimed at developing workplaces Childcare Concierge that support female employees in particular, with the expectation of promoting their active participation. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 64 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Overview of Childrearing Support Measures and Users Systems That Exceed Legal Requirements System name Details FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Women 52 49 44 36 27 Rate of parental 100% 96% 100% 100% 100% Until the last day of the month leave takers when the child turns one year old. When there are certain circumstances, Rate of returned 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% such as not being able to find Rate of employees a daycare center, leave is available still working a year 100% 100% 100% 100% ー Childcare leave until the last day of the month in after returning to work which the child turns 18 months old or the end of March after the child Men 12 11 7 17 27 turns one, whichever is longer (Legal requirement: until the child Of which 12 11 7 17 27 turns 18 months old) returned to work (Rate of returned) （100％） （100％） （100％） （100％） （100％） Rate of employees still working a year 100% 100% 100% 100% ー after returning to work Six or seven hours per day for Shortened working employees until the fiscal year when hours during their children start fourth grade in Users 43 53 57 51 63 childrearing elementary school (Legal requirement: For children under the age of three) Systems Operated Independently by NGK System name Details FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Lump-sum payment made six Lump-sum payment is paid six months after returning to work 20 16 26 19 31 months after returning to work System for taking annual paid leave in hourly Paid leave can be taken in hourly increments by employees increments for employees working shortened hours for five days 18 35 36 36 59 working shortened hours Childcare leave for fathers Unused annual paid holidays can be used for childcare leave 12 11 7 17 19 Interview is attended by employee, HR, and supervisor to provide Pre-maternity leave interview the employee with peace of mind while on maternity leave 25 22 20 27 30 and ensures both sides have proper understanding of procedures related to systems supporting childcare and work Supports smooth transition back to work through consultation on Interview before returning to work work details and work style 14 27 18 30 29 Enables employees to take a leave of up to two years and six months while accompanying a spouse (including a non-NGK System for accompanying a employee) posted overseas for work, and allows employees to 1 2 2 6 1 spouse’s overseas assignment continue their career path, which was difficult to do prior to the establishment of this system Maternity gift ¥50,000 gift when a child is born 183 175 208 225 241 (Family Fund) Elementary school enrollment gift (Family Fund) ¥50,000 gift when a child enrolls in elementary school 137 124 142 151 172 Babysitter expense subsidy Provides up to ¥100,000 per year for employees who must pay (Family Fund) for a babysitter or daycare due to working hours 13 16 19 9 8 Childcare Concierge Support to facilitate the process of putting a child in daycare and (for those living in the Unintroduced Unintroduced 2 1 1 returning to work Tokyo metropolitan area) Priority parking spaces to support childcare Priority parking spaces available at a commuter parking lot 12 17 19 29 32 (for those working at headquarters) A lump-sum payment for early return Unintroduced Unintroduced Unintroduced 1 0 Non-registered daycare subsidy system Unintroduced Unintroduced Unintroduced 3 7 NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 65 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Systems to Support Nursing Care Working hours Time off Financial support 1 Shortened working hours 7 Caring for a family member using 10 Care leave benefits 2 Working 3 days a week accumulated vacation days 11 Care leave support fund 3 Flex time system 8 Unpaid days off to provide care (for employees at departments to which 12 Lump-sum care allowance the regular flex time system does not apply) 4 Limitation on overtime work Leave of absence 5 Unscheduled work exemption 6 Late-night working hours 9 Care leave exemption Nursing Care Leave Usage (NGK) Company Intranet FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 We have launched a site on diverse work styles on the No. of employees company intranet to widely announce our measures to taking nursing 0 0 0 1 0 support a work-life balance. The new site is a redesigned care leave and more user-friendly version of the previous Work and Family Life Support Site. Its new features include, for example, an online handbook on childcare and nursing Revision of the Care Leave System care. In line with revisions made in January 2017 to the Child Care and Family Care Leave Act, we made revisions to our own system, such as enabling employees to divide their one-year nursing care leave into three blocks. Moreover, we have signed a corporate contract with SeaCare, an NPO that supports care-giving, to further enhance services helpful to caregivers. This service makes care-giving consultations available free of charge, regardless of whether Certification of Needed Long-Term Care has been obtained, and enables employees to receive support in care-giving when they are unable to do so. Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare Next-generation support certification logo “L-boshi” certification of corporate “Kurumin” (2012) excellence in the promotion of women’s active participation Certification level 2 (2017) Nagoya City Aichi Prefecture Certification of corporate promotion Certification of Aichi of women’s active participation “Shining Women” Companies (2011) (2016) NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 66 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Human Resource Development The NGK Group puts its Group Philosophy into action by Company-Wide Human Resource ensuring that people remain our top priority. We do this Development System not only through the educational programs that we offer but also by cultivating work environments and supportive NGK designs human resource development initiatives supervisors capable of ensuring that each employee is based on management and business challenges that able to contribute and independently grow through the affect the entire company. We appropriately incorporate all work that he or she undertakes within the environment in departments connected with education and training, and which he or she is placed. we ensure that the training and education programs we provide cover everything without any omissions or Human Resources We Aim to Develop repetitions in content. Towards that end we have established an: ① Individuals who are bold and tenacious when • Education Council to deliberate on human resource overcoming challenges development systems, policies, and plans to be ② Individuals who are able to work in teams to get implemented company-wide; results • In-house Training Liaison Committee to raise awareness ③ Individuals with the skills and sense needed to of human resource development policies and to carry on business activities across borders consolidate the various challenges and human resource development needs of the different departments; and an • Education Coordination Committee to take the departmental needs and work together with the departments that will implement training and education Compliance to deliberate on the nature and direction of policies to be Business Career Requirements implemented in response. These three deliberative Values in Job Skills Support bodies operate according to an annual plan for the Performance purpose of ensuring that training and education is • Philosophy • Technical skills • Career design in • Work-related carried out company-wide in an appropriate manner with • Code of Conduct • Human skills 50s basic legal training, license content that is undergoing continual improvement. • Company history • Conceptual skills • Career design acquisition, for women management system handling Training Participant Summary (total participants) Why What How Must Total FY2015 3,988 FY2016 4,002 FY2017 3,889 FY2018 4,661 participants Key NGK Insulators undertakes systematic human resource personnel 892 933 1,132 991 development, which encompasses every job category in General 3,096 3,069 2,757 3,670 the Group companies in Japan, from employment to every employees promotion milestones in his or her career. The comprehensive education and training we provide Average Time Spent in Training Annually per Employee (hours) for the NGK Group in conjunction with each employee’s department is divided into four areas: the “Values” FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 necessary to put the NGK Group Philosophy into practice, the “Business Skills” necessary to successfully carry out Total 21.0 24.8 21.7 21.3 their work, the “Career Support” necessary for your Key advancement and, lastly, “Compliance Requirements in personnel 15.3 13.1 15.6 12.8 Job Performance.” General 22.5 28.8 23.3 25.0 employees Average Annual Cost of Training per Full-Time Employee (¥10 thousand) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Average 11 7.8 7 6.6 6.3 expenses Note: Calculated based on actual achievements from FY2015. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 67 Fiscal 2019 Company-Wide Education Scheme NGK employees Group companies in Japan Group companies outside Japan Training for new hires and New 1st-year hires Group J Group M Group S Managers Employees Executives Employees Executives promoted employees Training Promoted to J1 and clerical Promoted to M Promoted to S Section chiefs New managers Promoted to manager 2 Philosophy for new hires Philosophy education/workshop, others (in preparation) Code of Conduct Cascade education, explanation using various educational opportunities, others (in preparation) Values Message from the President Entrance ceremony Greetings Company history Understanding Understanding Understanding Empathy Practice Past and present Selected Selected Held at global Management concept BLⅡ BL III meetings, etc. Creativity Innovation I, II, III Innovation I, II, III NGK Group Profile Conceptual Seminar on creation and learning from failure Logical thinking Data analysis Logical presentation New manager BL Logical presentations Logical thinking I, II Organizational operation Basic Group company Guiding and training subordinates Instructor Managing management 360° president support New Motivation survey Human work and Your own role and Business Group J (clerical) Report, note, discuss Leadership worksite Leadership personnel management Training for business communication etiquette Upskilling (business communication) and follow-up leader interviews Quality management Quality control Quality management Quality assurance Quality basic III (Reliability) Risk prevention I Risk prevention II Risk prevention I Risk prevention II Management Worksite IE basics Production mechanism control Maintenance basics Cost basics Entry-level maintenance education Cost management Cost basics Ceramics Factory training Manufacturing basics Technical seminar for sales divisions, ceramics technical lectures Training Center/ Unique Ceramic Products Elemental technology Elemental technology/Corporate Manufacturing Engineering, Engine practice/Ceramic Products, Basic chemical engineering/Process Technology Environmental technology Follow-up for worksite leaders and persons who completed course Worksite managers and plant managers Leader For leaders Manufacturing Worksite capability Worksite capability instructor Instructor Business Skills How to Staff Basic quality I, II proceed Skills QC I (entry-level) QC II (Awareness) QC I with work Group J (clerical) Group M Office work Technical Upskilling II (improve work quality) problem-solving company Finance Accounting basics Proper accounting Accounting Financial issues Group president Accounting seminar (for group company accounting staff) Legal Mini legal seminar NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 Other companies’ IP patents IP strategy Operations Intellectual property Patent system seminar I–III (procedures), intellectual property seminar I, II (agreement, strategy) Office 365 Office 365 workshop, consultation Office 365 Office 365 Social Information, IT IT security PC upskilling IT security IT security IT security Work execution Business skills (communication, management, practical tasks, corporate management, safety control, health management) For heads of overseas subsidiaries Business communication English for Language for overseas assignees (English, Chinese, Thai, others) Global Language for overseas assignees Global Language For persons to be assigned new hires Basic business English, business writing in English, presentation in English leadership to overseas posts Cross-cultural Awareness Mindset Mindset (cross-cultural communication) communication 68 2nd-year staff Career design for women Career design Career Autonomous career design in 50s Support 2nd-year technical Support for life events Seminar for employees returning from childcare leave and working mothers Company Business/financial conditions understanding Systems and regulations Laws and compliance seminar Basic training Compliance Introduction Basic Basic Basic Mini legal seminar Basic training training Basic training Competition Law Education for sales staff training For sales staff training Anti-corruption Education for sales staff For sales staff Governance Contract compliance Complying with laws Security export control Security export control education, study meeting, training on competition laws Companies Act Companies Act study meeting Basics Subcontract Act Subcontract Act lecture, optimization seminar, etc. For purchasing staff and regulations Construction Business Act Construction Business Act study meeting Harassment Education for general employees Basic For employees Introduction training Mental health Mental health Safety and health Safety simulation education Legend Basic Basic Basic Quality Training conducted by Human Resources Department training training training Basic Environment Training for new hires training CSR Basic training and promoted employees Job Execution Compliance Requirements Safety and health legal training, Internal safety and health education (dust, low-voltage electricity, RST, VDT, etc.) Annual compulsory qualifications training license acquisition, ISO45001Outside safety and health education (forklifts, cranes, various work, etc.) related occupational safety and Training for selected persons health management system In-house safety and health auditors, safety and health education, etc. Content Index Training for those who need it Laws and regulations, Quality IATF16949 Standards interpretation management Standards interpretation Training for those who want it system ISO9001 In-house quality auditor development training Enhancing auditing effectiveness Training conducted by other departments standards ISO14001-related environmental Lecture for chief environmental in-house auditors Company-wide training directly run by management system Lecture for in-house environment auditors, etc. Head Office departments Individual training within each department Run individually by each department NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Values Career Support NGK training and education seeks to foster an In order to ensure that as many personnel as possible are understanding of the NGK Group Philosophy and Code of able to actively participate in and contribute to the Conduct such that employees will not simply work for the functioning of NGK, we provide employees with career sake of meeting their individual job targets but, rather, will development support in the form of a variety of effective think about the significance of the work they perform and HR initiatives, such as initiatives to promote the active the basis for their decision-making, leading to a sense of participation of women and extending the mandatory pride and shared identity as an NGK employee. It is not retirement age. This support is focused on cultivating enough for employees to know what the NGK Group personnel capable of thinking outside the limits of Philosophy and Code of Conduct are; we want employees predetermined career models to chart their own career to incorporate them into their behavior. path. This approach is particularly evident in the corporate Career design training programs for women, history training program that was launched full-scale in employees in their 50s, and others serve as opportunities 2017 for every level of employee, from new hires to those for employees to think about who they want to be and promoted to managers. It is also incorporated into the how they can challenge themselves in their work to grow educational programs of Group companies outside Japan to become that person. in order to reach a variety of personnel. It will continue to When it comes to diversity promotion, our focus is on be developed and expanded. ensuring that every employee is able to work to his or her full potential within the context of the many and varied environments that comprise the NGK Group. Business Skills We carry out training designed to equip employees with the mindset, knowledge, and skills they need to carry out Job Performance Compliance their jobs. To ensure that the skills employees acquire are Requirements applicable and directly contribute to the work that they We provide employees with training that communicates to perform—i.e., practical skills instead of just knowledge— them the responsibilities, which NGK bears as a corporate we provide coaching in cooperation with the participants’ citizen, as well as what this requires of them as employees supervisors and training programs for handling challenges of NGK. This training seeks to instill a strong sense of directly relevant to their own departments. ethics and a commitment to doing what is right. The fundamentals of NGK business—safety, quality, environment, and CSR—are inculcated from the time an employee joins the company to every time he or she receives a promotion so that knowledge ends up being reliably translated into action. One of our priorities in fiscal 2018 was the establishment of a quality compliance system, and towards that end we revised and expanded our education and training programs. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 69 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Manufacturing Training Corporate History Training We pursue training aimed at conveying the central This training program looks at the history of NGK in order importance of safety, the environment, quality, timely to reexamine the origins of our corporate activities, to delivery, and cost in manufacturing while passing on the reinforce our shared values, and then to prompt traditions and spirit of NGK manufacturing. This training participants to think about how this impacts the way they also aims to grow employees into individuals who can go about their jobs. The program for newly appointed support the creation of new value. managerial personnel incorporates corporate history Towards this end, we provide training in specific materials related to topics, such as globalization or technologies that will deepen employees’ understanding diversity, which are assigned to each participant group, of NGK products and technologies, as well as provide along with a worksheet, that they discuss in depth in training in administrative and improvement techniques that relation to the distinctive character of NGK. will equip employees with the mindset and means to Education programs for other job grades are being improve their workplaces. steadily introduced, as well as programs geared towards Group companies outside Japan. NGK Manufacturing Training Since 2006 Since 2005 Since 2009 Manufacturing basic training Worksite capability Prevention Fundamentals of ceramic enhancement training Reliability management Comments from a Corporate History technologies Manufacturing worksite leader training Training Participant NGK Berylco UK Technical training for clerical/sales divisions QC, quality, and cost NGK ceramic material technologies lecture Seven QC tools, statistics, problem-solving approaches, and manufacturing cost structure Laurie McNichol I thought that the presentation about NGK’s history Develop a deeper understanding of products Training to be aware of and to resolve one’s own challenges and technologies (specific technologies) (administrative/improvement techniques) and philosophy was first-class. It was very interesting to know how NGK has evolved over many decades into the great corporation it is today. Manufacturing basic training is centered on practical Great to see the various component parts that training tied to the actual manufacturing process. It make up our vast organisation and seeing the involves teaching participants about ceramic technologies numerous marketplaces that we compete in. It and manufacturing in general at NGK so that they will have certainly inspired me and I believe that all colleagues a broad perspective, which they can apply in their work. will be even more highly motivated after seeing the Worksite capability enhancement training cultivates presentation. The consensus during MI meeting human resources capable of making managerial amongst people I spoke to was that all were contributions as manufacturing worksite leaders who impressed by it and were motivated to endeavour to independently pursue worksite capability improvements achieve even greater success for our group. together with others both inside and outside of their It was also great to learn more about the NGK plant’s organizational framework. philosophy. These are wonderful values and ones that all decent human beings would and should happily embrace in our business life and in our Innovation Training personal life. It espouses great teamwork and The aim of innovation training is the cultivation of leaders respect for others which is a fundamental base for suited to an era of transformation and speed. This is current and future success for the individual and achieved by fostering outside-the-box thinking coupled therefore the collective. with an ability to think and act to bring an idea to fruition. In the program for young employees with leadership potential, participants learn about the essential innovation processes involved in generating new business. The program is held jointly with other companies. This allows interaction with employees from other companies who have different experiences and values, thus helping NGK employees develop a more multifaceted perspective. In fiscal 2018, employees from Toho Gas and Sumitomo Wiring Systems were included in the program. The participants remarked at how this interaction with different companies’ employees helped to broaden their perspective and how the hands-on, participatory nature of the training was extremely helpful, as it made them aware of so much more than they would have from passive learning. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 70 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index English Instruction for New Employees Practical Overseas Training Since fiscal 2011, we have been providing English NGK conducts practical training over a period of six language courses for all new staff members with the goal months at overseas Group companies with the aim of of rapidly cultivating globally capable human resources. developing globally minded human resources. The training The one-year course is divided into classes based on focuses on developing practical business and student level. Besides studying the classroom materials, communication skills in a cross-cultural environment participants also take the initiative in their learning through targeting young employees who are future candidates for activities such as creating their own class slogans. overseas postings. Time spent learning English per new career-track hire (fiscal 2018 results) 120 hours per year Labor-Management Initiatives Labor Union Guaranteeing the Minimum Wage NGK respects workers’ rights, including the right to NGK and the Labor Union have signed an agreement that collective bargaining, and strives to build healthy sets out original in-house minimum wages, which are fixed labor-management relations. As of the end of March 2019, at a rate above the minimum wages by region and 3,852 employees belonged to the Labor Union. industry stipulated by the Minimum Wage Act. Through this agreement, we strive to improve employees’ working Labor Union Membership Rate conditions and avoid violation of relevant laws. End of March 2017 End of March 2018 End of March 2019 75％ 75％ 77％ Communication between Labor and Management Note: (Number of union employees including contract manufacturing employees)/(All NGK employees including contract manufacturing employees) NGK makes an effort to build labor-management relations founded on mutual trust through communication with various consultative bodies, such as the Protecting the Right to Collective Labor-Management Advisory Board, the Worksite Advisory Bargaining Board, and the Regular Labor-Management Council. NGK and the Labor Union hold Labor-Management NGK and the Labor Union have signed a labor agreement Advisory Board meetings to talk about business as equal partners. The agreement specifies that both conditions and performance, and Worksite Advisory Board parties shall respect each other’s rights and take meetings to share issues pertaining to manufacturing, responsibility for the exercising of their own rights. work systems, and workplace environments from each The two sides regularly hold Labor-Management worksite. In addition, at Regular Labor-Management Advisory Board meetings to exchange information and Council meetings, labor and management also proactively promote mutual understanding. They also maintain healthy exchange opinions. labor-management relations by exchanging opinions on issues such as management policies, financial conditions, and activities of the Labor Union. Survey on Workplace Vitality Collective bargaining sessions are held in an orderly manner, with both parties striving in good faith to resolve Once every two years NGK carries out a survey aimed at issues peacefully and promptly. gauging and visualizing workplace vitality. The results of the survey serve as basic data, which facilitate discussion Labor-Management Consultations in Fiscal 2018 about personnel-related initiatives to create a more work-friendly organizational environment that offers Regular Labor-Management Council meeting: held twice employees a sense of challenge. In addition, the results Labor-Management Advisory Board meeting: held twice from each workplace are provided as feedback to the respective manager, and each department considers and Other bargaining and consultations works on measures to help improve the daily work • Consultation on overtime work and work on days off environment. • Consultation on revision of the agreement • Consultation on measures to rectify long working hours NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 71 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Implementation of Fair, Free, and Transparent Transactions With a basic policy centered on the three principles of openness and fairness, partnership, and relationship with society, the NGK Group is engaged in fair and honest business transactions with the procurement partners in our supply chain. Basic Approach The NGK Group has established the Basic Purchasing Policy in an attempt to conduct fair and honest business transactions and to prosper together with all our procurement partners. Supply Chain Management System Familiarization of the Purchasing At NGK, the Purchasing Department is responsible for Handbook managing tier 1 suppliers. It also manages tier 2 and Purchasing operations are directly related to various beyond suppliers that provide critical items such as raw important aspects of corporate management, such as materials. All supplier management is done in line with assets, production, development, and business NGK’s Supplier Management Regulations. performance, and also involve external and financial activities, major areas prone to compliance issues. In light Reference Communication Activities with of this, we created the Purchasing Handbook to Page Procurement Partners P75 summarize internal rules for purchasing engagement and issued the first edition of it in fiscal 2007. The Handbook has since been reviewed every year. Basic Purchasing Policy Efforts have also been made to better familiarize personnel with the tool: it has been made available on the Open and Fair company intranet and its significant objectives are discussed in company training programs, particularly for • Open, fair, and honest procurement new managers. • Pursuit of the competition principles and profitability Partnership • Mutual prosperity based on mutual trust with suppliers Relationship with Society • Compliance with laws • Preservation of the global environment NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 72 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Fair and Honest Procurement Partner Evaluations and Extensive Resource Diversification In accordance with the Basic Purchasing Policy, NGK selects procurement partners based on fair and honest evaluations. We also attempt to ensure procurement when disasters occur through the extensive diversification of procurement resources. Selection of Suppliers Based on Fair and Promoting Business Continuity Planning Honest Evaluations (BCP) through the Diversification of NGK opens its doors to a wide range of procurement Procurement Resources sources, including companies with which it has had no In the event of unforeseen circumstances such as a major previous transactions. natural disaster, NGK promotes the sourcing of raw In terms of selecting new suppliers, we choose from materials, equipment, secondary materials, and other multiple companies through fair and honest evaluation of critical purchased parts from multiple suppliers as part of their CSR initiatives, environmental conservation efforts, its BCP efforts to ensure procurement is uninterrupted. For and financial condition as well as quality, cost, and delivery items which are available from only one supplier, we (QCD). In addition to the procurement department being ensure that we have sufficient inventory and that their involved in the selection of suppliers, multiple departments storage facilities are located in a safe place that cannot be are also involved in this process, which requires damaged by a tsunami. In addition, when selecting a new multi-stage approval before selection occurs in an effort to procurement partner, we take into consideration the ensure fair and honest evaluation and decision-making. existence or absence of multiple locations and efforts to ensure inventory. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 73 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Promotion of CSR Procurement In response to the rising social expectation for CSR-oriented supply chain management, the NGK Group promotes CSR procurement. We preferentially select CSR-conscious companies and purchase CSR-sensitive raw-materials and services. CSR Procurement Guidelines potential to cause social issues such as human rights violations and poverty, and takes steps to avoid using The NGK Group created the CSR Procurement Guidelines such materials when there is risk of adverse impact. in fiscal 2010 as a guide to promote CSR procurement *Minerals including tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold produced in the across the Group including overseas Group companies. Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding countries, and used The Guidelines specifically describe our obligations as a as a source of funding for armed conflict in the area. socially responsible buyer as well as our requirements for socially responsible suppliers. In fiscal 2013, the Guidelines were expanded by being integrated with the Enhancement of Procurement Capabilities previous Green Procurement Guidelines, which set forth of Group Companies Outside Japan rules for preferential purchase of environmentally friendly Helping with Construction of Group Companies products and services, and adding provisions of conflict Outside Japan’s Purchasing System minerals, anti-corruption, human rights, and labor issues. The expanded CSR Procurement Guidelines are When NGK Ceramics (Thailand) was starting up, we publicly available on our website in multiple languages helped it put in place a purchasing system. (Japanese, English, and Chinese). Members of the Purchasing Department were sent to Thailand, where they worked with local management and CSR Procurement Guidelines and Reference Supplemental Materials purchasing staff members to develop purchasing URL https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/info/procure/ compliance and governance procedures tailored to local conditions and to then construct a purchasing system. Improving CSR Procurement We will continue to support local management and purchasing staff via activities that improve local purchasing At the NGK Group, we develop activities to promote CSR capabilities, such as procurement task streamlining, client procurement, such as visiting individual suppliers and management, and buyer up-skilling training. conducting on-site inspections. We also request our suppliers, particularly new companies, to sign an Conducting Logistics Liaison Meetings agreement to comply with the CSR Procurement Guidelines. From fiscal 2016, we ask for annual renewal of We invited the logistics representatives from NGK the agreement in an effort to facilitate suppliers’ Ceramics Polska (Poland) to the NGK headquarters in awareness and understanding of CSR procurement while Japan to participate in an information exchange meeting. striving to increase the number of signers. Topics of discussion included the two companies’ We will continue with these efforts, confirming logistics-related challenges, cases of improvement, and partners’ activities and keeping up with social trends, in requests and expectations of one another. Afterwards, the order to maintain and enhance our CSR procurement. representatives were taken to visit warehouses, airports, harbors, and other logistics sites. The importance of logistics between NGK in Japan Procuring Resources and Raw Materials and NGK Ceramics Polska has grown as product Responsibly shipments from NGK Ceramics Polska continue to rapidly The NGK Group conducts procurement activities that expand, and it is in this context that our two companies consider impacts on regional communities stemming from have strengthened their communication, gleaning key the use of raw materials (e.g. conflict minerals*) with the insights from one another which have helped foster more efficient operations. Ongoing Promotion of CSR Procurement Penetration (understanding) Compliance (agreement) Maintain and continuation ー Status surveys ー Understanding ー Expansion ー Improve quality 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 and beyond Create the CSR Procurement Guidelines Integrate the Green Procurement Guidelines Conduct supplier status surveys Request that suppliers agree to comply with new CSR using CSR self-checklists Procurement Guidelines, obtain andconfirm written agreements Conduct ongoing communication activities with procurement partners Conduct one-on-one Hold earnings presentations Operate Supplier Helpline meetings in Japan and overseas NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 74 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Supply Chain Risk Assessment In order to identify sustainability-related risks in the supply chain, the NGK Group relies upon the CSR Procurement Guidelines in selecting procurement partners as well as visits suppliers. Communication Activities with Procurement Partners Earnings Presentations for Suppliers Ongoing Operation of the Supplier Helpline NGK held an earnings presentation meeting for major In 2008, NGK established the supplier helpline system. suppliers in June 2018, which was attended by 234 Receiving consultation via e-mail, fax, and telephone, we participants from 127 companies. make an effort to respond with solutions quickly. In the meeting, the director in charge of purchasing first expressed gratitude for the daily transactions. This Reference Supplier Helpline URL https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/info/procure/ was followed by the Finance & Accounting Department’s briefing on NGK’s business results and an explanation by the Purchasing Department about efforts to tackle issues such as continuous communication. Visiting Individual Suppliers in Japan and Overseas In order to ensure procurement from the most appropriate suppliers, NGK visits individual suppliers in Japan and overseas to conduct on-site audits, evaluating their QCD (quality, cost, and delivery) performance in a fair and equitable manner. In fiscal 2018, we visited a total of 127 suppliers: 12 new suppliers and 115 existing suppliers. Following the visit, we explained audit results to each company, and asked them to conduct improvement measures in underperforming areas. Through these activities, we strive to strengthen our QCD management system as well as to communicate with our suppliers to forge a relationship of mutual trust. Suppliers invited to the earnings presentation NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 75 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Local Communities The NGK Group is concerned about social issues in all nations and regions. We engage in social contribution activities in response to needs in each region in an aim to become a corporate citizen trusted by local communities. Basic Approach The NGK Group promotes social contribution activities based on the following concepts. Focus of Activities Centered on people and education, the environment, and community involvement. Company Activities and Employee Involvement • NGK provides employees with opportunities to experience activities. • NGK proactively encourages individual activities to engender employee satisfaction and a sense of confidence in the company. Information Disclosure NGK promotes an understanding of activities and provides activity information to inculcate a social contribution mindset among employees. Social Contribution Activity Promotion System At the NGK Group, social contribution activities are Committee. NGK collects reports from Group companies promoted under the leadership of the Social Contribution in and outside of Japan on their activities. In fiscal 2018, a Subcommittee, which is chaired by the general manager total of 61 reports were received. of the General Affairs Department and reports to the CSR Social Contribution Activity Promotion Status Breakdown of Activities 3% FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Regional activities, historic site/traditional Social contribution 331 346 315 300 302 4% culture preservation expenditures million yen million yen million yen million yen million yen 8% Education/ Number of social social upbringing contribution 8 9 10 10 10 FY2018 40% Academic research 14% programs Number of 302 Environment collaborations 5 4 4 4 4 million yen with NPOs/NGOs International exchange 15% Post-disaster 16% reconstruction support Others (culture/arts, social welfare, etc.) NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 76 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Providing Scholarships and Assistance to International Students NGK established the NGK Foundation for International Students in order to facilitate the cultivation of individuals who will contribute to the development of the international community. It is through the Foundation that NGK is helping to provide housing and scholarships to overseas students visiting Japan. The impetus for the Foundation’s establishment stems from gratitude for the warm community support and hospitality shown to NGK’s first employees and families posted overseas at the time of its initial overseas expansion back in the 1930s. Our activities are conducted in the hope that the students will feel glad that they came to Japan and develop a fondness for the country. In fiscal 2018, we provided housing to 39 students from 11 countries, and scholarships (non-repayable) to 19 students from 12 countries. The NGK Foundation for Reference URL International Students https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/sustainability/philanthropy/ Exchange between Supported Students, Communication after Support Ends Communities, and Employees To maintain relationships with international students after NGK organizes a variety of events and programs to support ends, each year, we send out a New Year’s provide opportunities for grassroots international relations greeting card that includes a company status report to between supported students, regional communities, and former and current students. employees. Language classes taught by international We also distribute NGK International Friendship Club students have been held annually since 2000, and Members Cards that include our contact information to cross-cultural exchange meetings where international international students after support ends. students introduce their native countries have been held In fiscal 2018, we sent New Year’s cards with updates annually since 2006. on the Foundation and NGK to around 300 students who In fiscal 2018, there were eight cross-cultural have received support in the past. exchange meetings alternatingly hosted by different exchange students to introduce their different home countries. Through these events, participating students and local residents were able to enjoy meaningful exchange. As of fiscal 2018, a cumulative total of 980 people have participated. Number of Participants in International Programs International students 12 Local residents 20 NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 77 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Social Contribution Activities in Collaboration with Local Communities and NPOs Aiming to be a corporate citizen trusted by local communities, NGK collaborates with communities and NPOs to engage in social contribution activities in response to regional needs. In addition, employee volunteers from NGK Group companies in Japan and around the world conduct a variety of social contribution activities rooted in their local communities. Read more about NGK’s social contribution Reference URL activities at: https://www.ngk.co.jp/sustainability/social/ Social Contribution Activities by NGK Offering Workplace Experience to Junior High School Students from Rikuzentakata City NGK took part in the workplace experience program offered to junior high school students from Rikuzentakata City, sponsored by the Nagoya City Board of Education. Two Rikuzentakata junior high-school students visited the AC Plant and looked at factory operations such as the loading of HONEYCERAM® products into kilns. They spoke with President Oshima about their impressions of the workplace and their future aspirations. This program is conducted in line with the “total support” initiatives that Nagoya City undertakes towards Rikuzentakata City, which suffered immense damage as a result of the Great East Japan Earthquake. NGK has taken part in this program each year since 2016. Participation in Lunch Service NGK employees took part as volunteers in a community lunch event held at Mitsurugi Community Center (Mizuho Ward, Nagoya City) for elderly citizens who live alone. This community lunch is a regularly scheduled event of the Mizuho Ward School District Community Social Welfare Council, and NGK has taken part in it every year for the past 22 years. Social Contribution Activities by Group Companies in Japan NGK Electronics Devices Volunteers in Mine Cherry Blossom Festival For the first time, NGK Electronics Devices employees took part as volunteers in the Mine Cherry Blossom Festival. This was the 31st occasion of this popular festival, held beneath the blossoms of the cherry trees that line the Asa River adjacent to Mine City Hall. The volunteers from NGK Electronics Devices helped out by setting up parking signs, answering visitors’ questions, cleaning up venue spaces, and in other ways. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 78 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Soshin Electric Helps with Placing Flower Pots at Sakudaira Station Soshin Electric provided help with placing “Welcome” flower pots at JR Sakudaira Station. This was the third year for this annual project overseen by the Saku City Tourism Association and Sakudaira General Technical High School. This year’s installation was arranged with the help of staff members from the tourism association, 30 fourth graders from Sakudaira Asama Elementary School who planted the seeds, and 10 students from Sakudaira General Technical High School who cultivated the flowers. Soshin Powertech Participates in Evacuation Drill at Aged Care Facility Two employees of Soshin Powertech, which is part of the Soshin Electric Group, assisted with an evacuation drill held at a local support center for senior citizens. This evacuation drill is held once every six months and is assisted by local residents, businesses, and public groups. Soshin Powertech takes part every year as part of its community contribution activities. NGK Ceramic Device Gives Donations for Victims of the 2018 West Japan Floods The NGK Ceramic Device employees’ association, the Gotanda-kai, raised 300,000 yen in total from employees at the head office, Yamanashi plant, and Ishikawa plant. They donated this money to support the victims of the flooding that occurred in western Japan in July 2018 following a series of heavy storms. The thoughts of everyone in the NGK Group are with the victims and the affected communities, and we pray for their speedy recovery. NGK Okhotsk Helps with Asian Skunk Cabbage Habitat Conservation Efforts NGK Okhotsk (NOK) took part in the Asian skunk cabbage conservation efforts conducted by the Lake Abashiri Mizu-to-Midori-no-Kai (Water and Greenery Association). These activities are performed twice a year in the spring and summer in order to preserve the scenic beauty and environmental health of the roughly 5,000 m2 Asian skunk cabbage wetland habitat around Lake Abashiri. This is the ninth year that NOK has participated, and the company cooperates with the residents of Abashiri City to preserve the health of the local natural environment. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 79 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Social Contribution Activities by Group Companies Outside Japan NGK Globetronics Technology Donates Blood NGK Globetronics Technology (NGKGT), one of the overseas production bases of NGK Electronics Devices, held a company blood drive. NGKGT staff have been donating blood once a year for 20 years as a part of its activities to give back to the community. NGK Metals Contributes to Urban Beautification Employee volunteers from NGK Metals helped with the maintenance of flower beds in Monroe County in the State of Tennessee, where the company is located. The volunteers mowed the grass around the flower beds and replanted flowers. They will continue to perform regular cleaning and maintenance and, together with the community, watch over the growth of new flowers and plants as part of their ongoing contribution to the beautification of the local urban area. NGK Technocera Suzhou Undertakes Cleanup Activities during Employee Trip During an employee trip, employees of NGK Technocera Suzhou undertook cleanup activities at the Five Dragons Pool, one of the famous landmarks in Ningbo City, Zhejiang Province, to help preserve the site’s scenic beauty. This was the first employee trip to incorporate cleanup activities, and the company will continue with similar activities in the future to serve the community. NGK Electronics Devices Malaysia Cleans Up Local Area NGK Electronics Devices Malaysia (NGKMY), an overseas production base of NGK Electronics Devices, held a cleanup event. This was the first such activity that NGKMY had organized as a means of fostering greater civic-mindedness among employees and for which the cooperation of Penang City Hall was requested. The theme was “Protecting Our Earth,” and participants picked up litter around KOMTAR* Tower, the tallest building in Penang. *Acronym for “Kompleks Tun Adbul Razak” NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 80 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Support for Volunteer Activities by Employees The NGK Group proactively supports activities and provides information to create opportunities for employees to participate in volunteering outside the company. Volunteering to Teach Children About the Wonders of Science As a manufacturer, NGK engages in various activities to spark children’s interest in science. In 1997, we started running the “NGK Science Site: Experiments at Home Series” as a regular feature in a science magazine. We also maintain a dedicated website which is updated monthly. Children’s interest is piqued through the use of featured experiments that are supervised by experts and which address interesting and relevant topics. These experiments utilize familiar, everyday materials like plastic bottles, dry cell batteries, vegetables, and condiments and are explained in detailed steps. Reference NGK Science Site Since 1998, the experiments introduced on the NGK URL https://site.ngk.co.jp/ Science Site have been demonstrated at the Youngsters’ Science Festival in Nagoya (hosted by the Japan Science Foundation) and other local science events. Every year, NGK employee volunteers set up a booth to present a science lab. Christmas Lectures Convey the Wonders of Science Since 2011, NGK has been involved in the Royal Institution Christmas Lecture (sponsored by the Yomiuri Shimbun news corporation and the Tokyo Institute of Technology), which is an annual event aimed at conveying the wonders of science to children. This popular series of lectures began in the U.K. around 200 years ago and serves as a “Christmas present” from scientists to young people. This format has been replicated in Japan, and each year NGK employees take part as guest lecturers who provide an easy-to-understand explanation to children and students about NGK products that fit that year’s theme. Group Volunteer Participation in the Marathon Festival Nagoya Aichi 2019 The NGK Group took part as group volunteers in the Marathon Festival Nagoya Aichi 2019 on March 10. For the past five years the NGK Group has taken part as volunteers, and this year, too, we helped with the main race by distributing water to runners, assisting with course arrangement, and in a variety of other ways. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 81 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Interacting with Local Communities The NGK Group engages in dynamic interactions with local residents through opportunities such as plant tours and regional events, as well as through opportunities for direct dialogue, making an effort to incorporate the ideas and opinions received in Group business activities and CSR activities. Plant Tours Plant Tours in FY2018 (NGK) Plant Tours by Major Group Companies Participants Details Participants Details 31 NGK Foundation for International Students 23 Yamaguchi University Nagoya Site 28 Aichi Prefectural Jishukan Senior High School 31 Mine City Ohmine Junior High School NGK Electronics 3 Rikuzentakata City Takada Daiichi Junior High School Devices 38 Mine Seiryo High School Chita Site 53 Local resident plant tour group 34 Onoda Technical High School 3 Aichi Prefecture Kasugai-nishi Senior High School PTA of community near Soshin Electric Chikuma Komaki Site Soshin Electric 29 Technical Center (Saku, Nagano Prefecture) 13 Neighborhood ward tour 41 Ishikawa Technical Senior High School Soshin Powertech 3 Yamanoguchi Junior High School Ishikawa Plant 5 Toyohashi University of Technology Soshin Device 40 Miyazaki Technical High School TOPIC Summer Festivals at the Komaki Site and Ishikawa Plant The Komaki Site hosted its annual Komaki Summer Festival, which was attended by local residents, employees, and their families. Attendees were attracted to the specially constructed stage where they enjoyed taiko drumming, exciting science experiments, and vocal performances. The crowd was also full of anticipation and excitement for the raffle, which was held at the end of the festival. The Ishikawa Plant also held their NGK Ishikawa Plant Summer Festival 2018, which drew around 850 local residents, employees, and their families. A specially constructed stage was set up to showcase the enthusiastic dance routines of local dance teams and performances by singers and idol groups from Ishikawa, all to the great delight of the attendees. And when it was time for the raffle, the crowd was gripped with excitement at the sight of the lavish prizes to be given away. Komaki Summer Festival NGK Ishikawa Plant Summer Festival 2018 NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 82 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Governance Corporate Governance: Basic Policies 84 Corporate Governance Structure Scheme 85 NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 Committees on Corporate Governance 86 Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board, Executive Officers 89 Governance Remuneration of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members, Reasons for Appointment of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members 91 Comments from Outside Directors 92 Open General Meeting of Shareholders 93 Internal Control Systems 96 Thorough Enforcement of Compliance (NGK Group Code of Conduct) 97 Compliance Promotion Structure 98 Whistleblowing System 99 Promoting Compliance Education 100 Corruption Prevention Structure 101 Observing the Competition Law and Other Laws and Regulations Pertaining to Business Transactions 102 Strict Adherence to Laws and Regulations Relating to Export Management, Privacy Policy and Structure 103 Information Security Policy and Structure, Status of Law and Regulation Violations 104 Risk Management: Basic Approach 105 Risk Management System 107 List of Risks and Opportunities 109 Business Continuity Planning (BCP) Initiatives, Intellectual Property Management 110 NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 83 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Corporate Governance NGK is conducting measures to expand and strengthen its corporate governance to increase corporate value with the intent of becoming a company trusted by all its stakeholders. Reference Corporate Governance Report URL https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/resource/pdf/sustainability/governance_en.pdf Basic Policies Thorough observance of the NGK Group Corporate governance enhancement Code of Conduct Ongoing structural enhancements aimed at strengthening To ensure appropriate operations and transparent corporate governance include the introduction of an management, NGK has set its sights on establishing and executive officer system and an outside director system to maintaining an organization capable of swiftly responding improve the management supervision and monitoring to changes in the business environment, and a fair and functions and facilitate recommendations with respect to open management system emphasizing the interests of overall management. shareholders. These components make up NGK’s basic approach to corporate governance. To put this approach into practice, NGK has chosen a April 1999 Formulated NGK Code of Conduct corporate governance structure anchored by an Audit & April 2003 Revised guidelines into NGK Group Code of Conduct Supervisory Board. In addition to the General Meeting of Shareholders, the Board of Directors, and the Audit & Introduced an executive officer system Supervisory Board, NGK corporate governance includes the Executive Committee and several other committees June 2005 Introduced a stock option established to assist the president in management decision-making. These bodies help to enhance Introduced an outside director system governance efficacy by deliberating and reviewing important matters. In recognition of needs to execute swift July 2005 Established the CSR Committee and optimal decision-making and respond promptly to April 2007 Established the CSR Office changes in the operating environment, NGK introduced an executive officer system, thus separating the management June 2010 Appointed independent directors decision-making and supervision functions from business execution functions, and clearly defining the July 2011 Revised NGK Group Code of Conduct responsibilities of both. Furthermore, to strengthen the supervision and April 2015 Signed on to UN Global Compact monitoring functions of the Board of Directors, major June 2015 Established the Global Compliance Office committees among those tasked with mitigating the various risks surrounding NGK are obligated to report to December 2015 Established committees for corporate governance the Board of Directors. NGK has also established a committee scheme, including a Nomination and June 2017 Appointed one additional outside director Compensation Advisory Committee, a Corporate Council, a Conference of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & October 2018 Appointed a chief compliance officer Supervisory Board Members, and a Business Ethics Committee to ensure the effectiveness of the Corporate January 2019 Revised NGK Group Code of Conduct Governance Code. In addition, we have formulated the NGK Group Code of Conduct to stipulate how everyone working for the NGK Group should execute their jobs so that they abide by society’s laws and the company’s articles of incorporation and comply with corporate ethics. All executives and employees are well versed in the code and are obligated to abide by it. To reflect changes in society since the previous revision, in January 2019 the NGK Group Code of Conduct was revised with an emphasis on respect for human rights, thorough compliance, and the realization of a sustainable society through business activities. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 84 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Corporate Governance Structure Scheme To ensure lawful business activities and management established the ESG Committee, chaired by the president, transparency, respond quickly to changes in the to promote comprehensive discussion on key issues, management environment, and create and maintain a fair strategies, and action plans related to the environment, management system from the shareholder’s perspective, society, and governance. NGK has created the following systems. In April 2019, we Decision-making, supervise, appointment/ Report, propose, presentation of agenda, Whistleblowing, dismissal, executive delegation, audit, etc. findings, recommendation, etc. consultation, etc. General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment/ Report Appointment/ dismissal Accounting Auditors Appointment/dismissal approval, resolution Report, presentation of deliberation items dismissal Audit Report Report Audit & Supervisory Board Audit Board of Directors Opinion exchange, Advisory Findings Recommendation enhancement of information collection Corporate Council (representative directors, Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee Business Ethics Committee outside directors) Liaise, Report report Conference of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Audit for Companies Act, Supervise, Supervisory Board Members appointment/dismissal Propose, report financial statements and internal reportings executive delegation, Hearing convened by Audit & Supervisory resolution Outside lawyers Board Members and Outside Directors Business execution functions Report Auditing Department (to representative directors) President Decision-making, authorization Propose, report Development Committee Quality Committee Executive Committee Environmental Facilities Committee Protection Committee Strategy Committee ESG Committee Audit Education Council Safety and Health Committee Outside lawyers/ BCP Countermeasures internal contact Headquarters CSR Committee point Central Disaster Prevention Resolution and Control Headquarters Internal Controls Committee Helpline Hotline Corporate Manufacturing Power Business Ceramic Products Electronics Process Technology Head Office Corporate R&D Business Group Business Group Business Group Engineering Group Domestic/overseas group companies Business execution divisions NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 85 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Committees on Corporate Governance NGK has further strengthened and enhanced its corporate Nomination and Compensation Advisory governance structures by establishing committees to Committee bolster the supervision and monitoring functions of the Board of Directors. Comprising five outside directors and three representative directors, this committee deliberates on matters related to the appointment of directors and Audit & Supervisory Board of Directors Board members, remuneration of directors, executive officers, and Audit & Supervisory Board members, and The Board of Directors deliberates matters prescribed in Chief Executive Officer succession planning. The results of the Companies Act, as well as other important these deliberations are reported to the Board of Directors management issues, providing oversight for the execution in attempts to ensure fairness and increase transparency of duties by directors. The Board of Directors includes related to determining the appointment and remuneration three outside directors to create a system enabling of officers. management monitoring based on professional Times held: 5 knowledge and decision-making from a wider perspective. As of June 21, 2019 the current Board of Directors comprises 12 members (11 men and one woman). Corporate Council Times held: 14 The meeting enables outside directors to exchange opinions with representative directors and others when Audit & Supervisory Board proactive recommendations for senior management are sought from outside directors regarding various The Audit & Supervisory Board consists of four members, management-related issues. Times held: 2 each of whom attends Board of Directors meetings and conducts other activities to audit the execution of duties by directors. The Audit & Supervisory Board includes two external members, each possessing significant business Conference of Outside Directors and experience and extensive insight. The Audit & Supervisory Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Board members, including these highly independent Comprised exclusively of outside directors, these outside members, conduct audits on the execution of meetings facilitate an exchange of opinions regarding NGK duties by directors, business operations, and the management issues, with the intent of proactively company’s financial position. Times held: 14 contributing to discussions at Board of Directors meetings. Times held: 1 Executive Committee Comprising the president, directors, Audit & Supervisory Hearing convened by Audit & Supervisory Board members, and executive officers and division heads Board Members and Outside Directors designated by the president, this body deliberates the matters necessary to help the president with Comprised of Audit & Supervisory Board members and decision-making. As of June 21, 2019, the current outside directors, these hearings gather information from Executive Committee comprises 16 members (15 men internal sources regarding the business environment and and one woman). issues surrounding NGK. Times held: 9 Times held: 21 Note: Times held is the number of meetings between April 2018 and Business Ethics Committee March 31, 2019. Comprised of five outside directors and one internal director responsible for compliance, this committee monitors for fraud or illegalities involving senior management, as well as for compliance with the Competition Law and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and reports directly to the Board of Directors. As a mechanism to prevent fraud or legal violations, in addition to the Helpline, an internal reporting system (Hotline) linked directly to outside lawyers was established with the aim of strengthening NGK’s compliance structure. Times held: 8 Reference Page Whistleblowing System (Hotline) P99 NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 86 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Bodies Concerning Observance of Laws, Regulations, and Corporate Ethics Aiming to increase customer satisfaction and trust by realizing even higher-quality products and services, this body deliberates the matters necessary to help the president and the Quality Committee Chair with decision-making regarding the following items. Quality Committee 1. Determination and revision or abolition of Quality Policy and Objectives 2. Items pertaining to the prevention of serious quality defects in the market and technological responses after occurrence 3. Other quality-related matters determined to be important This body formulates and deliberates the planning of matters necessary to help the president and the Environmental Protection Environmental Protection Committee Chair with decision-making regarding the realization of our Core Policy on the Environment to promote business activities in Committee harmony with the environment. This body deliberates important issues on safety and health to assist the decision-making of the president and Safety and Health Safety and Health Committee Committee Chair regarding the establishment of basic policies and priority targets pertaining to safety and health and the confirmation of labor accidents and priority activities. This body assists the president and CSR Committee Chair with decision-making by deliberating matters necessary for the observance of laws, regulations, and corporate ethics. Observance of Laws, Regulations, and Corporate Ethics 1. Determination and revision or abolition of basic policies related to the observance of laws, regulations, and corporate ethics, including the Code of Conduct 2. Determination of systems, structures, and strict observance of important activities pertaining to laws, regulations, and corporate CSR Committee ethics company-wide 3. Determination, revision, or abolition of risk management structures pertaining to laws, regulations, and corporate ethics. Additionally, responses to items determined to pose a significant threat to the company among other matters, incidents or accidents related to laws, regulations or corporate ethics, as well as consideration and evaluation of the projects promoted by each subcommittee and other CSR-related items identified as important by the CSR Committee Chair, are also deliberated. Times held: 3 times a year This body deliberates matters necessary to help the president and Internal Controls Committee Chair with decision-making regarding internal controls system assessment and reporting related to financial reporting based on the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. 1. Determines the scope of reporting for each fiscal year, assessment and reporting schedules, standards to assess internal controls, Internal Controls Committee and other basic matters 2. Summarizes internal controls assessment and drafts internal controls report Times held: 3 times a year This body deliberates items necessary to assist the decision-making of the president and Development Committee Chair regarding Development Committee policies, evaluations, budgets, major individual planning, and commercialization projects related to development. This body deliberates items necessary to assist the decision-making of the president and Facilities Committee Chair regarding the Facilities Committee examination and evaluation of policies, budgets, performance, and major individual planning related to capital expenditure and information systems. This body deliberates items necessary to assist the president's decision-making regarding policies, systems, structures, and major Education Council promotion programs related to human resource development. Aimed at ensuring business continuity in times of emergency, this body executes the operation and maintenance of business continuity BCP Countermeasures planning (BCP) in normal times as well as gives instructions on and support to restoration systems, and prioritizes restoration orders when Headquarters BCP is in effect. This body executes requisite duties under commands from the Head and deliberates items necessary to assist the decision-making of the Central Disaster Prevention president and Head of this body regarding items related to earthquakes, storm and flood damage, fires, and explosions that threaten or and Control Headquarters significantly impact the company. Security Export Control/ This body deliberates and determines items necessary for guidance for subsidiaries and affiliates, legal compliance and the improvement Specified Export and of other internal systems with respect to security export controls, specified export declaration systems, and the management of customs Customs Clearance Control clearance operations. Committee NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 87 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Business Execution Status Evaluation on the Effectiveness of the Regarding business execution based on the Board of Board of Directors Directors resolutions, the president presides over company With regard to its effectiveness, the Board of Directors issues business as the chief executive of business execution. The a survey at the end of every fiscal year to directors and Audit Executive Committee holds discussions to assist the & Supervisory Board Members. The results are reported at the president’s decision-making with respect to important matters Board of Directors’ meeting, after the analysis and evaluation regarding business execution. In addition, the Board of by an external organization, and NGK implements specific Directors is asked for proactive recommendations for initiatives to enhance the effectiveness of the Board of management by outside directors pertaining to Directors based on issues identified in the results of this management-related issues at the Corporate Council, which evaluation. facilitates an exchange of opinions between outside directors In the evaluation of the Board of Directors conducted in and representative directors. fiscal 2018, the external organization found that foundational elements required of the Board of Directors have been Monitoring Status established, such as the leadership of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the commitment of its members, and its In line with audit policies and plans defined by the Audit & sound culture and operation, as well as that the Board of Supervisory Board, Audit & Supervisory Board members Directors are making continuous improvements and make an effort to collect information through hearings recognizes issues toward further progress. Accordingly, the convened by Audit & Supervisory Board members and external organization judged that the Board of Director outside directors, in an attempt to communicate with possesses sufficient effectiveness. On the other hand, it was directors and employees while monitoring director business pointed out that further efforts to improve effectiveness by execution by attending Board of Directors and Executive considering specific measures would be desirable, based on Committee meetings. At Audit & Supervisory Board meetings opinions from some members that there was room for attended by outside Audit & Supervisory Board members, the improvement in areas such as the understanding of risks for members exchange information with accounting auditors and important, large-scale projects, analysis of the reasons behind the Internal Auditing Department in an attempt to facilitate past management decisions, and the treatment and mutual cooperation. development of senior managers in key business departments. Based on the results of this evaluation, NGK will Election of Board Members, Executive Officers, continue endeavoring to maintain and strengthen the effectiveness of the Board of Directors, including and Audit & Supervisory Board Members implementing specific measures suited to actual With respect to the nomination of candidates for the Board of circumstances at the Company. Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board, all representative directors discuss matters related to each candidate. The Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee, of which Policy on Cross-Shareholdings external directors make up a majority, then deliberates NGK holds shares of listed companies which contribute to the matters related to each candidate, and reports the results to NGK Group’s long-term business development as the Board of Directors. As for candidates for the Audit & cross-shareholdings, primarily in order to maintain and Supervisory Board, approval is obtained from the Audit & strengthen business relationships. In addition, NGK holds the Supervisory Board in order to secure the independence of shares of each company in the Morimura Group, which was Audit & Supervisory Board members. With consideration established by the same founders of NGK, for the mutual given to the report made by the Nomination and benefit of enhancing management quality, as the Morimura Compensation Advisory Committee, candidates for the Board Group brand forms a part of NGK’s corporate value through of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board are determined by its philosophy and heritage. As all cross-shareholdings are a resolution of the Board of Directors and their confirmation is part of the asset portfolio, they are positioned as assets to set as an agenda item for the General Meeting of supplement the amount of liquidity considered necessary in Shareholders. Members of the Board of Directors and Audit & the business plan. NGK constantly strives to reduce the scale Supervisory Board are then appointed by resolution of the of cross-shareholdings from the perspective of capital General Meeting of Shareholders. Also, to further clarify the efficiency. Furthermore, the scale of cross-shareholdings may directors’ mission and responsibilities, the term of office for fluctuate due to factors including changes in overall business directors is one year. trends and risks, financial conditions, and the status of NGK’s business relationship with each business partner. Regarding Training Policies for Executives the specific stocks held, at its Board of Directors’ meeting, NGK regularly reviews the appropriateness of the continuous Newly appointed directors and executive officers are provided holding of shares as cross-shareholdings along with the with training conducted by attorneys practicing in the United capital policy, by determining the significance of holding from States and Japan related to the Companies Act and the the business relationship, the safety of ratings and so forth, Competition Law, conducted at the time of their appointment. and the efficiency of dividend yields and so forth. On the other In addition, each year lectures are held, targeting all directors hand, when comparing cross-shareholdings to NGK’s cost of and executive officers, related to compliance with the capital, evaluations based solely on shares are not Competition Law, focused on the expanding scope of conducted. Instead, ROIC management is conducted for Competition Law enforcement and practical business risks. In each business with differing risks and expected returns, and addition, with regard to outside directors, we provide regular cross-shareholdings are evaluated after being included in opportunities for the provision of individual explanations by each business’s balance sheet. personnel from relevant business divisions concerning mainly proposals presented to the Board of Directors meeting as well as information and exchange of opinions pertaining to business environment and related issues. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 88 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board, Executive Officers Board of Directors (as of June 30, 2019) Taku Oshima Yukihisa Takeuchi Hiroshi Kanie President Executive Executive Vice President Vice President Attendance at Board of Attendance at Board of Attendance at Board of Directors meetings Directors meetings Directors meetings 14/14 14/14 14/14 March 1980 Joins NGK March 1978 Joins NGK March 1981 Joins NGK June 2007 Appointed as vice president June 2004 Appointed as director June 2010 Appointed as vice president June 2011 Appointed as senior vice president June 2005 Appointed as vice president June 2012 Appointed as senior vice president June 2014 Appointed as president (incumbent) June 2008 Appointed as senior vice president June 2014 Appointed as director and senior vice president June 2011 Appointed as director and senior vice president June 2018 Appointed as executive vice president (incumbent) June 2015 Appointed as executive vice president (incumbent) Responsible for Corporate Planning Office, New Business Planning Group Executive, Corporate R&D; Development Committee Chair Office, Secretarial Office, Corporate Communications Dept., Human Resources Dept., General Affairs Dept., and Power Business Group; Senior Officer in Charge of Group Companies; General Manager, Osaka Branch; in charge of overall personal information management, privacy protection, and Construction Business Act compliance Susumu Sakabe Ryohei Iwasaki Chiaki Niwa Director and Senior Director and Senior Director and Senior Vice President Vice President Vice President Attendance at Board of Attendance at Board of Attendance at Board of Directors meetings Directors meetings Directors meetings 14/14 14/14 13/14 March 1981 Joins NGK March 1982 Joins NGK March 1984 Joins NGK June 2007 Appointed as vice president June 2008 Appointed as vice president June 2013 Appointed as vice president June 2010 Appointed as director and executive officer June 2009 Appointed as director and executive officer June 2015 Appointed as director and executive officer June 2011 Appointed as director and senior vice president June 2012 Appointed as director and senior vice president June 2016 Appointed as director and senior vice president (incumbent) (incumbent) (incumbent) Responsible for Finance & Accounting Dept. and Purchasing Dept.; Group Executive, Process Technology Business Group; in charge of Group Executive, Corporate Manufacturing Engineering; responsible General Manager, Tokyo Main Office management affairs for Quality Management Dept., Environmental Management Dept., and Safety and Industrial Health Management Dept; Facilities Committee Chair, Quality Committee Chair, Environmental Committee Chair, and Safety and Industrial Health Committee Chair Atsushi Matsuda Shuhei Ishikawa Nobumitsu Saji Director and Senior Vice President Director and Senior Director and Senior Vice President Vice President Attendance at Board of Directors meetings Attendance at Board of Attendance at Board of Directors meetings Directors meetings 10/10 Note: Since being appointed to 14/14 14/14 current post in June 2018 March 1984 Joins NGK March 1984 Joins NGK March 1985 Joins NGK June 2010 Appointed as vice president June 2013 Appointed as vice president June 2012 Appointed as vice president June 2014 Appointed as senior vice president June 2014 Appointed as director and executive officer June 2017 Appointed as senior vice president June 2015 Appointed as director and senior vice president June 2015 Appointed as director and senior vice president June 2018 Appointed as director and senior vice president (incumbent) (incumbent) (incumbent) Group Executive, Electronics Business Group Chief Compliance Officer; responsible for Auditing Dept., Group Group Executive, Ceramic Products Business Group; General Manager, Compliance Dept., Legal Dept., and Intellectual Property Dept.; Chair Global Sales & Marketing Div., Ceramic Products Business Group; of CSR Committee and Internal Controls Committee; in charge of General Manager, Nagoya Site company-wide Competition Law compliance; Data Protection Officer NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 89 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director Hiroyuki Kamano Emiko Hamada Kazuo Furukawa Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Attendance at Board of Attendance at Board of Attendance at Board of Directors meetings Directors meetings Directors meetings 13/14 14/14 Newly appointed Apr. 1971 Joins Ministry of Foreign Affairs Apr. 1984 Joins Taiyo Yuden Co., Ltd. Apr. 1971 Joins Hitachi, Ltd. Apr. 1979 Trains at Legal Training and Research Institute, Dec. 2001 Appointed as general manager, Quality Assurance Control Apr. 2005 Appointed as representative executive officer, executive Supreme Court of Japan R Technology Div., Engineering Group, Taiyo Yuden vice president, and executive officer; general manager Apr. 1981 Becomes registered attorney Sept. 2003 Appointed as chief engineer, Basic Research Div., General and CEO, Information & Telecommunications Group; Oct. 1988 Becomes representative attorney, Kamano Sogo Law Research Laboratory, Engineering Group, Taiyo Yuden general manager, Export Control Div.; Hitachi Offices (incumbent) Nov. 2008 Appointed as associate professor, Center for Social Apr. 2006 Appointed as representative executive officer and June 2007 Appointed as outside auditor, Komatsu Ltd. Contribution and Collaboration, Nagoya Institute of president, Hitachi July 2007 Appointed as outside director, Sumitomo Life Technology (NITech) June 2006 Appointed as director, representative executive officer, Insurance Company Apr. 2011 Appointed as professor, Center for Social Contribution and and president, Hitachi Apr. 2009 Appointed as vice president, Tokyo Bar Association Collaboration, NITech, and professor for Master of May 2007 Appointed as vice chair, Keidanren (Japan Business June 2011 Appointed as director, NGK (incumbent) Techno-Business Administration, NITech Graduate School Federation) June 2015 Appointed as outside auditor, House Foods Group Inc. Apr. 2012 Appointed as professor, Center for Research on Assistive Apr. 2009 Appointed as director, representative executive officer, (incumbent) Technology for Building a New Community, NITech and vice chair, Hitachi May 2015 Appointed as third-area program officer, A-STEP (Adaptable and June 2009 Appointed as special advisor, Hitachi Seamless Technology Transfer Program through Target-driven June 2011 Appointed as president, Information Processing Society of R&D), Japan Science and Technology Agency (incumbent) Japan July 2016 Appointed as part-time lecturer, NITech (incumbent) Oct. 2011 Appointed as chair, New Energy and Industrial Aug. 2016 Appointed as visiting professor, Nagoya University (incumbent) Technology Development Organization June 2017 Appointed as director, NGK (incumbent) June 2019 Appointed as director, NGK (incumbent) June 2019 Appointed as outside director, Taiyo Yuden (incumbent) Executive Officers Audit & Supervisory Board (as of June 30, 2019) (as of June 30, 2019) Shigeru Kobayashi Ken Sugiyama Takeshi Shimazaki Senior Vice President Audit & Supervisory Audit & Supervisory Group Executive, Power Business Group; General Manager, Board Member Board Member Komaki Site Hiroshi Kurachi Attendance at Board of Attendance at Board of Senior Vice President Directors meetings Directors meetings General Manager, Sensor Div., Ceramic Products Business Group 14/14 Newly appointed Attendance at Audit & Attendance at Audit & Takaya Teshima Supervisory Board meetings Supervisory Board meetings Senior Vice President Group Vice Executive, Process Technology Business Group 14/14 Newly appointed Hiroto Matsuda Mar. 1980 Joins NGK Mar. 1982 Joins NGK Senior Vice President July 2002 Appointed as general manager, Finance Dept. Apr. 2010 Appointed as manager, Finance Dept. General Manager, High Performance Ceramics Div., Apr. 2007 Appointed as general manager, Auditing Dept. June 2015 Appointed as general manager, Auditing Dept. Process Technology Business Group June 2015 Appointed as Audit & Supervisory Board member June 2019 Appointed as Audit & Supervisory Board member (incumbent) (incumbent) Tadaaki Yamada Senior Vice President General Manager, Human Resources Dept.; in charge of General Affairs Dept. Independent Director Independent Director Junichi Itoh Masayoshi Sakaguchi Tsutomu Nanataki Senior Vice President Audit & Supervisory Audit & Supervisory Group Vice Executive, Corporate R&D; Project Leader, Board Member, Outside Board Member, Outside Functional Materials Development Project, Corporate R&D Attendance at Board of Directors meetings Attendance at Board of Tomohiro Yamada Vice President Directors meetings President, NGK Electronics Devices Inc. 10/10 Attendance at Audit & Newly appointed Akira Katoh Vice President Supervisory Board meetings Attendance at Audit & General Manager, New Metals Div., Electronics Business Supervisory Board meetings Group; General Manager, Chita Site 10/10 Note: Since being appointed to Newly appointed Masanobu Inoue Vice President current post in June 2018 General Manager, Industrial Process Div., Process Technology Business Group Apr. 1975 Joins Mitsubishi Bank (now MUFG Bank) Apr. 1980 Joins National Police Agency June 2002 Appointed as executive officer, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Feb. 1999 Appointed as chief, 1st District, Metropolitan Police Hiroharu Kato Vice President (now MUFG Bank) Department President, NGK Europe GmbH May 2005 Appointed as managing executive officer, Bank of Sept. 2001 Appointed as commissioner, Akita Prefectural Police Tokyo-Mitsubishi Jan. 2003 Appointed as chief, Criminal Investigation Dept., Atsushi Miyajima Vice President June 2005 Appointed as managing director, member of the board, Osaka Prefectural Police General Manager, Manufacturing Engineering Div., Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Oct. 2011 Appointed as commissioner, Osaka Prefectural Corporate Manufacturing Engineering Group Jan. 2006 Appointed as managing director, member of the board, Police Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (now MUFG Bank) Jan. 2013 Appointed as chief, Commissioner-General’s Hideaki Shindo Vice President May 2009 Appointed as senior managing executive officer, Bank of Secretariat, National Police Agency General Manager, Finance Dept. Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (now MUFG Bank) Jan. 2015 Appointed as deputy commissioner, National Police June 2011 Appointed as representative director, senior executive Agency Jun Mori Vice President vice president, and CFO, Nikon Corporation Aug. 2016 Appointed as commissioner-general, National General Manager, Manufacturing Div., Ceramic Products June 2016 Appointed as corporate advisor, Nikon; outside Audit & Police Agency Business Group Supervisory Committee member, Hyakujushi Bank May 2018 Appointed as special advisor, Nippon Life Insurance June 2017 Appointed as outside director (Audit & Supervisory Company Hiroyuki Shinohara Vice President Committee member), Hyakujushi Bank (incumbent) June 2019 Appointed as Audit & Supervisory Board member, General Manager, Corporate Planning Office June 2018 Appointed as Audit & Supervisory Board member, NGK NGK (incumbent) (incumbent) Appointed as vice president, Japan Automobile Iwao Ohwada Vice President Federation (incumbent) General Manager, Advanced Device Components Div., Electronics Business Group NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 90 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Remuneration of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Policies for Determining Remuneration of Directors The remuneration of directors (excluding outside directors) Members and only pays basic remuneration since they and corporate officers consists of the following three assume roles in supervising and auditing management components: (1) basic remuneration as fixed annual from an independent standpoint. remuneration according to respective positions; (2) a With regard to the ratio between this variable performance-linked bonus, which is based on the remuneration and fixed annual remuneration, the ratio of business performance each year; and (3) stock-related basic remuneration, performance-linked bonuses, and remuneration to enhance the motivation, etc. of directors stock-related remuneration is set from a perspective of to improve the mediumto long-term corporate value putting priority on the stability and enhancement of through appropriate corporate management by increasing mediumto long-term performance. The total amount of sensitivity toward the NGK stock price and sharing with remuneration, including basic remuneration, is determined shareholders both advantages and risks generated by ups in accordance with officers’ positions, taking into and downs of the stock price. NGK does not pay any consideration remuneration levels according to the size of performance-linked bonus or stock-related remuneration companies and other factors, using data from reliable to outside directors and Audit & Supervisory Board external research institutions. Remuneration of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (fiscal 2018) Total remuneration by type (million yen) Total remuneration Applicable directors Director category Fixed Performance-linked (million yen) Stock options Retirement benefits (people) remuneration remuneration Directors (excluding Outside Directors) 570 388 129 53 – 11 Audit & Supervisory Board Members (excluding Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members) 62 62 – – – 2 Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members 66 66 – – – 6 Directors Receiving Total Remuneration of ¥100 Million or More (fiscal 2018) Total remuneration by type (million yen) Total Company Name Director category remuneration category Fixed Performance-linked Retirement Stock options (million yen) remuneration remuneration benefits Submitting Taku Oshima Director companies 68 30 10 – 110 Reasons for Appointment of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Outside Directors Name Reasons for appointment Having long engaged in legal practice as an attorney-at-law, Mr. Kumano possesses a wealth of experience and achievements in the legal community, including Hiroyuki his service as Vice President of the Tokyo Bar Association. Drawing on this experience, he has been fulfilling his duties as an outside director of the company by Kamano sharing opinions regarding strengthening the compliance structure and carrying out management strategy from the viewpoint of investors, as well as offering suggestions in connection with the company’s business operation and properly overseeing the management of the company. We have therefore elected him to the position of outside director. Ms. Hamada has made remarkable achievements, such as leading the invention and world-first commercialization of the CD-R (recordable CD) while working at Taiyo Yuden Co., Ltd. Since then, she has been engaged in research activities mainly based on industry-academia-government collaboration as Professor at the Emiko Hamada Nagoya Institute of Technology and Visiting Professor at Nagoya University. In her role as outside director she draws upon the insights which she has cultivated over the course of her career to give recommendations about NGK business execution and provide appropriate management oversight; for example, by giving advice on strengthening technological capacity and achieving a clear, unified company-wide direction to product development. We have therefore elected her to the position of outside director. Mr. Furukawa has a wealth of knowledge in information and communications and other technological fields and valuable experience in managing large Kazuo organizations. At Hitachi, Ltd. he held positions such as head of the information and communications group, CEO, and president. He was also chair of the New Furukawa Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization (NEDO). Using this experience, he gives recommendations about business execution and provides appropriate management oversight, thus contributing to increasing the corporate value of NGK. We have therefore elected him to the position of outside director. Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Name Reasons for appointment Mr. Ito has been involved with corporate management for many years, including as Senior Management Executive Officer for the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (now MUFG Bank, Ltd.) and Representative Director, Senior Executive Vice President and CFO for Nikon Corporation. As an expert in corporate Junichi Ito management, Mr. Ito is able to leverage the wealth of experience and the insights he has cultivated over his long career to provide appropriate advice and oversight aimed at strengthening NGK’s corporate governance. Based upon this demonstrated competency and capability, he has been selected as an outside audit & supervisory board member. Mr. Sakaguchi has a wealth of experience in the administrative sector and a proven track record in managing large organizations. He was commissioner of the Masayoshi Osaka Prefectural Police, chief of the Commissioner-General’s Secretariat (National Police Agency), and commissioner-general of the National Police Agency. Sakaguchi Making use of this experience, he audits NGK’s overall management from the viewpoint of the legality of business and risk management, thus helping raise NGK’s corporate value. We have therefore elected him to the position of outside audit & supervisory board members. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 91 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Comments from Outside Directors NGK Group Code of Conduct: make them your own, put them to work On the occasion of its 100th anniversary, NGK revamped its NGK Group Philosophy and subsequently revised the NGK Group Code of Conduct. This was a truly significant undertaking. The revisions—regarding helping realize a sustainable society and taking human rights issues head on—go hand-in-hand with the SDGs that are currently gaining steam around the world. The success of the Code of Conduct now depends on how much NGK Group employees are willing to take ownership of the code and apply it in everything they do. There is no point in simply making slogans. We have to put the code to work by applying it to everything that NGK Group employees do at worldwide group companies. To this end, everyone must thoroughly understand the Code of Conduct, cement it as their ideal behavioral guidelines, and monitor whether it is being properly enforced. Hiroyuki Kamano When matters related to compliance occur, checks must be carried out by company Outside Director departments in charge of legal affairs and internal auditing. When they relate to environmental protection, the Environmental Management Department must take charge. Besides the Board of Directors overseeing governance, each and every department must execute its duties from its own unique standpoint. Regarding the problem last year of the Non-Conformity Issue occurred in insulators, we have investigated internal audits and whether the case has been fairly addressed from the standpoint of the chairperson of the assessment committee, and we have received a point-by-point report to prevent a reoccurrence. Relevant divisions will thoroughly check that contracts and standards are adhered to, the Quality Management Department and the Group Compliance Department of the Head Office will audit this, and an external third-party institute will assess whether rules are being followed. Help apply state-of-the-art technologies to business When NGK celebrated its 100th anniversary, I was extremely honored to be appointed an outside director and join in propelling the company through its second century. I hope that I can use my experience in the private and public sectors to contribute to making NGK an even better corporate group. In my more than 30 years of experience in the manufacturing industry, the NGK Group’s ceramic technologies and other manufacturing expertise stand out as something not easily replicated by other companies. NGK is an excellent company that has given the world many significant products. But science and technology is advancing at an accelerating pace. How well can companies apply state-of-the-art technology to business? Their success in this respect will provide opportunities for growth, and I hope to be of assistance in this Kazuo Furukawa area. Outside Director I believe that as an outside director, it is my role to view things from a different perspective than company executives in helping raise corporate value. Another role of mine is to monitor from a corporate governance standpoint whether the company is being properly operated in light of social justice and social norms. I will use my experience in running a company to provide practical, easy-to-apply advice to NGK company executives through the Board of Directors and other forums. Ever since my days of working in a factory, I have made the philosophy of “fundamentals and righteousness” central to all my work. I believe that one of the values of the NGK Group Philosophy— Quality of Management: Social trust is our foundation”—leads to my philosophy of “fundamentals and righteousness.” What’s most important is that each one of us takes action. I look forward to speaking with NGK employees on topics such as the company’s philosophy and mission. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 92 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Open General Meeting of Shareholders NGK endeavors to hold open General Meeting of product exhibits explained by NGK staff. Shareholders that its shareholders feel welcome to attend. We also make efforts toward expanding General Every year, we introduce NGK corporate activities at the Meeting of Shareholders-related information, including the General Meeting of Shareholders with booths displaying following: (1) Mailing a convocation notice well in advance Sent 22 days prior to the meeting date. (2) Disclosing information on the website well in advance Announced four days before convocation notices are sent out (since fiscal 2018). (3) Taking part in the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) Online voting system made available. Electronic Voting Platform* Documents such as convocation notices, the results of vote execution, notices of resolution, and extraordinary reports are disclosed on the website. English-language notices for the General Meeting of Shareholders are sent out. (4) Posting General Meeting of Shareholders documents on the website General Meeting of Shareholders-related information https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/ir/meeting/ *TSE Electronic Voting Platform: An electronic voting system operated by TSE. It allows people to vote not only through the conventional printed materials but also via the Internet, making the process more convenient for shareholders in Japan and overseas. Two-Way Communication In addition to regular presentations held in Japan and NGK senior management also visits and conducts overseas, the NGK Group conducts one-on-one meetings one-on-one discussions with institutional investors in and participates in interviews among other ongoing Japan and overseas. initiatives to expand dialogues with institutional investors. Activities in Fiscal 2018 Activities Details Senior management conducted presentations for analysts and institutional investors twice this year. Japan They also conducted one-on-one meetings and participated in interviews. Overseas Senior management conducted overseas IR meetings targeting analysts and institutional investors twice this year. Included financial reporting information, the timely disclosure of non-financial reporting information, Online IR Library securities reports, annual reports, General Meeting of Shareholder materials, and other information. Reference Investor Relations URL https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/ir/ NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 93 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index TOPIC Measures for Returning Profits to Shareholders Participation in Nomura IR Asset At NGK, returning profits to shareholders is considered Management Fair one of the highest management priorities. To familiarize individual investors with the details of As a basic policy, we aim for management that business and performance of NGK, our General focuses on shareholders and ROE. Based on this basic Affairs Department and the Finance & Accounting policy, we share profits while comprehensively taking Department took part in the Nomura IR Asset account of our business performance, financial structure, Management Fair 2019 (sponsored by Nomura and future business development. Our medium-term Investor Relations Co., Ltd.), held at the Tokyo benchmark for the consolidated payout ratio is around International Forum. 30%. With participation by a total of 62 listed In fiscal 2018, we increased the annual dividend by 6 companies and investment firms, the event yen to 50 yen per share. The consolidated payout ratio attracted approximately 12,200 visitors over two stood at 45.3%. days. The NGK booth used panels and small We will keep striving to secure profitability above the briefings to explain what NGK does and how it is capital cost and to maintain financial soundness. We opt performing. to proactively return profits to our shareholders from the mediumto long-term perspective. Dividends per Share (Yen) 50 50 44 40 40 38 30 28 20 10 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Return on Equity (ROE) (%) 15 13.3 11.4 10.4 8.8 7.6 0 -15 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 94 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Shareholder Information Stock Information (as of March 31, 2019) Major Shareholders (as of March 31, 2019) Number of Shareholding Total number of shares authorized 735,030,000 Name of shareholder shares held ratio (1,000 shares) (%) 327,560,196 Total number of shares issued The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (including 5,779,637 treasury shares) 39,323 12.22 (Trust Account) Number of shareholders 38,779 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 26,919 8.36 (Trust Account) Other Japanese Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company 21,695 6.74 Financial companies institutions 394 （1.0％） The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited 21,457 6.66 158 （0.4％） MUFG Bank, Ltd. 8,748 2.71 Number of Shareholders Foreign 38,779 companies National Mutual Insurance Federation of 6,299 1.95 and others Agricultural Cooperatives Individuals 586 and others （1.5％） JP Morgan Chase Bank 380055 6,175 1.91 37,641 （97.1％） Trust & Custody Services Bank, Ltd. 4,808 1.49 (securities investment trust) Individuals Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. Financial 4,784 1.48 and others institutions (Trust Account 5) 47,618 187,337 thousand shares thousand shares Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. 4,387 1.36 （14.5%） Number of （57.2％） Shares Issued Note: The above list of major shareholders does not include NGK, which 327,560 holds a total of 5,779,637 treasury shares. Also, the shareholding ratios Foreign thousand shares above are calculated based on the number of shares derived by deducting companies the number of treasury shares from the number of shares issued, and and others Other Japanese rounded down to two decimal places. 74,273 thousand shares companies （22.7%） 18,332 thousand shares （5.6%） NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 95 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Internal Control Systems The Board of Directors and the executive bodies overseen its economic goals. The CSR Committee, under which the by the president are responsible for establishing and Compliance Subcommittee, Security Subcommittee, and operating NGK’s internal control system. The Auditing Social Contribution Subcommittee are organized, is Department, a specialized internal audit body, is responsible for a range of activities that include ensuring responsible for assessing the status of business execution compliance with the NGK Group Code of Conduct, laws, at each operating division. Moreover, NGK has established regulations and corporate ethics is fully entrenched the Internal Controls Committee to manage its reporting throughout the Group, and developing responses to system for internal controls pursuant to Japan’s Financial incidents and accidents which it believes could Instruments and Exchange Act. significantly impact the Company. The Committee’s The NGK Group Code of Conduct (revised in January actions are designed to maintain and improve the level of 2019) were formulated as a policy embodying the Group’s the Group’s internal control system. corporate philosophy. These guidelines specify the Please note that the “Resolution for the Development Group’s fundamental stance with respect to business of Systems to Ensure the Appropriateness of Operations” activities and corporate behavior to ensure it remains a was amended at a Board of Director meeting held in company that is beneficial to society, even in the pursuit of March 2017. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 96 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Thorough Enforcement of Compliance Viewing compliance as the foundation of CSR, the NGK Group positions enhancing trustworthiness as the most important initiative and strives to create specific systems to inculcate this view among employees, comply with competition laws, prevent corruption, observe contracts, and comply with other laws and regulations. NGK Group Code of Conduct In January 2019, the NGK Group Code of Conduct was Provide a Safe and Enjoyable Work revised. The revisions reflected the changes in society Environment since the last revisions in 2011 and focused on the realization of a sustainable society through business 3. We will provide a safe and enjoyable work activities, respect for human rights, and thorough environment that is comfortable for everyone to compliance. All NGK Group employees will act according work in for all. to this code as they fulfill their social responsibility and • We will strictly comply with laws and regulations of each build trust in NGK. country and region relating to labor, safety and sanitation. A booklet of the NGK Group Code of Conduct is • We will aim to harmonize work and life, and support a variety distributed to all employees and executives. In addition, of working styles. the CSR Committee Chair and the Group Compliance • We will build up a relationship of trust through sincere debate Department ensure understanding by everyone by holding and discussion with employees. briefings on the revisions in each business group. • We will give educational opportunities to employees and NGK Insulators holds training when newly hired provide opportunities to stretch their motivation and abilities. graduates and mid-career hires enter the company to deepen understanding, as well as ongoing training to Honest Business Activities explain the NGK Group Code of Conduct when employees are promoted. 4. We will undertake fair and transparent business In addition, educational materials are created and activities with integrity and strictly comply to distributed to ensure thorough understanding. international standards, laws and regulations of each country and region. Reference Group Philosophy, Code of Conduct • We will undertake business activities with common sense and URL https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/info/governance/ based on strict compliance and ethics. • We will ensure performance of contracts and agreements with customers and counterparties. Realization of a Sustainable Society • We will strictly comply with competition laws. 1. We will create new value through the provision of • We will never in any manner undertake bribery products and services that contribute to society, • We will strictly manage personal data and confidential protect the world environment, and strive to information. realize a sustainable society. • We will respect the intellectual property rights of other • By providing high quality products and services in which persons. safety is properly considered and which comply with • We will set up and actively manage our import/export system. environmental rules, we can respond to the trust of • We will not have any involvement with organized crime and customers and society. other anti-social forces. • We will sincerely consider new needs and the desire for • We will manage business risks and make efforts to prevent improvements from customers and society and undertake the occurrence of problems and promptly respond when they product and service development and upgrades. arise. • In order to deter and correct improper acts, we will Respect for Human Rights appropriately prepare and put into practice a whistleblowing system. 2. We will strictly comply with international standards of human rights and respect the diversity of all people. Disclosure of Company Information and • We will respect human rights and undertake business Accountability activities without the use of forced labor or child labor. 5. We will increase healthy and transparent • We will respect the individuality and independence of each management by active disclosure of information employee and not engage in discrimination on the basis of and discussion with stakeholders. race, citizenship, gender, age, religion, belief, existence of • We will accurately and promptly disclose information required handicaps, sexual diversity or any other aspect. by society. • We will prevent the occurrence of harassment in the • We will take seriously the voices of our stakeholders and fulfill workplace and take prompt and appropriate action in the our obligation of accountability. case where it occurs. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 97 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Permeate Social Responsibility into Our Cooperation with the Region and Society Supply Chain 8. We will contribute to the expansion of the region 6. We will promote a structure that fulfills societal and society as a good corporate citizen. responsibilities to our trade counterparts and the • As one member of the region and society we will actively supply chain overall. undertake activities that contribute to society. • We will respect our trade counterparts as equal partners and • We will actively support activities that contribute to society in work to build a trusting relationship for mutual development. which employees voluntarily participate. • Through realization of green procurement and CSR, we will contribute to the growth of the region and society. • We will demand respect for human rights and compliance with laws and regulations from our supply chain. Preservation of Environment 7.We will work to preserve and resolve the problems of the world environment. • We will provide products and services that contribute to preservation of the world environment. • We will directly address the burden of business activities on the environment. • We will work for preservation of biological diversity and sustainability. • We will strictly comply with laws and regulations relating to the environment of each country and region. Compliance Promotion Structure We established the Compliance Subcommittee under the Establishment of the Global Compliance CSR Committee to ensure strict observance of laws, System regulations, and corporate ethics within the Group. The Security Subcommittee has also been established to With the aim of building a group-wide foundation for an ensure accident prevention measures are in place, widely effective compliance scheme, the Group Compliance known, and strictly practiced. Department conducts education on compliance at bases in and outside Japan. President Mission of the Group Compliance Department ■ Works to establish and develop compliance as a CSR Committee corporate culture of the entire NGK Group Chair: Director and Senior Vice President Members: Executive Vice President, Group Executives, etc. ■ Supports Group companies inside and outside Japan in strengthening and operating their compliance systems, Compliance Subcommittee Helpline and actively provides compliance training Chair: Group Compliance Dept. Manager Members: Dept. Managers ■ As for Group companies outside Japan in particular, ensures effective compliance for our globalized Security Subcommittee operations by obtaining the most up-to-date information Chair: General Affairs Division Manager regarding applicable laws and social demands in Members: Dept. Managers each region Group All divisions companies NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 98 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Whistleblowing System Helpline Hotline We have established a helpline to receive inquiries and We have established a hotline as a whistleblowing system reports from employees aimed at curtailing and preventing for responding to fraud, and legal infractions committed by activities contrary to the spirit of the NGK Group Code of senior management of NGK, and Competition Laws and Conduct and to facilitate the quick resolution when issues Anti-Corruption Laws violation. The hotline is operated by occur. Each Group company outside Japan has its own outside lawyers, with issues handled by the Business helpline. Those seeking advice or reporting issues are Ethics Committee, composed mainly of outside directors, promised protection under corporate regulations. There who report directly to the Board of Directors. were 75 consultation cases in fiscal 2018. We have been pushing forward with the establishment of the hotline at Group companies outside Japan in light of No. of helpline consultation cases (in Japan) the circumstances in each country. FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 17 43 75 Board of Directors Recommendations, Report helpline activities monitoring CSR Committee Business Ethics Committee Report helpline activities • Fraud and legal violations involving senior management of NGK (including instructions and commands) Helpline Secretariat • Competition Laws and Anti-Corruption Laws violations • Unlawful conduct that violates laws, Recommend formulation of corrective actions to Board company rules, and corporate ethics that of Directors and monitor status of implementation are difficult to consult with a supervisors Departmental and individual consultation, investigation, recommendations for improvements, follow-ups Internal contact (Group Compliance External contact (lawyers) Outside lawyers Dept., others) Helpline Helpline Hotline NGK Group officers and employees Compliance Card For thorough awareness of the whistleblowing system, we created a carry-size Compliance Card and distributed it to all employees at NGK and all domestic Group companies. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 99 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Promoting Compliance Education Compliance Training for Employees Compliance training and awareness among corporate Seminars to explain laws and regulations and to introduce officers and employees is driven primarily by the Group case studies. Compliance Department and the Legal Department. In In fiscal 2018, we added quality compliance and addition to career training and training for employees to be contract observance to our career education courses. posted overseas, we provide Laws and Compliance Compliance Education Conducted in FY2018 (Overall) Number of Title Target Content sessions New hires Compliance basics, competition laws, anti-bribery regulations 2 Promoted or career-changed employees Compliance basics 4 Mid-career hires Compliance basics, competition laws, anti-bribery regulations 1 Career Education General compliance, competition laws, anti-bribery regulations, Newly appointed supervisors 1 quality compliance, contract observance General compliance, competition laws, anti-bribery regulations, Newly appointed managers 1 quality compliance, contract observance Managers promoted second grade Compliance (including quality compliance) 1 Training for employees Employees scheduled for postings scheduled for postings abroad Competition laws, anti-bribery regulations 2 (global training) abroad Group company outside Japan Lectures provided by attorneys and paper materials-based in-house training 18 managers and sales staff Compliance education General employees of NGK Insulators Compliance, harassment prevention, whistleblowing system 24 and Japanese Group companies Protect yourself from common crimes Lecturer: Internal lecturer; 502 participants in total Overview of amendments to the Civil Code Lecturer: Internal lecturer; 642 participants in total Quality compliance seminars; two sessions (morning and afternoon) Lecturer：Outside attorney; 789 participants in total* Laws and Compliance Managers and other targets Act on Special Measures Concerning Shifting of the Consumption Tax, 6 Seminars depending on content Subcontract Act Lecturer：Internal lecturer; 619 participants in total Latest trends in insider trading regulations Lecturer: Internal lecturer; 450 participants in total Response to Stamp Duty Act Lecturer：Internal lecturer; 510 participants in total All directors and managers, and others Quality compliance seminar 2 Other training connected to training content Lecturer: Outside attorney Divisions and Japanese Group companies Subcontract Act explanatory meeting 3 *Managers take course, which includes watching DVDs Competition Laws Education Conducted in Fiscal 2018 Title Target Content Number of sessions 4 All corporate officers, all managers, (The number of Competition Laws and salespeople of NGK and its Lectures provided by outside attorneys and DVD-based training sessions does Compliance Lectures not include Group companies in Japan watching DVDs.) Group company outside Japan Group company outside Japan Lectures provided by attorneys and paper materials-based in-house training 24 Compliance Training managers and sales staff On-demand training on competition Targets depending on content On-demand training upon divisions’ request 2 laws by internal lecturer Training on competition laws for Japanese Group companies Explanation of key points in observing competition laws in work 3 Japanese Group companies NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 100 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Anti-Bribery Training Conducted in FY2018 Number of Title Target Content sessions Training on anti-bribery regulations Group companies outside Japan Lectures provided by attorneys and paper materials-based in-house training 24 for Group company outside Japan managers and sales staff Other Dissemination Programs We post the Compliance Newsletter on the company’s Compliance Newsletter intranet once a month. The Newsletter features a four-frame cartoon that explores familiar themes followed by detailed explanations of what we can learn from these examples. In fiscal 2017, we began making October the annual compliance strengthening month, during which we do things such as put up educational posters and through employees of whistleblowing system. Themes Covered in the Compliance Newsletter in FY2018 April Report, note, discuss October Corporate ethics month May Being a good citizen November Personal smartphone use June Paid leave December Human rights week July Dangerous driving January Drinking alcohol August Fading sense of guilt February Power harassment September Formalities in giving March Information leaks Note: Provided by “Compro Custom” approvals compliance training tools service Corruption Prevention Structure The NGK Group implements anti-bribery measures in Conducting Anti-Bribery Training order to ensure fair and transparent transactions. In fiscal 2015, we instituted anti-bribery rules for dealing with In fiscal 2018, our in-house lecturers provided job foreign public officials in order to ensure compliance with grade-specific training to NGK employees. In addition, we anti-bribery laws as well as ethical standards for business also arranged for attorney-led seminars and other training conduct. Further, in fiscal 2017 our Auditing Department at all Group companies outside Japan. began a review of overseas money transfers and entertainment expenses. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 101 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Observing the Competition Law and Other Laws and Regulations Pertaining to Business Transactions In addition to mandating compliance with Competition implementation status of the NGK Group’s Competition Laws in the NGK Group Code of Conduct, we have Law compliance program per the Competition Law established the Competition Laws Compliance Rules, set Compliance Rules as well as assessing the overall forth to comply with international standards, which are oversight and reporting structures in place for NGK Group strictly enforced by the NGK Group both in Japan and its companies, both in Japan and overseas locations. On top overseas locations. We have established these policies of this, starting in fiscal 2017, PwC has also conducted and procedures in order to eradicate unfair business interviews with the directors overseeing NGK’s various practices and maintain fair and equitable business business groups in order to: 1) assess the tone of each relationships with our business partners. director’s approach toward competition law compliance; We also provide education and training aimed at and 2) to further enhance their awareness of these efforts. ensuring widespread awareness and thorough compliance The results of these reviews are being leveraged for a with the Competition Laws Compliance Rules and the variety of purposes, such as operating and improving the Competition Laws Compliance Handbook. Furthermore, Competition Law compliance program. since fiscal 2015, we have contracted PwC Advisory LLC (hereinafter, “PwC”) as our independent compliance Plea Agreement with U.S. Department of Reference Justice concerning ceramic substrates for professional. PwC is engaged to annually review the URL catalytic converters https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/news/20150904_9235.html Strengthening Our Compliance System Related to Competition Laws Year Regulation Development Creation of Internal Systems Training conducted • Formulated guidebook and briefing document for • Required each business group to submit a • Lectures on the Anti-Monopoly Act by outside FY1997 the Anti-Monopoly Act Compliance Status Report on the Anti-Monopoly Act instructors (attorneys) (subsequently held annually) FY2011 • Formulated Competition Laws Compliance Rules • Created and distributed the Competition Laws • In-house training led by legal department staff Compliance Handbook FY2012 • Established an independent committee • Lectures by local attorneys held at Group companies • Created and distributed an Appendix to the outside Japan Competition Laws Compliance Handbook • Conducted briefing on the Competition Laws FY2013 Compliance Handbook • Invited U.S. attorneys to lecture on competition laws • Revised Competition Laws Compliance Rules • Conducted study meetings for newly appointed • Introduced company-wide centralized supervision • Launched operation of a database for advanced directors on competition laws and the Companies and reporting structures led by the Board of notifications and participation reports pertaining Act by Japanese and U.S. attorneys Directors (independent of the President) FY2014 to meetings (subsequently held annually) • Appointed company-wide competition laws • Launched operation of an e-mail monitoring system • Conducted study meetings on competition laws supervisory managers • Revised Competition Laws Compliance Rules at Group companies outside Japan (corresponding • Enhanced the helpline at North American sales subsidiaries to laws and regulations in each country) • The Competition Laws Compliance Program was • Competition Law Compliance Rules of all resolved by the Board of Directors • Conducted study meetings on competition laws NGK Group companies in and outside Japan • Established the Global Compliance Office for new employees were revised to ensure that the NGK Group’s • Contracted Pricewaterhouse Coopers to review • Distributed a DVD on competition laws to FY2015 compliance system meets global standards the implementation status of the NGK Group’s domestic group companies • Revised the Compliance Laws Compliance Competition Law compliance program and assess • Upgraded training on compliance with competition Handbook the overall oversight and reporting structures in laws provided inside and outside Japan place for NGK Group companies • Clarified items that should be reported to the • Held seminars on the Companies Act and hotline when there were violations or fear of • Top management of headquarters, business groups, competition laws for newly appointed directors violation of competition laws, and revised and Group companies provided notifications about FY2018 and executive officers. Competition Laws Compliance Rules. compliance with competition laws at beginning • Held competition laws compliance lectures. • Created a working manual for compliance with of term. All executives and managers attended. competition laws. Note: Items marked in blue continue every year NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 102 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Strict Adherence to Laws and Regulations Relating to Export Management As part of its full compliance efforts, NGK is engaged in Familiarization with the Export/Import strictly observing and enforcing laws and regulations Handbook related to import and export control. Based on the NGK Group Code of Conduct, we stipulate abidance with laws NGK also makes efforts toward thorough compliance with and regulations related to secure export control, and we the Export/Import Handbook, which was published in carry out export control and employee training in fiscal 2012 and summarizes items for the observance of accordance with internal rules and the Export/Import export/import customs clearance regulations. Handbook. In addition to publishing this handbook on the company intranet where it can be viewed throughout the entire company, we provide training to spread awareness Using Databases to Conduct Comprehensive of the content of the handbook through study meetings related to export/import management conducted in each Inspections and Customs Management business division. In response to the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Study meetings on specified export and export/import Act and other export control-related laws and regulations, management are held one or more times per year NGK has screened exports to determine whether export targeting relevant staff in divisions responsible for export licenses are required and has recorded screening results in and import activities. In fiscal 2018, these meetings were a security export control database. However, since held 21 times, with 292 employees in attendance. October 16, 2017, we have moved to a security export control system (TPP) and are performing management via this new system. Furthermore, export management with respect to the export of certain products is conducted using a specified export declaration system. We have used an export/import cargo management ledger to fulfill our obligations to track and record imports and exports; however, since our switch to a security export control system (TPP), we have been using the system’s shipment ledger to track and record exports. We continue to use an import cargo control ledger for imports. Each department performs voluntary inspections of imports and specified exports at the start of the fiscal year. In addition, we use NACCS data (Nippon Automated The Export/Import Handbook Cargo and Port Consolidated System) to verify the completeness of export/import cargo management ledgers and shipment ledgers. We have achieved nearly 100% completeness for both imports and exports. Privacy Policy and Structure The NGK Group has established internal rules for privacy Procedures. Moreover, our policies are in full compliance policy management in an effort to ensure strict handling, with the revised Act on the Protection of Personal management, and protection of personal information Information, which came into effect on May 30, 2017. provided by customers. NGK formulated and made public our Basic Policy on Specific Personal Information in Reference Protection of personal information URL https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/utpolicy/ response to the enforcement of the Act on the Use of Numbers to Identify a Specific Individual in Administrative NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 103 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Information Security Policy and Structure The NGK Group CSR Committee’s Security Information Security Training Subcommittee takes responsibility for supervising overall information security, and supports the General Affairs and Training sessions listed below are conducted throughout Information Systems divisions based on the Basic NGK the year to ensure strict adherence to information security Group Information Security Policy, in an attempt to among all employees. properly manage and operate information assets. Training for newly hired employees and newly Every year, personnel of NGK’s Information Technology promoted supervisors and managers are offered to NGK Department visit several Group companies to conduct employees while e-learning is offered to NGK employees on-site checks and provide guidance on their and employees of some Group companies in Japan. implementation of IT security measures. In fiscal 2018, 11 Group companies outside Japan received such Number of participants: 155 Training for newly hired employees (participation rate: 100%) inspections. Training for newly promoted Number of participants: 105 supervisors (participation rate: 100%) Reference Basic NGK Group Information Security Policy URL https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/info/policies/ Training for newly promoted Number of participants: 50 managers (participation rate: 98%) Number of participants: 4,321 E-learning (participation rate: 100%) Formulation of Basic NGK Group IT Note: Excluding employees who were away on maternity leave, Security Standards childcare leave, long-term business trips, etc. The rapid advance in information communication technologies and devices has made the quest for consistent IT security on a Group-wide level an urgent concern, thus in fiscal 2010 we formulated the NGK Group IT Security Standards with the goal of developing an IT security structure based on commonly shared Group standards and enhancing IT security. Every year, each Group company drafts action plans for the enactment of countermeasures in an attempt to systematically strengthen security. Through these action plans, NGK confirms initiatives at each Group company and provides guidance as necessary. Status of Law and Regulation Violations There were no violations of laws or regulations in fiscal 2018. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 104 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Risk Management Basic Approach The NGK Group Code of Conduct states that “We will Company-Wide Shared Risks manage business risks and make efforts to prevent the Category Risk occurrence of problems and promptly respond when they arise.” Accordingly, the NGK Group makes an all-out effort Awareness on compliance and following rules to control risks. To minimize risks, which are becoming more global Managing material purchasing and expenses and diversified as our business expands, we periodically review risks, and the CSR Committee periodically follows Entertainment, gift-giving up on measures to deal with risks. 1. Compliance risk Protecting intellectual property Reference NGK Group Code of Conduct URL https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/sustainability/guideline/ Human rights, harassment Trouble with local communities Risk Analysis and Response Response to antisocial forces There are six types of risk which are viewed as common to 2. Information risk Information systems, information security all companies within the NGK Group, including compliance, information, and employment/labor. We make an Managing human resources and labor effort to avoid and prevent these risks through their comprehensive study and analysis. Managing labor, safety and hygiene, and health Business continuity planning (BCP) was formulated to 3. Employment/labor risk Traffic accidents ensure the continuation of critical business functions in the event of large-scale natural disasters including wind and Long working hours, health management flood damage and earthquakes, massive transportation accidents or other emergency situations, which will be Support for unskilled labor addressed by the Central Disaster Prevention and Control Headquarters and BCP Countermeasures Headquarters. Facilities management 4. Facilities management, incident/accident/disaster Incidents and accidents risk Disasters 5. Environmental risk Management 6. Product safety risk Defective products NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 105 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Business Risks New Products We have identified the following risks which have the The NGK Group works to create new products to secure potential to impact the operating results, share price, its growth prospects. The Group makes focused financial position, etc., of the NGK Group. investments in new products that should become pillars of growth in the future. At the same time, NGK is making capital expenditures in stages for products for which Production Bases demand is expected to expand. However, in the event that these capital expenditures The NGK Group’s main production bases are located in are not made on schedule, this may adversely impact the Aichi Prefecture and Ishikawa Prefecture in Japan, and NGK Group’s medium-term growth prospects. overseas in the Americas, Europe, Asia, and other regions. The Group operates a global production system for its core products, such as ceramic honeycomb substrates for Changes in the Business Environment automotive catalytic converters, from the perspective of manufacturing close to demand centers and achieving Demand for the products that the NGK Group optimal production. This ensures that risk is dispersed manufactures and sells is strongly influenced by changes among manufacturing sites. However, irrespective of in the economic climate in and outside of Japan. Such whether a production base is in Japan or overseas, if changes may adversely impact the Group’s business facilities at a major production base are seriously damaged performance and financial condition. by a natural disaster such as an earthquake or fire, production may stop for a considerable period of time, thereby adversely affecting the NGK Group’s business Product Quality performance and financial condition. Overseas operations, Guided by its Company-wide Quality Policy, the NGK in particular, carry such potential risks as i) compliance with Group conducts quality-related activities in a committed the host country’s laws, regulations or taxes, ii) adverse drive to ensure consistent high quality. These efforts changes in the economic environment such as fluctuations notwithstanding, the Group cannot completely eliminate in exchange rates, iii) difficulty in securing, educating and the possibility of quality-related issues from every product training personnel, iv) inadequate infrastructure, and v) that it sells or manufactures. The occurrence of such societal problems such as terrorism and war. problems could therefore have a substantial and adverse The unforeseen occurrence of any of these events impact on the Group’s business performance. could adversely impact the NGK Group’s business performance and financial condition. International Investigation Related to Competitive Conditions Exchange Rates, Interest Rates, and Material Prices The NGK Group is currently the subject of an international investigation related to competitive conditions and is giving The NGK Group produces and sells products worldwide. its full cooperation. The investigation is being conducted Consequently, the Group hedges the risk of short-term by authorities concerned with competition, and depending changes in the exchange rates of major currencies, on the outcome, there may be an adverse impact on the particularly the U.S. dollar, euro and yen, with forward Group’s business performance and financial position. foreign exchange contracts and other financial instruments. However, appreciation of the yen could cause Plea Agreement with U.S. Department a decline in net sales and earnings, which could adversely Reference of Justice concerning ceramic substrates URL for catalytic converters impact the NGK Group’s business performance. https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/news/20150904_9235.html The NGK Group plans to continue making the necessary capital investments to expand its businesses and improve productivity. The Group’s funding needs include these capital expenditures and the redemption of corporate bonds. In the event of interest rate rises, future fund procurement costs may increase, which could adversely impact the NGK Group’s business performance and financial condition. Rises in raw materials prices have led to higher manufacturing costs at NGK Group businesses. To minimize this factor, the Group raises sales prices, cuts costs, improves productivity, and reduces business expenses. The NGK Group endeavors to absorb rises in purchasing prices, but excessive rises in the prices for raw materials may adversely impact the Group’s business performance and financial condition. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 106 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Risk Management System NGK operates a risk management promotion structure led category in an effort to improve risk response capabilities mainly by the CSR Committee. A person of responsibility and risk prevention activities. and response structure is established for each risk Risk Management System President Company-Wide BCP Countermeasures CSR Committee Quality Committee Headquarters Chair: Director and Senior Vice President Chair: Members: Director and Senior Group Executive: President Executive Vice President, Vice President Group Executives, General Managers, etc. Compliance Subcommittee Helpline Central Disaster Prevention and Control Headquarters Chair: Group Compliance Dept. Manager Group Executive: Director and Senior Security Subcommittee Vice President Chair: General Affairs Dept. Manager All Divisions Group Companies Risk Response Normal operations Follow up by CSR Committee and other committees Legal/ethical or CSR Committee is in charge. Initial response by members chosen ahead of time to incident/accident response handle emergencies + relevant corporate officers Emergency Quality-related accidents Company-Wide Quality Committee is in charge situation Central Disaster Prevention and Control Headquarters and BCP Countermeasures Disaster-related incidents Headquarters are in charge Identifying and Preventing Risks Based on Questionnaire As part of an effort to enhance risk management practice, In October 2019, we will hold the second CRS in order NGK and its domestic Group companies have been to reconfirm relevant risks and come up with measures to conducting the CSA (Control Self-Assessment) deal with them. questionnaire. In fiscal 2017, the CSA questionnaire and *Survey conducted in October 2017: the compliance awareness survey were combined into the Past CSA questionnaire CRS (Corporate Risk Survey).* The survey checks the Targeted 2,008 people; number of respondents was 1,836 (response rate understanding of respondents regarding risks with the 91.4%). Past compliance awareness survey goal of grasping and preventing various potential risks Targeted 8,133 people; number of respondents was 6,112 (response rate arising from daily business operations and raising 75.2%) compliance awareness. In fiscal 2018, based on the results of the survey, the relevant divisions and departments created measures to reduce risks in business operations. In addition, the Group Compliance Department and relevant divisions worked together to respond to compliance risks. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 107 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Risk Management Measures Based on CRS Group-wide risk response measures formulated by risk response departments and divisions* Category Measures Scheduled for FY2019 • Ongoing monitoring on understanding of responses to incidents specified in the internal Basic Rules of Group/General Crisis Management • Ongoing compliance training for competition laws, personal information management, intellectual property policies, etc. Compliance • Formulate and implement quality compliance program • Implement bribery-prevention training for sales personnel • Implement email training simulating a cyber attack Information • Revise Information Security Handbook • Complete introduction at Group companies of targeted attack prevention system • Ensure employees receive two “refreshment days” a week Employment/Labor • Ensure appropriate working hours by using objective data • Establish targets for overtime work reduction • Hold communications drills simulating emergencies Incidents/Accidents/ • Revise disaster plans in case of an earthquake in the Nankai Trough Disasters • Identify all possible critical disaster risks in model facilities, and formulate and launch countermeasures • Hold audits of environmental management status at Group companies in and outside Japan • Have divisions hold self-assessments and conduct necessary measures to improve the quality of work Product Safety • Make rules for quality compliance at overseas Group companies • Conduct audits of important component suppliers *Safety & Industrial Health Management Dept., Environmental Management Dept., Quality Management Dept., Corporate Planning Office, Human Resources Dept., Group Compliance Dept., Legal Dept. Intellectual Property Dept., General Affairs Dept., Purchasing Dept., Information Technology Dept., Global Engineering Center Legal Risk Management at Group Companies Outside Japan The NGK Group is engaged in strengthening its usage, export controls and access to legal-related ascertainment of legal risk management status in overseas information once a year. Major issues found in such business to minimize the globalizing and diversifying risks reports are reported to the Compliance Subcommittee associated with business expansion. and CSR Committee to share information. We ask all Group companies outside Japan to report Consultations from overseas locations are handled by information pertaining to the status of lawsuits, legal affairs lawyers and legal departments to avoid risks. and consultation with lawyers twice a year, and helpline NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 108 List of Risks and Opportunities Item Materiality Risk Opportunity Response Related SDGs ● Decrease in internal combustion engines • Achieve negative emissions with GPFs, EHCs, ● Delays in the transition to renewable energy Strengthened environmental and NOx sensors Business ● Changes in the market environment regulations • Develop a diverse range of battery business, (China, semiconductor demand) including NAS® batteries, zinc rechargeable Opportunities ● Realization of a sustainable Carbon-free society (expansion batteries, and chip-type batteries NGK Group Profile ● Transfer of technology and Risks society in renewable energy use) • Create and expand new products that flexibly ● Labor shortages accommodate technological innovation ● Exchange rate fluctuations Expansion of the IoT society • Draw up a BCP ● Abnormal weather and disasters Strengthened environmental regulations • Promote the Five-Year Environmental Action ● Climate change Plan E ● Preservation of environment Transition to a carbon-free ● Water shortages • Create products contributing to environmental society (expansion in renewable protection energy use) Environmental • Human rights due diligence • Human rights education • Effectively operate the whistleblowing system • Reduce long working hours ● Respect for human rights Securing diverse human NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 • Promote diversity ● Provide a safe and enjoyable resources via work style reforms • Expand job opportunities for the disabled ● Human rights violations and diversity promotion ESG work environment • Provide support for better work-life balance ● Child labor and forced labor Social Opportunities S ● Permeate social responsibility ● Occupational hazards Local social contribution • Raise the mandatory retirement age and Risks into our supply chain ● Stoppage of raw material or component supply activities • Develop human resources ● Cooperation with the region Sustainable procurement of raw 109 and society materials and components • Thoroughly enforce the CSR Procurement Guidelines • Strengthen communication with the supply chain • Thoroughly enforce the NGK Group Code of Conduct Maintaining and improving ● Compliance violations corporate value and securing • Compliance education Governance ● Honest business activities ● Loss of trust from stakeholders due to passive business continuity through • Effectively operate the whistleblowing system (helpline, hotline) G ● Disclosure of company disclosure and insufficient explanation of corporate appropriate risk management information and accountability information Increase in trust from stakeholders • NGK Report, annual reports, news releases as a result of active disclosure Content Index NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Business Continuity Planning (BCP) Initiatives The NGK Group is developing company-wide business continuity planning (BCP) through the establishment of the BCP Headquarters, an organization for leading business continuity and quick recovery in the event of a large-scale natural disaster, led by the President. Countermeasure initiatives include the establishment of multiple manufacturing bases and procurement sources, damage mitigation measures related to buildings and equipment, and employee safety assurance. We conduct emergency drills assuming a natural disaster as a field exercise of the BCP. In the drill, participants are instructed to take real actions faithfully according to the plan, through which we identify in detail issues related to each process and Business group BCP drill procedure and use the findings to improve the BCP. Fiscal 2018 Initiatives • Real-time simulation training was held for business group members and individual committees • Invited experts to give lectures on practical disaster prevention by companies for key BCP personnel • Held information exchange meetings with companies in the Chubu region on disaster prevention measures and BCP systems Future Initiatives • Hold educational activities (hold disaster prevention seminars, distribute pamphlets, etc.) to promote disaster prevention Disaster drill measures in the home • Improve BCP effectiveness by holding drills based on more realistic scenarios • Look into how to provide emergency information in case of an earthquake in the Nankai Trough or planned power outages Intellectual Property Management The NGK Group encourages the creation of intellectual Responsibilities of the Intellectual Property Department property (IP) rights and works to ensure proper protection • Application for/acquisition of IP rights (patent, utility model, design): and use of IP rights. In addition, based on the policy of Establish IP rights for NGK’s research and development achievements to respect for the rights of others and ourselves, it aims for a safeguard corporate assets on a legal basis strategic patent network to be built within the close • Patent search: Analyze the current patent landscape of other companies to cooperation between the Intellectual Property Department prevent patent infringement risks and other divisions such as Business, Research and Development, and Technology Divisions. • Administration and operation of patent management systems Specifically, it features a patent mapping function to • Administrative work relating to acquired patent rights, including maintenance present the internal and external patent landscape of of rights, payment of patent incentives, and cooperation with patent law firms specific technology areas using charts and graphs, which can be easily shared within the Group. • Application for/acquisition and maintenance of trademark rights for corporate To prevent patent infringement risks, we regularly logos and product trade names and marks conduct patent monitoring of other companies for product • Copyright family and development theme to update our database. • In house training of Intellectual Property Number of patents held as of March 31, 2019 National patents of Japan 3,352 Foreign patents 4,346 NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 110 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Promoting Intellectual Property Training Provision against Intellectual Property Risks Overseas Training for young engineers To support our business for automotive exhaust E-learning and seminars were provided with the aim of purification ceramic products, for which we conduct providing basic training for young engineers and of manufacturing on a global scale, we have built a up-skilling for patent applicants. mechanism for properly managing inventions at overseas Also, focusing primarily on young engineers in the plants. NGK promotes the practice of intellectual property Research and Development Department, trainings in patent management overseas at the same high level as in Japan. search methods were conducted. These methods were taught via individual, computer-based practical training. TOPIC IP Training Provided in FY2018 Intended participants No. of participants Intellectual Property Research Primer of Patent Young engineers 79 Group Newly Formed law, e-learning To strengthen our systems for intellectual property Seminars on patent Young engineers 142 investigation and analysis, NGK’s search team, law system (Patent I, II, III) previously under the Intellectual Property Planning Seminars on license Employees in charge 11 Group, has been divided and become an agreement and IP strategy independent Group called the Intellectual Property Seminars to Research Group. Employees in charge, Besides investigating and analyzing the acquire skills for using 80 engineers the IP search program intellectual property of others and ourselves, the Intellectual Property Research Group provides Young engineers in the twice-monthly information reports, through the 164 Small-group workshop Business and the Research and Development Division (total for 16 sessions) company intranet, on analyses of patent trends and other intellectual property-related information (such as legal revisions and legal disputes). Employee Invention Compensation System to Provide Incentives for Employee Inventions From a legal viewpoint based on the Patent Act and in order to encourage inventions, NGK established an employee invention compensation system comprised of application incentives, registration incentives, and profit incentives to fairly compensate employees. As profit incentives, part of profits have been distributed to the inventors of the patents used in our profit-making products. In fiscal 2018, the employee invention compensation system was renewed in order to further encourage employees to create superior inventions. The renewed system is divided into four categories: application incentives, registration incentives, implementation incentives, and excellent invention incentives. Implementation Incentives mean fixed-amount incentives for inventions used for products. Since it is not based on whether a product makes a profit or how much profit it makes, and also rewards knowhow created by inventors, it ensures widespread and fair compensation for inventors. For especially excellent inventions, the system honors inventors with a commendation and an incentive higher than that for implementation incentives as reward for their contribution to the company. This renewed system was launched in April 2019. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 111 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index GRI Guidelines Comparison Table 102 General Disclosures Page GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 1 Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization • Corporate Outline (P119) 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services • Value Creation by the NGK Group (P2-3) 102-3 Location of headquarters • Corporate Outline (P119) 102-4 Location of operations • Corporate Outline (P119) • Subsidiaries and Affiliated Companies (P120) • Annual Securities Report, Subsidiaries and Affiliated Companies (P7-11) (Japanese) 102-5 Ownership and legal form • Corporate Outline (P119) 102-6 Markets served • Corporate Outline (P119) • Annual Securities Report, Overview of Business (P5) (Japanese) 102-7 Scale of the organization • Corporate Outline (P119) • Value Creation by the NGK Group (P2-3) • Annual Securities Report, Financial Highlights (P2-3) (Japanese) 102-8 Information on employees and other workers • Overview of Employees (P53-54) 102-9 Supply chain – 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain NA 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach • CSR Management (P12) • Risk Management (P105-109) 102-12 External initiatives • Position on SDGs (P15) • Human Rights Initiatives (P44) 102-13 Memberships of associations • Human Rights Initiatives (P44) 2 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker • Message from the President (P6-11) 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities • Value Creation by the NGK Group (P2-3) • Risk Management (P105-109) 3 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior • NGK Group Philosophy (P1) • CSR Management (P12-13) • Environmental Philosophy (P17) • NGK Group Code of Conduct (P97) 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics • Whistleblowing System (P99) 4 Governance 102-18 Governance structure • Corporate Governance Structure Scheme (P85) 102-19 Delegating authority • Environmental Management Frameworks and Environmental Management System (P20) • Corporate Governance (P85) 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, • Environmental Management Frameworks and Environmental Management and social topics System (P20) NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 112 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, • Environmental Management Frameworks and Environmental Management and social topics System (P20) • Basic Approach (P84) • Corporate Governance Structure Scheme (P85) 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body • Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board, Executive Officers (P89-90) and its committees • Annual Securities Report, Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board, Executive Officers (P71-76) (Japanese) 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body • Committees on Corporate Governance (P86) 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body • Election of Board Members, Executive Officers, and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (P88) • Corporate Governance Report, Views on the Balance Between Knowledge, Experience, and Skills of the Board of Directors as a Whole, and Diversity and Size of the Board (P5) • Corporate Governance Report, Matters Concerning Functions of Business Execution, Audit and Supervision, Nomination, Determination of Remuneration, etc. (P17) 102-25 Conflicts of interest • Election of Board Members, Executive Officers, and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (P88) • Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board, Executive Officers (P89-90) • Current Independent Directors and Reasons for Appointment (P91) 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance • Evaluation on the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors (P88) 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts • Evaluation on the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors (P88) 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes • Risk Management (P105-109) 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns • Risk Management (P105-109) 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 102-35 Remuneration policies • Remuneration of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (P91) 102-36 Process for determining remuneration • Remuneration of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (P91) 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 5 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups • Targeted Stakeholder and Response Policies (P42) 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements • Annual Securities Report, Overview of Employees (P12) (Japanese) 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders • Targeted Stakeholder and Response Policies (P42) 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement • Communication with Stakeholders (P41) • Implementation Status of Stakeholder Engagement (P43) 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised • System for Making Use of Customer Feedback in Management (P52) • Communication Activities with Procurement Partners (P75) 6 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements • Corporate Outline (P119) NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 113 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 102-47 List of material topics • CSR Activities Concepts and Systems (P12-13) 102-48 Restatements of information NA 102-49 Changes in reporting NA 102-50 Reporting periods • Target Period (P1) 102-51 Date of most recent report NGK Report Archive https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/sustainability/backnumber.html 102-52 Reporting cycle NGK Report Archive https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/sustainability/backnumber.html 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report • For inquiries about this report (Back cover) • Inquiries about sustainability https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/contact/sustainability.html 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index • CSR Data / Content Index (P112-118) 102-56 External assurance • Third-Party Assurance (P121) 103 Management Approach GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary • CSR Management (P12-13) 103-2 The management approach and its components • CSR Management (P12-13) • CSR Promotion Framework (P14) • NGK's Core Policy on the Environment (P17) • Five-Year Environmental Action Plan (P18) • Environmental Management Frameworks and Environmental Management System (P20) • Activities Aimed at Achieving the Aichi Target (P32) • Targeted Stakeholder and Response Policies (P42) • Essential Policy, Quality Objective 2019 (P45) • System for Making Use of Customer Feedback in Management (P52) • Structure of Promote Safety and Health Management (P55) • System to Promote Diversity (P59) • Supply Chain Management System (P72) • Social Contribution Activity Promotion System (P76) • Corporate Governance Structure Scheme (P85) • NGK Group Code of Conduct (P97) • Compliance Promotion Structure (P98) • Whistleblowing System (P99) • Corruption Prevention Structure (P101) • Risk Management System (P107) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach • Results of Initiatives within the Five-Year Environmental Action Plan (P19) 200 Economic Performance GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed • Annual Securities Report, Financial Highlights (P2) (Japanese) 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities • Value Creation by the NGK Group (P2-3) due to climate change • Water Resources Risk Management/Response (P31) • List of Risks and Opportunities (P109) 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance received from government NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 114 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported • Value Creation by the NGK Group (P2-3) • NGK Report 2019, At a Glance (P13-14) 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 205-2 Communication and training about • Thorough Enforcement of Compliance (P97-104) anti-corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken NA GRI 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, • Status of Law and Regulation Violations (P104) anti-trust, and monopoly practices 300 Environmental Standards GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact (P24) 301-2 Recycled input materials used 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials • Five-Year Environmental Action Plan Progress Report>Recycling rate (P19) GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact (P24) • INPUT (P25) 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact (P24) • INPUT (P25) 302-3 Energy intensity • Five-Year Environmental Action Plan Progress Report (P19) 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption • Five-Year Environmental Action Plan Progress Report (P19) 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 303-1 Mutual use of water as a shared resource 303-2 Management of wastewater-related impacts 303-3 Water intake • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact (P24) 303-4 Wastewater • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact (P24) 303-5 Water consumption • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact (P24) • Water Resource Risk Management/Response (P31) NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 115 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, • Biodiversity Survey of Company-Owned Site (P33) protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored • Contributing to preservation of skunk cabbage colonies (P79) 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact (P24) • INTPUT (P25) 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact (P24) • OUTPUT (P25) • Introduction of Green Power (P29) 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact (P24) • Reporting Scope 3 CO2 Emissions (P29) 305-4 GHG emissions intensity • Measures to Reduce CO2 Emissions and Effects (P26) 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions • Five-Year Environmental Action Plan Progress Report (P19) • Environmental Efficiency (P39) 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact (P24) 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact (P24) 306-3 Significant spills NA 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations NA GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 400 Social Standards GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover • Employees>Turnover ratio (P54) • Diversity (P59) 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to • Enhancement of Work-Life Balance Systems (P64) temporary or part-time employees • Systems Operated Independently by NGK (P65) 401-3 Parental leave • Systems That Exceed Legal Requirements (P65) GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 116 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 403-1 Occupational safety and health management system • Health and Safety (P55-58) 403-2 Identification of danger (hazard), risk assessment, accident survey • Health and Safety (P55-58) 403-3 Occupational health service • Health and Safety (P55-58) 403-4 Laborers’ participation in, discussion about, and mutual • Health and Safety (P55-58) communication regarding occupational safety and health 403-5 Laborers’ training related to occupational safety and health • Health and Safety (P55-58) 403-6 Improvement of laborers’ health • Health and Safety (P55-58) 403-7 Prevention and alleviation of negative effects on occupational safety and health that are directly linked to business 403-8 Laborers covered by an occupational safety and health • Health and Safety (P55-58) management system 403-9 Work-related injuries • Health and Safety (P55-58) 403-10 Illnesses and poor health related to work • Health and Safety (P55-58) GRI 404: Training and Education2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee • Training Participant Summary (P67) 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and • Promoting Systematic Education through Nearly 120 Programs (P67-70) transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and • Promoting Systematic Education through Nearly 120 Programs (P67-70) career development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees • Diversity (P59-62) • Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board, Executive Officers (P89-90) • Corporate Governance Report, Views on the Balance Between Knowledge, Experience, and Skills of the Board of Directors as a Whole, and Diversity and Size of the Board (P5) 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men GRI 406: Non-Discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk • Human Rights Initiatives (P44) for incidents of child labor • Promotion of CSR Procurement (P74) GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for • Human Rights Initiatives (P44) incidents of forced or compulsory labor • Promotion of CSR Procurement (P74) GRI 410: Security Practices 2016 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples NA NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 117 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact • Local Communities (P78-80) assessments, and development programs 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of • Quality Activity System (P46) product and service categories 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health NA and safety impacts of products and services GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product NA and service information and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications NA GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints regarding concerning • Status of Law and Regulation Violations (P104) breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations NA in the social and economic area NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 118 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Corporate Outline and Organization Corporate Outline Company name NGK Insulators, Ltd. Consolidated 57 consolidated subsidiaries subsidiaries (21 in Japan, 14 in North/Central America, Address 2-56 Suda-cho, Mizuho, 6 in Europe, 16 in Asia and elsewhere) Nagoya 467-8530, Japan Telephone + (81) 52-872-7181 Equity-method 2 Established May 5, 1919 affiliates Paid-in capital 69.8 billion yen Employees NGK 4,119 (as of March 31, 2019) (as of March 31, 2019) Consolidated 20,115 (as of March 31, 2019) Net sales 463.5 billion yen (consolidated, for FY2018) Organization Head Office Power Business Group Auditing Department Business Planning Department Quality Management Department Quality Assurance Department Environmental Management Department Insulator Division Safety & Industrial Health Management Department NAS Battery Division Corporate Planning Office New Business Planning Department Ceramic Products Business Group Secretarial Office Business Planning Department Corporate Communications Department Quality Assurance Division Human Resources Department Global Sales & Marketing Division Group Compliance Department Engineering Division Finance & Accounting Department Manufacturing Division Legal Department Sensor Division Intellectual Property Department General Affairs Department Purchasing Department Electronics Business Group Business Planning Department Corporate R&D Quality Assurance Department Business Planning Department New Metals Division Electronic Components Division Wafer Project Advanced Device Components Division NCM Project General Management Department Functional Materials Development Project Electronic Sales & Marketing Department SOFC Project ZNB Project Process Technology Business Group ACB Project Business Planning Department Materials Research Laboratory Quality Assurance Department Future Technology Management Center High Performance Ceramics Division Industrial Process Division Corporate Manufacturing Engineering Administration Department Manufacturing Engineering Department Information Technology Department Construction & Maintenance Department Global Engineering Department NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 119 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Subsidiaries and Affiliated Companies Sites, Main Office, Branch, Sales Offices Head office / Tokyo Main Office / Osaka Branch / Chita Site / Komaki Site / Ishikawa Plant / Sapporo Sales Office / Sendai Sales Office / Hokuriku Sales Office / Hiroshima Sales Office / Takamatsu Sales Office / Fukuoka Sales Office Group Companies in Japan Energy Support Corporation / Kansai Energys Corporation / Hokuriku Energys Corporation / Energys Sangyo Corporation / Kyushu Energys Co., Ltd. / Tokai Energys Corporation / Akechi Insulators, Ltd. / NGK Okhotsk, Ltd. / Soshin Electric Co., Ltd. / Soshin Device Co., Ltd. / Soshin Powertech Co., Ltd. / Risshin Electronics Co., Ltd. / NGK Electronics Devices, Inc. / NGK Ceramic Device Co., Ltd. / NGK Metex Corporation / NGK Fine Molds, Ltd. / Ikebukuro Horo Kogyo Co., Ltd. / NGK Chem-Tech, Ltd. / NGK Filtech, Ltd. / NGK Adrec Co., Ltd. / NGK Kilntech Corporation / NGK Sports Planning Co., Ltd. / NGK Life Co., Ltd. / NGK Yu-Service Co., Ltd. / NGK Logistics, Ltd. Group Companies Overseas America Asia, Oceania NGK-Locke Inc. / NGK-Locke Polymer Insulators, Inc. / NGK Insulators (China) Investment Co., Ltd. / NGK NGK Ceramics USA, Inc. / NGK Automotive Ceramics Ceramics Suzhou Co., Ltd. / NGK Technocera Suzhou USA, Inc. / NGK Metals Corporation / FM Industries, Inc. Co., Ltd. / NGK Automotive Ceramics Korea Co., Ltd. / / NGK Electronics USA, Inc. / NGK Insulators of Canada, P.T. NGK Ceramics Indonesia / Siam NGK Technocera Ltd. / NGK Ceramics Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. Co., Ltd. / NGK Ceramics (Thailand) Co., Ltd. / NGK Technologies India Pvt. Ltd. / NGK Stanger Pty. Ltd. Europe, Africa NGK Berylco U.K. Ltd. / NGK Ceramics Europe S.A. / Other Group Companies NGK Europe GmbH / NGK Deutsche Berylco GmbH / NGK Italy S.r.L. / Energys Electric Shanghai NGK Berylco France / NGK Ceramics Polska Sp. z o.o. / Corporation / NGK Electronics Devices (M) Sdn. Bhd. / NGK Ceramics South Africa (Pty) Ltd. Soshin Electronics of America Inc. / Soshin Electronics (HK) Limited / Taiwan Soshin Electric Co., Ltd. / NGK Material USA, Inc. / NGK Energys Myanmar Co., Ltd. / NGK Globetronics Technology Sdn. Bhd. / Soshin Electronics Europe GmbH / Soshin Electronics (SZ) Limited / Soshin Electronics (M) Sdn. Bhd. Details of NGK are available on the company website This is the Sustainability Data Book, a report on NGK’s sustainability-related efforts. Our website also has sustainability information, in addition to detailed corporate information and investor relations. About NGK Investor Relations Sustainability English English English https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/info/ https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/ir/ https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/sustainability/ Japanese Japanese Japanese https://www.ngk.co.jp/info/ https://www.ngk.co.jp/ir/ https://www.ngk.co.jp/sustainability/ NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 120 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Independent Practitioner’s Assurance NGK Sustainability Data Book 2019 121 External Evaluation In September 2019, NGK was selected for the 4th consecutive year for the Dow Jones Sustainability Asia Pacific Index in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, a major index for socially responsible investment. For inquiries about this report, please contact Corporate Communications Department Tel: +(81) 52-872-7181 E-mail: pr-office@ngk.co.jp 2-56, Suda-cho, Mizuho, Nagoya 467-8530, Japan Fax: +(81) 52-872-7690 https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/ NAS and HONEYCERAM, EnerCera are trademarks of NGK INSULATORS, LTD., registered in the U.S. Plate making: This report has been published using computer-to-plate (CTP) technology to eliminate the need for the film and other materials required in the conventional platemaking process. Printing: A waterless printing method has been adopted to significantly reduce the usage of developer chemicals and processing water, thereby decreasing the amount of hazardous effluent, compared with conventional methods. Ink: To replace petroleum-based inks, vegetable-based inks with the volatile organic compounds (VOCs) content reduced to below 1% have been employed. Design: This report has been designed, with a focus on typeface, color scheme and diagram style, to improve legibility and readability. Published in September 2019
