Prevention. Protection. Safety. LAVINGTON SECURITY LIMITED ANNUAL COMMUNICATION PROGRESS REPORT To our Stake holders 4th June 20182nd May 2019 Formatted: Superscript I am pleased to confirm that since joining the Global Compact Lavington security has continued to support its ten principles with respect to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti -Corruption. We have worked to make the Global Compact and its principles part of the Strategy, Culture and day -to-day operations of our company. Lavington Security has made a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the Commented [u1]: spelling General public. Lavington Security has created policy and implemented procedures to ensure our compliance and support of the ten principles. We will continue to work towards furthering our commitment to these principles by reviewing our progress and challenging ourselves to constantly improve. Sincerely yours, Pius K. Chelimo CEO/Managing Director Company Details COMPANY TRADING NAME, REGISTERED OFFICE & CONTACT ADDRESS: LAVINGTON SECURITY LIMITED, Lavington Security House, Dennis Pritt Road, Kilimani area, Nairobi. P.O. Box 76283-00508, Yaya Centre, Nairobi. Telephone: 0722-455605/0722 139212/0735-339110 Email: info@lavingtonsecurity.co.ke Web: www. lavingtonsecurity.co.ke ISO 9001 :2015 Formatted: Centered OUR VISION To become the Security Firm of choice through a Customer Care Culture directed towards satisfaction and peace of mind. OUR MISSION To provide high quality, personalized, affordable and Customer delighting integrated Security Solutions, while creating a sustainable market position made up of Individuals, Institutions and Corporate organizations nationally and internationally and seeking to give a reasonable return to the stakeholders through fair and just commercial practices. OUR CORE VALUES Integrity, Honesty, Reliability and service with dignity PUBLISHED o 20189/05/3102 TIME PERIOD o MAY 20178 – MAY 20189 Differentiation Level o This COP qualifies for Global compactCompact Active level Self AssessmentSelf-Assessment o CEO statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles. o Description of actions or relevant policies relate to Human Rights o Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour o Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment o Description of action or relevant policies to Anti-Corruption o Includes a measurement of outcomes. o Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Our Services This organization is operated through an extensive network of high profiled security personnel with proven solid management abilities and experience, enabling us to provide effective, efficient and reliable security services to our clients nationwide. The organization is a successful security company, which has gained recognition for specializing in the provision of the following security services:  Security Guards  Dog Patrols  Fire Alarms  Under Cover Operations  Surveillance of persons and business assets  VIP personal Escorts and Body guards  Security survey of premises and Installations  Escort Services  Rapid Response Alarms  Automatic Alarm Systems  Emergency Response Services  Anti-Terrorism deterrence  Rescue Service in event of Carjacking  Consultancy on development of customized security services  Dog Patrols Our Pledge We pledge as a company to give our customers value for money in terms of the services we are disposed to give. We also wish to notify you that this is a challenging and maiden security undertaking that will require co-operation and understanding from both parties. Together, with constant consultation, we believe that we shall build a lasting relationship that will be envied by other players in the security industry. Besides, continuous research on better security measures will be part and parcel of security measures to you our esteemed client. Guest Relation GENERAL INFORMATION This organization is operated through an extensive network of high profiled security personnel with proven solid management abilities and experience, enabling us to provide effective, efficient and reliable security services to our clients nationwide. The organization is a successful security company, which has gained recognition for specializing in the provision of the following security services: Supervis Security Guards ion Team Dog Patrols Consultancy on development of customized security services Under Cover Operations Surveillance of persons and business assets VIP personal Escorts and Body guards Security survey of premises and Installations Escort Services Rapid Response Alarms Automatic Alarm Systems It was established following comprehensive analysis, monitoring and development of security services with International and Local experts. In the past years, security requirements for Corporations, Companies, Institutions, Embassies, Government Departments and Individuals have become significantly dynamic. In recognition of this fact, Lavington Security Limited has continued to assess security requirements of existing and potential clients and, developing the organization structure accordingly. Consequently, corporate growth has accelerated with an impressionable list of clients with sustained long-term business relationships. The organization has continued to upgrade its infrastructure and scope of services to meet the diverse challenges in our business and ensure unrivalled service delivery to our valued customers. Lavington Security human rights policy and its related framework are based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Alongside our core values of Integrity, Honesty, Reliability and service with Dignity, the framework reinforces the continued development of a business model which aids the realization of the Sustainable Development Goals through the improvement of industry standards, security firm of choice through customer culture directed towards satisfaction and peace of mind. We are proud of our role in society and of the positive contribution we make to the realization of human rights through the range of services we offer, the standards which we apply and job creation However, we also recognize that we have a duty to ensure that we are not at risk of violating human rights through the services we provide, the customers we work with, the suppliers we use, or through the treatment of our own employees and others who are in our care.  Lavington Security has a policy of respecting the human rights of our employees, clients, and anyone within our scope. This is accomplished through a consistent and legally defensible hiring and employment process that is in line with all Labour Laws.  We ensure that these human rights principles are embedded in the assessment and hiring practices that we implement for our global organizational clients.  At LSL the harassment (racial, sexual or of any other kind) of any employee is unacceptable. Should an employee believe that he or she has been harassed the matter should be raised with the relevant Human Resources Manager who will arrange for it to be investigated without delay, impartially and confidentially. Progress in 20178 Implementation The standards set by our human rights policy have been embedded into our business policies and processes, such as our ethics policy, HR core standards, and the Lavington security risk and compliance systems. For example, investment proposals are assessed on whether they can be achieved in line with our company values and standards, as well as on the basis of appropriate operational delivery, commercial risk and financial return. During 20172018, we:  Developed and implemented a human rights awareness programme for senior managers, beginning with the Lavington Security Audit department.  The company has ensured that all employees are provided with safe working gear to protect them from work place hazards..hazards.  The company designed and implemented policies to protect employee’s physical and physiological risks like health and safety policy, Sexual harassments policy, HIV/AIDS, disciplinary policy and company code of conduct etc. 20189 PRIORITIES During the course of 20189, we will continue to implement our human rights framework and further develop our approach to human rights in line with emerging good practice. We will:  Continue to implement the revised front-line health and safety induction training  Review human rights risks across the Lavington geographic footprint and update our human rights heatmap.  Conduct human rights control self-assessments and continue programme of internal audits of businesses operating in high-risk environments.  Carry out human rights risk assessment in key business areas.  Introduce updated controls for security officers working at entrance gates  Share and adopt best practice across the Lavington inLavington in managing critical risk areas  Continue to build awareness of human rights responsibilities across the Lavington Security businesses.  Lavington security has a variety of mechanisms to ensure our adherence to the human rights principle.  Training on sexual harassment is necessary for all employees as part of ongoing employment. An employee relations manager is in place to address grievances from employees.  Lavington security also promotes an open door policy regarding any issues employees may have about their workplace. Measurement of Outcomes  Quarterly management meetings to review objectives set in the annual strategic plans.  Management has worked vigorously to advance diversity and inclusion within the organizations by creating a positive and supportive working environment for all staff and customers.  Protecting employees from being discriminated against because of one or more of the protected characteristics that apply to them.  Providing equal opportunity for everyone in the workforce, no matter their background or characteristics. Currently the company has 5600 male guards and 3200 female guards  Promoting the diversity of the workforce.  Responding to changing demographics and working patterns, e.g. employers being flexible with work so to retain valuable employees who have specific needs and meet customer demands. Commented [u2]: Indicate the number of female employees  Audit of company procedures on a quarterly basis to ensure compliance. By holding Commented [u3]: Mention how many audits were done in the past year. Quarterly Management meetings to review objectives set in the annual strategic plans. Commented [a4R3]:  Disciplinary action measures against any employee who contravenes company laws or provide counselling services when needed in accordance with the disciplinary policy in place. Commented [u5]: Mention if there were any cases where disciplinary action was taken, just a number don’t give details Labour Principles  Assessment, Policy and Goals  In dealing with our employees, we act in compliance with national regulatory requirements Commented [u6]: Delete the word will, the statement should be in present tense and employers’ obligations to employees under labour or social security laws and regulations must be respected.  Lavington security Ltd supports the four fundamental principles in the ILO Declaration. Thus, in accordance with local legislation and practice we respect freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, employment will be freely chosen with no use of forced or child labour, and we will not discriminate on the basis of gender, colour, ethnicity, culture, religion, sexual orientation or disability. Commented [u7]: The statement should be in present tense…we respect freedom of association, employment is freely choses, we do not discriminate..etc  Lavington Security has policies ensuring fairness in employee compensation and benefits. We are committed to maintaining high level and ethical human resource processes.  Lavington Security is an equal opportunity employer and is committed to enhancing diversity within the organization.  We value all our employees for their contribution to our business and their opportunities for advancement we are equal and not influenced by considerations other than their Commented [u8]: We are equal performance, ability and aptitude. Employees are provided with the opportunity to develop Commented [u9]: their potential and, if appropriate, to develop their careers further with the company. Commented [u10]: Employees are provided  LSL is committed to optimising individual and business performance through employing Commented [u11]: the best people at all levels and creating an environment in which they want to and are able to contribute fully to the LSL success. To achieve a working environment in which team spirit and commitment to the goals and values of LSL are maintained, the Company ensure Commented [u12]: The company ensures that individual employees are treated fairly and with dignity and respect Implementation Commented [u13]:  Beyond our own policies, we work with our client organizations to ensure that they incorporate diversity as part of their strategic and tactical plans. Lavington Security works with organizations to identify the range of available measures and makes recommendations for when and how to integrate such measures into diversity and inclusion Security.  The Human Resource has a |rewards management policy that outlines the remuneration progression structure to ensure employees are paid equally for work of equal value.  The company has a work injury benefits policy to ensure all employees injured while on duty are duly compensated.  The company gives employees a job description to promote good work ethics and prevent forced labour. Measurement of Outcomes  Reviews through internal and external audits under the ISO9001:2015 standards.  Management review meetings Commented [u14]: Indicate how many meetings were held Environmental Principles Assessment, Policies and Goals  Lavington security Ltd is committed to maintaining a small environmental impact and further reducing it by use of calibration to ensure all equipments are serviced as and when required. Commented [u15]:  LSL places the highest priority on promoting the health and safety of employees whilst at work. In particular, we constantly review the effectiveness of our methods of operation to Commented [u16]: Delete the word will best protect those who work in a high-risk environment.  Environmental policy statement that encourages all our stake holders to implement good environmental practices and procedures which support our objectives Implementation  LSL trains it employees on what is expected and required from them environmental like disposal of waste materials.  Encourages employees to recycle products in order to avoid wastage and save on financial obligations of the company.  LSL delivers all of its internal information/ communication over the web and has eliminated use of paper based products. Measurement of Outcomes  The following products are all delivered in an online format eliminating printing costs and paper waste: Anti-Corruption Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals  LSL resolutely opposed to bribery and corruption in whatever form it may take. The company has an anti-corruption policy that communicates the company’s stand on Corruption/bribery.  No financial or other inducements should be given to third party organisations or to individuals from such organisations in any circumstances, including government agencies and representatives.  Sales of the Company’s services and products and purchases of products and services from suppliers are made solely on the basis of quality, performance, price, value and/or for the Commented [u17]: Replace with are benefit of the LSL, and never on the basis of giving or receiving inducements in the form of payments, gifts, entertainment or favours or in any other form.  Employees should not accept gifts, money or entertainment from third party organisations or individuals where these might reasonably be considered likely to influence business transactions. Gifts, other than trivial ones with a low value, should be returned. In a culture where such an action might cause offence, the gift should be declared to the company and, if practical, donated to an appropriate charity. Implementation  At LSL outside legal counsel reviews policy and documentation for staff, auditors review financial records, and senior management regularly holds a professional audit to ensure compliance with all policy. Measurement of Outcomes  A bi-annual employee survey is used to assess employee satisfaction, ethics and safety in the workplace.  Further, auditors have never reported any corrupt behavior. .
