Communication of progress Implementing UN global compact principles in Smart Building Solutions 1. Introduction To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Any Home Invesments t/a Smart Building Solutions reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Brendon Malloch-Brown Managing Director WE SUPPORT 2. Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Human Rights policy and statement Preamble statement SBS is committed to developing an organizational culture which implements a policy of support for internationally recognized human rights and seeks to avoid complicity in human rights abuses. We support the principles contained within the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. SBS seeks to identify, assess and manage human rights impacts within our spheres of influence and activities in line with the following policy aims: 1. Employees: To respect the human rights of our employees as established in the ILO's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, including non-discrimination, prohibition of child and enforced labour, and freedom of association and the right to engage in collective bargaining. 2. Suppliers and Contractors: To establish and maintain appropriate procedures to evaluate and select major suppliers and contractors, based on SBS’s human rights and social policies, and to monitor their performance where appropriate. To advance the application of the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work through engagement and collaboration where necessary. 3. Local Communities: To respect the cultures, customs and values of the people in communities in which we operate. To contribute, within the scope of our capabilities, to promote the fulfilment of human rights through improving economic, environmental and social conditions and serve as a positive influence in communities in which we operate. To seek to have open dialogue with stakeholders and participate in community engagement activities. To aim to ensure the provision of security is consistent with international standards of best practice and the laws of the countries in which we operate, using security services only where necessary and requiring the use of force only when necessary and proportionate to the threat. 4. Society: To participate where appropriate in public affairs in a non-partisan and responsible way to promote internationally recognised human rights. To seek to play a positive role, within our spheres of influence, in capacity-building for the realization of human rights within countries of operation. To uphold the highest standards in business ethics and integrity and where appropriate to support efforts of national and international authorities to establish and enforce high ethical standards for all businesses. SBS Human Rights statement: SBS is committed to developing an organizational culture which implements a policy of support for the internationally recognized human rights contained within the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and seeks to avoid complicity in human rights abuses. 3. Labour Assessment, policy and goals POLICY ON HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR CONDITIONS: SBS is committed to protecting the human rights of everyone who works for the company and all those who have dealings with it. As a responsible company, we support the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights that sets “common standards of achievement for all people and all nations”. We recognise that our responsibility for human rights and labour conditions encompasses: • Operating sites – Living in a developing country performance on most of the issues covered in this policy is not always enforced by law. • Supply chain It is our aspiration that the working conditions throughout our supply chain meet internationally-accepted standards of human rights and working conditions Principles underlying this policy. This policy on human rights and labour conditions has been developed with reference to the following documents: • The United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. • The 8 so-called ‘fundamental’ labour standards of the International Labour Organisation. These cover freedom of association; the right to organise and bargain collectively; use of forced labour and equality. • The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child Responsibility We believe that everyone in our organisation is responsible for having due regard for human rights. In particular: • The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that human rights considerations are integral in the way in which existing operations and new opportunities are developed and managed. • Managers and supervisors provide visible leadership that promote human rights as an equal priority to other business issues. They also have a responsibility for identifying abuses that occur. • All employees are responsible for ensuring that their own actions do not impair the human rights of others. They are also encouraged to bring forward, in confidence, any concerns that they may have about human rights abuses. 4. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Health, Safety and Environmental Compliance Smart Building Solutions recognizes that health and safety of their employees is of the utmost importance, not only on an occupational level, but on a human level as well. It is the company’s policy to provide and maintain, as far as is reasonably possible, safe and healthy conditions, equipment and systems for all its employees and to provide information, training and supervision for this purpose. We have a dedicated environmental team that works with all our construction teams ensuring that all Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA’s) are followed. All staff members are informed of the potential dangers involved in working in manufacturing environments, and construction sites. Strict procedures are in place with dedicated supervisors in positions that ensure safe and sensible protocol is carried out at all times. Personal protective equipment is distributed to each member of staff. All Smart Building Solutions sites are fully equipped with the correct safety signage and are constantly monitored to ensure that not only site staff but authorized visitors are safe. Smart Building Solutions realizes that its employees are subject to loud noise and as such hearing loss is a health risk therefore we provide ear plugs to all the necessary employees. Smart Building Solutions sets very high standards for employee health and safety. For example, staff members are informed about the danger of deviating from the safe drinking water designated by Smart Building Solutions and other such issues. Workshops are held to create awareness of Malaria, HIV/Aids and other sexually transmitted diseases. If required, employees are given anti malarial drugs and prophylactics at the company’s expense. Company Health & Safety Statement • It is the Company’s stated Policy to provide and maintain, as far as is reasonably practicable, safe and healthy conditions, equipment and systems of work for all of its employees and to provide such information, training and supervision as they require for such purpose. • In addition, the Company accepts its responsibilities for the Health and Safety of other people who may be affected by its activities. • The Company will offer full facilities for consultation on matters of Health and Safety at Work with duly appointed officials of recognized Trade Unions and/or employee’s representatives. • The Company will ensure that a copy of this Policy will be made available to each employee, together with a clear explanation of its contents and requirements. • The Company will ensure that first day induction training, together with an assessment of training needs will be afforded to each new employee. • The Company will ensure that each of its contractor’s representatives will be made aware of the contents and requirements of this policy in matters relating to Health and Safety at Work. • This Policy will be kept up to date to take account of any changing circumstances and to ensure this; it will be reviewed annually or in the event of any new or revised statutory regulations being implemented. 4. Continued • The Company Directors and Management are committed to the implementation of all of the contents of this Policy and will ensure that adequate resources to do so are made available. • It is every employee and sub-contractor’s responsibility to co-operate fully in the implementation of this Policy and to considerit their duty to the Company, to other employees and to the general public to do so. • Any breach or suspected breach of regulations should be urgently addressed to the employee’s immediate superior or office management through the Company’s established communication channels. • Neglect by employee or sub-contractor regarding the Company’s Health and Safety Policy will be viewed as a serious breach of its stated aims and may result in disciplinary action being taken against such employee or determination of such subcontractor’s contract. Any part of this document that is not understood by employee or contractor should immediately be brought to the notice of a Director or the Company’s Health and Safety Advisor and a clear explanation sought. • A copy of this Policy is to be made available to all employees. • A copy of this Policy is to be made available to all contractors. The Environment: Smart Building Solutions is an extremely environmentally responsible company. We care for our environment and constantly strive to utilize and recycle material which will contribute to the preservation of our natural resources. We exercise various measures, from recycling office paper, to only buying raw timber from companies that practice sustainable forestry. All Smart Building Solutions site staff are educated about their personal environmental responsibility and further to this environmental site procedures and protocols have been introduced as a standard. We aim to preserve flora and fauna, treat our natural watercourses correctly and ensure our behaviour does not jeopardize. 5. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Vision, Mission, Values Our Vision: A corruption free society in Zimbabwe. Our Mission: To combat corruption, theft, abuse of power and other improprieties in Zimbabwe through investigation, public education, prevention, and cause prosecution after thorough investigation. Our Core Values: The Commission is guided by core values of: • Transparency • Accountability • Teamwork • Resoluteness • Diligence • Professionalism • National Interest • Integrity • Timeliness Implementation Prevention Tools: Corruption Prevention Strategies Regular system audits/reviews in selected institutions and agencies. Systems reviews are audits of the procedures, processes and systems undertaken in targeted institutions /organisations/groups with the objective of curbing, eradicating or plugging loopholes in corruption prone areas in order to improve accountability, transparency, efficiency, effectiveness and promote good corporate governance. Conducting Spot Checks. Spot checks can be carried out in the public interest without prior notice to the client. These are specific and confined to a particular function of the organisation in question such as procurement; human resources and financial management unlike Systems Reviews which cover the operations or systems of the entire organisation. Early consultation and advising government on impending government instructions or legislation with a view to ensuring that corruption prevention issues have been adequately addressed. Promoting good corporate governance in all public and private sector institutions. Outreach/awareness programmes about the evils and costs of corruption. Mainstreaming of Anti-Corruption Education. 5. Continued Measurement of outcomes: To deal with incidents of corruption Zimbabwe has an Anti-Corruption Commission whereby a person can report an incident: How to Make a Report Telephone: the complainant/informant can phone on the commission telephone lines to report/lodge a complaint. Walk-in: The complainant/informant can physically visit the commission offices to privately lodge a complaint. Written reports and letters: the complainant/informant can use a letter to openly or anonymously report/lodge a complaint. Suggestion boxes: The complainant can utilize the website suggestion box to also report/logde a complaint. The complainant/format can report corruption to any Anti-Corruption Officer during workshops that are undertaken or at anytime when one meets an anti-corruption officer.
