1 Contents CEO’s review. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Materiality. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Aspect boundaries. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Management of corporate responsibility. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Stakeholder interaction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 CONTRIBUTOR TO A SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY Responsible journalism. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Social projects. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 HIGH-QUALITY SERVICE PROVIDER Information security and data protection. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 Responsible marketing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 RELIABLE PARTNER Transparency and ethics in business. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 Responsibility throughout the supply chain. . . . . . . . . . . 23 Environmental impacts of operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER Equal and diverse work community. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 Developing competence and well-being. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 Calculation anda data collection principles for CR reporting. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 Contact information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 Environmental and employee-related figures from 2018. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39 GRI index. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42 Global Compact index. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46 2 From the President and CEO In a time when the prevailing themes of public Climate change and the need for its mitigation discussion are antagonism, and societal have emerged as major topics in society. divisions caused by pressure from extremist Our media brands are increasingly reporting movements divide societies, the media plays on the impacts of climate change and an increasingly important role by providing presenting potential solutions for mitigating it. high-quality content and services to promote Changing course requires everyone to make a pluralistic civic debate, societal transparency, contribution. In 2018, Alma Media became the economic activity and democracy. third media company in the world to publish ambitious science-based targets for reducing How do we at Alma Media bear our it’s carbon dioxide emissions. responsibility? We have defined our mission as boosting the sustainable growth of individuals, Profitable business enables sustainable companies and society. As a media company, development. A robust financial position the cornerstones of our responsibility are provides a commercial media brand with responsible journalism, responsible marketing the necessary resources for producing and the responsible collection and processing high-quality content and services. Alma of customer data. Our media brands are Media’s profitability has now improved for committed to operating responsibly, impartially four consecutive years. The uncompromising and transparently. We want to be a leader in efforts of Alma Media employees in 10 responsible marketing by providing consumers European countries deserve credit for our and advertisers with a reliable and safe strong profit performance. The recruitment advertising environment where advertising is and development of highly competent easy to differentiate from news content and by employees is one of our key future success ensuring that our processing of the customer factors. We are building a participatory data we collect is transparent and appropriate. company culture, investing in the quality of managerial work and emphasising diversity In 2018, our editorial teams focused on further and a high standard of ethics in business. develop our operations. The transformation appreciation of domestic media in Finland is developing journalistic quality by establishing We are committed to supporting the of our operating environment is continuing higher than it has ever been. This indicates a joint working group on responsible universally accepted principles in the areas and the competition we face is increasingly that the societal significance of responsible journalism and launching a joint reader survey of human rights, labour, environment and coming from international platform media is now understood even better than to evaluate the quality and responsibility of anti-corruption laid out in the United Nations operators. I personally believe that us doing before and there is a growing willingness to content. In the development of responsible Global Compact initiative. our jobs the right way will lead to growing pay for high-quality content. marketing and data protection, we focused appreciation for independent domestic media. our attention on implementing the changes For high-quality independent media, business The recent trends are encouraging in this required by the General Data Protection and responsibility go hand in hand and they respect, as a survey published by the Finnish Kai Telanne Regulation, which entered into force in May. require that we continuously evaluate and Media Federation in 2018 showed that the President and CEO 3 Materiality Alma Media updated its materiality analysis in 2016. In addition to a comprehensive stakeholder survey, interviews and the Group’s own strategy, the analysis was based on the identification of the industry’s impacts and the business impacts. The materiality matrix that was created has been subsequently refined by making changes to the names of the Group’s responsibility themes, among other things. Builder of High-class service Reliable Responsible Alma Media’s material responsibility themes have been discussed by the Board of sustainable Directors and the Group Executive Team. They constitute the foundation of the provider partner employeer society Group’s work and reporting on responsibility. Material: Strategic: Operational: financially significant in the short/ significantly affects the capacity to implement significant for other reasons, medium term the strategy in the medium/long term but not material or strategic Aspects that are Responsible Responsible unique to the journalism marketing media sector Aspects that have particular Information consequences security and data Social projects for the media protection sector Aspects that are common to all Developing Responsibility Transparency and Equal and diverse Environmental industries competence and throughout the ethics in business work community impacts well-being supply chain 4 In reporting on corporate responsibility, Alma Media applies the principle of materiality by focusing on the aspects of corporate responsibility that the Group considers to be the most significant. As a media company, Alma Media’s biggest impacts are related to the effects of published content and services on individuals and society as well as the responsible collection, processing and management of customer data. From the perspective of the continuity of the Group’s business and maintaining its competitiveness, the most significant issues are the availability of competent and satisfied employees as well as ethical compliance in business operations. In reporting on corporate responsibility, Alma Media adheres to the Global Reporting Initiative’s GRI Standards where applicable, except in the area of responsible journalism, for which the sector-specific guidelines have not yet been updated. Alma Media reports on responsible journalism primarily in accordance with the GRI G4 reporting framework, which preceded the GRI Standards. The table on the next page shows the aspect boundaries used in reporting and lists the GRI aspects included in Alma Media’s corporate responsibility report. Any more detailed aspect boundaries pertaining to individual GRI aspects are indicated within the report in the section on the aspect in question. 5 Responsibility themes and areas Responsibility promise GRI aspects Boundaries CONTRIBUTOR TO A SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY Responsible journalism We will strengthen our media outlets’ reputation as Responsible journalism: Significant funding and other Alma Media’s own operations (all media) Social projects the most trusted media brands and the number one support received from non-governmental sources Society brands in their respective areas and communities, Actions and projects that guarantee adherence to Customers and we will create long-term commitment among our responsible journalism customers. Content accessibility Political support Social projects: Media skills HIGH-QUALITY SERVICE PROVIDER Responsible marketing We develop our offering with a long-term view in order Responsible marketing: Incidents of non-compliance Alma Media’s own operations Information security and data protection to produce safe, accessible and easy-to-use services concerning marketing communications Customers and to deliver a first-class customer experience for Information security and data protection: consumers and advertisers. Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data RELIABLE PARTNER Transparency and ethics in business We develop the transparency and responsibility of our Transparency and ethics in business: Alma Media’s own operations Responsibility throughout the supply chain operations in dialogue with our stakeholders and by Direct economic value generated and distributed Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environmental impacts of operations anticipating regulatory changes. Financial assistance received from government Partners and the supply chain Corruption and anti-competitive behaviour Non-compliance with laws and regulations Responsibility throughout the supply chain: Supply chain Environmental impacts of operations: Materials Energy Emissions Waste Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER Equal and diverse work community We will enhance Alma Media’s employer Equal and diverse work community: Alma Media’s own operations Developing competence and well-being image and develop the expertise of our employees Diversity of governance bodies and employees in response to the competence needs created by the Non-discrimination digital transformation. Developing competence and well-being: Information on employees Hazard identification and risk assesment Regular performance reviews 6 Management of corporate responsibility In accordance with the purpose statement and equality and diversity plans MANAGEMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY function levels is described in more detail defined in 2016, Alma Media’s purpose is to • Career development principles AT ALMA MEDIA below. boost the sustainable growth of individuals, • Remuneration principles The development of responsibility at Alma companies and society. In addition to • Contractual terms and terms of sale Media is led by the Group Executive Team, CONTRIBUTOR TO A SUSTAINABLE Alma Media’s purpose, its operations as a concerning the advertising customers of which lays down the strategic guidelines SOCIETY responsible media company are guided by Alma Media’s media sales concerning corporate responsibility, monitors its values, responsibility programme and the • The Board of Directors’ diversity policy the implementation of the corporate MANAGING RESPONSIBLE four UN Sustainable Development Goals that responsibility programme and approves JOURNALISM are the most closely linked to the Group’s In addition to its own policies and principles, major corporate responsibility projects. In addition to the legislation governing the operations. They are: health and well-being the Group complies with the legislation that freedom of speech and expression and the (SDG 3), quality education (SDG 4), decent governs business activities and the media Alma Media’s Board of Directors analyses the media, the development of responsible work and economic growth (SDG 8), and industry, adhers to certain guidelines by development of the Group’s responsibility at journalism in Finnish media companies is peace and justice (SDG 16, related to the external parties and has made certain public least twice per year when reviewing corporate guided by effective industry self-regulation. media’s role as a social institution). commitments: responsibility risks as part of the assessment • The Council for Mass Media Guidelines for of business risks and when approving the The Guidelines for Journalists by the GENERAL MANAGEMENT PRINCIPLES Journalists and basic agreement statement of non-financial information. Council for Mass Media, which is the The objective of the development • The marketing rules of the International Where necessary, the Board of Directors may Finnish media sector’s self-regulatory of responsibility is to support the Chamber of Commerce also express views on the development of organisation, constitute the sector’s ethical implementation of the Alma Media’s strategy • Principles concerning good marketing corporate responsibility strategy as part of its principles, which are in many ways stricter and the sustainability of the Group’s practices strategic planning. than the corresponding legislation. Media business as well as creating added value for • Europe-wide self-regulation of targeted companies that operate responsibly have stakeholders and society in a broader sense. online advertising (OBA self regulation) The practical implementation of Alma also authorised the Council for Mass Media • Guidelines by the IAB digital marketing Media’s responsibility programme is led to oversee their operations. The Council Alma Media’s development of responsibility network by Alma Media’s Senior Vice President of considers complaints regarding published is guided by the following policies and • The Diversity Charter of the FIBS corporate Communications and Brand, assisted by Alma media content, issues public reprimands to guidelines, among others: responsibility network Media’s Corporate Responsibility Manager media that have violated the Guidelines for • Alma Media’s Code of Conduct • Alma Media’s climate targets approved by and the Corporate Communications function. Journalists and, where necessary, amends • The corporate responsibility programme the Science Based Targets initiative The Corporate Communications function the ethical guidelines it has drafted for and its objectives • The UN Global Compact initiative and the and the Corporate Responsibility Manager the industry. Alma Media’s editorial teams • Disclosure policy UN Sustainable Development Goals support business units and functions in carefully monitor the Council’s decisions • Information security policy carrying out corporate responsibility projects and interpret them as precedents that guide • Tax policy Alma Media’s internal control, risk management and achieving sustainability targets. operations. • Investment and financing policy and governance are described in more detail in • Procurement policy the Corporate Governance Statement and the The management of the various areas of In addition to Council for Mass Media • Equality and non-discrimination principles Report by the Board of Directors for 2018. corporate responsibility at the unit and decisions, editorial supervisors analyse the 7 national and international public dialogue with regional projects as necessary. In the employee competence pertaining to data and marketing organisation. In software regarding the media, reader feedback and the Group’s foreign units, decisions on projects are protection and information security. procurement related to digital marketing, results of reader and brand surveys as part of usually made by business unit management. the media sales function is assisted by Alma the development of the Group’s journalism. MANAGEMENT OF RESPONSIBLE Media’s Chief Digital Officer and the rest of The goal is to ensure that, every day, Alma HIGH-QUALITY SERVICE PROVIDER MARKETING the ICT organisation. Media’s media brands honour their position The digital transformation and automation as mouthpieces for their communities MANAGING DATA PROTECTION AND of advertising have introduced many new RELIABLE PARTNER and significant local, regional or national INFORMATION SECURITY perspectives to the public dialogue regarding operators that support democratic society Alma Media strives to deliver an excellent responsible marketing. In programmatic MANAGEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL and pluralistic and constructive public customer experience for its various target buying, advertising is bought through RESPONSIBILITY dialogue through the content they publish. groups by developing its services and international digital platforms, which makes Alma Media’s most significant greenhouse offering with a long-term view. it difficult for advertisers to fully understand gas emissions arise from the printing and Alma Media’s media brands and other the roles of the various parties and the delivery of publications and the material business units are politically independent. The Analysing the user data of the Group’s pricing of advertising. While automation and purchases of the Group’s printing facility. Group’s executive management is responsible services is an important tool in improving targeting make the digital advertising seen The Group’s operations are not emissions for this. Editors-in-Chief and editorial the customer experience. Alma Media by consumers increasingly relevant, they intensive and environmental risks are not supervisors are supported in the development uses data collected from various sources have also led to growing concerns regarding assessed to constitute significant risks for of sustainable journalism by Alma Media’s for many different purposes, including the the potential misuse of marketing data. business operations. Working Group on Responsible Journalism. development of targeted consumer content and services. The Group serves advertisers Alma Media is committed to developing Alma Media contributes to the mitigation of MANAGEMENT OF SOCIAL PROJECTS by providing them with reliable first-party or its advertising solutions responsibly, in full climate change by striving to systematically In line with Alma Media’s purpose, the second-party data. compliance with the industry’s self-regulation reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. During Group’s non-media services also strive to and the legislation governing marketing. the reporting year, the Group set long-term promote the activity, vitality and well-being of Alma Media actively monitors regulatory The Group prevents problems that are science-based targets in accordance with their respective regions as well as accelerate changes pertaining to data protection and occasionally associated with programmatic the SBT initiative. According to the targets, sustainable growth through various social information security and is committed to buying by auditing its advertising sales the Group must reduce the greenhouse gas projects. One key target group of the Group’s complying with all relevant provisions. partners and sales channels and by selling emissions arising from its consumption of social responsibility programme are young The Group prioritises responsibility in the the majority of its advertising inventory electricity, district heating, district cooling and people, with a particular focus on media collection, use and administration of the user in closed auctions that can be entered the fuel consumption of vehicles under the education. The goal is to enhance the skills data accumulated through its services. only by approved buyers. The Group aims Group’s control by 21 per cent by 2025 (using young people need in working life and as to systematically enhance the digital GHG emissions in 2016 as the baseline) as well members of our digitalising information Alma Media’s management monitors competence of its media sales organisation as reduce its indirect emissions, related to society. data protection and information security and develop its technological expertise activities such as procurement and business risks as part of the Group’s ongoing risk to provide advertisers with a high-quality, travel, by 10 per cent by 2023 (base year 2016). Alma Media’s national social projects in management. The Group’s legal department competitive and safe advertising environment The achievement of these targets will be Finland are coordinated by the Corporate and ICT organisation are responsible for where advertising is monitored in real time. supported by measures such as purchasing Responsibility Manager, assisted by the ensuring that Alma Media’s services comply zero-emission electricity, improving the Corporate Communications function. The with data protection and information security The development of responsible marketing energy efficiency of properties and the Corporate Responsibility Manager and the recommendations and regulations as well communications practices at Alma Media is material efficiency of the printing facility as Corporate Communications function also help as maintaining the appropriate level of the responsibility of the Group’s media sales well as by optimising delivery transports. At 8 Alma Media’s printing facility, the incentives receive press subsidies from the state. The subcontractors to confirm that they have DEVELOPING EMPLOYEE COMPETENCE of production employees are linked to the Group’s media sales organisation may grant familiarised themselves with Alma Media’s AND WELL-BEING objective of improving material efficiency. discounts to candidates for election campaign corporate responsibility programme and The goal of Alma Media’s HR strategy is to advertising, but such discounts are offered to Code of Conduct and agree to comply with support the Group’s digital transformation The development of environmental all parties and candidates on equal terms. their relevant principles. The section has by ensuring the sufficient availability of responsibility at Alma Media is managed been in a limited use until now, but will be motivated and satisfied employees with by the Group Executive Team, which has To convince its stakeholders of the used more widely from 2019 onwards. the right competencies. Competence approved Alma Media’s science-based responsibility and transparency of its development at Alma Media is focused on targets. Under the supervision of the Group operations, Alma Media also reports annually The development of a responsible agile methods for learning on the job. They Executive Team, the practical environmental on its tax footprint and tax policy. The procurement policy and Group-level provide opportunities for reacting quickly to measures are the responsibility of the Group’s executive management is responsible procurement in Alma Media’s operations changing competence needs. A key tool in business units’ management, assisted by the for the ethicality and transparency of Alma in Finland is the responsibility of the Chief this effort are the competence development Facility Manager, the printing facility’s Quality Media’s business operations. Procurement Officer. plans of teams or individual employees, as Manager and the Chief Procurement Officer. they help make competence development DEVELOPING RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER a systematic process. The achievement of MANAGEMENT OF ETHICAL AND THROUGHOUT THE SUPPLY CHAIN competence goals is monitored in oneTRANSPARENT BUSINESS Alma Media does not tolerate corruption, EQUAL AND DIVERSE WORK to-one development discussions between Alma Media respects human rights and does discrimination or bribery-related violations COMMUNITY supervisors and employees, for example. not condone corruption and bribery. These by its subcontractors, and requires its In line with its Code of Conduct, Alma Media principles are documented in Alma Media’s partners to adhere to the principles is committed to treating its employees With respect to the development of Code of Conduct, which is the foundation of documented in its Code of Conduct. equally and fairly. Employees are recruited occupational safety, Alma Media focuses the Group’s responsible business. The Group In order to manage the responsibility risks based on their abilities and aptitude, particularly on reducing occupational has a whistleblowing channel maintained by an associated with procurement, Alma Media’s irrespective of the applicant’s gender, accidents among delivery employees, which external service provider to allow employees country units make most of their purchases age, religious beliefs, nationality, sexual mainly involve injuries due to slipping to anonymously report any suspected domestically or from nearby regions where orientation or disabilities. and stumbling. The unit takes a long-term unethical business practices. Alma Media’s businesses are supervised and regulated. approach to developing occupational safety whistleblowing team receives and processes The Group’s units in Finland update their through measures such as updating the the notifications and reports them to the Audit Alma Media also reserves the right to carry non-discrimination, equality and diversity induction training of delivery employees, Committee of the Board of Directors. out inspections pertaining to production plans at two-year intervals. In drafting the improving safety equipment and analysing processes at suppliers’ premises and the plans, they utilise employee wage analyses hazardous situations. As a media company, Alma Media must Group requires suppliers and service providers and the results of Alma Media’s employee convince its stakeholders of the transparency to provide documentation, where necessary, survey, among other things. The plans were Alma Media’s HR management is in charge of its operations and its independence of regarding the responsibility of the products updated during the reporting period. of developing employee competence and various stakeholder interests. The foundation and services produced. When the Group is well-being as well as equality and diversity. for the Group’s operations is a reputation as about to sign a significant new subcontracting Every Alma Media employee has the right to The HR management defines, steers and a credible, reliable and impartial source of agreement, a visit is made to the production report any observations of discrimination via prioritises processes and functions related information. In line with this principle, Alma facility before choosing the supplier. the whistleblowing channel or by contacting to employee compensation, benefits, HR Media does not support political parties or an employee representative or the Group’s reporting and competence development. individuals. The Group’s media brands are Purchasing agreements in Finland also HR function. Alma Media takes action in politically independent and they do not include a section on responsibility for response to all reported incidents. 9 Stakeholder interaction Stakeholder interaction constitutes the foundation of Alma Media’s business and is a central aspect of the company’s day-to-day operations. Topics Channels and Alma Media’s response Readers and online users, Responsible journalism, reliability and quality of media content Long-term multi-channel development of content and services, technology purchases, consumers Data protection and information security responsible data management, developing employee competence, customer contacts and Supporting pluralism in society and democratic development feedback, customer and reader satisfaction surveys, social media, events, making editorial work more transparent Advertisers, corporate High-quality and secure advertising environment, service reliability, monitoring Long-term service development, technology purchases, developing employee competence, customers and management of advertising in the digital operating environment customer contacts and feedback, training and events for advertisers, Alma Talk events Data protection and information security, advertisement visibility and brand safety Investors, shareholders, Building sustainable business growth by leveraging the opportunities Regular and ongoing disclosure obligations including interim reports, financial statements analysts presented by the digital transformation bulletin, report by the Board of Directors and financial statements, Corporate Governance Market environment and competitive landscape, objectives, reporting, Statement and stock exchange releases. General Meeting of Shareholders, investor, analyst and strategy and financial position media meetings and events, the Alma Media website, Carbon Disclosure Project, Alma Media’s science based climate targets Employees Competence development and work ability, occupational well-being and safety, Training and one-to-one discussions between managers and subordinates, team meetings, target setting, ethical guidelines and issues, security, values and business employee surveys, equality, diversity and non-discrimination plans, Intranet, internal blogs, practices, increasing trust, workers’ rights, equal and fair work community Yammer, employee events, occupational health care, discussions with employee organisations, management forums Service producers Fair and equal treatment, supplier requirements, Alma Media’s Code of Conduct, Mutual sharing of knowledge and expertise, memberships in organisations, partnerships and Alma Media’s procurement policy, cooperation to reduce emissions and projects. environmental impacts Associations Cooperation, mutual sharing of knowledge and expertise Memberships, partnerships and projects, communication, seminars and other events Media High-quality journalism and responsible marketing Observing the Guidelines for Journalists, interviews and releases, surveys published by Alma High-quality data and information security Media, key publications, seminars, social media channels Openness, transparency, actively providing information, accuracy of content, quick response to enquiries Society and the authorities Regulatory compliance, supporting local wellbeing as well as a pluralistic and Reporting, high-quality and reliable content and services, Alma Media’s Code of Conduct, key democratic society corporate responsibility principles ADVOCACY AND MEMBERSHIPS Society (FIBS) corporate responsibility network and the FIBS diversity network, the City of Alma Media manages its stakeholder relationships by being actively involved in associations and Helsinki Climate Partners network and the Responsible Media Forum. cooperative bodies. The goal is to survey changes in Alma Media’s industry and in relation to corporate responsibility. In addition to these, many members of Alma Media’s Management Team and managers and experts hold board memberships in the Media Industry Research Foundation of Finland, As part of the development of its corporate responsibility and advocacy work, Alma Media is Finnish Media Federation, Media Metrics Finland as well as IAB Finland. Alma Media is also a key member of organisations such as the Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK), the Central partner of the Helsinki-based Amos Rex art museum for the period 2018-2020 and continues its Chamber of Commerce, the Finnish Media Federation, IAB Finland, an association that promotes partnership with the Finnish Children and Youth Foundation (the period 2019–2021). the growth and development of digital marketing and advertising., the Finnish Business and 10 Contributor to sustainable development 11 Responsible journalism Alma Media maintains the responsibility of journalism through ethical operating models and a responsible editorial culture. Editorial supervisors actively give journalists In 2018, Alma Media’s media brands also media brands to increase the transparency of guidance and feedback in their work. They achieved another goal set two years journalistic process. Council for mass media also cooperate and exchange information previously. The goal was that the Group’s condemnatory decisions in across brands. major media brands should, by the end of A second jointly agreed project of the Finland 2017–2018 2018, introduce a joint regular reader survey Working Group on Responsible Journalism NB % DEVELOPMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY to evaluate the quality and responsibility of for 2019 is to explore the technical and other 50 50 IN 2018 the content they produce. The first round of opportunities for increasing the quantity Alma Media’s media brands first set shared the survey was conducted in January 2019 of high-quality and appropriate online 40 40 goals for the development of responsible and it will be repeated twice a year from now discussion in connection with content 32% journalism in Alma Media in 2017. The first on. published by the Group’s media brands. goal was that Alma Media’s media brands’ 30 30 combined share of the condemnatory According to a new goal set in 2018, each Alma Media’s editorial teams will also 28 decisions issued by the Council for Mass of the media brands participating in the carry out a joint project related to ethical 23 17% 20 20 Media should be under 20 per cent of the joint reader survey must come up with and responsible journalistic practices by total condemnatory decisions issued in any their own KPI target by 2021 to measure the preparing for the growing phenomenon of given year. responsibility of their content based on the journalists being targeted by attempts to 10 10 9 results of the survey. pressure them, influence them by information This goal was achieved in the year under and obtain information by intrusive means. 4 0 0 review. The Council for Mass Media issued FOCUS AREAS FOR THE This will be achieved by organising coaching 2017 2018 63 decisions in 2018, with a condemnatory DEVELOPMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY for interested journalists. decision issued in 23 of these cases. Alma IN 2019 Council for Mass Media Media’s media brands’ combined share of the Alma Media’s media brands aim to increase condemnatory decisions (nb) condemnatory decisions was 17 per cent (four the transparency of their journalistic Condemnatory decisions on Alma Media’s media (nb) condemnatory decisions). The condemnatory processes. All of the Group’s media brands The Share of condemnatory decisions were given for two of Alma Media’s have made a commitment to publishing their decisions on Alma Media vs. media brands due to insufficient source journalistic principles on their respective all condemotary decisions (%) criticism and inaccurate reporting. The websites in 2019. In addition, the Working cases in question have been analysed by the Group on Responsible Journalism has been editorial teams to prevent the recurrence of tasked with exploring opportunities for the mistakes. introducing new elements in the Group’s 12 During the reporting year, Alma Media include the journalist’s professional position issues reprimands to media outlets if it finds OTHER ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE Kustannus received EUR 170,000 from Google and independence, the principles of obtaining that they have violated editorial ethics. DEVELOPMENT OF RESPONSIBLE for a project to develop smart notifications. information and the rights of interviewees. JOURNALISM IN 2018 The Åkerlund Foundation provided Alma The Guidelines also stipulate how media Alma Media’s media brands also take Media with a grant of EUR 20,000 to fund a outlets need to separate journalism from measures of their own aimed at the long• Alma Media’s media brands research project focused on young people’s advertising and rectify any errors they make. term development of a responsible and established a joint Working Group relationship with media and their media transparent editorial culture. During the on Responsible Journalism. The consumption. The final phase of the project The Council for Mass Media is authorised to reporting year, the two most significant joint working group is tasked with was implemented in January 2019. issue reprimands to media outlets that have projects by the Group’s media brands aimed preparing and implementing violated good journalistic practices. The at developing responsibility in journalism Alma Media’s editorial teams’ Financial support was also received for a Council reviews complaints 10–11 times per were the introduction of a regular reader joint responsibility projects in modernisation project to enhance the energy year. Anyone can report a complaint to the survey by the Group’s major media brands accordance with a jointly defined efficiency of Alma Media’s old printing facility. Council. and the creation of a joint fact checking action plan. The innovation funding agency Business team. These projects are described in the Finland granted funding of EUR 117,023 for the In addition to the Guidelines for Journalists, information box on this page. • Alma Media’s editorial offices project. Alma Media’s editorial offices have their own established a joint fact checking style books that cover topics related to the G4-M4 CONTENT ACCESSIBILITY, team in late 2017 to evaluate the Alma Media’s business units outside Finland media brand and responsible journalism. The PROTECTION OF VULNERABLE truthfulness of claims made by did not receive any funding from private editorial offices also have separate guidelines AUDIENCES AND INFORMED the candidates in the Finnish sources during the year. related to, for example, fact checking and the DECISION-MAKING presidential elections of 2018. use of social media. Reporting boundaries: The reporting covers 201-4 FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE Alma Media’s media brands. RECEIVED FROM GOVERNMENT In Alma Media’s editorial teams, ethical In accordance with the guidelines by ASPECTS OF GRI STANDARDS AND Alma Media’s media brands or other units did guidelines are complemented by active the Council for Mass Media, the Group’s THE GRI G4 FRAMEWORK RELATED not receive any funding from governmental supervision and management as well as media brands visibly differentiate between TO RESPONSIBLE JOURNALISM sources during the year. continuous oral and written feedback from advertising and journalistic content and they Alma Media reports on aspects related to supervisors to subordinates. do not target audiences under 18 years of age responsible journalism partly by using the G4-M2 METHODOLOGY FOR ASSESSING with advertising. The editorial teams publish GRI G4 reporting framework which preceded AND MONITORING ADHERENCE TO G4-M3 ACTIONS TAKEN TO IMPROVE material on their pages that could potentially the GRI Standards. The Global Reporting CONTENT CREATION VALUES ADHERENCE TO CONTENT CREATION upset sensitive audiences, such as children Initiative has not yet updated its media The reporting covers Alma Media’s media VALUES, AND RESULTS OBTAINED and young people, only in exceptional cases sector-specific aspects to match the new GRI brands. Reporting boundaries: The reporting covers when doing so is justified from a journalistic Standards. Alma Media’s media brands are committed to Alma Media’s media brands. perspective, and readers are given appropriate compliance with good journalistic practices The self-regulation of the media industry is advance warnings in such cases. Alma Media G4-M1 SIGNIFICANT FUNDING AND and the decisions made by the Council for effective in Finland and it requires Finnish has also implemented restrictions and policies OTHER SUPPORT RECEIVED FROM Mass Media. The Guidelines for Journalists media companies to have a responsible regarding what types of advertising are NON-GOVERNMENTAL SOURCES impose substantially stricter ethical standards operating culture. In the manner described allowed on its websites in order to ensure a Alma Media’s media brands are impartial and on media outlets than the legislation above (G4-M2), the Council for Mass Media safe and pleasant advertising environment for they do not receive any funding from parties governing the media industry. The topics supervises compliance with the media advertisers and consumers alike. that would compromise their independence. covered in the Guidelines for Journalists sector’s ethical operating principles and In the manner described above (G4-M2), 13 the Council for Mass Media supervises compliance with the media sector’s ethical operating principles and issues reprimands to media outlets if it finds that they have violated editorial ethics. 415-1 POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS Alma Media does not give support to, or receive support from, political parties or individuals. The Group advocates for the interests of commercial media companies primarily through a small number of key advocacy organisations, namely the Finnish Media Federation, the Finnish Newspapers Association, the Confederation of Finnish Industries and the Central Chamber of Commerce. To ensure journalistic integrity, Alma Media’s media brands are politically independent and they do not receive press subsidies from the state. 14 Social projects Alma Media’s purpose is to accelerate sustainable growth among its stakeholders and in society at large. Alma Media’s units are active participants Communications function must allocate ASPECTS OF SOCIAL in their respective communities and they at least 300 person-hours per year to the RESPONSIBILITY ACCORDING TO realise their social responsibility each year by coordination and planning of social projects. THE GRI G4 REPORTING FRAMEWORK organising local, regional or national events This target was achieved in 2018. and projects that support sustainable social, G4-M7: ACTIONS TAKEN TO EMPOWER ecological or economic growth. The third target, which extends until 2020, AUDIENCES THROUGH MEDIA is that Alma Media’s employees must make LITERACY SKILLS DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY at least 50 media education visits to schools Reporting boundaries: The reporting covers IN 2018 each year. This target was achieved. The topic Alma Media’s media brands. Alma Media has set three targets by which it is reported in G4-M7. Alma Media has selected young people as evaluates its performance in the area of social the primary target audience of its media projects. The first target is that the Group FOCUS AREAS FOR THE literacy projects, as their media consumption must carry out at least one national-level DEVELOPMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY and reading habits are still developing. social project or media education project in IN 2019 In 2019, the Group’s employees taught Finland each year. This target was achieved in In 2019, as in previous years, Alma Media approximately 100 media education classes 2018. Alma Media challenged its employees sought to increase the impact of its social to school classes, reaching more than 2,000 and readers as well as other companies in and media education projects by improving children and young people. Alma Media’s Finland to commit to climate promises aimed communication and cooperation between media brands distributed some 90,000 free at mitigating the impacts of climate change. the Group’s units, by applying an increasingly newspapers to schools during Newspaper The campaign utilised internal and external planned and systematic approach to project Week and made their paid online services communications and advertising in the selection and implementation as well as by available to school classes. Aamulehti offered Group’s media brands and newsletters, and it developing project communications. The key all sixth-graders in the Pirkanmaa region also included a campaign offer to encourage themes of the projects carried out in Finland the opportunity to learn about journalistic advertisers to publish responsibility-related in 2018 were media education (school visits), work at the Aamulehti activity station at the advertising. literacy (the media sector’s national READ Pirkanmaa Me & MyCity miniature city. project) and future-oriented skills (Future The second target has been set for the of Work event in spring 2019 as part of Alma In addition to these activities, the Alma Corporate Communications function, Media’s three-year role as the main partner of Consumer unit’s media brands also jointly which manages Alma Media’s national-level the Amos Rex art museum). maintain the Koulumaailma (School World) social partnerships and related projects in website to provide free media education Finland. The target is that the Corporate content for teachers to use in their lessons. 15 OTHER SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROJECTS IN 2018 • Financial support for NGOs: Alma Media’s recruitment service companies in the Czech Republic and Slovakia offered NGOs use of their recruitment services free of charge or for a nominal fee of one euro. The computational value of this initiative was approximately EUR 4.4 million, with more than 5,000 permanent jobs filled. Direct donations to NGOs by Alma Media’s units during the reporting year totalled approximately EUR 90,000, in addition to which the Profesia recruitment service company in Slovakia allocated two per cent (roughly EUR 22,000) of its corporate taxes to NGOs. • Other support for the third and public sectors: Profesia offered Slovakian schools free use of its recruitment portal, which focuses on jobs in education. The computational value of this support was about EUR 350,000 during the year. Schools published some 4,500 job advertisements on Profesia. The Group’s units were also involved in many local or regional cooperation projects with NGOs, with examples in Finland including the Cancer Foundation. • Support for children and young people: Alma Talent’s media brands collaborated with the communications agency Miltton in the summer to organise Naantali 24h, a social discussion event that brought together policymakers and young people. Alma Media, the Finnish Children and Youth Foundation and the City of Helsinki’s Luotsi youth work programme joined forces in autumn 2018 to organise an art workshop for young people who are experiencing difficult circumstances in life. 16 High-quality service provider 17 Information security and data protection User data has become a strategic cornerstone of Alma Media’s business. Services and systems are developed recruits. This target was not achieved, as the With respect to information security, responsibly, in compliance with current Group only organised three data protection Alma Media will increase its resources in OTHER ACTIONS TAKEN TO regulations governing information security training events aimed at newly recruited 2019 to improve its reactive capabilities DEVELOP INFORMATION SECURITY and data protection and with a proactive employees. Starting from 2019, the annual and commission an information security AND DATA PROTECTION IN 2018 approach towards new information security target is to organise four data protection assessment by an external partner for certain threats. training events open to all employees services selected by the Group. Internal • Actions related to the GDPR: A in Finland and two training events on resources will also be allocated to conduct new data protection description DEVELOPMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY information security. The Group’s assessment needs-based information security checks on was drafted for Alma Media, the IN 2018 is that its employees have achieved a services. file descriptions of the Group’s Alma Media uses two performance sufficient level of competence regarding the services were updated to ensure indicators to report on the development of changes to business operations introduced GRI ASPECTS RELATED TO GDPR compliance and new data its responsibility with regard to information by the entry into force of the EU General INFORMATION SECURITY AND DATA protection tools were adopted security and data protection. The Group Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in 2018. In PROTECTION has set a goal of not having any serious the future, training will focus on maintaining • Development of information information security breaches during any and developing its employees’ information 418-1 SUBSTANTIATED COMPLAINTS security: A project to improve reporting period (one year) and not receiving security and data protection competence. REGARDING BREACHES OF CUSTOMER the Group’s detection of, and any reprimands from the authorities PRIVACY AND LOSSES OF CUSTOMER response to, information security regarding breaches of information security FOCUS AREAS FOR THE DATA threats, a project to improve the or data protection. Alma Media was not made DEVELOPMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY The Group was not made aware of any serious management of employees’ user aware of any such incidents in 2018. IN 2019 violations related to information security, data access In 2019, Alma Media will enhance consent protection or privacy during the reporting The second goal related to information management in its digital services, aiming period, and the Group was not subject to any security and data protection is that the Group to improve customers’ ability to choose how reprimands by the authorities. will regularly organise information security and for what purposes their data can be and data protection training for its employees used. This will coincide with the continued in Finland. In 2018, the target was to organise development of data protection, with focus two data protection training events for all areas such as the collection of data through of the Group’s employees in Finland and online services. four data protection training events for new 18 Responsible marketing Alma Media’s operating principle is to only work with responsible advertisers. OTHER ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF MARKETING IN 2018 Operating responsibly in global digital sales organisations. Alma Media’s media sales The single most significant change affecting advertising networks requires the Group to organisation achieved its target in 2018. The the development of advertising from the • Actions related to the GDPR: Alma invest in the development of technology and media sales function will continue to develop perspective of technological progress Media deployed a new customer employee competence. its operations in order to further improve the is the renevation of consumer consent data management platform in the customer experience. management, which is described on page Group’s services in Finland. The DEVELOPMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY 18. Supplier relationships will be developed new platform clarified the overall IN 2018 FOCUS AREAS FOR THE by incorporating the contractual appendix data management architecture and Alma Media has set two targets for the DEVELOPMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY that contains Alma Media’s responsibility ensured that the data collected development of responsible marketing. IN 2019 principles into supplier agreements in from advertisements displayed on The first target is that Alma Media’s online As a major national media company, Alma the field of marketing communications. the Group’s wegsites is processed and mobile services should feature no Media wants to be on the leading edge of the The appendix in question has previously in compliance with the GDPR. advertisements (zero per year) that violate development of responsible marketing in only been used in the printing facility’s The partnership agreements with the International Chamber of Commerce’s Finland. In 2019, Alma Media will strive to find subcontracting agreements. media agencies were updated in Code of Advertising and Marketing new ways of monitoring the responsibility of compliance with the provisions Communication Practice. In 2018, Alma its advertising in the often global and highly GRI ASPECTS RELATED TO of the GDPR and intensive data Media’s services did not receive reprimands automated digital advertising value chain. RESPONSIBLE MARKETING protection training was provided for in their operating countries from the The goal is to set a measurable target on media sales representatives. organisations that monitor the responsibility which the Group will report going forward. 417-3 INCIDENTS OF NONof advertising. Nevertheless, Alma Media’s COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS • Active communication and advertising management function did Alma Media’s media sales and marketing AND/OR VOLUNTARY CODES dissemination of information in remove a small number of programmatically organisation will continue its active CONCERNING MARKETING events aimed at media agencies bought advertisements from the Group’s responsibility dialogue with other players COMMUNICATIONS and advertisers, the key themes services in Finland due to non-compliance in the marketing communications industry There were no incidents of advertising of responsible marketing were to with the Group’s policies and guidelines. in 2019. Examples of this dialogue include contrary to good practices in Alma Media’s increase understanding of the digital the IAB digital marketing and advertising services during the year that would have advertising purchasing path and The other target related to the responsibility network, being a media partner of the led to a fine, penalty or reprimand from the pricing in programmatic buying, the of marketing is that, by 2020, Alma Media’s Agency of the Year competition, organising authorities or the marketing communication significance of the technical quality media sales organisation will be ranked customer events and going on rounds of industry’s self-regulatory bodies. of advertising to the consumer among the leaders of its industry in Finland media agencies with the theme being the experience and leveraging in terms of its index average in the annual impact of the technical quality of advertising responsibility in brand building. survey of the customer experience of media on the customer experience. 19 Reliable partner 20 Transparency and ethics OTHER ACTIONS RELATED TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF TRANSPARENT AND ETHICAL BUSINESS IN 2018 in business • The digital induction materials related to Alma Media’s Code of Conduct were introduced in all of the Group’s operating countries and incorporated into the induction training of new employees. Alma Media operates sustainably and expects the same from its partners and suppliers. • Alma Media developed its tax footprint reporting by adding more detail to the reported information. The key principles of responsibility for The corporate income tax rates in Alma Czech Baltic Other employees are also documented in Alma Media’s operating countries vary from 15 per Collected and Paid Taxes Finland Republic Slovakia countries countries Total Media’s Code of Conduct. cent in Latvia and Lithuania to 22 per cent in Corporate income tax 8.5 3.9 1.2 0.5 0.5 14.2 Sweden. The effective tax rate 20.3% 19.6% 21.9% 14.6% 18.1% 20.6% DEVELOPMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY IN 2018 FOCUS AREAS FOR THE Employer contributions 0.8 3.0 0.6 0.3 0.3 6.4 Alma Media has a zero tolerance policy with DEVELOPMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY respect to bribery, corruption and other IN 2019 Other paid taxes 0.3 1.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.1 unethical business practices. Performance Alma Media’s long-term objective is for all Paid taxes total 9.6 8.5 1.8 0.1 0.8 22.7 in this respect is measured by monitoring employees to complete a course of induction whether the Group is informed of any training materials related to the Code of Net VAT 27.3 7.1 1.9 1.0 1.3 38.2 infringements related to unethical business Conduct. The goal for 2019 is to develop the Employer taxes 23.7 0.0 0.4 0.6 0.5 26.5 practices by the authorities, by external operating model to have a larger proportion Other collected taxes 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 parties or via the anonymous whistleblowing of existing employees complete the training. channel made available to employees. No Collected taxes total 51.0 7.1 2.3 1.6 1.9 64.7 Group was not made aware of any such incidents during the year. Collected and paid taxes total 60.6 15.5 4.0 2.4 2.7 87.4 ALMA MEDIA’S TAX FOOTPRINT IN 2018 Alma Media operates openly and transparently with respect to taxation. The Group pays taxes in the country where the result is generated and complies with the valid legislation, regulations and international transfer pricing guidelines. 21 GRI ASPECTS RELATED TO DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED TRANSPARENT AND ETHICAL AND DISTRIBUTED: 201-1 CREATING ADDED VALUE SERVICE PROVIDERS BUSINESS Alma Media builds sustainable growth for its Purchases from subcontractors MEUR 143 FOR STAKEHOLDERS stakeholders in line with the Group’s strategy, CONFIRMED INCIDENTS OF by making use of the opportunities presented EMPLOYEES CORRUPTION AND ACTIONS TAKEN: by the digital transformation. Alma Media’s Employee expenses MEUR 142 205-3 services are the leading services in their LEGAL ACTIONS FOR ANTIsegments in many of the Group’s countries of SHAREHOLDERS COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR, ANTIoperation. They generate economic activity Dividends MEUR 23 TRUST AND MONOPOLY PRACTICES: in their communities through employment, ALMA CUSTOMERS 206-1 the payment of taxes and the procurement of Revenue MEDIA There were no incidents of corruption or products and services from other companies. MEUR 355 PUBLIC SECTOR anti-competitive behaviour at Alma Media in Corporate tax, social security 2018, and there are no investigations related The chart beside presents key information contributions and other taxes paid to bribary, corruption, or anti-competitive on the added value created by Alma Media MEUR 23 behaviour by the authorities in progress. for its stakeholders. The chart does not include financial support received by Alma CREDITORS NON-COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND Media from public or private sources, such Net financial expenses MEUR 0.1 REGULATIONS IN THE SOCIAL AND as foundations. Such financial support ECONOMIC AREA: 419-1 constitutes a very small proportion of the More information on the added value created by Alma Media for stakeholders is also Alma Media was not subject to any rulings or company’s income streams. The funding provided in the value creation model on page 8 of the Report by the Board of Directors. reprimands by the authorities pertaining to and support received by the Group in 2018 non-compliance with laws and regulations is described on page 13 (G4-M1). Alma governing social and economic responsibility. Media did not receive any funding from governmental sources during the year. 22 Responsibility throughout the supply chain Alma Media’s subcontracting activities are guided by legislation as well as the Group’s Code of Conduct and corporate responsibility programme. OTHER ACTIONS TO DEVELOP RESPONSIBILITY THROUGHOUT The Code of Conduct and the corporate operations; for example, by optimising producing more detailed route-specific THE SUPPLY CHAIN IN 2018 responsibility programme require the delivery routes. Alma Media also aims to data. Analysing emissions from distribution Group’s subcontractors to operate ethically engage in active dialogue on responsibility operations supports the long-term • Alma Media drafted a corporate and in compliance with the law. with the Group’s key material suppliers management of emissions. The Euro responsibility section to and transport service providers in order to emissions classification of vehicles will be be incorporated into its DEVELOPMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY achieve the science-based target. incorporated as a new criterion into Alma subcontracting agreements IN 2018 Media’s competitive tendering processes in Finland that presents the In 2018, Alma Media became the third media In 2018, Alma Media’s Scope 3 GHG emissions concerning distribution services this year. Group’s corporate responsibility company in the world to set long-term were 46,131 CO2-eq tonnes. Compared to programme and Code of Conduct. science-based climate targets (SBT). One of 2016, the emissions decreased by seven per Alma Media’s printing facility will enhance In the section the subcontractors the two targets set concerns Alma Media’s cent. Reductions in emissions were achieved its dialogue with key material suppliers are urged to adhere to the indirect Scope 3 emissions arising from, through a lower level of purchases of paper to assess the climate emissions caused principles they contain. The amongst other things, subcontracting. The and transport services. This decrease was by the production of raw materials and section was incorporated into target calls for the Group to reduce its Scope particularly attributable to a divestment opportunities to reduce them. The Group all of the printing facility’s 3 emissions by 10 per cent by 2023, using that saw the Group sell the Lapin Kansa also aims to continue discussions with its key subcontracting agreements in 2016 as the baseline. newspaper, its two town papers in the suppliers of printing and transport services 2018. The Group intends to expand Lapland region and its delivery operations in to explore opportunities for the collaborative its use in 2019. To achieve this target, Alma Media has Lapland to the media company Kaleva. reduction of climate emissions. carefully analysed the major sources of • Alma Media enhanced its greenhouse gas emissions in its supply chain. FOCUS AREAS FOR THE responsibility dialogue with Based on the analysis, the Group’s efforts to DEVELOPMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY certain key suppliers, encouraging reduce emissions will be particularly focused IN 2019 them to analyse their greenhouse on the subcontracting activities of Alma Alma Media aims to develop the calculation gas emissions and draft an Media’s printing facility by reducing material of the greenhouse gas emissions caused emissions reduction plan. waste, as well as the Group’s distribution by its distribution operations in 2019 by 23 GRI ASPECTS RELATED TO THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE SUPPLY CHAIN SUPPLY CHAIN: 102-9 Reporting boundaries: A more detailed description of the supply chain has only been possible for the Group’s operations in Finland. Alma Media’s supply chain consists of thousands of companies, the smallest of which are microenterprises in the field of content production. The procurement function in Finland uses a two-tier model: some purchases are made on a centralised basis and some are made locally. For example, regional and local media decide on their purchases of content production services independently, as purchasing locally relevant content requires the purchasers and sellers to have a high degree of local knowledge. During the year under review, Alma Media’s country units purchased services and products for a combined total of MEUR 143. The purchases made in Alma Media’s Finnish operations were spread out among nearly 3,700 subcontractors. Of these, 46 were major companies defined as key subcontractors by the Group. They also included the Group’s most significant suppliers of distribution, printing and ICT services. The other extreme in the supply chain was represented by sole proprietorships established by photographers or journalists, for example. They accounted for more than a quarter of the Group’s subcontractors in Finland. 24 Environmental impacts of operations The most significant greenhouse gas emissions arising from Alma Media’s operations are caused by printing and distribution activities as well as the consumption of electricity, district heating and district cooling at the Group’s properties. The Group takes a proactive approach to the printing facility in Tampere. Purchases commitments made by the Group when reducing its greenhouse gas emissions. This of zero-emission energy will be expanded in setting its science-based targets in 2018. The OTHER ACTIONS TO DEVELOP requires a long-term emissions reduction 2019 and 2020. science-based target concerning electricity, ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY plan as well as the systematic analysis and district heating and district cooling IN 2018 development of the Group’s operations. In addition to purchasing zero-emission consumption at the Group’s properties and energy, Alma Media will reduce the the fuel consumption of company cars is to • Alma Media initiated an extensive DEVELOPMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY greenhouse gas emissions caused by its reduce the Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions energy efficiency improvement IN 2018 property portfolio by improving its energy by 21 per cent by 2025, using 2016 as the project at its old printing facility, Alma Media’s long-term environmental efficiency. The target for the Group’s baseline. The sale of the printing facility which was leased to external objectives are to improve the energy properties in Finland is to improve energy reduced the combined Scope 1 and Scope parties. The property was efficiency of its properties, decrease material efficiency by five per cent by the end of 2020, 2 emissions of the year under review to sold in the summer, but Alma waste at its printing facility and reduce the using 2016 as the baseline. such a significant extent that Alma Media’s Media completed the energy Group’s greenhouse gas emissions. greenhouse gas emissions fell to less than efficiency improvement project in In July 2018, Alma Media sold its old printing half of the 2016 level, also taking into account accordance with the agreement The goal for the printing facility is to improve facility in Tampere, which had been leased to the other actions taken in 2018 to reduce concluded with the buyer. material efficiency by two per cent per year external parties in recent years. The impact of emissions. • Alma Media carried out a lighting during the period from 2016 to 2025. The the property on the overall energy efficiency renovation project at its office printing facility’s material efficiency improved of the Group’s properties in Finland was so In the Group’s reporting for 2018, Alma Media property in Tampere to implement by eight per cent year on year in 2018. significant that its removal from the property uses figures that reflect the impact of the LED lighting and a smart lighting portfolio substantially improved Alma Media’s sold printing facility. For 2019, the Group will control system. Alma Media’s goal is for its properties energy efficiency figures as reported on page recalculate its reference values for energy in Finland to begin using zero-emission 24. efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions • Alma Media optimised electricity by the end of 2020. In line with the for the baseline year of 2016 to eliminate its distribution routes by Group’s plans, the first properties to make the The sale of the property had a similar the effect of the printing facility sold by the discontinuing six routes during the transition to zero-emission electricity were effect on Alma Media’s Scope 2 emissions, Group. Subsequent reporting will be based year under review. the Alma Media head office in Helsinki and the reduction of which was one of the on adjusted figures. 25 CO2 emissions caused by Alma Media’s own activities Material efficiency in Alma Media’s printing plant GOAL % % 100.0 GOAL 100.0 Reduce the amount 100 97.4 of wasted materials 20% reduction in 100 90.0 by 2% annually. CO2 emissions 83.0 80 80 60 60 47.5 40 40 20 20 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 Result Goal Result Goal Energy efficiency in Alma Media’s facilities in Finland During the reporting year, the Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions caused by Alma Media’s operations fell by 52 per cent year-on-year (2017: 5,678 tCO2), calculated using the kWh/m2 market-based method. Alma Media’s consumption of electricity, district heating and 300 GOAL district cooling as well as the fuel consumption of company cars caused emissions 295.8 Goal: 5% reduction totalling 2,720 tCO2 in 2018. in electricity consumption Scope 2 emissions calculated on a location basis are presented in the tables at the 290 end of this report, on page 39. 284.9 The sharp decline in greenhouse gas emissions was mainly due to the introduction 280 of a zero-emission electricity purchasing programme at the Group’s properties in Finland and the sale of Alma Media’s old printing facility. The figures reported by the Group will be adjusted in 2019 to eliminate the effect of this property sale. Emissions 272,4 were also reduced by the divestment of the Group’s media business in Lapland and 270 the energy and material efficiency improvement measures taken in 2018. 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Result Goal The sale of the old printing facility, which was leased to external parties in recent years, is reflected as a substantial change in the energy efficiency figures for Alma Media’s properties. The figures reported by the Group will be adjusted in 2019 to eliminate the effect of the sold printing facility. 26 FOCUS AREAS FOR THE GRI ASPECTS RELATED TO previous year (2017: 73,672 GJ, or 20,464 MWh). based on information on the average annual DEVELOPMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY The sharp decline in energy consumption consumption of company cars used by the IN 2019 was particularly due to Alma Media selling its Group’s Czech subsidiary LMC. Alma Media will continue to implement MATERIALS USED BY WEIGHT OR old printing facility, which had been leased to measures in line with its emissions reduction VOLUME: 301-1 external parties in recent years, in July 2018. The energy consumption details for 2018 targets in its printing and distribution Reporting boundaries: The reporting only The figures reported by the Group will be are presented in the tables section at the operations in 2019. At the printing facility, the covers Alma Media’s printing operations, adjusted in 2019 to eliminate the effect of the end of the report, on page 39. The table main focus will remain on the improvement which is the Group’s only material-intensive sold property. includes data on Alma Media’s consumption of material efficiency. This will be achieved by function. of electricity, district cooling and district material testing as well as the development In 2018, Alma Media’s printing facility Alma Media continued to implement heating as well as the petrol and diesel of working methods and maintenance consumed 25,436 tonnes of paper. All of measures aimed at improving the energy consumption of company cars. activities, among other things. Reductions the purchased paper was certified under efficiency of its properties during the year. The in emissions will also be sought through the international PEFC or FSC certification results are reported under section 305-5. DIRECT (SCOPE 1) GHG EMISSIONS: the development of waste management in system to ensure sustainable forest 305-1 the printing facility. Although currently 95 management. The certificates guarantee that The fuel consumption of Alma Media’s Reporting boundaries: Company cars under per cent of the waste generated in printing the wood used to produce the paper pulp company cars was reduced by six per Alma Media’s control in all country units. operations is recycled and the rest is used was sourced from forests that are managed cent compared to the previous year. The For 12 per cent of the reported vehicles, for energy production, in 2019 the printing in a socially, economically and ecologically consumption figure fell to 9,291 GJ (2017: the consumption calculations are based on facility aims to further reduce the amount of sustainable manner. 9,832 GJ). The decrease was mainly due to average consumption. waste relative to its production volume by the size of Alma Media’s fleet of company Alma Media’s Scope 1 emissions in 2018 improving waste monitoring and engaging Some 32 per cent of the purchased paper was cars in Finland being reduced as a result amounted to 604 carbon dioxide equivalent in closer cooperation with the waste produced from recycled fibre. As the majority of the divestment of the Group’s media tonnes. Emissions were reduced from the management partner. of the paper produced from recycled fibre by business in Lapland. previous year by five per cent, or 34 tCO2. Alma Media’s paper suppliers is purchased The decrease in emissions was mainly due Alma Media also aims to increase the level in the large consumer markets of Central The consumption figures for electricity, to the size of Alma Media’s fleet of company of detail in its Scope 2 emissions reporting Europe, the availability of recycled paper is district heating and district cooling are cars in Finland being reduced as a result in 2019 by centralising the purchasing of relatively low in the Finnish market. based on consumption data from the of the divestment of the Group’s media electricity for the Group’s properties in energy companies that supply Alma Media’s business in Lapland. The CO2 emissions Finland and obtaining producer-specific An itemised description of the consumption properties in Finland. The same approach has values reported by the manufacturers of emission factors from more electricity of other materials by Alma Media’s printing been used in Alma Media’s other operating Alma Media’s company cars also continued to producers in the Group’s other operating facility in its production operations is countries where direct consumption data decline in Finland. countries. The Group’s Finnish properties provided at the end of the report, in the table has been available. For properties for which will gradually transition to zero-emission on page 40. direct consumption data is not available due The CO2 emissions reported by car electricity in accordance with a plan that to energy being included in the monthly rent, manufacturers for 2018 were based on the extends to 2020. ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE energy consumption is calculated based on NEDC method, which is being phased out. ORGANISATION: 302-1 the floor area. The fuel consumption data for The calculations of the Scope 1 emissions Alma Media’s consumption of electricity, company cars used by Alma Media has been in 2017, as reported in the previous Annual district heating and district cooling totalled primarily collected from service providers. Report, were adjusted in connection with the 58,665 GJ, or 16,296 MWh, in 2018. These In cases where the data was not available process of setting Alma Media’s sciencefigures are one-fifth lower than in the (12 per cent of the fleet), the calculations are based targets. The new Scope 1 emissions 27 figures also cover Alma Media’s entire fleet of specific IEA factors as the location-based The Group’s emissions intensity during the electricity consumption by 42.1 tonnes per company cars for the year 2017. calculations. year under review was 1.48 tCO2-eq per year, calculated using the location-based employee. method. The calculation takes into account The calculations are based on the emission Alma Media’s annual Scope 2 emissions the wattage and lifespan of the old and new factors reported in the Lipasto emissions starting from 2016 are presented in the Reduction of GHG emissions: 305-5 light fittings as well as an estimate of the database maintained by VTT Technical tables section at the end of the report, on During the year under review, Alma Media electricity savings generated by the smart Research Centre of Finland. page 39. For 2019, the Group will recalculate began the gradual shift to zero-emission control system. its reference values for greenhouse gas electricity in its Finnish operations, with ENERGY INDIRECT (SCOPE 2) GHG emissions for the baseline year of 2016 to the Alma Media head office in Helsinki and NITROGEN OXIDES (NOX, SULFUR EMISSIONS 305-2 eliminate the effect of the printing facility printing facility in Tampere being the first OXIDES (SOX) AND OTHER Calculated using the market-based method, sold by the Group. Subsequent reporting will to make the transition. In the previous year, SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS 305-7 Alma Media’s indirect GHG emissions be based on adjusted figures. the electricity consumption of the two Alma Media’s printing operations generate declined during the year under review by buildings generated a combined 1,194 CO2 small amounts of VOC (volatile organic 58 per cent from the previous year, to 2,116 OTHER INDIRECT (SCOPE 3) GHG tonnes of emissions, calculated using the compound) emissions each year. The printing tCO2 (2017: 5,040 tCO2). Calculated using EMISSIONS 305-3 location-based method. These emissions facility is committed to keeping its annual the location-based method, Alma Media’s Alma Media’s most significant indirect were eliminated in 2018 as a result of the shift VOC emissions under 10,000 kg and it has indirect GHG emissions amounted to 3,031 GHG emissions arise from the printing to zero-emission electricity. systematically developed its processes to tCO2 during the year under review. facility’s material purchases and distribution minimise VOC emissions. The printing facility operations. Scope 3 emissions decreased in Prior to the sale of Alma Media’s old printing uses the coldset offset method, which does The sharp decline in Scope 2 emissions is both of these activities in 2018, particularly facility, which had been leased to external not generate VOC emissions. In its choices due to Alma Media’s head office and printing due to the sale of the Group’s media business parties in recent years, the Group began an of materials, the printing facility prioritises facility transitioning to zero-emission in Lapland. The Group’s total Scope 3 energy efficiency improvement project at the alternatives that have low concentrations of electricity and the sale of the Group’s old emissions also fell by 12 per cent from the building. The project was completed under VOCs. No solvents containing VOCs are used printing facility in July. In 2017, the old previous year and by seven per cent from the Group’s supervision in spite of the sale in washing the printing press. The washing printing facility accounted for 42 per cent of 2016, which is the baseline year used for the of the property in July 2018. The upgrades process is automated to minimise the Alma Media’s Scope 2 emissions in Finland. Group’s science-based targets. were estimated to reduce the annual Scope consumption of solvents. The consumption of 2 emissions caused by the building’s district printing ink has also been reduced through In calculating location-based Scope 2 An itemised description of the other indirect heating and electricity consumption by 274 enhanced automation. emissions in Finland, Alma Media uses GHG emissions caused by Alma Media’s CO2 tonnes, calculated using the locationthe emission factors for electricity, district operations is provided in the summary tables based method. This estimate is taken from The VOC emissions from Alma Media’s heating and district cooling published by at the end of this report, on page 39. The the final report submitted to the Business printing operations totalled 3,630 kg in 2018. Motiva. In other countries, the Group uses emissions are itemised according to the GHG Finland innovation funding agency, which Alma Media’s operations do not produce the IEA’s country-specific factors. SupplierProtocol. supported the project. other significant airborne emissions. specific factors are prioritised in the marketbased calculation of Scope 2 emissions. If GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY: 305-4 During the reporting year, Alma Media supplier-specific factors are not available, Alma Media calculates its emissions intensity carried out a modernisation project at its the calculations in Finland use the Energy based on its Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. office building in Tampere to switch to LED Authority’s residual mix emission factors Scope 2 emissions are calculated using the lighting and introduce a smart lighting and the calculations for Alma Media’s other market-based method. Emissions intensity is control system. These changes are estimated operating countries use the same countryreported relative to the number of employees. to reduce the CO2 emissions arising from 28 WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD: 306-2 Reporting boundaries: The reporting covers the Group’s only material-intensive function, printing operations.. For several years, Alma Media’s printing facility has been successful in continuously reducing the material waste of its production operations through systematic development efforts related to activities such as improved testing of materials. A key role in this effort is also played by the subcontractor responsible for the printing facility’s waste management. The printing facility engages in active dialogue with the waste management partner to reduce waste volumes and optimise waste transport. In 2018, a total of 2,669 tonnes of the waste generated by the printing facility was recycled. The amount of recycled nonhazardous waste was reduced by eight per cent compared to the previous year. A total of 136 tonnes of waste was forwarded to be disposed of by incineration (2017: 156 tonnes), with 54 tonnes (2017: 65 tonnes) of this total being classified as hazardous waste. NON-COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS: 307-1 Alma Media was not subject to any penalties or reprimands for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations in 2018. 29 Responsible employer 30 Equal and diverse work community Alma Media treats employees equally and fairly and strives to promote diversity among employees by, for example, providing people in various life situations with opportunities to work in ways that suit their personal circumstances. Among other things, Alma Media offers employment discrimination related to the application system used for the Group’s materials on the subject of unconscious bias flexible working arrangements for recruitment process of Aamulehti’s Editorrecruitment activities in Finland. in 2019 and encourage employees in certain employees with partial work ability as well as in-Chief. The case has been submitted to the groups, such as managers participating in opportunities for remote and part-time work. prosecutor for consideration of charges. To increase the diversity-related recruitment processes, to complete the The employment of people with reduced competencies of employees, Alma Media training programme. work ability is supported by acquiring special FOCUS AREAS FOR THE will produce online employee training assistive equipment. DEVELOPMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY IN 2019 In Alma Media’s most multicultural unit, As in the previous years, the development which is the delivery unit, all communication of managerial work will continue to be an OTHER ACTIONS TAKEN TO DEVELOP AN EQUAL AND PLURALISTIC WORK with delivery employees representing various important focus area in the Group’s efforts COMMUNITY IN 2018 nationalities takes place in both Finnish and to develop an equal and pluralistic work English. community in 2019. The Alma Future Leaders • All Alma Media units in Finland updated their non-discrimination, diversity and programme for new supervisors and managers equality plans. In drafting the updated plans, the units used, among other things, DEVELOPMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY will continue. More experienced managers wage analyses and the results of Alma Media’s employee survey. While there are IN 2018 will be provided with coaching and lectures to unit-specific differences between the plans, the typical focus areas included Alma Media’s annual target is zero cases of strengthen their leadership identity. differences in wages, the reasons for using fixed-term employees and jobdiscrimination. The Group was not made specific gender distributions. aware of any incidents of discrimination in A further goal for 2019 in the Group’s 2018 through the whistleblowing channel operations in Finland is to enhance • Investments in the development of managerial work: Alma Media organised available to employees, nor was the Group communications with applicants during two extensive training programmes for supervisors and managers in 2018. The subject to any reprimands or penalties by the recruitment process and increase the international Alma Future Leaders programme was aimed at supervisors in the authorities due to discrimination or other transparency of the recruitment policy the early stages of their careers. The FutureMe Leaders programme organised inappropriate treatment of employees. by publishing the Group’s recruitment in Finland was intended for more experienced managers with the aim of principles on the Alma Media website. strengthening their leadership identity. Training on managerial skills was also In July 2018, the police started a pre-trial Recruitment processes will be made more arranged during the year. investigation into a suspected case of efficient through the renewal of the job 31 GRI ASPECTS RELATED TO EQUALITY nationality other than Finnish. positions was 44 per cent for the Group as to any reprimands or penalties by the AND DIVERSITY a whole and 47 per cent in Finland. Details authorities due to discrimination. Alma Media’s Group Executive Team on the age and gender distribution of the DIVERSITY OF GOVERNANCE BODIES consisted of 10 members during the year Group’s employees are presented in the In July 2018, the police started a pre-trial AND EMPLOYEES: 405-1 under review, three (30%) of whom were tables section at the end of the report, on investigation into a suspected case of Alma Media’s Board of Directors had women. Four of the members of the Group page 41. employment discrimination related to the eight members in 2018. Three (38%) of the Executive Team were between the ages of 40 recruitment process of Aamulehti’s Editormembers were women, all between 40 and and 50, and the rest were over 50. INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION AND in-Chief. At the time of reporting, the case 50 years of age. Of the other five Board CORRECTIVE ACTIONS TAKEN: 406-1 has been submitted to the prosecutor for members, two were between 40 and 50 Women represented 47 per cent of all Alma No incidents of discrimination were reported consideration of charges. years of age and the rest were over 50 years Media employees in 2018. The percentage via Alma Media’s whistleblowing channel of age. One of the Board members was of a of women in supervisory and managerial during the year, nor was the Group subject 32 The proportion of employees in The number of employees in different regions in 2017-2018 (12/2018)* different regions (12/2018)* % 4 NB 5 2,000 16 1,293 1,500 1,210 6 1,000 3 66 500 268 292 100 62 100 113 74 82 99 80 Finland Sweden 0 Baltics: Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania Finland Sweden Baltics: Estonia, Czech Slovakia Other Czech Republic Latvia, Lithuania Republic countries Slovakia 2017 2018 Other countries *The number does not include deliverers or telemarketers. At the end of 2018, there were 770 deliverers and 318 telemarketers. *Total percentage may notbe equal to 100, due to the figures being rounded separately. The acquisitions of digital services during the Alma Media had 1,838 employees at the end of the year under review. The figures for 2017 have 2010s have shaped Alma Media into an international been adjusted in the table above because the Group changed the method of reporting the company. The Group operates in nine countries in number of employees in 2018 by eliminating telemarketers from the reported figures. Delivery addition to Finland, with 33 per cent of all employees employees had already been eliminated from the reported total number of employees working outside Finland in 2018. previously. The Group’s most multicultural unit in Finland is At the end of the reporting year, Alma Media employed 318 telemarketers (2017: 306) and 770 the delivery unit, with 36 different nationalities delivery employees (2017: 837). represented at the end of 2018. Approximately one fifth of the Group’s delivery employees are nonThe Group’s reported number of employees in Finland decreased by 83 in 2018, mainly due natives. to the divestment of Alma Media’s media and distribution business in Lapland. Among the Group’s foreign units, employee growth was the highest in the Czech recruitment service company LMC. 33 Developing employee competence and well-being The rapid digital transformation of the media sector requires Alma Media to continuously invest in the development of its employees’ digital competencies and create new jobs in the Group. The objective of Alma Media’s HR strategy is The target for this survey was also upgraded In addition to targets related to competence will be pursued in 2019 by supporting and to support the Group’s digital transformation during the year under review. The new target development and job satisfaction, Alma monitoring the setting of individual and by systematically developing a corporate is for Alma Media to achieve an average Media has set a target related to employee team-specific development targets in the culture that promotes continuous learning employee promoter score of at least 7.5 on a well-being in the Group’s delivery operations. Group’s business units. Performance in and by providing employees with tools for scale of 1–10. The previous target was 7. The target is to reduce occupational this area will be measured by means of a personal development. accidents among delivery employees, mainly questionnaire for employees to evaluate their The average score achieved in the employer involving falling, slipping and stumbling, professional development opportunities. The DEVELOPMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY image survey conducted in autumn 2018 was by half over a period of five years, using implementation of the Train the Alma Trainer IN 2018 8.1. 2017 as the baseline. Progress towards this concept that began in the previous year will Alma Media has set measurable targets to target was not achieved in 2018. The number also continue and the employees’ interaction assess its performance in developing the Alma Media aims to ensure its ability to of accidents among delivery employees skills will be developed further, using tools competence and well-being of employees. A create commitment among the professionals increased slightly from the previous year. such as DiSC profiling for members of teams. QWL employee survey to gauge the quality recruited by the Group by providing of various areas of working life is conducted meaningful and motivating work, a pleasant The Group will continue the long-term Measures aimed at reducing occupational annually in all of the Group’s units. The work community as well as a competitive and development of induction training for accidents will continue in delivery operations. previous target was for the survey’s overall modern work environment. The achievement delivery employees, the analysis of accidents Safety has been highlighted as one of the index score to be at least 70 per cent each of this objective is assessed by the and near misses as well as communications unit’s incentive targets for 2019. year. This target was upgraded to 75 per cent percentage of new Alma Media employees aimed at delivery employees. The Group will during the year under review. Alma Media’s who stay with the Group for at least two also provide delivery employees with various index score in the 2018 QWL survey was 77 years after being hired. The target set for assistive equipment to improve safety and per cent (2017: 76%). this indicator is 90 per cent. This target was ergonomics (see the table on p. 35). achieved in 2018. At the end of the reporting In addition to the QWL survey, job satisfaction year, 92.1 per cent of the employees who had FOCUS AREAS FOR THE and the employees’ perceptions of the extent been hired within the past two years were still DEVELOPMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY to which they consider their work to be employed by Alma Media. Turnover amongst IN 2019 meaningful are assessed in Finland annually employees who had been with the Group for Alma Media’s objective in the development by a separate survey that measures the less than two years was the highest in Alma of employee competence is to make learning employees’ willingness to recommend Alma Talent (11.8%) and Alma Markets (11.6%) and and development an integral part of daily Media as an employer to their acquaintances. the lowest in Alma Consumer (4.9%). work and the corporate culture. This goal 34 OTHER ACTIONS TO DEVELOP THE Occupational accidents, accidents during work-related travel and resulting lost days COMPETENCE AND WELL-BEING OF in Finland EMPLOYEES IN 2018 NB DAYS • The Group introduced Train the 200 1,600 1,381 1,409 Alma Trainer, a new concept 1,409 days of sick leaves caused by aimed at facilitating the seamless occupational accidents or accidents and more efficient sharing of 150 1,112 1,200 1,048 during work-related travel were reported knowledge and expertise between in Alma Media’s units in Finland in 2018. employees. All in all, a total of 19,906 days of sick leave 100 679 800 were accounted, with delivery employees • Alma Media’s units in Finland set accounting for two thirds of this amount. annual targets for competence development in team competence 50 400 Delivery employees accounted for an workshops or in one-to-one even larger proportion, 73 per cent, of discussions between managers and 131 127 171 107 231 occupational accidents and accidents employees. 0 0 during work-related travel. Of the 231 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 occupational accidents and accidents • Alma Media’s units in Finland during work-related travel recorded during organised the Alma Media Future Occupational accidents and accidents during work-related travel (nb) the year, 168 occurred in delivery operations. Forum, a lecture series open to all Lost days (days) employees on the impact of the digital transformation on working life. GRI ASPECTS RELATED TO THE Group’s countries of operation. In Finland, Among the country units, the proportion DEVELOPMENT OF EMPLOYEE however, nearly half (45 per cent) of the of employees over 50 years of age is the • Developing well-being: Alma COMPETENCE AND WELL-BEING employment relationships are part-time, which highest in Finland at 27 per cent. In the other Media’s business functions in is explained by delivery staff accounting for a operating countries, at least 70 per cent of Finland increased the use of INFORMATION ON EMPLOYEES AND large proportion of the employees. In addition the employees are between the ages of 30 preventive occupational health OTHER WORKERS: 102-8 to employees in an employment relationship and 50. services, such as as regular checkReporting boundaries: The reported with Alma Media, the Group’s media brands in ups for employees in certain age information has not been itemised by gender Finland also make extensive use of freelance The proportion of employees under 30 years groups. as recommended in the GRI reporting workers. The editorial offices often have of age is the highest in Slovakia at 28 per guidelines. an established network of journalists and cent. Nine of ten employees in Alma Media’s photographers for acquiring stories, photos or operating countries are in a permanent video footage as needed. More detailed country-specific information employment relationship. on Alma Media’s employment relationships The employee age structure is fairly similar in and age structure is provided on the next Full-time employment was the predominant all of Alma Media’s operating countries. The page and in the tables at the end of this type of employment relationship in all of the largest age group in each country is 30–50. report, on page 41. 35 100 Employees by contract type in different regions (12/2018) Duration of employment (12/2018)* % % 100 100 2 5 4 9 5 100 7 45 12 16 6 10 8 5 98 95 96 95 94 14 20 13 93 91 88 90 28 80 84 80 22 21 19 41 17 11 60 60 16 18 55 11 40 40 63 66 61 55 47 43 20 20 0 0 Finland* Sweden Baltics: Estonia, Czech Slovakia Other Finland Sweden Baltics: Estonia, Czech Slovakia Other Latvia, Lithuania Republic countries Latvia, Lithuania Republic countries Permanent Fixed-term Full-time Part-time Under 5 years 6-10 years 11-20 years Over 20 years * Large proportion of deliverers among employees explains the high share of part-timers in Finland. * Total percentage may not be equal to 100 due to the figures being rounded separately. 36 HAZARD IDENTIFICATION, RISK PROGRAMMES FOR UPGRADING The sustained transformation of the industry score in 2018 was 3.8, with the target being 3.5 ASSESSMENT AND INCIDENT EMPLOYEE SKILLS AND TRANSITION has given rise to the need for reductions in at a minimum. INVESTIGATION: 403-2 ASSISTANCE PROGRAMMES: 404-2 employees in media companies in recent Reporting boundaries: The reporting only Reporting boundaries: Collecting the data years, and Alma Media is no exception. covers Alma Media’s delivery operations, has only been possible in Finland. When statutory personnel negotiations which account for the majority of the Alma Media favours various methods of concerning reductions are held, Alma Media occupational accidents in Alma Media. learning on the job, such as job rotation, peer always assesses various opportunities Due to variable weather conditions and the learning, online learning as well as targeted for providing support to employees who mobile and physical nature of their work, training tailored for teams and groups. Alma are made redundant. This includes both delivery employees are vulnerable to slipping, Media’s employees also supplement their financial support and support in finding stumbling and falling. With this in mind, Alma skills and expertise regularly in various short new employment. Employees who are made Media’s delivery function places a high priority seminars and training events organised by redundant in the Group’s units in Finland are on the development of occupational safety. external parties. offered voluntary re-employment training provided by an external partner, including Communication plays a key role in hazard In accordance with Alma Media’s HR group and individual training related to identification and the prevention of accidents strategy, the focus areas of competence jobseeking. The Group may also offer among delivery employees. Occupational development in 2018 were managerial skills financial retraining support for employees. safety was highlighted as a key theme in and digital competencies. In addition to the Alma Media’s delivery operations in 2018 training initiatives mentioned on page 32, Part of the process of statutory personnel and it has been systematically discussed the Group’s key actions in this area included negotiations always involves determining in employee meetings and the induction the Alma Academy programme aimed at whether the employee can be assigned a new training of new employees. The aim is to improving the digital competencies of role within Alma Media. create a strong occupational safety culture media sales representatives and an artificial among delivery employees. intelligence training course for employees to 404-3 PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES complete independently in a digital learning RECEIVING REGULAR PERFORMANCE Injuries are prevented by providing environment. AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS delivery employees with tools that promote Reporting boundaries: Collecting the data occupational safety. Delivery employees also Each year, a number of Alma Media has only been possible in Finland. have access to smartphones that are used to employees also pursue longer-term training Alma Media evaluates the development communicate issues that influence nighton a voluntary basis. Including delivery staff, opportunities of employees by a survey time delivery operations. Occupational safety a total of 90 employees in Finland used the to determine whether employees have is taken into consideration in the planning of opportunity take study leave during the discussed their career development with delivery routes. year. As in previous years, Alma Media again their supervisors during the past year. supported its employees financially in these According to the survey results in 2018, 76 Accidents and near misses are analysed cases. The extent and form of the support per cent of Alma Media’s employees had had in joint monthly meetings between was determined on a case-by-case basis. The such discussions. occupational safety and health evaluation was based on whether the training representatives and managers that include was considered to improve the employee’s Another employee survey asks employees to a review of current topics related to competencies and abilities in his or her work rate their career development opportunities occupational safety and health. at Alma Media. at Alma Media on a scale of 0–5. The average 37 Calculation and data collection principles for CR reporting Alma Media publishes a corporate responsibility report annually. CONTACT INFORMATION As with the annual report and financial statements, this corporate The table below contains contact details for the individuals in charge of the development of corporate responsibility at responsibility report covers the period 1 January–31 December 2018. Alma Media. The previous report was published in March 2018. Name Position Unit The corporate responsibility data was collected from the Group’s Responsible journalism internal statistical systems, subcontractors and partners. The Arno Ahosniemi Executive Editor-in-Chief Alma Talent media calculations are made in adherence to the GRI Standards, with Erja Yläjärvi Senior Editor-in-Chief Iltalehti the Group’s reporting on responsible journalism being the only Tomi Lähdeniemi Senior Editor-in-Chief Satakunnan Kansa exception. Reporting on responsible journalism is based on the GRI Jussi Tuulensuu Senior Editor-in-Chief Aamulehti G4 framework that preceded the GRI Standards because the media Responsible marketing sector supplement has not been updated yet. Tiina Järvilehto Senior Vice President, media sales Alma Media Solutions Senior Vice President, The financial reporting included in Alma Media’s corporate Elina Kukkonen Communications and Brand Alma Media responsibility reporting complies with the International Financial Responsibility for employees Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the figures pertaining to economic Senior Vice President, responsibility are taken from the financial statements. Reporting Virpi Juvonen Human Resources Alma Media related to corporate governance complies with the legislation Environmental responsibility governing listed companies and the Finnish Corporate Governance Jussi Pekkarinen Quality Manager Alma Manu (printing business) Code for listed companies. The numbers concerning environmental Antti Moilanen Logistics Manager Alma Manu (delivery business) responsibility have primarily been collected from suppliers and the Jarno Lintunen Facility Manager Alma Media invoicing function. Location-based CO2 emissions calculations are Responsibility throughout based on emission factors provided by Statistics Finland, Finnish the supply chain Energy and the IEA. Market-based emissions calculations are based on Risto Jauhiainen Chief Procurement Officer Alma Media supplier-specific emission factors and the EU member states’ residual Transparency and ethics in business, risk management mix emission factors. Information pertaining to social responsibility Mikko Korttila General Counsel Alma Media is collected from HR information systems and sources such as the Juha Nuutinen Chief Financial Officer Alma Media Group’s insurance company. The information concerning journalism is collected from the Council for Mass Media. Information security and data protection Santtu Elsinen Chief Digital Officer Alma Media Any boundaries pertaining to the reported aspects are indicated in the Matti Venho Data Protection Officer Alma Media report in the section in question. Social projects Senior Vice President, The 2018 report has not been subject to independent assurance. Elina Kukkonen Communications and Brand Alma Media Kirsi Hantula Corporate Responsibility Manager Alma Media 38 Environmental and employee-related figures from 2018 A summary of Alma Media’s environmental and employee-related figures for 2018 is presented in the table below. Alma Media and environment Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Comments The calculations of energy consumption and Scope 1 and 2 emissions have been corrected retroactively during the 2018 reporting. The new numbers are based on the improved environmental data that was gathered when Alma Media defined its science based climate targets. Energy consumption Petrol GJ 6,129 6,680 6,451 Diesel GJ 2,941 3,152 2,840 Electricity GJ 46,833 46,476 41,927 District heating and cooling GJ 29,526 27,196 16,738 Emissions Direct emissions (Scope 1) tC0 2-ekv Fuels 586 638 604 Indirect emissions (Scope 2) tCO2 District heating, cooling and electricity 5,137 5,040 2,116 consumption, market-based District heating, cooling and electricity n/a 3,769 3,031 consumption, location-based Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) tC0 2-ekv Purchased goods and services 27,768 30,431 27,019 The reported figures deviate from those published in Alma Media’s CDP reports because the DEFRA factors used in emissions calculations were changed in 2018 to reflect the annual average EUR/GBP exchange rate according to the Bank of Finland’s statistics instead of the previously used exchange rate on 30 December. The emissions calculations for 2016 and 2017 have been revised using the average EUR/GBP exchange rate of the year in question. Upstream transportation and distribution 17,032 17,566 14,851 Waste generated in operations 3,042 2,773 2,516 Business travel 241 248 215 Employee commuting 5 5 4 Use of sold products 1,048 1,048 1,029 End-of-life treatment of sold products 505 536 496 Scope 3 emissions, total 49,641 52,609 46,131 39 Alma Media’s printing business and environment Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Comments Materials used in printing Paper tonnes 26,305 27,551 25,436 Paper, certified tonnes 26,305 25,374 25,436 Paper, share of recycled paper per cent 35 32 32 CO2 intensity of the paper used kg CO2/ 167 153 139 paper tonne Inks tonnes 551 636 598 Coldset Offset as printing technology tonnes 551 636 598 Printing plates tonnes 135 146 139 Water consumption of printing Municipal water m3 3,465 3,387 3,566 VOC emissons of printing VOC emissions kg 4,442 2,328 3,630 Waste caused by printing Waste incineration Hazardous waste tonnes n/a 65 54 The reporting of 2016 has been corrected. In 2016 all waste to be incinerated was falsely reported as hazardous waste. In reality, in 2017, for example, less than half of the incinerated waste was hazardous. All waste to be incinerated 150 156 136 Recycling Non-hazardous waste tonnes 3,063 2,917 2,669 40 Alma Media and Personnel The calculations below are based on the number of employees at the end of the year. For this reason, they may deviate slightly from the employee figures provided by Alma Media in other contexts, which are typically based on the average number of employees during the year. The number of employees in different countries 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 The share of different sexes in the personnel (12/2018), % Women Men Finland 1,460 1,293 1,210 Finland 45 55 Sweden 94 100 62 Sweden 53 47 Baltics: Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania 267 100 113 Baltics: Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania 72 28 Czech Republic 263 268 292 Czech Republic 43 57 Slovakia 60 74 82 Slovakia 54 46 Other countries 79 99 80 Other countries 55 45 Total 2,223* 1,934 1,838 In the entire group 47 53 * The number of personnel in 2016 and in other years is not comparable because, along with deliverers, also telemarketers have been excluded from the reported numbers from 2017 onwards. The share of different age groups in the personnel (12/2018), % Under 30 yrs. 30-50 yrs. Over 50 yrs. The shrare of women in managerial positions in Women as managers Men as managers different countries (12/2018), % Finland 21 52 27 Sweden 5 70 25 Finland 47 53 Baltics: Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania 27 70 2 Sweden 25 75 Czech Republic 23 76 1 Baltics: Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania 40 60 Slovakia 28 71 1 Czech Republic 24 76 Other countries 26 71 3 Slovakia 55 45 Other countries 55 45 In the entire group 44 56 41 GRI index GRI indicator Location Comments Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization Report by the Board of Directors and Financial Statements p. 3 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Report by the Board of Directors and Financial Statements pp. 73-74. 3, 7-8 102-3 Location of headquarters www.almamedia.fi/en/contacts 102-4 Location of operations Report by the Board of Directors and Financial Statements p. 73 102-5 Ownership and legal form Report by the Board of Directors and Financial Statements pp. 23-24, 73 102-6 Markets served Report by the Board of Directors and Financial Statements p. 40 102-7 Scale of the organization Report by the Board of Directors and Financial Statements p. 46 102-8 Information on employees and other workers p. 34 102-9 Supply chain pp. 24-25 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Report by the Board of Directors and Financial Statements, Corporate Responsibility Report pp. 73-74, 24-25 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Report by the Board of Directors and Financial Statements pp. 35-39 102-12 External initiatives pp. 7-9 102-13 Membership of associations p. 10 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker pp. 3 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Report by the Board of Directors and Financial Statements pp. 18-20 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Report by the Board of Directors pp. 7-9 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics pp. 21-22 Governance structure 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance Statement p. 4 102-19 Delegating authority Corporate Governance Statement p. 4 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics p. 38 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics p. 10 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Corporate Governance Statement pp. 5-8 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate Governance Statement p. 5 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Corporate Governance Statement p. 5, 9 102-25 Conflicts of interest p. 67, Corporate Governance Statement p. 5–8, 78 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy Corporate Governance Statement p. 8 42 GRI indicator Location Comments 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Corporate Governance Statement p. 9 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Corporate Governance Statement p. 10 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Report by the Board of Directors and Financial Statements pp. 18-19 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Report by the Board of Directors and Financial Statements pp 18-19 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Corporate Governance Statement p. 19 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting p. 7 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Report by the Board of Directors and Financial Statements pp. 18-20 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Report by the Board of Directors and Financial Statements pp. 18-20 102-35 Remuneration policies Corporate Governance Statement pp. 21-25 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Corporate Governance Statement pp. 21-25 102-40 List of stakeholder groups p. 10 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Information about the number of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements is available from our operations in Finland and Sweden. Starting from the beginning of 2018 all of Alma Media’s employees in Sweden are covered by local bargaining agreements. In Finland the share of personnel covered is 88%. Also in the other countries where Alma Media operates the Group complies with local labor laws. Stakeholder engagement 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p. 10 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement p. 10 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised p. 10 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements pp. 72-73 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries pp. 6-7, 38 102-47 List of material topics pp. 6-7, 38 102-48 Restatements of information pp. 6-7, 38 102-49 Changes in reporting pp. 6-7, 38 102-50 Reporting period p. 38 102-51 Date of most recent report p. 38 102-52 Reporting cycle p. 38 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report p. 38 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards p. 38 102-55 GRI content index p. 42 102-56 External assurance p. 38 43 GRI indicator Location Comments Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 6 103-2 The management approach and its components pp. 7-9 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 7-9 Targets set for Alma Media’s corporate responsibility aspects are presented in the corporate responsibility report on the pages 39-65. Economic standards Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p. 21 201-4 Financial assistance received from government p. 13 Anti-corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken p. 21 Anti-competitive behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, p. 21 and monopoly practices Environmental standards Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume p. 27, 40 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization p. 27, 39 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions p. 27, 39 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions p. 28, 39 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions p. 28, 39 305-4 GHG emissions intensity p. 28 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions p. 28 Effluents and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method p. 29 Social standards Occupational health and safety 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assesment, and incident investigation p. 37 Training and education 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs p. 37 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and p. 37 career development reviews 44 GRI indicator Location Comments Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees p. 32 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken p. 32 Public policy 415-1 Political contributions p. 14 Marketing and labelling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications p. 19 GRI 418: Customer privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy p. 18 and losses of customer data Socioeconomic compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area p. 22 GRI G4 indicator Standards for media sector G4-M1 Significant funding and other support received from non-governmental sources p. 13 G4-M2 Monitoring ethics in journalism p. 13 G4-M3 Actions taken to improve adherence to content creation values, p. 13 and results obtained G4-M4 Actions taken to improve performance in relation to content dissemination issues p. 13 (accesibility and protection of vulnarable audiences and informed decision making) and results obtained G4-M7 Actions taken to empower audiences through media literacy skills development p. 14 45 Global Compact content index Principle Location Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Code of Conduct Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Code of Conduct, pp. 21-23, 31 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. p. 43 Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Code of Conduct, pp. 21-23, 31 Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. Code of Conduct, pp. 21-23, 31 Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Code of Conduct, pp. 21-23, 31 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. p. 28 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. p. 25 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Code of Conduct, p. 23 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Code of Conduct, p. 21-23 46
