SCHIBSTED MEDIA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 1 INDEX Schibsted at a glance 3 Message from the CEO 5 Board of Directors’ Report 6 Sustainability Report 12 Statement of Corporate Governance 34 Financial Statements for Group 44 Financial Statements for parent company 86 Share information 102 The Board of Directors of Schibsted ASA 106 2 SCHIBSTED AT A GLANCE • NOK 18,059 million revenues GROWTH We invest in tech startups with great ideas and a disruptive mindset, • NOK 3,268 million EBITDA helping entrepreneurs build market-leading companies locally and internationally. Our growth companies, such as Lendo and Prisjakt, • 8,300+ employees provide our users with popular digital consumer services that • 23 countries make everyday life a bit easier. From 2019 this business area will be known as Next. • 33 online classifieds products • 7 leading newspapers in Norway Schibsted will continue to be a company of leading digital consumer brands with a strong footprint in the Nordics. Schibsted is deeply and Sweden embedded in the daily lives of consumers in the Nordic region. Every • 800 million people market footprint week Schibsted reaches 79 percent of consumers in Norway and 82 percent in Sweden, contributing to the everyday lives of millions • Engaging millions of people worldwide of users in these markets. Positioned in one of the world’s most dynamic regions in terms of Schibsted Media Group is a listed company headquartered in Oslo, digital services, Schibsted will continue to be at the forefront of Norway with more than 8,300 employees in 23 countries. Millions innovation and structural growth. of people around the world interact with Schibsted’s popular digital services through our media houses, our digital marketplaces and On 1 December 2018 Kristin Skogen Lund was appointed CEO of our growth companies. Schibsted. Rolv Erik Ryssdal, former CEO of Schibsted, was appointed CEO of Adevinta on the same date. MARKETPLACES Connecting millions of buyers and sellers every month, we provide Effective from 1 January 2019, Schibsted will be organized into leading online marketplaces in 23 countries around the globe. In three business areas: Nordic Marketplaces, News Media and Next: 2019 our Marketplaces operations outside of the Nordics will be spun off and established as an independent, listed company; • Nordic Marketplaces led by Anders Skoe, CEO of FINN and Adevinta ASA. Trading will start on 10 April 2019. Schibsted will asset owner for Blocket (Sweden) and Tori (Finland) retain majority ownership in Adevinta ASA at the time of listing, • News Media led by Siv Juvik Tveitnes, former COO/Head of and intends to remain a long-term active owner of Adevinta ASA. Publishing operations in the Media Division We believe this decision will bring more value to our users, customers, • Next (financial services, venture investments and organic employees and shareholders in the long term. Our marketplaces in growth initiatives) led by Raoul Grünthal, previously CEO of Norway, Sweden and Finland will constitute the new business area Schibsted Media. Nordic Marketplaces. PUBLISHING As the largest media group in Scandinavia, our world-class media houses continue to shape the media landscape of today – and tomorrow. We believe that we, together with our users, can contribute to a more sustainable society by what we do every day. In Scandinavia our media houses such as VG, Aftenposten, Bergens Tidende, Aftonbladet and Svenska Dagbladet keep people informed and updated on important issues in society. From 2019 this business area will be known as News Media. 3 4 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO SCHIBSTED ADAPTS TO A NEW REALITY In 2018 it became clear that we are facing a new reality – as a company, as employees, and as global digital consumers. In this new reality, fake news seems to travel faster than truth on social media; reliable sources of information are being greatly challenged; authoritarianism and populism are growing, and perhaps most worryingly, our way of life is disrupting Earth itself. Within this reality, Schibsted continues to deliver on its strong purpose in society while at the same time strengthening our market positions and improving our financial results in our marketplace, media and growth businesses. I started my journey with Schibsted in early December 2018 and • Securing a strong editorial footprint to maintain digital growth am already well under way planning the coming years for our company. I am proud to take over the reins of a company whose Our publishing operations – which will be part of the News Media key purpose, mission and impressive results constantly inspire me. business area going forward – have experienced a slight revenue incline and have maintained solid operating margins, driven by good Establishing two new growth companies digital growth and tight cost control. High quality in our editorial In September 2018 Schibsted announced that we will spin off products is paramount in order to continue building long-term our international marketplaces businesses into a separate, listed viable revenue models, and I am glad to see that the number of company. This is a major strategic step for the Group that will digital subscribers continues to grow. create new opportunities and shareholder value for both the new company Adevinta ASA and the remaining Schibsted. The first day • Introducing a new growth operation of trading for Adevinta ASA will be 10 April 2019, and the listing venue will be Oslo Børs. In September we announced a plan to roll our successful financial services product Lendo in three new markets where we see signiSchibsted has a solid and rapidly growing portfolio of digital conficant potential for value creation. This means Lendo now is availsumer offerings that empower people across the Nordics in their able in six countries in total: Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, daily life. As a digital front runner, the Nordics will be key to further Poland and Austria. Schibsted sees financial services as an exciting developing existing offerings and technology and testing new growth area. Lendo currently is the most important initiative in this exciting solutions and disruptive offerings. Schibsted’s new structure field, but we have several others under development that look and management team were announced at the end of 2018. The new promising. organization reflects Schibsted’s three business areas – Marketplaces, News Media and Next – and a group foundation which A company with a bigger purpose serves as an enabler of long-term business growth. Our goal is that Schibsted´s purpose in society is embedded in everything we do. our leading marketplaces, growth initiatives and media operations Everything we build should be based on a solid foundation that will increasingly realize synergies and help us further develop value ensures continuous delivery as a reliable provider of news and creation for our customers and shareholders and for society. information and a strong contributor to the circular economy. Ultimately it’s all about our customers and about being able to Before we continue our journey, our annual report gives us the meet their needs in a sustainable and trustworthy way; not least opportunity to look back on a productive and important year for when d ­ eveloping our platforms for secondhand trade. all our business areas, one which we believe has created a solid foundation for future growth. Some financial highlights are: • Impressive revenue growth for our marketplaces Best wishes, I am proud to see that our marketplace operations are developing strongly, with both impressive revenue growth and improved EBITDA margins. This is particularly driven by improved monetization in the verticals in key markets like France, Spain, Brazil and KRISTIN SKOGEN LUND CEO of Schibsted Norway. 5 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Schibsted's Board 2018-2019: From left Finn Våga, Birger Steen, Ingunn Saltbones, Orla Noonan, Ole Jacob Sunde (Chair), Torbjörn Ek, Christian Ringnes, Philippe Vimard and Orla Noonan. Eugenie van Wiechen was not present at the photo session. From the outset, 2018 and the start of 2019 has been a period of fundamental change in Schibsted. After a thorough strategy process, we decided to spin off our international marketplaces in a separate, listed company. At the same time, we have initiated a reorganization onboarding Kristin Skogen Lund as our new CEO; the third in Schibsted’s 26 years as a public company. With the Board's support, she is reviewing the strategy of Schibsted going forward. These changes will enable us to adapt to the world around us. At the same time as the international classifieds operation is ready Customer behavior is changing, competitors are improving their to leave home, new babies are growing up with a promising future. offerings and technology is creating new opportunities. It is part Schibsted sees the financial services and “fintech” landscape as of Schibsted’s DNA to take advantage of changes, making bold an interesting field of growth, with Lendo as the clearest example decisions, to create added value for users, customers, shareholders of success. By helping consumers to obtain transparency in a chaotic and society. Schibsted was an early mover in the Scandinavian online market for unsecured consumer loans in Norway, Sweden and markets. From the mid 1990's we have invested steadily in developing Finland, Lendo has built a revenue base of NOK 852 million with digital consumer services. Today, the Nordic countries are among strong profitability. the most advanced online markets globally, both in the public and private domains. It is Schibsted, through Finn, VG, Aftonbladet and This brings us to the core of Schibsted’s strategy: to create new our other online brands, who can claim credit for having pioneered digital winners by leveraging our strong reach, competence, access this development through stamina and willingness to take risks. to data and market knowledge. We will continue to develop digital From 2005 and onwards we continued by conquering several onservices providing consumers with high quality information to take line classifieds markets internationally. The latter is what we are decisions on issues which are important in their life. By linking now in the process of spinning off in Adevinta, a company expected innovative business models, advanced technology and great entreto reach a market value of several billion euros. preneurs with our existing network of businesses, brands and talent in our core markets, we believe it is possible to drive significant 6 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT and sustainable value-creating growth. The potential is evident Schibsted’s share of profit (loss) from joint ventures and associates both in our core markets as well as adjacent businesses by leveraging totaled NOK 60 million (NOK -113 million)i. This development is a our brand positions and access to valuable data. combination of profitability in Brazil, reduced losses, and changes in composition of entities presented as joint ventures and associates. A common denominator is that we strive to deliver on our mission statement “Empowering people in their daily life”. Here lies, in Impairment loss in 2018 was NOK -747 million (NOK -49 million) i. fact, an advantage compared to many other digital companies, as This is mainly related to write-down of goodwill related to Yapo in our success is closely linked to our customers’ success. We are Chile, Compricer in Sweden and some projects within product and relentlessly focusing on increased transparency and benefit for our technology development. The write-down of goodwill in Chile is a customers and users. For example, we operate efficient and transpartial reversal of the gain recorded in 2017 related to re-measurment parent marketplaces, we deliver independent and relevant news, of previously held equity interest in Yapo. and we help consumers make the best personal finance decisions. In the social responsibility section of this annual report, we elaborate In 2018 Group’s other income and expenses amounted to NOK -55 on our contributions to society, including the reduced impact on million (NOK 1,505 million)i. This is mainly related to restructuring the environment by buying second-hand items instead of new ones. costs. In 2017 this was mainly related to the transactions with Telenor, where Schibsted recorded NOK 821 million on gains on sales and Adevinta will continue to be majority-owned by Schibsted. It is NOK 490 million related to gains from re-measurement of previously the Board’s ambition to continue to be a supportive long-term and held equity interests in business combinations achieved in stages. attentive shareholder. The potential for further growth and value In 2017 Schibsted also recorded a gain of NOK 201 million related creation in Adevinta is large, and as an anchor shareholder we aim to the sale of Hitta.se as other income. to contribute to this development. At the same time, the Board will treat Adevinta as a separate, independent company, and seek influOperating profit in 2018 amounted to NOK 1,794 million (NOK 3,315 ence through the shareholders’ meeting and board representation. million)i. Finally, the Board would like to sum up 2018 as a year not only of Financial position and cash flow important strategic decisions, but also of strong financial perforNet cash flow from operating activities was NOK 1,781 million for mance. Our news media have shown their ability to continue to the year, compared to NOK 1,290 million in 2017. The increase adapt to their fast-changing commercial markets with high-quality is primarily related to an increase in gross operating profit partly independent journalism as a key asset. Our marketplaces have offset by higher tax payments and increased working capital. The continued to grow fast with improved operating margins, and the change in working capital in 2018 was negatively affected by NOK Growth portfolio has performed well and, not least, made several 240 million in trade receivables that was settled during Christmas interesting new investments. but was in transit from an external cash collection agency at the year-end. Further description of structural changes In November 2018 Schibsted acquired the French second-hand fashion Net cash outflows from investing activities was NOK 953 million vertical Vide Dressing. for the year, compared to NOK 4,546 million in 2017. The decrease is primarily related to a reduction in acquisitions of subsidiaries and In December 2018 Schibsted increased its ownership interest in net investments of other shares. Similarly, the change in net cash Shpock to 100%, while the increase of ownership in SCM Spain to flow from financing activities, from a cash inflow of NOK 3,558 million 100% was completed in January 2019. to a cash outflow of NOK 608 million, is primarily related to the financing of those investing activities in 2017. Schibsted has also been involved in other minor acquisitions and disposals during 2018. The carrying amount of the Group’s assets decreased by NOK 291 million to NOK 27,325 million during 2018 and the Group’s net Further comments on the Group’s results interest-bearing debt decreased by NOK 232 million to NOK 2,383 Schibsted’s operating revenues in 2018 totaled NOK 18,059 million million. The Group’s equity ratio was 54 percent at the end of 2018, (NOK 16,943 million)i. The 7-percent increase was mainly driven by compared to 55 percent at the end of 2017. growth in marketplaces and online revenues from media houses, while offline revenues in media houses continued to decline during Schibsted ASA has a well diversified loan portfolio with loans from the year. Group’s gross operating profit (EBITDAiii) amounted to both the Norwegian bond market and Nordic Investment Bank. In NOK 3,268 million (NOK 2,606 million)i, equivalent to growth of 25 addition, Schibsted has a revolving credit facility of EUR 300 million percent. The growth was driven primarily by revenue increases in which was not drawn upon. Marketplaces and reduced losses in Investment phase operations. See the section on each business area for more details. 7 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Comments on the business areas holds leading positions in the generalist, cars and real estate verticals.ii Unless otherwise stated, all percentages in this section are based Revenue growth in 2018 was positive. Willhaben.at is the leader on NOK amounts. in the real estate, generalist markets in Austria. It also holds a strong position in the jobs and cars market.ii The site continued to Marketplaces grow fast in terms of traffic, with corresponding revenue growth. In 2018 Marketplaces experienced revenue growth of 14 percent In Hungary, Schibsted owns the leading car marketplace siteii, and EBITDAiii growth of 27 percent, driven mainly by strong developHasznaltauto.hu and the leading generalist siteii, Jofogas.hu. ment in the marketplaces sites in Norway, France and Spain and by Revenues continued to grow at a steady pace in 2018. reduced losses in operations within Investment phase. Investment phase Developed phase In 2018 the Investment phase portfolio continued to develop strongly in terms of revenue and traffic growth. Revenue growth France in 2018 was 18 percent and the negative EBITDAiii in 2018 was In France, Leboncoin.fr is the leading marketplaces site, and holds improved by 35 percent. a number-one position within real estate, cars and generalist ads.ii In 2018 France had revenue growth in local currency of 18 percent. In Brazil, OLX.com.br has a strong brand and leadership positions The growth was driven by positive results from monetization efforts in in traffic and volumes of verticalsii. Revenues grew rapidly in 2018 jobs, continued growth in real estate and cars. Display advertising due to continued monetization of the cars and real estate verticals. also contributed positively to the strong growth, but with a lower Revenue growth in local currency was 61 percent and OLX.com.br growth rate than the verticals. EBITDAiii in local currency grew by was EBITDAiii positive in 2018 with a EBITDAiii margin of 5 percent. 11 percent. Shpock, a native app for generalist ads, expands the market and Norway attracts new user groups and items. Shpock has built strong market Finn.no is the number-one website for marketplaces in Norwayii and positions in the UK and in other selected markets. In 2018 Shpock one of the strongest brands in the country, regardless of industry. continued to run marketing campaigns in several markets, but on a Finn.no is the market leader within real estate, cars, jobs and smaller scale than last year. EBITDAiii losses in 2018 were 39 percent generalist ads. Marketplaces Norway had a strong year in 2018 lower than in 2017. Schibsted has decided to initiate a strategic with revenue growth of 12 percent, driven by revenue increases shift at Shpock. This implies that Shpock will be moving towards in all classified verticals, especially real estate and jobs. Display break-even during 2019. advertising sales were still soft. EBITDAiii grew by 18 percent. Schibsted also holds market positions with good potential in several Spain other markets, such as Segundamano.mx in Mexico, Avito.ma in Schibsted’s operations in Spain are market leaders within marketMorocco, Corotos.com.do in the Dominican Republic, Tayara.tn in places and hold number-one positions in real estate, cars, jobs and Tunisia, Kufar.by in Belarus, Yapo.cl in Chile and Tori.fi in Finland. generalist ads.ii In 2018 revenue growth in local currency was 16 They are number oneii in their respective markets, and all sites percent, driven by jobs, cars and real estate. Display advertising experienced revenue increases in 2018. also contributed positively to the strong growth, but with lower growth rate than the verticals. EBITDAiii growth in local currency Publishing was 36 percent. Publishing comprises leading newspapers in Norway and Sweden and printing plant operations and distribution operations in the Sweden Norwegian market. In Norway, the newspapers include the national Blocket.se holds a leading position for marketplaces in Swedenii and newspapers VG and Aftenposten and the regional newspapers is among the strongest brands in the country across all industries. Bergens Tidende, Stavanger Aftenblad and Fædrelandsvennen. Bytbil.se is the leading marketplaces for cars in Sweden.ii MarketIn Sweden, the newspapers include the national newspapers places Sweden’s operating revenues in local currency decreased 4 Aftonbladet and Svenska Dagbladet. All newspapers are strong percent in 2018. Cars and jobs contributed positively, while display brands and hold leading positions within their region. advertising was more challenging. EBITDAiii in Marketplaces Sweden in local currency decreased by 13 percent compared to last year. In 2018 revenues in Publishing increased 1 percent. Publishing experienced an improved trend for online advertising, especially Other developed phase VG. Circulation revenues were stable due to solid growth in digital Subito.it is the leading generalist and car marketplace site in Italy. It subscription revenues. Sales of print newspapers continued to decline. also holds a strong position in the jobs market.ii Revenues continued The EBITDAiii margin in 2018 was 8 percent. to grow in 2018, but at a slower growth rate than last year due to soft development in display advertising. In Ireland, Distilled Media 8 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Growth Growth comprises a portfolio of web-based growth companies including Lendo and Prisjakt. Lendo has become one of the leading marketplaces for consumer lending in the Nordics since it was founded in 2007. In 2018 revenues in Growth increased 10 percent (excluding Hitta.se, divested end of July 2017). The margin improved to 23 percent (21 %)i. Lendo is present in Sweden, Norway, Finland and Denmark with services within consumer finance. The growth rate of Lendo Group was 21 percent, driven by higher volumes. The EBITDAiii margin was 38 percent. Prisjakt is present in Norway, Sweden, Finland and other selected markets with price comparison services for e-commerce. Prisjakt had revenue growth of 18 percent in 2018, and an EBITDAiii margin of 31 percent. Research and development Schibsted has been at the heart of the digital transformation for more than 20 years, and continues to invest substantial resources in improving and developing products offered to its users. All Group entities are making continuous efforts to further develop both existing products and products that will provide new revenue flows. In 2018 innovation efforts focused on marketplace platforms, media platforms, privacy, advertising technology, data analytics and identity. Operational and financial risks subscriptions or advertisements and credit card payments on the Schibsted is operating in an industry that is subject to constant purchase date. Liquidity risk associated with cash flow fluctuations change, and is exposed to increased competition from disruptive is also considered low as Schibsted has adequate equity and solid players, technology and new business models. Furthermore, credit facilities. See note 23 in the financial statements for more Schibsted’s display advertising revenues, marketplace revenues details on currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. from the recruitment markets, and to some extent real estate markets, are affected by macroeconomic cycles, i.e. unemployment Statement of corporate governance rates, real estate prices and GDP growth rates. Schibsted’s commitSchibsted’s governance systems are based on principles set out ment to technology and innovation, and to diversification of revenue in the Norwegian Code of Conduct for Corporate Governance. In streams from Publishing, Marketplaces and Growth companies, accordance with section 3-3b of the Norwegian Accounting Act, an are vital contributors to bringing these risks to an appropriate level. overall report of corporate governance at Schibsted has been prepared and enclosed as a separate document in the annual report. External cyber-attacks and threats against Schibsted’s IT security This statement is an integral part of the Board of Directors’ report. may cause incidents of loss of personal data, fraud, loss of sensitive business data and inaccessible or unreliable services. Prevention Sustainability Report of such attacks has high priority and is a vital part of Schibsted’s In accordance with section 3-3c of the Norwegian Accounting Act, business. a report of sustainability has been prepared. The report is included as a separate document in the annual report and includes details Through its operations outside Norway, Schibsted is exposed on working environment, injuries, accidents, sickness absence, to fluctuations in the exchange rates of other currencies, mainly equality and non-discrimination, as well as social responsibility and Euro and Swedish kronor. The Group makes use of loans in foreign external environment. This report is an integral part of the Board currencies and financial derivatives to mitigate its currency exposure. of Directors’ report. Schibsted’s credit risk is considered low as trade receivables are Schibsted ASA diversified through a high number of customers, customer categories Schibsted ASA is the parent company of the Group and is located in and markets. Moreover, a major part of sales is done through prepaid Oslo, Norway. The company supplies and performs services for the 9 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Group’s other companies. Schibsted ASA delivered a profit after tax The operations in News Media (formerly Publishing) will continue of NOK 1 019 million (NOK -515 million)i. As at 31 December 2018 to develop their digital business models based on strong editorial Schibsted ASA had total assets of NOK 31,618 million (NOK 30,297 products. million)i. The equity ratio was 53 percent (54 percent)i. Adevinta The Board of Directors proposes the following allocation: Adevinta endeavours to maintain and expand its favorable competitive positions and markets while also capturing further core and Proposed dividend: . . ......................................................................... NOK 477 million adjacent growth opportunities. Adevinta will continue to benefit Transferred to other equity: ..................................................... NOK 542 million from organic online classifieds market growth, focused particularly on tapping the untapped potential that lies in its strong verticals. At As of 31 December 2018 Schibsted ASA had total equity of NOK the same time, Adevinta is focused on driving initiatives to increase 16,783 million. The Board of Directors has determined that Schibsted market shares of traffic, listings and eventually monetization and ASA had adequate equity and liquidity at year-end 2018. profitability. France, Spain and Brazil are expected to be the key drivers for growth going forward, driven by continued strong deveOutlook lopment of its verticals. Schibsted excluding Adevinta The Nordic region is perceived to be a digital frontrunner region Going concern and as such, a good venture lab to test new digital and disruptive Based on Schibsted’s long-term strategy and forecasts, and in offerings. Schibsted will build on its track record of being able to accordance with section 3-3a of the Norwegian Accounting Act, create and scale new business models and leverage technological the Board confirms that the prerequisites for the going concern disruptions to evolve successfully in the Nordics and beyond. We assumption exist and that the financial statements have been prewill concentrate on leveraging the combined force of our various pared based on a going concern basis. operations, founded on our well-known consumer brands, high traffic volumes, and on our ability to harvest rich data and attract top talent. Schibsted expects to see continued good revenue development for i Figures in parentheses are for the corresponding period for the previous year. ii Source: Mediametrie; Comscore; Gemius; Similarweb – competitive positions based on its marketplace operations Finn.no, Blocket.se and Tori.fi. Increased traffic. Spain: SCM Spain aggregated position. monetization of verticals and development of value-added services iii EBITDA (before other income and expenses, impairment, joint ventures and Associates). and adjacent growth opportunities are expected to be key drivers. Within Schibsted Growth, including Financial Services, Lendo is expected to continue to grow well, although moderate expansion investment into new markets, like Denmark, Poland and Austria, will hamper margins somewhat. Prisjakt is expected to continue with solid top-line growth and healthy margins. Paris, 21 March 2019 Schibsted ASA’s Board of Directors ............................................................... ............................................................... ............................................................... ............................................................... ............................................................... ............................................................... Ole Jacob Sunde Christian Ringnes Birger Steen Philippe Vimard Eugénie Van Wiechen Torbjörn Ek Chairman of the Board Board member Board member Board member Board member Board member ............................................................... ............................................................... ............................................................... ............................................................... ............................................................... Ingunn Saltbones Finn E. Våga Marianne Budnik Orla Noonan Kristin Skogen Lund Board member Board member Board member Board member CEO 10 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 11 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Index A word from our CEO .................................................................................................. 12 support the UN Sustainable Development Goals, particularly goal Defining sustainability at Schibsted .................................................................. 12 5: Gender equality and goal 12: Responsible consumption and Sustainability strategy and goals .. ..................................................................... 14 production. Sustainability governance ....................................................................................... 16 How we act ......................................................................................................................... 17 2018 was a year full of climate change challenges which called for Our people .......................................................................................................................... 20 greater responsibility from all, including companies. I am proud that Environmental impact ............................................................................................... 24 during the year we have continued to strengthen our environmental Our societal impact .. ..................................................................................................... 27 efforts. In 2018 we formulated targets for raising awareness about About the report ............................................................................................................ 29 climate change and implement circular activities through our Second GRI Content Index ......................................................................................................... 30 Hand Effect (SHE) project. During the year we also actively engaged in promoting diversity and equality by offering unconscious bias training to our employees and by strengthening governance in this area. In 2019 we will implement our sustainability strategy in our new A word from our CEO organizational model, strengthening our sustainable supply chain A greater purpose to our daily work is critical for a company and its practices by mapping high-risk areas and suppliers and defining people to thrive and develop. To me, Schibsted is more than its core goals for all Schibsted’s focus areas. For me, it is vital that we see business. It goes beyond our services and operations. Our journalism the societal meaning and environmental impact in everything we and marketplaces are cornerstones and driving forces for building do, and in all aspects of our business, new and old. There is a shift in a sustainable and democratic society. power going on from companies to users, and in our personal finance and other growth investments we will continue to empower our users Schibsted’s strategy is to ensure that we consider and manage the in their daily life to make well informed and sustainable choices. environmental and societal impacts in all our business decisions, and through our services empower people to make economically I am confident that Schibsted has the prerequisites and opportunity sound and environmentally sustainable choices. As a provider of to make a difference, thanks to our values and our business models journalism and marketplaces, and as an employer, we are determined supporting sustainable and democratic societies. Sustainable busito act in a responsible and sustainable manner. ness is no longer optional, it has to be our core, and even offer new business opportunities. We still have work to do in several areas Our journalism has an important mission to provide reliable news to become a leading company, due mostly to our rapid growth and and information to people, more important than ever in times when organizational changes, but we are on our way. disinformation and manipulation are of great concern. Our marketplaces play an important role in facilitating an arena for customers to meet and interact in a safe and reliable way. Moreover, our marketplaces play a significant environmental role as a platform for a circular economy that reduces our environmental footprint. As a participant member of the UN Global Compact, we are strongly KRISTIN SKOGEN LUND committed to and continuously support its ten principles. We also CEO of Schibsted Defining sustainability at Schibsted In 2016 we performed a materiality analysis in order to understand Accounting Standards Board in the US. The topics were divided into and identify the sustainability topics most material to Schibsted. The four categories: how we act, our people, environmental impact and analysis was adjusted in 2017 to fit Schibsted’s business strategy societal impact. The list of topics formed the basis for the stakeand organization. In the coming year we will update the materiality holder dialogs and the impact assessment. analysis to align with our new organizational structure. Our most important stakeholders were identified by mapping stakeMateriality analysis holders based on interest in and influence on our business. Through We identified a list of sustainability topics based on an analysis a combination of focus groups, inquiries, surveys, interviews and performed by the Responsible Media Forum and the recommenother information-gathering activities, we asked our stakeholders dations on sustainability reporting developed by the Sustainability to prioritize the identified sustainability topics. Our stakeholders 12 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT were also given the opportunity to add topics to our list which they By combining the results from our stakeholder dialogs and the impact considered important. Furthermore, an impact assessment was assessment, we could further prioritize and select our material conducted on the identified sustainability topics based on the economic, topics. The result was validated and discussed in a management environmental and societal impacts of our operations and their workshop and presented to the Board. The material topics identified relevance to Schibsted. through the materiality analysis were sorted by three parameters: our base areas, our focus areas and our brand-building areas. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Who did we engage with? How did we engage with them? What is most important to them? Customers (users of print and digital products and Focus groups User safety and fraud protection services, corporate customers) Brand-specific customer satisfaction feedback Skills development and knowledge sharing Social media Reduce environmental impact from energy use Blogs Web survey in selected countries Corporate customers (advertisers and Responding to formal and informal Compliance with UN Global Compact business partners) sustainability enquiries Our people Workshop with Schibsted executive team Empower people to make economic and Sustainability survey for employees sustainable choices Employee satisfaction surveys User safety and fraud protection Increasing diversity and equality Skills development and knowledge sharing Reducing carbon emissions Work–life balance Be an attractive employer Promote freedom of expression Owners and investors Interviews Sustainability in the business model Enquiries from analysts Promote freedom of expression and democracy Meeting with investors Transparency Roadshows Integrity Conferences and reporting Employee satisfaction Impact on users and society Privacy Media ethics Employees (talents, diversity, skills) Governance Reporting Industry peers Quarterly industry peer forum with Content impact Responsible Media Forum Diversity Sustainable development goals Privacy Regulators (media and publishing industries in Dialog through industry organizations (News Media ownership the EU, Norway, Sweden; data protection Media Europe, European Publishers Council, Privacy and data protection authorities; competition authorities; financial MBL (Norway), TU (Sweden) Tax regulatory authorities in Sweden and Norway) Dialog with internal subject-matter experts Competition law Dialog with national legislative bodies and Countryand companyspecific financial regulators (managed by each company) service legislation Anti-corruption Anti-money laundering Suppliers Dialog with selected key global suppliers Governance Anti-corruption Human rights Labor rights Environmental impact Privacy Cyber security 13 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MATERIALITY MATRIX HOW WE ACT OUR PEOPLE ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIETAL IMPACT IMPACT BRAND User safety and fraud protection Be an attractive employer Empower people to make economic & Empower people to make economic & BUILDING sustainable choices sustainable choices Protection of Skills development and Reduce environmental Transparent user data knowledge sharing impact from energy use governance & FOCUS AREAS Promote freedom of expression Work life balance Reduce carbon emissions communication Increase diversity & equality Sustainable supply Health, safety Safe handling and Charity chain and integrity of minimize waste engagement BASE AREAS Active work against employees Efficient use of corruption materials and chemicals Reduce water usage Sustainability strategy and goals Schibsted’s sustainability strategy is to ensure that we consider and Schibsted sets long-term and short-term goals against which manage our environmental and societal impacts in all our business progress of implemented processes and activities is measured. decisions. We are committed to empowering people to make ecoSchibsted has set a target of a 60:40 gender ratio in all leadership nomically sound and environmentally sustainable choices through roles by 2020. During 2018 we formulated new environmental our services. goals for promoting customer empowerment and circular economy initiatives. In 2019 we aim to adopt further goals for all our focus Our sustainability strategy is based on the results of the materiality areas. analysis. To ensure an effective strategy suited to its purpose, we have categorized our material topics into the following categories, Our environmental goals --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------which form the basis for our direction, actions and goals for sustain1. Strengthen customer empowerment by raising awareness ability: about climate change. 2. Implement circular economy initiatives and encourage climateHow we act in regards to privacy, integrity and user safety as well friendly consumption through our Second Hand Effect (SHE) by as to our supply chain management, how we promote freedom of increasing the potential carbon emission savings. expression, and how we work against corruption. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Our people in regards to how we can be an attractive employer, increase diversity and equality among employees, and create a safe Schibsted’s support of the Sustainable Development Goals and healthy workplace where employees can develop their skills In line with our vision to promote sustainable development, Schibsted and knowledge. supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). Based on our focus areas, we have identified goal 5: Gender equality and goal Environmental impact in regards to empowering people to make 12: Responsible consumption and production as the two Sustainable environmentally friendly choices and to reducing the environmenDevelopment Goals to which we can contribute most. In 2019 tal impact of our operations. Schibsted intends to further integrate and relate the Sustainable Developments Goals and its targets to our material topics, sustainSocietal impact in regards to community engagement and to our ability goals and activities. media and marketplaces. 14 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Schibsted’s focus areas SDG SGD Target Schibsted’s goals/actions Our People 5.1. End all forms of discrimination • We have set long-term and shortagainst women and girls term goals for group functions and everywhere. divisions in order to improve gender equality, for example by including 5.5 Ensure women’s full and our target of a 60:40 gender ratio in effective participation in and all leadership roles by 2020 and by equal opportunities for leadership considering gender equality in our at all levels of decisionmaking executive pay practices. in political, economic and public life Environmental impact 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce • We empower people to make How we act waste generation through sustainable choices and live a Societal impact prevention, reduction, recycling sustainable lifestyle though our and reuse. media and marketplaces 12.6 Encourage companies, especially • Our environmental goals aim to large and transnational promote customer empowerment companies, to adopt sustainable and circular economy initiatives. practices and to integrate sustainability information into • We submit our sustainability report their reporting cycle. to Communication on Progress (COP) and Carbon Disclosure 12.8 Promote universal understanding Project (CDP) of sustainable lifestyles. • We are in the process of strengthening our sustainable supply chain practices. 15 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability governance MISSION AND VISION The Head of Sustainability has overall responsibility for guiding Schibsted’s mission “Empowering people in their daily life” guides and communicating Schibsted’s strategy on sustainability internally us in everything we do, from product development to new business and externally. The Head of Sustainability reports to the Schibsted ventures, recruitment policy and running our everyday business. Executive Team and the Board when necessary, and at least once We also rely on our core values as they are articulated in four statea year. ments that guide us on a daily basis: Operations We have integrity In 2018 Schibsted was organized into two divisions: Media and Our company is based on a long tradition of independent news, Marketplaces. The CEOs of these divisions have had responsibility information and transparent marketplaces. Trustworthiness and for implementing and communicating decisions and information on quality are absolutely essential; people must be able to trust all sustainability. our products and services. The general managers in each company are responsible for supporting We are innovative and monitoring each entity with rollout and implementation of the We embrace innovation, it is in our core. We go the extra mile to Code of Conduct and other sustainability-related policies and for always put users’ needs first. Innovation can be anything from a retrieving data and information required by law. Several entities have brilliant new concept to a minor – but no less important – improvement a dedicated sustainability manager due to the maturity of the area. in how we do things. Governance changes going forward We are a team Effective from December 2018, changes were made in Schibsted’s We believe in a friendly and open attitude. We also believe in the governance structure. Marketplaces companies outside the Nordics strength of people and competencies coming together to achieve will be spun off and form an independent, listed company (Adevinta something great. The companies in our group can achieve far better ASA) with Rolv Erik Ryssdal as CEO. There will be an IPO for results together than alone. Adevinta ASA in Q2 2019 and Schibsted will retain majority ownership in Adevinta ASA at the time of the listing. Kristin Skogen Lund We are here to win was appointed CEO of the new Schibsted on 1 December 2018. The We must always strive to be better than our competitors at undernew Schibsted has three business areas: Nordic Marketplaces with standing our customers and markets – that is the key to our continued EVP Anders Skoe, News Media with EVP Siv Juvik Tveitnes and Next success. We want to win the hearts of our users. with EVP Raoul Grünthal. OWNERSHIP SCHIBSTED GROUP POLICIES The Tinius Trust is the major shareholder in the Schibsted Media Our guiding principles for sustainability are stated in our group Group. The trust was established in 1996 by Tinius Nagell-Erichsen, policies, which are further implemented in policies at company level. the last active member of the founding Schibsted family. Through Our group policies are: Code of Conduct; Environmental Policy, the trust, Tinius Nagell-Erichsen wanted to ensure that Schibsted Diversity and Inclusion Policy; Recruitment Policy; Discrimination, remained a media group characterized by independent journalism, Bullying and Harassment Policy; Corporate Governance Principles; credible and high-quality services, combined with long-term, solid Policy for Risk Management; Privacy Policies and Guidelines; financial development. The Trust has close dialog with Schibsted Data Security Policy; Journalism Security Policy; Physical and Media Group when it comes to corporate social responsibility Travel Security Policy; Treasury Policy; Requirements for Finance, through its position as Board Chair. Accounting and Internal Control; Tax Policy and Legal Policy. Code of Conduct SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE MODEL All people at Schibsted have a responsibility to uphold Schibsted Group Media Group’s reputation and principles. Through the way we The Board oversees and governs Schibsted’s sustainability perinteract with each other, meet our users and relate with our business formance. For information regarding the governance structure of partners, we build and strengthen Schibsted’s reputation as a group the Board and its committees, see Corporate Governance in the with high integrity. Our Code of Conduct outlines our principles and Annual Report. We aim to integrate sustainability into our core standards for conducting business and serves as our key sustainability business. In 2018 we linked performance on gender equality as a policy. It is based on the UN Global Compact and includes principles criterion for evaluating performance-related pay for the Schibsted on human rights, labor rights, business ethics, equal opportunities, Executive Team. Since 2017, privacy is also a non-financial criterion anti-discrimination, child and forced labor, anti-corruption and the for determining performance-related pay. protection of the environment. 16 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Code of Conduct is implemented through our on-boarding Follow-up mechanisms in relation to new regulations process for new employees, and training is given when deemed on sustainability related topics necessary for targeted functions. A total of 228 employees received The introduction of new laws and regulation on sustainability-related training during 2018. The Code of Conduct is available to all our topics requires comprehensive follow-up mechanisms, such as gender people on the intranet, along with an e-learning course and a quiz, pay gap analyses. For Schibsted there is a challenge in adopting and includes a link to the Speak-Up function enabling anonymous effective systems to measure and follow up such information across reporting of misconduct, breaches or potential violations. The all our operations. Schibsted Group Compliance officer receives these cases and delegates them to the appropriate people to follow up. How we act The Code of Conduct applies to all entities in which we own more Responsible business implies creating marketplaces that are reliable, than 50 percent voting rights. Where Schibsted Media Group does efficient, and safe for our users. Our classified sites work proactively not exercise such control, the board members appointed by Schibsted to prevent various forms of undesirable activity. Our business is shall promote the main principles outlined in the Code of Conduct. conducted based on fair business practices and we continue to work towards a fully responsible supply chain. As a media group, one of our prime responsibilities is to ensure editorial freedom and SUSTAINABILITY RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT the right to freedom of speech. Constantly mitigating risks in our daily business is key to a successful business. The risks are annually reviewed by the responsible management teams and constitute core elements in the requirements A TRUSTED DIGITAL PARTNER placed on all responsible personnel. All senior managers have a In a digital age, transparency, safety and integrity are prerequisites responsibility to understand how sustainability risks intertwine for building trust and a sustainable business model. This applies with Schibsted’s financial, legal and reputational risks to ensure not only to our journalistic process and our online services, but also that we are compliant and proactive at all times. to domains such as privacy and integrity, user trust, fraud protection, user security and responsible marketing. Cyber threat External cyber-attacks and threats against our internal IT security Privacy and integrity may cause incidents such as loss of personal data, fraud, loss of Schibsted’s strategic focus on technology and advanced data sensitive business data and inaccessible or unreliable services. analytics aims to create insights that benefit our users through Incidents like these may cause reputational loss, litigation and serious building more relevant, better and cheaper products and services. leakage of sensitive personal data threatening the privacy of our users. We have a strong focus on ensuring our users´ privacy and data protection. Based on our value of integrity, we aim to be fully transLower trust for institutions parent and in compliance with applicable privacy regulations and The increased penetration of social media as a news platform, the our users’ expectations. fake news debate, press ethics failures and campaigns undermining mainstream media may reduce trust in mass media channels. Lower Our work on privacy and integrity is led by our Group Privacy Officer trust may result in decreased willingness to pay for content and and Schibsted has dedicated privacy experts within our product and use of products produced by mainstream media. tech organization and within our legal and operational resources. Employees receive privacy training to ensure necessary awareness Consumer behaviour is changing and competence in this area. During 2018 more than 4,000 employHeightened awareness of sustainability issues among consumers ees received training in privacy and data protection. are changing current consumption patterns. Increased demand for sustainable products and for renting, reusing and repairing items We have an extensive privacy program in place with the following instead of throwing them away, will change traditional linear conkey objectives: sumption patterns. We must adapt to changing consumer behavior if Schibsted is to continue to provide products and services that are • Ensure compliance with our legal obligations on a continuous basis. relevant to our users. • Guide Schibsted’s data-driven innovations by executing on privacy by design across our product and tech organization, embedding Digital transformation creating higher electricity consumption privacy into our corporate culture, tech stack and products. Along with the digital transformation, our environmental impact • Provide efficient and automated tools to empower users’ control is changing. The digital transformation is reducing the demand over their personal data by, for example deciding how their for print newspapers and physical distribution and increasing the personal data is used or by accessing or deleting personal data. demand for digital services, which in turn is increasing electricity • Maintain and increase end-user and public competence, consumption. knowledge and trust related to our use of data. 17 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We conduct close and ongoing dialog with regulators and legislators User trust to understand and influence rules and practice. In addition, we conSchibsted is dedicated to maintaining and protecting the trust of tinuously collaborate with other companies on developing industry our user community across our portfolio of companies and brands. standards in the best interests of our consumers and the business. We have dedicated professionals working across our companies utilizing the most innovative technologies with integrated security Schibsted has initiated reporting routines for complaints and data and risk management controls to protect data, privacy and our breaches. Furthermore, we have extensive measures in place for online communities from digital risks. detecting vulnerabilities and thereby prevent breaches. In 2018 we had 13 incidents categorized as personal data breaches, of which Fraud protection three were reported to relevant data protection authorities. We Across our various brands, from our personal finance companies, received one substantiated complaint regarding unauthorized access such as Lendo and Compricer to our leading marketplaces such as to personal data. Leboncoin, Finn and Blocket, dedicated resources focus on providing a protected community. Our fraud protection controls for our finance Going forward, it will be challenging and important for us to enable services include complying with regulatory obligations, building data-driven innovations within the legal restrictions and in line with automated security processes into our product services and proour users’ expectations and needs. We will continue our efforts on viding dedicated customer support to protect our users. data protection and privacy, and consider it particularly important to educate and explain to our users, regulators and the public how The marketplace brands provide quality assurance to continuously and why we collect and use data. We will work to facilitate and offer high-quality items and services to our users. These activities take part in a public debate on the data-driven society and privacy. include security protection to continuously scan, detect and remove Another priority will be to continuously ensure that users benefit fraudulent ads and provide dedicated resources in our customer from insights they obtain from their data through improved products support centers to respond to any customer complaints. We are and services. dedicated to protecting our user communities against fraud, building 18 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT a safe and robust set of professional tools to continuously monitor the following security domain activities: the safety and reputation of our marketplace activities. • Security compliance and risk management The quality and integrity of our media content across our media • Access management security controls houses are fundamental to our heritage and our future. Fraud pro• Application security management tection is essential to maintaining the trust of our readers and our • Secure product application design and architecture advertisers; it is critical to our mission. Schibsted's media house • Network security management editorial leaders are seasoned professionals, with years of experience • Vulnerability lifecycle management capturing critical news and bringing information to our various • Third party security management reader communities. We embed editorial controls to ensure the • Security monitoring and security incident management accuracy and integrity of our news. • Security awareness and security training To protect our readers across our leading media brands, Schibsted Responsible marketing operates identity and payment applications to protect user activities All our operations adhere to national and EU marketing regulations. and transactions. These systems are designed to best-practice In Norway the Marketing Act forbids marketing directed at children, standards, with regular security monitoring and security testing to and in Sweden the Consumer Agency has compiled rules and pracprotect user data. tices governing marketing to children and minors. The responsibility for upholding laws on responsible marketing lies firmly with our Our media houses are constantly moderating community debates publishers and editors. Our media houses in Norway comply with and comments on our community forums to protect our readers. the Press Code of Ethics, which also contains rules on marketing. We ensure that any threatening, harassing, hateful or illegal comments are removed, and our media houses are empowered to close down discussions if deemed necessary. Our editors and their staff ENSURING A SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN are dedicated to operating media houses that aspire to accurately and We are determined to be a responsible and sustainable multinationcontinuously inform our community while also protecting our users. al company. Due to our size and market presence in 23 countries, our services and operations have an important societal impact. User security Schibsted supports and respects the protection of internationally Schibsted’s security management system focuses on continuously recognized human rights. managing protection for our users across our portfolio of companies and the critical brands used in our customers’ daily lives. This system’s Schibsted continued the process of reaching our target of a fully primary purpose is to protect our brand communities against digital responsible supply chain from a life-cycle perspective. We finalized security risks. Our security management system presents a comour new Supplier Code of Conduct, to which our business partners prehensive set of procedures and technical controls to continuously will be required to adhere. The Supplier Code of Conduct is based improve our ability to provide leading products in a secure manner. on the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles. Schibsted will impleThis approach provides a continuous means to analyze digital security ment and communicate the new Supplier Code of Conduct to its risks and effectively manage to maintain the trust of our users’ and suppliers during 2019. Our Marketplaces Leboncoin and Blocket user communities’ initiated supply chain analyses in their own operations, aimed at identifying risks and opportunities to ensure that the goods and Schibsted’s Group CIO coordinates data security activities across services they receive are delivered on fair terms. all our companies. This is a proactive approach to protecting our brands and user data across all layers of our business, products In 2019 we will start the process to extend our Speak-Up channel and services. We are committed to securing our brands and our to suppliers and third parties, where breaches of our Supplier Code users across our innovative technology services, and to serving as of Conduct can be reported anonymously. We will also continue a vital digital partner in our users’ daily lives. our work mapping high-risk suppliers with regard to sustainability throughout our global supply chain, and will implement a screening Our employees focus on the need to protect against security process to ensure that our suppliers are meeting the requirements threats and vulnerabilities. Our security management system is set out in our Supplier Code of Conduct. built on industry-proven security-best practices, with dedicated security professionals integrating security-best practices from recognized industry standards, (ISO 27001, ISO 22301 and OWASP). FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION Long-term sustainable growth can never be built on unfair busiSchibsted actively maintains security policies and guidelines ness practices. Schibsted continuously improves and evaluates the throughout our company operations and brands. This comprehensive functionality of our policies, processes, controls and procedures to security management approach entails constant protection across mitigate the risk of corruption, and reviews applicable legislation 19 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT a way that editorial freedom and integrity are fully ensured. In 2011, Schibsted’s Editors’ Forum adopted a framework for editorial governance in the Group’s publishing businesses. This framework safeguards the principle of editorial freedom. In addition, our media houses defined more detailed in-house ethics on editorial matters. Some of our media houses prepare editorial reports in which they account for decisions by the self-disciplinary councils and legal procedures, and how they work to protect sources and journalistic methodology. To increase transparency and the readers´ understanding of how editorial choices and decisions are made, our media houses created blogs, websites and even podcasts where our editors and journalists speak openly about the dilemmas and choices they face when making editorial decisions. In Norway and Sweden editors are accountable for any infringements of the law, and self-disciplinary bodies have been established in both countries to uphold their respective codes of ethics. These self-regulatory systems are founded on the principle of freedom in key markets. None of our people at operational, strategic or of speech and independence of the state. In Norway and Sweden governance level may accept or participate in any form of corruption. any complaints about our newspapers are reported to the Norwegian Furthermore, everyone is responsible for preventing any kind of Press Complaints Commission and the Swedish Press Council corruption in their daily work. respectively. In Norway, 65 (2017:64) complaints were filed against our Norwegian newspapers in 2018, and 71 (2017:49) in Sweden. Our Code of Conduct covers our principles for preventing bribery Three (2017:2) complaints against our Norwegian newspapers and facilitation payments, gifts, hospitality and conflicts of interests. were upheld and 14 (2017:1) in Sweden. The number of complaints To ensure understanding and compliance, anti-corruption is an in Sweden that were upheld reached an all-time high, mainly due to integral part of our Code of Conduct training. It is tailored to address the large number of #metoo-related issues. If the #metoo-related the risks faced by specific business areas and functions. In addition, complaints are excluded, the numbers of complaints filed and we created guidelines giving practical examples on how and where complaints upheld were lower than normal. The number of #metoo corruption practices may occur. When entering into agreements with complaints filed in Sweden were far higher than in Norway because new business partners, the legal and compliance function assesses individuals accused of sexual harassment were named in the newsthe need to perform full or limited due diligence procedures based papers to a larger extent. In Norway the newspapers focused on on the nature and scope of the acquisition. Group Treasury is always the societal impact of the #metoo movement rather than naming involved in transactions and ensures compliance with our principles the individuals involved. regarding payments to low-tax countries and other payment-related concerns. Our people Employees can report actual or suspected misconduct to our external Schibsted relies on highly skilled people to succeed. Acting responSpeak Up mechanism anonymously. All cases of actual or alleged sibly and offering an attractive working environment are crucial for fraud and corruption shall be brought to the attention of the Group attracting and retaining the right people. At Schibsted we thereCompliance Officer and the Group Legal Department. fore strive to maintain the highest standards in what we and our stakeholders believe should be prioritized regarding our people. This includes promoting diversity and equality; skills development, PROMOTING FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION knowledge sharing, and a safe and healthy work environment that Freedom of speech and a free press are fundamental in a democratic supports the work–life balance and employee integrity. society. At Schibsted we are very proud of how our media houses reach millions of readers, digitally and in print. With this influence At year-end, Schibsted had 8,349 (2017: 8,070) employees (full-time comes democratic responsibilities. We want to contribute to a more equivalents) in 23 countries. Most of our employees are full-time democratic and transparent society by providing independent news white-collar workers. The exceptions are employees with short-term and information as well as promoting freedom of speech. contracts in our media operations, our newspaper distributors in Norway and employees at our printing plants in Norway. Schibsted’s Articles of Association state that the shareholders shall enable Schibsted to operate its information business in such 20 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Employee data <30 30-50 >50 Total Total number of employees by age group 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Norway 515 479 1,743 1,749 671 716 2,929 2,944 Sweden 406 470 1,043 1,087 195 204 1,643 1,761 Other European Countries 777 679 2,201 1,982 133 94 3,110 2,755 Countries outside Europe 318 303 338 293 11 15 667 611 Total 2,016 1,931 5,325 5,111 1,010 1,029 8,349 8,071 % change by age category 4 % 4 % -2 % 3% Male Female Total Total number of employees by gender 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Norway 1,918 65 % 1,960 67 % 1,012 35 % 983 33 % 2,930 2,943 Sweden 994 60 % 1,110 63 % 650 40 % 652 37 % 1,644 1,762 Other European Countries 1,854 60 % 1,692 61 % 1,257 40 % 1,061 39 % 3,111 2,753 Countries outside Europe 363 54 % 337 55 % 304 46 % 274 45 % 667 611 Total 5,129 61 % 5,100 63 % 3,223 39 % 2,970 37 % 8,352 8,070 No significant part of our work is performed by seasonal workers or workers who are not employees (external consultants or freelancers). One reason for the increased amount of employees in Other European Countries and decrease of employees in Sweden is due to Prisjakt Poland being part of Other European countries in 2018 while in 2017 the company was included in Prisjakt Sweden data. There is a slight difference in total number of employees by gender and age group due to decimal rounding in data. New hires and employee turnover New employee hires (rate%) Employee turnover (rate%) 2018 2017 2018 2017 Total number 469 1,609 424 1,073 Male 274 58 % 932 58 % 263 62 % 401 37 % Female 195 42 % 677 42 % 161 38 % 673 63 % < 30 196 42 % 717 45 % 187 44 % 386 36 % 30-50 261 56 % 795 49 % 209 49 % 600 56 % > 50 12 3% 97 6% 28 7% 87 8% Norway 97 21 % 432 27 % 77 18 % 309 29 % Sweden 51 11 % 421 26 % 35 8% 325 30 % Other European Countries 231 49 % 680 42 % 246 58 % 389 36 % Countries outside Europe 90 19 % 76 5% 66 16 % 50 5% Data includes transfers between companies within Schibsted Media Group. In 2017 Schibsted performed a large reorganization and people were tranferred between group companies hence the large number of hires and turnover. PEOPLE STRATEGY AND EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATION extensive operations. This is currently Sweden. A further three During 2018 Schibsted implemented a new organizational structure employee representatives in the Group are elected and act on consisting of two operational divisions: Marketplaces and Media. behalf of all employees, both unionized and non-unionized. Their With effect from 1 December 2018, this structure was revised; function is laid down in the central Norwegian collective bargaining see page 16 under Sustainability governance model. The new agreements. The employee representatives protect the interests organization will focus on the people strategy both globally and in of the employees in cases that are dealt with at Group level. These the divisions to enable our employees to develop their full potential. representatives are discussion partners for management to assure Our goal is to build a world-class workplace that is intellectual, virtual the quality of decisions and processes. and aspirational for our employees, and that offers a safe and healthy working environment (both physically and psychosocially) promoting As stipulated in our Code of Conduct, Schibsted’s employees have the work-life balance as well as diversity and equality. Our people full freedom of association and may organize themselves as they strategy aims to be a competitive advantage for Schibsted. We believe choose. Schibsted’s European Works Council, which currently that our employees are the most important asset in the Group. consists of 35 representatives (22 men and 13 women) from nine countries, meets twice a year and serves as our forum for information, To develop Schibsted as an attractive employer, we engage with our dialog and consultation between employees and the Schibsted employees and value active employee representation. Employees Executive Team. Collective bargaining agreements or working environhave been represented on Schibsted’s Board since 2009, currently ment committees are in place in every workplace to ensure excellent by three representatives. Two of three employee representatives working conditions and to prevent discrimination among employees. must be elected in Norway, while the third representative should 75 percent of all employees were covered by a collective bargaining represent a country outside Norway where Schibsted has its most agreement at the end of 2018 (2017: 71 percent). 21 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PROMOTING DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY On 1 December 2018, Schibsted appointed a female CEO, Kristin At Schibsted we are convinced that our success depends on our Skogen Lund. Our Board is composed of 40 percent women, as diversity and equality. To fulfill our mission to empower people in required by the Norwegian Limited Liabilities Companies Act. Up their daily life, we need a workforce that represents the users we until 2018, gender inequality at senior management level has been serve. That is why Schibsted is committed to incorporating values consistent. We have not been sufficiently successful at moving of diversity and inclusion into every aspect of the company with female employees further up the ranks. Gender equality is partithe speed and passion that characterize our organization. We want cularly challenged in operational management positions and people at Schibsted to challenge the ordinary, find good ideas and in product and technology. On 31 December 2018 we noticed a achieve great things. To achieve this, we depend on a workforce change. The share of females in top management positions increased with diverse mindset that contributes with different experiences, from 34 percent on 31 December 2017 to 39 percent on 31 December backgrounds and perspectives. Diversity at Schibsted means all 2018. The increase relates to Marketplaces and Headquarters in the differences and similarities that make us unique as individuals. particular. The total share of female in Schibsted increased from 37 percent to 39 percent. During 2018 we introduced a criterion regarding gender equality in our short-term incentive plans. We also strengthened our governance At the beginning of 2018 the top management roles and most framework on diversity and equality by adopting a diversity and senior commercial roles in the Media and Marketplaces divisions inclusion policy and a recruitment policy. In 2019 the focus will be were held by men. In June 2018 the executive team in Media was on how to implement these policies into our everyday business reorganized and achieved gender equality (50/50). On 1 December operations. 2018 the reorganization of Schibsted created new business areas and new management groups to be in place from 2019. The figures The new recruitment policy will encourage diversity and inclusion by reported below are based on the old model with Media and Marketencouraging managers to build diverse teams. Processes should be places, but include the change in top management in Schibsted equal, fair, unbiased and inclusive. Managers should aim for gender from 1 December 2018. equality in all longlists, shortlists and final interviews. All candidates should meet at least one female and male interviewer. Implementation of the recruitment policy will be followed up in 2019. Composition of governance bodies by gender Male Female Total Total number of employees by gender 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Board of Directors 6 60 % 6 60 % 4 40 % 4 40 % 10 10 Of which shareholder elected 4 57 % 4 57 % 3 43 % 3 43 % 7 7 Operations Top management 181 61 % 237 66 % 115 39 % 122 34 % 296 359 Media 83 63 % 110 64 % 48 37 % 61 36 % 131 171 Marketplaces 89 62 % 104 68 % 55 38 % 48 32 % 144 152 HQ/0ther 9 43 % 23 64 % 12 57 % 13 36 % 21 36 Other leaders 575 63 % 634 61 % 332 37 % 400 39 % 907 1,034 Media 273 59 % 262 59 % 187 41 % 181 41 % 460 443 Marketplaces 267 67 % 261 59 % 132 33 % 179 41 % 399 440 HQ/0ther 35 73 % 111 74 % 13 27 % 40 26 % 48 151 Other employees 4,373 61 % 4,228 63 % 2,774 39 % 2,449 37 % 7,147 6,677 Media 2,026 63 % 1,904 64 % 1,202 37 % 1,069 36 % 3,228 2,973 Marketplaces 2,152 59 % 1,700 58 % 1,504 41 % 1,233 42 % 3,656 2,933 HQ/0ther 195 74 % 624 81 % 68 26 % 147 19 % 263 771 Total 5,129 61 % 5,099 63 % 3,221 39 % 2,971 37 % 8,350 8,070 HQ/Other includes part of Schibsted Product & Tech. The main part of Product & Tech are included in the divisions subsequent to the reorganization. This is a change from 2017 and explains the large reduction in numbers from 2017 to 2018. The system cannot split employee category by age group, hence this is excluded from the report. 22 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Age and gender split by business segment <30 30-50 >50 Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Board of Directors 0% 0% 6 60 % 5 50 % 4 40 % 5 50 % 10 10 Operations Male employees 1,163 23 % 1,166 23 % 3,295 64 % 3,224 63 % 669 13 % 710 14 % 5,127 5,100 Media 461 19 % 421 18 % 1,358 57 % 1,275 56 % 562 24 % 580 25 % 2,381 2,276 Marketplaces 631 25 % 567 27 % 1,780 71 % 1,397 68 % 96 4% 102 5% 2,507 2,066 HQ/0ther 71 30 % 178 23 % 157 66 % 552 73 % 11 5% 28 4% 239 758 Female employees 852 26 % 765 26 % 2,030 63 % 1,887 64 % 341 11 % 319 11 % 3,223 2,971 Media 361 25 % 303 23 % 836 58 % 763 58 % 240 17 % 245 19 % 1,437 1,311 Marketplaces 464 27 % 419 29 % 1,135 67 % 978 67 % 94 6% 63 4% 1,693 1,460 HQ/0ther 27 29 % 43 22 % 59 63 % 146 73 % 7 8% 11 6% 93 200 Total 2,015 24 % 1,931 24 % 5,325 64 % 5,111 63 % 1,010 12 % 1,029 13 % 8,350 8,071 Media 822 22 % 724 20 % 2,194 57 % 2,038 57 % 802 21 % 825 23 % 3,818 3,587 Marketplaces 1,095 26 % 986 28 % 2,915 69 % 2,375 67 % 190 5% 165 5% 4,200 3,526 HQ/0ther 98 30 % 221 23 % 216 65 % 698 73 % 18 5% 39 4% 332 958 HQ/Other includes part of Schibsted Product & Tech. The main part of Product & Tech are included in the divisions subsequent to the reorganization. This is a change from 2017 and explains the large reduction in numbers from 2017 to 2018. Schibsted has set clear goals against which actual progress will be During 2018, 1,056 of our employees participated in our unconmeasured. There are long-term and short-term goals on improving scious bias training. Furthermore we reinforced female networks and gender equality for both divisions and group functions. Schibsted initiated several programs benefiting gender equality and diversity. has set a target of 60:40 gender ratio in all leadership roles by 2020. In 2018 we reached short-term goals to support the 2020 goal. The short-term goals included updating the recruitment policy, SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE REVIEWS approving a diversity and inclusion policy, working on succession To ensure innovation, long-term sustainable growth and an attractive planning, completing unconscious bias workshops and strengthening workplace, we need to offer great opportunities for skills development networks. and performance reviews to our employees. We also need to promote sharing our knowledge internally. In 2018 we performed a mapping of the payment gap between the genders in parts of the Group. The mapping revealed a gender pay Our global people function and local HR business partner offer gap when comparing average pay levels, but this is largely attributed several face-to-face training programs, including our S-PACE training. to more women working in low-pay positions (such as support) and S-PACE is a management program based on PACE, the global core more men in leadership and specialist positions. This is an extensive leadership principles in Schibsted. Great leadership in Schibsted project, and it will continue in 2019 before we can conclude and means being People-driven, Agile, Collaborative and Entrepreneurial. implement necessary actions to deal with potential deviations. The program is designed to train these leadership behaviors and attitudes in order to create a great leadership culture in Schibsted. Schibsted has zero tolerance for harassment of any kind, as clearly With a great leadership culture we will succeed in the future and stated in our Code of Conduct and in our Discrimination, Bullying deliver on our strategy. In 2016 and 2017 a total of 276 leaders and Harassment Policy. This includes all forms of verbal, digital participated in S-PACE. In 2018 a light version of the program was or physical harassment. Our Code of Conduct includes a link to a rolled out globally and a further 484 leaders participated. whistle-blowing function called Speak Up that enables anonymous reporting on misconduct, breaches or potential violations. The Speak To ensure personalized development programs and well-being Up channel is handled by an external party to secure the anonymity among our employees, we conduct individual performance and career and personal integrity of our employees. development reviews at least once a year, and more frequently in some functions and countries. According to our policy, all employees To ensure a diverse, inclusive and non-discriminatory workplace should complete development dialog with their managers at least where all our employees enjoy equal opportunities and feel safe once a year. During 2018, 59 percent of our employees completed at work, Schibsted launched a number of initiatives and counterperformance reviews with their manager (2017: 74 percent). The measures during the year, such as unconscious bias training and outcome for 2018 did not meet our policy requirement of at least Change Makers. Change Makers are people employed in different one performance and development review for each employee per companies who help speed up diversity and inclusion in the workplace. year. We have not yet implemented a new Group system for reporting 23 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT performance and career development reviews. This may have had Environmental impact an impact on the number of registered development reviews comAt Schibsted we strive to minimize our environmental footprint and pleted during 2018 compared to the preceding year. to empower people to make environmentally friendly choices in their daily lives. By informing our readers about environmental issues and To evaluate our role as an employer, we conduct employee surveys facilitating second-hand trade for our users, we promoted informed at least once a year, and more frequently in some of our divisions. and environmentally friendly consumption patterns. During 2018 the employee satisfaction scores for our companies showed an overall positive trend, which is a satisfactory result Our approach to our environmental impact is stated in our Group compared to the negative trend in the preceding year due mainly to Environmental Policy. The policy is based on the principles of the the company reorganization. UN Global Compact and includes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, the use of environmentally friendly Performance reviews by gender and employee category technologies and the application of the precautionary approach. Head of Sustainability in Schibsted is responsible for our compliance Total number Rate % with the policy and the implementation of good environmental Total 4,937 59 % practices for all of our operations. In 2018 we adopted new environMale 3,057 37 % mental goals. We want to strengthen customer empowerment by Female 1,880 23 % raising awareness about climate change, implementing circular Company top management 188 64 % economy initiatives and encouraging climate-friendly consumption Other leaders 666 73 % through our Second Hand Effect (SHE) project. Other employees 4,083 57 % The % rate of performance and career development reviews is calculated based on total Schibsted reports its environmental performance to the Carbon number of employees for total, male and female. For Company top management, other leaders Disclosure Project (CDP) and scored C for the reporting year 2017. and other employees, the % rate is calculated as total number who received performance and career development reviews based on number employees in each employee category. A CIRCULAR ECONOMY APPROACH Schibsted empowers people to make economically sound and A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORKING ENVIRONMENT environmentally sustainable choices. With 16 marketplaces for To ensure an attractive workplace and retain our employees, we are second-hand trade all around the world, we empower consumers constantly improving our workplace so that we can provide a safe in their daily lives to act in more environmentally friendly ways. In and healthy working environment (both physically and psychosocially) 2015 we rolled out the Schibsted Second Hand Effect (SHE) project that supports the work-life balance, minimizes stress and protects in cooperation with the Swedish Environmental Research Institute employee integrity. (IVL). With the Second Hand Effect project Schibsted wants to raise awareness about the environmental benefits of reusing and repairing Several work-life balance and flexible working arrangements are in items and minimizing waste. Since then, more and more marketplace, though they vary across our countries of operations. Inspired places around the world have joined the project to show the environby our Scandinavian roots, most of our locations offer fitness activities mental benefits of second-hand trade. Ten sites are now part of and wellness grants, generous paid vacation and parental leave as the project. The work has been driven by a fundamental question: well as flexible working hours and flexible workplace schemes to how much material and emissions can potentially be saved annually facilitate, for example, combining work and parenting. In the coming through second-hand trade if each second-hand product replaces years we will continue to expand our work-life balance schemes to the production of a new one? The total amount of CO2e saved all our countries of operation. through the SHE project in 2018 was 20.5 million tonnes CO2e. Each company is responsible for conducting a risk assessment Read more about the Second Hand Effect project at identifying occupational health and safety risks. Of all the Group’s https://schibsted.com/sustainability/ companies, operations at the printing plants and newspaper distribution units pose the highest risk of work-related injury while our offices pose a risk of ill health in the form of stress. Thirty-two ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF OUR OFFICE OPERATIONS injuries were reported in connection with delivering newspapers, In our office operations we focus on monitoring and minimizing our attending events or performing work-related travel in addition to business travel and energy consumption. Energy consumption by minor personal injuries such as cuts. Forty-one high-consequence our office operations and external data centers accounted for 11 work-related injuries were reported mainly related to fall injuries in percent of our total greenhouse gas emissions in 2018. our distribution resulting in long term leave. With regard to ill health, twenty-four cases were reported during 2018, stress being the main type. No During 2018 our business travel represented 14 percent of our total fatalities resulting from work-related injuries or ill health were reported. greenhouse gas emissions. On account of our global presence, one of 24 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT our challenges is to reduce our environmental impact from business puter hard drives and sell them second-hand, thereby contributing travel. We continuously work on minimizing the need for travelling to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We are also in the process between offices, mainly by improving our video conferencing facilities of donating used laptops to a charity organization. and monitoring our business travel. We are also aware of the growing challenge related to water scarcity The amount of waste generated from our office-based operations in several of our countries of operations. We performed a high-level is significantly less than that from our printing plants, and is thererisk assessment of water scarcity. Based on our assessment, current fore not a prioritized aspect. We have procedures in place for safe presence and type of operations, water scarcity is not considered to handling and recycling of electronic waste. For example we have be a prioritized aspect for Schibsted Media Group. partnerships in several countries with companies that wipe comEnergy consumption within Schibsted (MWh) 2018 2017 % change Consumption by own cars 231 675 (-) 66% of which non-renewable fuel diesel 45 362 (-) 86% of which renewable fuel diesel 19 152 (-) 88% of which non-renewable fuel petrol 158 152 (+) 4% of which renewable fuel petrol 9 9 0% Consumption of electricity, heating, cooling 41,242 42,742 (-) 4% of which electricity 35,205 37,638 (-) 6% of which heating 4,458 4,614 (-) 3% of which cooling 1,579 490 (+) 220% Total 41,473 43,417 (-) 4% The energy consumption data has been reviewed and is presented differently compared to last year. Fuel was reported in litres and consumption of electricity, heating and cooling was reported in GWh. This year we have converted all data into MWh in order to report a total consumption of energy. Renewable energy derived from electricity, heating and cooling comes from e.g wind and hydro power. The large reduction in consumption by own cars diesel is due to employees at Schibsted Italy Business (former Schibsted Servizi) that had company cars changed contracts and moved to other Italian Schibsted companies in 2018. The companies that are included in 2018 reporting but was not part of 2017 reporting do not have a large share of own cars, thus not affecting the results. The large increase in district cooling is due to improved data collection regarding district cooling. GHG emissions 2018 2017 % change Direct Scope 1 emissions 55 179 (-) 70% Consumption by company own cars 55 179 (-) 70% Indirect Scope 2 emissions 2,288 1,877 (+) 22% Consumption of electricity, heating, cooling 2,288 1,877 (+) 22% Other indirect Scope 3 emissions 34,067 35,305 (-) 4% Leased and privately owned cars 1,615 1,589 (+) 2% Business travel flights 3,495 3,239 (+) 8% Energy from data centres 1,611 781 (+) 106% Paper used for printed newspapers 27,346 29,696 (-) 8% Total 36,410 37,361 (-) 3% Scope 2 emissions is reported only with a location based approach. The increase in Scope 2 emissions is mainly due to more companies being included in the reporting scope this year. Fuels used in leased and privately owned cars include petrol, diesel and ethanol. The reduction in direct Scope 1 emissions is mainly due to employees at Schibsted Italy Business (former Schibsted Servizi) that had company cars changed contracts and moved to other Italian Schibsted companies in 2018. The large increase in emissions from data centres is explained by an improved data collection process enabling us to report data from more data centres. Paper used for printed newspapers amounted to 58,200 tonnes, a decrease of 8 % compared to 2017. 2018 2017 GHG intensity, Tonnes CO2e/turnover NOK million 2.30 2.21 GHG intensity, Tonnes CO2e/employees 4.36 4.63 2018 2017 Energy intensity, energy consumption MWh/turnover NOK million 2.02 2.57 Energy intensity, energy consumption MWh/employees 4.97 5.38 25 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT FROM OUR PRINT NEWSPAPERS The network distributes the majority of our papers by road transport, Schibsted publishes newspapers in Sweden and Norway, and our operated by subcontractors who transport newspapers from the focus is to reduce the environmental impact of our print newspapers. printing plant to the distribution pick-up points using trucks or vans. Our paper consumption and printing and distribution operations Newspaper delivery to households is performed using smaller accounts for 75 percent of our total amount of greenhouse gas vehicles. In 2018 we started a green shift in our distribution opeemissions. All paper products used for our newspapers are certified rations. It will include a more efficient distribution system, a shift according to FSC and PEFC, and 66 percent of the paper used is to more sustainable vehicles and a review of materials used for certified according to EU Eco Label criteria. Our Swedish media packaging. Newspaper companies in Norway arrange a return and houses procure all the paper used for our newspapers, but outsource recycling program to minimize waste related to unsold newspapers the printing and distribution operations. in stores. These newspapers end up in recycling plants. Print newspapers in Norway Print newspaper in Sweden In Norway, Schibsted owns the printing plants and runs a distribution We currently use the Swedish printing company V-TAB for most of network for print newspapers. All our Norwegian printing plants our printing needs. V-TAB operates a system of environmental and are licensed under the Nordic Swan Ecolabelling scheme. In our quality control, and all their printing plants are ISO 14001:2004 printing operations we focus on monitoring and minimizing our use and ISO 9001:2008 certified and are licensed under the Nordic Swan of energy, paper, ink and waste. Our environmental impact resulted Ecolabelling scheme. Newspaper companies in Sweden arrange a in a decrease of 56 percent in energy consumption and a 65 percent return and recycling program to minimize waste related to unsold decrease in paper consumption consumption since 2012. Processes newspapers in stores. The newspapers are compressed and used involving hazardous chemicals take place in closed systems, and the for house insulation. chemicals are recovered as far as possible. 2015 Materials Used-print newspapers Norway* Unit 2018 2017 2016 (base year) Paper** Thousand tonnes 41.5 44.0 53.0 59.0 Greenhouse Gas 19,494 20,747 24,430 27,433 Emission (tonnes CO2e) generated by production of paper of which Share certified FSC % 100 % 100 % 100 % Share certified PEFC % 100 % 100 % 100 % Share certified EU Eco label % 55 % 75 % 63 % Printing Ink*** Thousand tonnes 1.1 1.1 1.3 1.5 of which Accepted by Nordic Eco Label Swan % 100 % 100 % 100 % The drop in share of EU Ecolabeled paper for our Norwegian printing plants is related to a change of paper supplier and decreased use of paper. * Material used for printing external newspapers also included in the data ** 100% renewable material *** Non-renewable material Material Used-print newspapers Sweden* Unit 2018 2017 Paper** Thousand tonnes 16.7 19.0 Greenhouse Gas 7,851 8,949 Emission (tonnes CO2e) generated by production of paper of which Share certified FSC % 100 % 100 % Share certified PEFC % 100 % 100 % Share certified EU Eco label % 94 % 95 % Printing Ink*** Thousand tonnes of which Accepted by Nordic Eco Label Swan % 100 % 100 % * Material used for printing external newspapers also included in data ** 100% renewable material *** Non-renewable material 26 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Printing plants Norway Waste (tonnes) Year Recycled Recovered Other Disposal Total weight Paper (non-hazardous waste) 2018 6,141 125 6,266 2017 6,314 129 6,443 2016 6,733 137 6,870 Aluminum (non-hazardous waste) 2018 203 15 218 2017 234 18 252 2016 250 19 269 Waste water (hazardous waste) 2018 2017 5 5 2016 10 10 Ink waste (hazardous waste) 2018 7 7 2017 45 45 2016 30 30 Disposal methods are selected and reported by waste contractor Efficiency for use of paper (share of material bought used in newspapers) 2018 2017 2016 2015 91 % 91 % Waste (degree of sorting for waste contractor) 2018 2017 2016 2015 Hazardous waste 100 % 100 % 100 % Non-hazardous waste 99 % 99 % 98 % Electricity Use 2018 2017 2016 2015 Printing plants gWh 21.9 22.9 25.7 26.8 Waste data is limited to waste from our own printing plants in Norway. This waste stands for the majority of our waste and hazardous waste. Base year is 2016, except for efficency for use of paper (2017) and electricity use (2015) Our societal impact Due to our size and global market presence, our services and opeway have dramatically increased price transparency in several markets. rations have a significant societal impact. Such a large impact Together with their users, sites like Lendo, Compricer, Penger, imposes considerable social responsibility. At its best, our journalism Kundkraft and Prisjakt have changed the rules. Our digital services contributes to a functioning democracy by diminishing the gap help consumers compare offers and prices on a range of markets, between what citizens know and what they need to know about from loans and insurance cover to all kinds of products such as the world around them. At the same time, our online services have TVs and cars. dramatically strengthened our consumers’ influence and power. Empowering people through journalism Voluntary initiatives When we do our job best, our words change society for the better; To demonstrate our commitment to increased transparency on that is the power of journalism. Good journalism exposes inequality, sustainability issues, Schibsted Media Group is a member of several opens eyes, puts pressure on politicians to act and ensures that global initiatives, such as the United Nations Global Compact and the people are heard. This is the core of Schibsted’s media houses, and Carbon Disclosure Project. We are also a member of organizations is a unique tool to empower people in their daily lives. Our media such as Transparency International and Responsible Media Forum. houses are members of international global networks promoting high quality investigative journalism, such as the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) and the European SOCIETAL IMPACT: MEDIA Investigative Collaborations (EIG). Schibsted is also engaged in Digitally empowering consumers combating the spread of fake news. Power if shifting from companies to consumers. Digital services that enable consumers to compare offers and prices in a simple 27 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Power of Journalism life, some die, without even knowing that their implants were to blame. Since 2017 we have organized The Power of Journalism event Norwegian health authorities do not know how often Norwegians are together with the Tinius Trust. This event celebrates journalism affected, and the industry itself has almost all the roles around the and its dynamic future, bringing together industry leaders to share table: they research, develop, sell, participate in surgical operations ideas, discuss important issues, inspire each other, and strengthen in Norwegian hospitals, and are responsible for analyzing equipment ties between those of us who believe in the future of journalism. when something goes wrong. In 2018 the event was attended by 324 internal and 150 external stakeholders. Through The Power of Journalism we engage with Tolga case – VG (Norway) partners and colleagues in the media industry and beyond. It started out as a case involving one family. Three brothers had been appointed public guardians against their will, without prior Stories that made a difference consultation. The argument that two of them were intellectually Every year our journalists publish remarkable stories that contribute disabled was later proved to be incorrect. Based on the brothers' to social changes and public debates. Presented below is a short experiences with the authorities, VG revealed a connection between summary of some of the stories that made a difference in 2018. diagnosis and municipal fundings. VG revealed how a consulting company can earn millions of kroner by registering people as intelTheir planet – Aftonbladet (Sweden) lectually disabled. It also illustrated how misunderstandings and One thing is clear; it is not our generation that will be most affected violations of the law may have had consequences for thousands of by climate change. It is our children who will pay for our current Norwegians. The law will now be amended and more than 18,000 lifestyle and choices. Photographer Magnus Wennman and reporter Norwegians will be contacted to ensure that guardianships created Erik Wiman travelled all over the world in an effort to describe the on the wrong basis are revoked. Shortly after the government most important challenge we face: global warming. At each place, ordered a full examination of the Tolga case, the Prime Minister they took a picture of the environment – environments that may not apologized to the brothers. be here within a few decades – which they projected directly on to the body of a newborn child. The result was a series of portraits and Medical age assessments – SvD (Sweden) stories that reached, and deeply touched, hundreds of thousands Age is a critical factor in the asylum application process. The age of an of Swedes. asylum seeker often determines whether or not he or she is granted a residence permit in Sweden. Implant files – Aftenposten (Norway) “You’re highlighting an area that has received too little attention,” In 2017 the National Board of Forensic Medicine was commissioned said health minister Bent Høie on 2 December 2018 in response to by the Swedish government to implement medical age assessments Aftenposten's revelations about the implant industry. The newsof young refugees seeking asylum in Sweden. Since then, the paper’s investigation revealed that over 100,000 Norwegians need Swedish Migration Agency has based over 11,000 decisions on new implants every year, and the need is increasing. The medical the medical age assessments. But are the methods used by the devices industry, which produces everything from wheelchairs to National Board of Forensic Medicine actually reliable? In 2018 SvD essential implants, had a turnover of USD 3,600 billion worldwide investigated the methods used and revealed several serious flaws. in 2018. This is three times the size of Norway's total revenues This has led to courts questioning whether age assessments are in one year. The industry is growing almost twice as fast as the legally secure and to the Swedish National Council of Medical Ethics pharmaceutical industry. Nevertheless, it has managed to operate to call for an objective examination of the 11,000 decisions that under the government and public radar for years. Norwegian health were already made. authorities use hundreds of full-time employees to approve drugs, but outsource the approval of implants and medical equipment to commercial operators in Europe. So what happens when the implants SOCIETAL IMPACT: MARKETPLACES fail? How often does this happen, and what control do the Norwegian Initiatives that made a difference: Marketplaces authorities have over the technological innovations that are Our marketplaces contribute to society in several ways. Below is one Implanted into Norwegian patients? of our initiatives that made a difference in 2018. When industries and regulations cross borders, so must journalism. Schibsted Media Group: Techfugees International Resources of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) mobilized Techfugees is a non-profit organization coordinating the internaits resources: 250 journalists from 59 media houses in 36 countries; tional tech community’s response to the needs of refugees, asylum three of them from Aftenposten. Through data collection, data surseekers and displaced people. It exists to empower the displaced veying and international collaboration, we could reveal that health with technology. Techfugees organizes conferences, workshops, authorities around the world have not been able to protect their hackathons and gatherings around the world in an effort to generate countries’ patients against failing implants. We discovered that tech solutions for and with displaced people. It also curates and implant failures affect thousands every year. Some are injured for promotes the best projects it finds for partnerships and implementation 28 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT and processes to enhance our possibilities to monitor data and our performance. Employee data: Employee data are stated in full-time equivalents (FTE) and cover all Schibsted companies including those who are not within the scope of this report. This is because we want to present the same FTE information as the annual report. Data are compiled per 31 December 2018 using the financial reporting system. Data relating to employee satisfaction, collective bargaining, health and safety as well as performance reviews are collected via templates completed by each company. Schibsted has also made the transition from GRI Standards 403: Occupational Health and Safety (2016) to the updated GRI Standards 403: Occupational Health and Safety (2018), hence data cannot be compared for this topic. Environmental data: The consolidation approach for environmental data is operational control. All greenhouse gases are included in the emission calculations and all scopes are included in intensity data. Data are in the field. Techfugees is working on improving life for refugees by collected via templates sent to each company and derives from developing technologies in five areas: access to rights and informathird-party sources and available internal reporting data. Our calcution, health, education, employment and social inclusion. Schibsted lations are based on the conversion factors used in the Greenhouse supported Techfugees in 2018 with capital and by participating in Gas Protocol. the Global Techfugees Summit. Head of Sustainability in Schibsted was one of the opening speakers at the summit and took part in a Omissions panel discussion on inclusion. 102-8: Data cannot be split on employment contract and employment type due to limitations in our reporting system. About the report 205-2: Anti-corruption is part of our Code of Conduct training and This is Schibsted’s second sustainability report and refers to the can only be presented as total number of employees who have period from 1 January to 31 December 2018. Our ambition with this received training during 2018. report is to be transparent and share our approach, performance, progress and plans in the area of sustainability during 2018 and 405-1: Data cannot be split on age by employee category due to onwards. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI limitations in our reporting system. Standards: Core option. It constitutes Schibsted’s Communication on Progress (COP) submission to the UN Global Compact and follows 403-9 & 403-10: Schibsted has chosen to transit to the new GRI the recommendations of Oslo Børs (Oslo Stock Exchange) on corStandard 403: Occupational Health and Safety (2018) hence do not porate responsibility reporting. Schibsted publishes a sustainability have all information and data in place to fully fulfill all the requirereport on an annual basis; the previous report was published on 10 ments this year. April 2018. The report is not quality assured by an external body. Point of contact The sustainability information is provided mainly in our sustainability If you have any questions about the Sustainability Report, you are report, but also in sections of the Annual Report. Please see the welcome to contact Britt Nilsen, Head of Sustainability, email GRI Index for further guidance. britt.nilsen@schibsted.com. Scope and boundaries The information presented in this report represents all operations in the Schibsted Media Group. The report includes data pertaining to companies of which we have full ownership or operational control. This year an additional three companies are included in the reporting scope. Incoming years we aim to implement support functions 29 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Page Notes GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES (2016) Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization 3 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 3 102-3 Location of headquarters 3 102-4 Location of operations 3 102-5 Ownership and legal form 3 102-6 Markets served 3 102-7 Scale of the organization 3, 21, 44, 46 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 21, 29 Omission 102-9 Supply chain 19 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 29 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 24 UNGC Principle 7 102-12 External initiatives 15, 27 102-13 Membership of associations 27 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 12 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 16-17 GRI 102: General Disclosures (2016) Governance 102-18 Governance structure 16 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 13 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 21 UNGC Principle 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 12-13 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 12-13 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 13 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 29 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 12-14 102-47 List of material topics 14 102-48 Restatements of information 29 102-49 Changes in reporting 29 102-50 Reporting period 29 102-51 Date of most recent report 29 102-52 Reporting cycle 29 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 29 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 29 102-55 GRI content index 30-32 102-56 External assurance 29 30 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Topic specific disclosures Disclosure Page Notes GRI 200 ECONOMIC STANDARDS Schibsted topic: Charity GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 27-28 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impact (2016) 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 27-28 Schibsted topic: Active work against corruption GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 19-20 UNGC Principle 10 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 19-20 Omission GRI 300 ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS Schibsted topic: Efficient use of materials and chemicals GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 26-27 UNGC Principle 8 GRI 301: Materials (2016) 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 26-27 Schibsted topic: Reduce environmental impact from energy use GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 24-26 GRI 302: Energy (2016) 302-3 Energy consumption within the organisation 25, 29 UNGC Principle 7,8,9 302-4 Energy consumption outside the organisation 27, 29 302-3 Energy intensity 25, 29 Schibsted topic: Reduce water usage GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 25 Schibsted topic: Reduce carbon emissions GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 24-25 GRI 305: Emissions (2016) 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 25, 29 UNGC Principle 7,8 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 25, 29 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 25, 29 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 25, 29 Schibsted topic: Safe handling and minimizing waste GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 25-27 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste (2016) 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 26-27 Omission GRI 400 SOCIAL STANDARDS Schibsted topic: Be an attractive employer GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 20-21 GRI 401: Employment (2016) 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 21 UNGC Principle 6 Schibsted topic: Work life balance GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 21 Schibsted topic: Health, safety and integrity of employees GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 24 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety (2018) 403-9 Work-related injuries 24 Omission GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety (2016) 403-10 work-related ill health 24 Omission Schibsted topic: Skills developments and knowledge sharing GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 23-24 GRI 404: Education and training (2016) 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 24 UNGC Principle 6 career development reviews 31 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Topic specific disclosures Disclosure Page Notes GRI 400 SOCIAL STANDARDS Schibsted topic: Increase diversity and equality GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 22-23 UNGC Principle 6 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity (2016) 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 22-23 Omission Schibsted topic: User safety and fraud protection GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 19-20 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling (2016) 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service 20 information and labeling Schibsted topic: Protection of user data GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 17-19 GRI 418: Customer Privacy (2016) 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 18 privacy and losses of customer data Schibsted topic: Empower people to make economic and sustainable choices GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 27-28 GRI Media Supplement (2016) M7 Media literacy 27-28 Schibsted topic: Sustainable supply chain GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 19 UNGC Principle 1,2,4,5 Schibsted topic: Promote freedom of expression GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 20 UNGC Principle 1 Schibsted topic: Transparent governance and communication GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 32 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 1. Statement of Corporate Governance Schibsted’s sustainability strategy, which is aligned with the business strategy, is to ensure that we consider and manage the environmental Schibsted is subject to corporate governance reporting requirements and societal impacts in all our business decisions and through as defined in the Norwegian Accounting Act, section 3-3b and the our services empower people to make economic and sustainable Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance (the Code). The choices. Schibsted engages with all significant stakeholder groups current edition was published on 17 October 2018 and is available at that are directly or indirectly affected by our business. The purpose www.nues.no. The Board’s Statement of Corporate Governance of the dialog with stakeholders is to understand the key aspects follows the structure of the Code. Deviations from the Code are and how these impact Schibsted’s operations. Further information set out in item 16 below. This statement also includes information on Schibsted’s sustainability strategy and how we relate to stakeon corporate governance, pursuant to the Accounting Act, section holders is provided in the Sustainability Report. 3-3b. Corporate governance in Schibsted is subject to review and consideration by the Group Board, which also reviews the content of this Statement of Corporate Governance. 3. Equity and dividend The Board has approved the Group’s policy for corporate governance Financial strategy stating that the Group will comply with the Norwegian Code of In accordance with our shareholder policy, Schibsted’s Board of Practice for Corporate Governance. Directors considers it crucial that shares in the company be perceived as an attractive investment option. Schibsted’s financial strategy implies a strong focus on profitability, innovation and disciplined 2. Business activities capital allocation to create long-term shareholder value. To reach these objectives, Schibsted has set financial targets on financial Schibsted’s purpose as defined in its Articles of Association is: “The gearing, NIBD/EBITDA and equity ratio and has a dividend policy. purpose of the company is to engage in the information business Information about our financial strategy and performance are and related business activities. The shareholders shall enable the published on the Investor Relations page on our website and comCompany to operate its information business in such a way that municated at investor presentations. More information about the editorial freedom and integrity are fully ensured. The requirement 2018 performance can be found in the Board of Directors’ report for editorial freedom and integrity shall apply to all media and in the annual report. The Board has reviewed the Group’s financial publications encompassed by the Norwegian and international strategy, targets and performance, and considers the level of perforactivities of the Schibsted Group.” mance adequate for the Group’s objectives, strategy and risk profile. The Articles of Association are presented in full at Dividend policy www.schibsted.com. The Group aims to provide a competitive return based on a sound financial position. The Board considers it essential that the comThe Schibsted Board of Directors is responsible for defining objectives, pany’s shares be perceived as an attractive investment. One of the strategies and risk profiles for the company’s business activities. financial targets is therefore to maximize the shareholders’ return The Board of Directors evaluates these objectives, strategies and risk through long-term growth in the share price and dividend. The Annual profiles on a yearly basis. General Meeting approves the annual dividend based on the Group Board’s recommendation. The Group’s dividend policy is described The Group’s objectives, principal strategies and risks are described in more detail under Share Information at www.schibsted.com. in the Board of Directors' report and on our website at www.schibsted.com. Authorizations granted by the Annual General Meeting To allow flexibility in its capital management strategy, authorizaSound corporate governance is an important prerequisite for tions empowering the Board to increase share capital by issuing achieving Schibsted Media Group’s vision and for implementing our B-shares and to buy back shares were granted by the 2018 Annual strategy. It contributes to the Group’s long-term value creation and General Meeting. Such authorization is granted by the Annual Genensures effective and sustainable use of the Group’s resources. eral Meeting for one year at the time. The conditions stated in the Schibsted’s values represent an important foundation for corpoauthorizations are included below: rate governance and for developing a sound and strong corporate culture. The Group’s values are: Authorization to increase B-share capital I. The Board of Directors is authorized pursuant to the Public We have integrity Limited Liability Companies Act § 10-14 (1) to increase the We are innovative company’s share capital by up to NOK 6,534,218.5. Subject to We are a team this aggregate amount limitation, the authority may be used We are here to win on more than one occasion. 34 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE II. The authority may only be used to issue B-shares. V. The shares may serve as settlement in the company’s share III. The authority shall remain in force until the Annual General based long term incentive schemes, as well as the Employee Meeting in 2019, but in no event later than 30 June 2019. Share Saving Plan (ESSP), and may be used as settlement IV. The pre-emptive rights of the shareholders under § 10-4 of the in acquisitions, and to improve the capital structure of the Public Limited Liability Companies Act may be set aside. company. The shares may not be used in a take-over situation V. The authority covers capital increases against contributions cf. section 6-17 (2) of the Norwegian Public Limited Liability in cash and contributions other than in cash. The authority Companies Act”. covers the right to incur special obligations for the company, ref. § 10-2 of the Public Limited Liability Companies Act. The Further details on how the authorizations have been used are authority covers resolutions on mergers in accordance with provided under Share Information at www.schibsted.com. § 13-5 of the Public Limited Liability Companies Act. Authorization to buy back shares 4. Equal treatment of shareholders and I. The authorization is valid until the next Annual General Meeting of Schibsted ASA in 2019, but in no event later than 30 June transactions with related parties 2019. Class of shares II. The total nominal value of the shares acquired and held by the Schibsted has two classes of shares. Each A-share gives the right company may not exceed NOK 11 934 399. to 10 votes at the Annual General Meeting, and each B-share gives III. The minimum amount which can be paid for the shares is NOK the right to one vote at the Annual General Meeting. Otherwise, the 30, and the maximum amount is NOK 1,000. A-shares and the B-shares carry equal rights. IV. The Board is free to decide on the acquisition method and possible subsequent sale of the shares. 35 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Restrictions on ownership and voting rights Transactions involving own shares Based on Schibsted’s publishing responsibilities and role in society The acquisition of own shares, in accordance with the Board’s as a media company, Schibsted’s independence and integrity are authorization referred to in item 3 of this statement, must take safeguarded through restrictions on ownership and voting rights place in the market at the stock exchange price and in accordance laid down in the Articles of Association. Article 6 states: with generally accepted Norwegian stock exchange practices. Acquired shares may be sold in the market or used as settlement “No shareholder may own more than 30 percent of the shares or for the acquisition of businesses, for the Schibsted share based vote for more than 30 percent of the total number of votes which incentive schemes and share saving programs for the Group’s may be cast under the company's Articles of Association.” employees. The share-based incentive schemes are described in more detail in the Statement of Executive Compensation in note 9 Article 7 states that important decisions relating to the Group’s and in the notice of the Annual General Meeting. key companies must be submitted to Schibsted’s shareholders for their approval. According to the wording of this provision, any Transactions with related parties amendments to the Articles of Association or any sales of shares In the event of material transactions between the Group and its or operations or corresponding transactions in any subsidiary must shareholders, board members, executive personnel, or related be submitted to Schibsted’s Annual General Meeting for approval, parties, the Board will obtain valuations by an independent third with the exception of intercompany transactions, which are exempt party. In 2018 the Board determined that there were no such material in their entirety. Through annual resolutions, the Annual General transactions. Meeting may authorize the Board to manage specific areas of the protection offered under in this provision. Such authorization was granted at the 2018 Annual General Meeting and will apply until 5. Shares and negotiability the next Annual General Meeting. The authorization granted in Schibsted’s shares are freely negotiable subject to the restrictions 2018 states: laid down in the Articles of Association, Article 6, which states: “Pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 7 of the Articles of As“No shareholder may own more than 30 percent of the shares or sociation, the Board of Directors is authorized to make decisions vote for more than 30 percent of the total number of votes which on the following matters referred to in the second paragraph, submay be cast under the company's Articles of Association.” paragraph a) of Article 7 of the Articles of Association: The background for the limitation set out in Article 6 of the Article a) Voting relating to amendments to subsidiaries’ Articles of of Association is further set out in section 16 below. Association. b) Decisions to sell shares or operations, including private placements, mergers or demergers, in subsidiaries when 6. Annual General Meetings the net payment (sales amount, merger or demerger payment, The shareholders exercise the highest authority through the Annual etc.) does not exceed NOK 4 billion after financial adjustments. General Meeting. The Annual General Meeting considers and decides on matters that are important to Schibsted in a way that reflects Within the framework of the Group CEO’s general authorization, the shareholders’ views. The Annual General Meeting is held within the Board of Directors may delegate its authority pursuant to this six months after the end of each financial year, typically in May. authorization to the management. Notice A director appointed pursuant to the second paragraph of Article The Annual General Meeting for this year is scheduled for 3 May 8 of the Articles of Association may demand that certain matters 2019. The notice of the Annual General Meeting and documents which are covered by this authorization must nonetheless be subto be considered are posted on the Schibsted website prior to the mitted to the General Meeting for its decision. meeting, and are sufficiently detailed, comprehensive and specific to allow shareholders to form a view on all matters to be considered at This authorization applies until the next Annual General Meeting.” the meeting. Shareholders not registered electronically will receive the notice by regular post with information on how documents to Waiver of preemptive rights in the event of a capital increase be considered at the meeting may be downloaded from our website. In the event that the Board resolves to carry out an increase in The deadline for electronic registration is two working days prior the share capital and waive the pre-emptive rights of existing to the meeting. shareholders on the basis of a mandate granted to the Board, the justification will be publicly disclosed in a stock exchange Attendance announcement issued in connection with the increase in the share Representatives of the Board and the chairman of the Nomination capital. Committee are required to attend the Annual General Meeting. The 36 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board Chair is present at the Annual General Meeting and is available Group at any given time. The Nomination Committee also proposes to respond to any questions. Other board members will attend as remuneration payable to the board members at the Annual General necessary. The chair of the Nomination Committee and the external Meeting. auditor are also present. At a minimum, the CEO and CFO must attend the meeting as representatives of Schibsted executive manThe Annual General Meeting approves the remuneration to the agement. Nomination Committee. The Nomination Committee’s proposals are explained in the Nominations Committee’s report. Voting The shareholders are given the opportunity to vote on each indiComposition of the Nomination Committee vidual matter, including on each individual candidate nominated for The Nomination Committee is elected by the Annual General Meeting election to the company’s bodies (i.e. the Board and the Nomination for two-year terms and consists of three members. The composition Committee). of the Nomination Committee shall take into account the interests of shareholders. The Annual General Meeting elects the chair of the Shareholders who cannot attend the Annual General Meeting but Nomination Committee. Schibsted’s VP Head of Investor Relations who wish to exercise their voting rights may authorize a proxy by serves as secretary to the Nomination Committee. the deadline for registration. An authorization form containing voting instructions may also be given to the Board Chair. The The current members of the Nomination Committee are John A. Rein authorization form is enclosed with the notice of the Annual General (Chair), Spencer Adair and Ann Kristin Brautaset. The current Meeting. More information on how to appoint a proxy and how to members were elected by the Annual General Meeting on 12 May propose resolutions for consideration by the meeting is stated in 2017 for a period of two years. the notice of the Annual General Meeting and on our website at www.schibsted.com. The current chair of the Nomination Committee is not considered to be independent due to his roles as board member in the Tinius Agenda Trust and Blommenholm Industrier. The other two members are The agenda is prepared by the Board, and the agenda items must considered to be independent. comply with Article 10 of the Articles of Association. See the Nomination Committee’s report for further details on the Minutes of the Annual General Meeting are available on our website work of the Nomination Committee. at www.schibsted.com. Chairing of the Annual General Meeting 8. Board of Directors: composition, Prior to the Annual General Meeting the Board considers, taking into account the complexity of the proposed agenda, whether an independence and employee representation independent person shall be proposed to act as chair of the Annual Composition of the Board General Meeting. In 2018, the Annual General Meeting was chaired Pursuant to Article 8 of Schibsted’s Articles of Association, the by Ole Jacob Sunde, Board Chair. Board must consist of six to eleven members in addition to deputy members. The Group’s employees must be represented on the Board by employee representatives in accordance with prevailing agreements with the company (Representation Agreement). 7. Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is regulated by the provisions in Article The Board currently consists of ten members, of whom seven are 10 of Schibsted’s Articles of Association, which also states the shareholder representatives and three are employee representatives. Nomination Committee’s mandate. In addition, the company has Two employee representatives are elected from Norway and one implemented additional guidelines for the Nomination Committee from the country outside Norway where Schibsted has its most approved by the Annual General Meeting in 2017. extensive operations. This is currently Sweden. The Board’s composition is compliant with the requirement set forth in section 6-11a The work of the Nomination Committee of the Norwegian Public Limited Liability Companies Act, which The Nomination Committee prepares a recommendation to the states that the minority gender shall represent at least 40 percent Annual General Meeting regarding the election of shareholder of the board members. In addition to gender balance, the Board representatives and their deputies to the Board. The Nomination ensures that diversity with regard to age, education, professional backCommittee has contact with shareholders, board members, and ground and international experience are applied as relevant criteria the company’s executive personnel. The Nomination Committee’s in the Nomination Committee’s consideration of Board composition. most important task is to continually review the Board’s overall expertise and experience in relation to the challenges facing the The Annual General Meeting elects the shareholder representatives 37 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE to the Board. The Nomination Committee prepares a recommenAct, individual board members may not participate in the discussion dation of candidates for election to the Board. The recommendation is or decision of matters in which they or a closely related party are distributed to the shareholders along with the notice of the Annual deemed to have a major personal or financial interest. Each board General Meeting. The Annual General Meeting elects the Board Chair. member is personally responsible for assessing whether any such circumstances exist that may, from an objective perspective, affect The Board’s shareholder representatives are elected for one-year public confidence in the board member’s independence or that terms while the employee representatives are elected for two-year may lead to a conflict of interest in connection with a matter to be terms. Pursuant to Article 8 of the Articles of Association, any considered by the Board. Such circumstances must be brought to shareholder owning at least 25 percent of the A-shares in the the attention of the Board Chair. The Rules of Procedure specifically company is entitled to appoint a board member directly. mention board members’ involvement in competing businesses. Blommenholm Industrier AS, which owns 26.1 percent of the A-shares, is the only shareholder holding this right. At the Annual Board members’ shareholdings General Meeting in 2018, Blommenholm Industrier AS exercised The Code states that members of the Board should be encouraged its right to directly appoint one member, and nominated Ole Jacob to own shares in the company. Encouraging share ownership is Sunde. The Board has appointed Head of Editorial in Schibsted not part of the Board’s current Rules of Procedures. However, the Media as observer to the Group Board. board members' shareholdings are disclosed in note 11 of Schibsted ASA's financial statements. More information on the individual board members is available on our website at www.schibsted.com. Board meetings in 2018 In 2018 the Board held 10 meetings, one of which was a two-day Independence of the Board of Directors strategy meeting. Meetings that are not listed on the meeting The composition of the Board ensures that it can operate indepenschedule may be conducted by telephone. The strategy meeting is dently of any special interest. The current Board meets the requirenormally held in June, and forms the basis for the Group’s strategy ment set forth in the Code that the majority of shareholder-elected and budget processes. board members be independent of the Group’s executive personnel and material business, and that at least two of the shareholderelected board members be independent of the main shareholders. Ole Jacob Sunde is not considered to be independent of the main 9. The work of the Board of Directors shareholders due to his position as board member of the Tinus Trust Role of the Board and Blommenholm Industrier AS. All other shareholder-elected The Board supervises the day-to-day management of the Group board members are considered to be independent. as it is exercised by the CEO, and monitors Schibsted's general activities. The Board actively participates in shaping Schibsted’s Pursuant to section 6-27 of the Public Limited Liability Companies strategy, ensuring that the businesses are properly organized and Attendance at board meetings and board committee meetings in 2018: BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE COMPENSATION ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS MEETINGS MEETINGS COMMITTEE MEETINGS Ole Jacob Sunde 10/10 3/3 Birger Steen 8/10 6/7 Marianne Budnik 10/10 1/2 Christian Ringnes 9/10 7/7 Philippe Vimard (from June 2018) 6/6 Eugénie van Wiechen 10/10 3/3 Orla Noonan 10/10 6/7 Ingunn Saltbones 10/10 2/2 Torbjörn Ek 9/10 Finn E. Våga 10/10 1/1 Arnaud de Puyfontaine (until May 2018) 0/4 0/4 Maria Carling (deputy for Torbjôrn Ek) 1/1 38 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE that adequate governance and control systems are implemented. normally agreed at the first meeting after the Annual General Meeting. The Board also supervises the Group's financial performance, The meeting schedule includes strategic planning, business issues establishes necessary guidelines, and adopts plans and budgets and supervisory activities. At the same meeting, the Board appoints for the businesses. The Board appoints the CEO and prepares the the members of the Board’s Compensation Committee and Audit job description and terms and conditions for the position. The Board Committee. The VP Head of Investor Relations serves as secretary also considers issues pertaining to appointments to key positions to the Board. within the Group. The CEO, in consultation with the Board Chair, prepares matters for Rules of Procedure consideration by the Board. Emphasis is placed on timely preparation The Board has established internal Rules of Procedure describing and distribution of documents to ensure that the Board has a satisthe Board’s responsibilities, duties and administrative procedures. factory basis for its work. Board meetings are presided over by the The Rules of Procedure also state the CEO’s duties in relation to Board Chair. Before every board meeting the Board convenes for a the Board. The Board conducts periodic reviews of procedures for 30-minute closed session without Schibsted’s executive managethe Board and the CEO. ment present. The Group uses a web-based board portal to distribute relevant documents to the Board. Conflicts of interests and disqualification A board member is obligated to notify the Chair if he/she is considering Board committees working for or on assignment with organisations who operate, or Schibsted has established an Audit Committee and a Compensation seek to operate, a business that competes with Schibsted Group's Committee which contribute to thorough preparation and consideration current or planned business activities. The Chair ensures that the of matters covered by the committees’ respective mandates. The rest of the Board and the Chair of the Nomination Committee are committees do not make decisions, but monitor the work of the Group kept informed. on behalf of the Board and prepare matters for board consideration within their respective areas. Organization of board meetings The Board works on the basis of an annual meeting schedule that is 39 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation Committee • achievement of financial and non-financial targets; The Compensation Committee was established in 2004, and its • high-quality and safe products and services; members are appointed by and from the Board for one-year terms. • cost-effective operations; The members shall be independent. The current members of the • reliable financial and management reporting; committee are: Ole Jacob Sunde (Chair), Eugénie van Wiechen, • compliance with legislation and regulations; and Ingunn Salbones and Marianne Budnik. The CEO attends committee • adherence to Schibsted’s values, Code of Conduct and policies. meetings apart from those at which remuneration of the CEO is considered. The Compensation and Benefit Manager serves as The Group Compliance Officer is responsible for initiating and monisecretary to the Compensation Committee. toring the annual risk management and internal controls process in the Group on behalf of the CFO and CEO. The Group Compliance The Compensation Committee prepares matters relating to the Officer reports in practice and administratively to the CFO. If remuneration of the Group CEO. The committee also assists the necessary, the Group Compliance Officer will report directly to the Board by dealing with issues of principle, guidelines, and strategies Audit Committee. for the remuneration of other members of Schibsted’s executive management and of senior managers in key subsidiaries. In addition to risk analysis part of the day-to-day decision-making process, the management teams of business areas and functions are The Committee monitors the use of long-term incentives in the responsible for preparing risk assessments and defining mitigation Group and prepares the Board’s annual consideration of the LTI activities at least once a year. Schibsted’s executive management Program for selected managers. For further details, see item 12 of reviews the overall risk assessment of strategy, market, legal, comthis statement. pliance, and ethical issues as well as operational and organizational risk assessments. The annual risk assessments are also reported Audit Committee to and reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board. The Audit Committee was established in 2007, and its members are appointed by and from the Board for one-year terms. The members Financial reporting shall be independent from the company. The current members Management submits periodic status reports to assist the Board of the committee are: Christian Ringnes (Chair), Orla Noonan and in its work on monitoring and controlling the Group’s operations. Birger Steen. The CFO is the management’s main representative The reports cover financial reporting of the Group’s key figures, the in the Audit Committee and attends all its meetings. The external status of business-related matters, financial market information, auditor attends Audit Committee meetings when matters within the non-financial indicators, and a status report on each business external auditors’ area of responsibility are considered. The Internal area. Quarterly and annual financial statements are reviewed by Control Manager serves as secretary to the Audit Committee. the Audit Committee and the Board. Schibsted’s Group Accounting department prepares the Group’s financial reports and ensures The Audit Committee prepares the Board's processes for quality compliance with current accounting standards and legislation. assurance of financial reports. The committee monitors the Group’s Quarterly financial review meetings are also held with the largest internal control and risk management for financial reporting, and companies of each division. reviews and monitors the external auditor’s work and independence. Schibsted's Group Accounting department publishes financial and The Board’s self-evaluation accounting manuals that are made available to all the subsidiaries The Board regularly evaluates its own work and submits a written on the Group's intranet. These manuals describe reporting requirereport to the Nomination Committee. The report forms the basis for ments, content, guidelines and deadlines. the Nomination Committee’s evaluation of the Board's work. The Nomination Committee performs additional assessments of the board members through interviews conducted either by the committee's members or by external consultants. The Board considers itself to 11. Remuneration of Board members work well, with members whose expertise and experience complement The Annual General Meeting determines the remuneration of the each other. board members. The remuneration reflects the Board’s responsibilities, expertise and time commitment and the complexity of the company’s activities. The directors’ fees are determined one year in advance, are fixed amounts, and are not related to performance or 10. Risk management and internal control incentive schemes. The Board has established rules of procedures The Group’s risk management and internal control systems reflect to ensure that any material assignments for the company, including Schibsted's governance model. The management team of each remuneration for any such assignments, shall be approved by the business area, function and company is responsible for risk manageBoard. Any payments made to board members beyond normal ment and internal control to ensure: directors’ fees are disclosed in note 9 to the financial statements. 40 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In 2018 no such fees were paid. See the Nomination Committee’s other players in the financial market. All information distributed to Report and note 9 to the financial statements for further details on the company’s shareholders is published on the company’s website remuneration of the Group board members. at the same time as it is sent to shareholders. Schibsted’s contact with shareholders complies with all material aspects of the Oslo Børs Code of Practice for investor relations issued on 10 June 12. Remuneration of executive personnel 2014. The CFO and VP Head of Investor Relations regularly update the Board on Investor Relations activities. The Compensation Committee prepares matters relating to the remuneration of the Group CEO. The committee also assists the Reporting of financial information Board by dealing with issues of principle, guidelines, and strategies Schibsted wants investors to have confidence in the integrity of for the remuneration of other members of Schibsted’s executive its financial reporting. In accordance with its mandate, the Board’s management and of senior managers in key subsidiaries. Audit Committee monitors the work on preparing the Company’s financial reports. Schibsted's Statement of Executive Compensation gives an account of the main principles of the Group's executive remuneration policy, Schibsted publishes its financial figures quarterly. Open presentaincluding the scope and organization of bonus schemes and of the tions to investors are held in connection with the Group’s quarterly Group's long-term incentive programs. The Compensation Committee reports, at which the CEO and CFO present the results and comment has assessed the incentive program and has concluded that the on the market and outlook. The Board Chair also attends these program ensures alignment of the financial interests of the executive presentations regularly. Members of Schibsted’s executive managepersonnel and the shareholders. ment attend the presentations as required. The Statement of Executive Compensation is considered by the The presentations in connection with the quarterly results are Annual General Meeting and made available to the shareholders published on our website. Complete versions of the Annual Report on our website when the notice of the Annual General Meeting is and Directors' Report are published on our website at least 21 days issued. The Annual General Meeting votes individually on the bindbefore the Annual General Meeting. Schibsted’s financial calendar ing and the non-binding aspects of the guidelines. is announced one year at a time and published on our website. Other market information 13. Information and communication In accordance with the Norwegian Securities Trading Act and Stock Dialog with shareholders and the financial market Exchange Act, notifications are distributed to the Oslo Børs and Schibsted has established a Shareholder policy and an Investor national and international news agencies and are published on our Relations policy that guide Schibsted’s contact with shareholders website. outside the general meetings. These are available on the Investor Relations page on our website at www.schibsted.com. In accordance Schibsted regularly arranges Capital Markets Days and Investor with the Shareholder policy, Schibsted as a listed company shall Days in order to present its strategy and other key development give competitive returns based on a sound financial position. trends. The most recent Capital Markets Day event was held in Schibsted’s Board considers it essential that the Schibsted shares be London on 7 March 2019. A video webcast of the event and the perceived as an attractive investment option. One of the objectives presentation material are available on our website. See Share of Schibsted's Board is to promote shareholder returns by means Information and our website for further details. of long-term growth in share prices and dividends. The Board will work to ensure that the company’s shares achieve a price that best reflects the long-term earning capacity of the company. 14. Takeovers In accordance with our Investor Relations policy, communication As stated in item 4 above, Schibsted’s Articles of Association state with the Norwegian and international stock markets has high priority that: for Schibsted. Members of Schibsted’s executive management and our Investor Relations department maintain regular contact with the “No shareholder may own more than 30 percent of the shares or financial markets to ensure that relevant and sufficient information vote for more than 30 percent of the total number of votes which reach the market in a timely manner. The objectives are to increase may be cast under the company's Articles of Association.”. awareness about, and create confidence in Schibsted in the investment market, achieve improved liquidity for our shares, and provide a The purpose of these restrictions is to safeguard Schibsted’s basis for correct pricing of the share. Openness, accessibility, transindependence and integrity in order to ensure that the company parency and equal treatment of participants in the securities market has full editorial freedom, allowing the company to fulfil its pubare fundamental to good relationships with investors, analysts and lishing responsibilities and role in society as a media company. 41 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The acceptance of a takeover bid for the company would, as a conThe Board’s relationship with the external auditor sequence of the voting restrictions set out above, require a change According to its mandate, the Audit Committee is responsible for to the Articles of Association. ensuring that Schibsted is subject to an independent and effective external audit. The Audit Committee evaluates the following factors The Board has prepared principles and guidelines for handling any relating to the external auditor each year: takeover bids. In the event of a takeover bid the Board will, within the limitations set out in the Articles of Association, seek to comply • The audit firm's independence with the recommendations in the Code. • The quality of the auditing services • The estimated fee 15. Auditor The Audit Committee evaluates the external auditor’s fee and Appointment of auditor makes a recommendation to the Board. The Board submits a proThe external auditor is elected by the Annual General Meeting. The posal to the Annual General Meeting regarding the approval of the Audit Committee presents a recommendation on the appointment external auditor’s fee. See note 30 to the financial statements for of an external auditor to the Board. The Board’s recommendation information on remuneration of the external auditor for the financial is then presented to the Annual General Meeting, which makes the year 2018. final decision. As a general rule, all Group companies must use the same audit firm. Exceptions may be approved by the CFO. The external auditor presents an annual audit plan to the Audit 42 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Committee. The company’s external auditor is present when the Section 5: Shares and negotiability management presents the preliminary consolidated financial As stated above, the Tinius Trust has certain negative controlling statements to the Board and when the final results are presented, rights by virtue of its shareholding in Schibsted. The Tinius Trust’s if deemed necessary. The external auditor also reviews internal purpose is to ensure that Schibsted remain a media group charactcontrols as part of the annual audit procedures, and reports identified erized by free, independent editorial staffs, credibility and quality weaknesses and proposed improvements to the Audit Committee. and with long-term, healthy financial development. Due to the The external auditor regularly attends Audit Committee meetings Group’s ownership structure as well as Schibsted’s publishing and holds meetings with the Board without the management present. responsibilities and societal role as a media company, Schibsted’s independence and integrity are ensured through restrictions on The external auditor attends the company’s Annual General Meeting ownership and voting rights laid down in the Articles of Association. and comments on the Auditor's Report. Article 6 states: “No shareholder may own more than 30 percent of the shares or Independence of the external auditor vote for more than 30 percent of the total number of votes which The external auditor must under no circumstances perform advisory may be cast under the company's Articles of Association.” services or other services which could potentially affect or raise doubts about the auditor’s independence. The Group has prepared Section 6: Annual General Meeting guidelines on the relationship with the external auditor. Schibsted does not systematically make arrangements to ensure The amount of non-audit services provided by the external auditor that an independent person chair the Annual General Meeting. in 2018 is compliant with the requirements in the Auditing and This is assessed on a year-by-year basis considering the complexAuditors Act and guidelines from the Financial Supervisory Authority ity of the proposed agenda. Traditionally, the Board Chair chairs of Norway. The Board finds the advisory services provided by the the Annual General Meeting when the agenda does not require an external auditor in 2018 not to influence the auditor’s independence independent person. The rationale for this is that available voting but acknowledges the potential issues this entails. The Audit technology has resulted in lower physical attendance of the AnCommittee is responsible for ensuring that the auditor does not nual General meeting, and thus has decreased the need for an inprovide any prohibited non-audit services for the Group. See note dependent chair. 30 to the financial statements for information on fees relating to auditing and consultancy services. Section 14: Takeovers According to Article 6 of the Articles of Association shareholders may not own or vote for more than 30 percent of the shares in the 16. Deviations from the Code of Practice company. The purpose of these restrictions is to safeguard SchibAccording to the Group’s own evaluation, we deviate from three sted’s independence and integrity in order to ensure that the comof the recommendations of the Norwegian Code of Practice for pany has full editorial freedom, allowing the company to fulfil its Corporate Governance: publishing responsibilities and role in society as a media company Section 3: Equity and dividends The Code states that “mandates granted to the Board of Directors to increase the company’s share capital should be restricted by defined purposes”. The authorization to increase the share capital granted by the 2018 Annual General Meeting is not restricted to defined purposes as recommended by the Code. The Board elected not to propose such restrictions in order to give the Board of Directors the flexibility to raise capital as deemed appropriate. 43 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENT / GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENT FOR THE GROUP CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER (NOK million) Note 2018 2017 Operating revenues 6, 7 18,059 16,943 Raw materials and finished goods (409) (432) Personnel expenses 9 (6,598) (6,317) Other operating expenses 8 (7,784) (7,588) Gross operating profit (loss) 6 3,268 2,606 Depreciation and amortisation 17, 18 (731) (634) Share of profit (loss) of joint ventures and associates 5 60 (113) Impairment loss 16, 17, 18 (747) (49) Other income and expenses 12 (55) 1,505 Operating profit (loss) 6 1,794 3,315 Financial income 13 29 16 Financial expenses 13 (142) (187) Profit (loss) before taxes 1,681 3,144 Taxes 14 (965) (958) Profit (loss) 715 2,186 Profit (loss) attributable to: Non-controlling interests 27 68 55 Owners of the parent 648 2,130 Earnings per share in NOK: Basic 15 2.72 9.36 Diluted 15 2.72 9.35 44 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENT / GROUP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER (NOK million) Note 2018 2017 Profit (loss) 715 2,186 Items not to be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Remeasurements of defined benefit pension liabilities 11 (27) (333) Income tax relating to remeasurements of defined benefit pension liabilities 14 7 77 Share of other comprehensive income from joint ventures and associates 5 (3) (3) Change in fair value of equity instruments (2) Items to be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Exchange differences on translating foreign operations (366) 717 Hedges of net investments in foreign operations 20 (55) Income tax relating to hedges of net investments in foreign operations 14 (5) 13 Share of other comprehensive income from joint ventures and associates 5 (8) Other comprehensive income (376) 408 Comprehensive income 339 2,593 Comprehensive income attributable to: Non-controlling interests 65 61 Owners of the parent 274 2,533 45 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENT / GROUP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS OF 31 DECEMBER (NOK million) Note 2018 2017 ASSETS Intangible assets 16, 17 16,521 16,983 Property, plant and equipment and investment property 18 870 988 Investments in joint ventures and associates 5 4,248 4,514 Deferred tax assets 14 233 251 Other non-current assets 19 131 114 Non-current assets 22,003 22,850 Contract assets 7 280 Trade receivables and other current assets 19, 20, 25 3,199 3,141 Cash and cash equivalents 25 1,844 1,626 Current assets 5,322 4,767 Total assets 27,325 27,617 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Paid-in equity 26 6,927 6,895 Other equity 7,484 7,898 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 14,412 14,793 Non-controlling interests 27 262 261 Equity 14,673 15,054 Deferred tax liabilities 14 901 897 Pension liabilities 11 1,241 1,364 Non-current interest-bearing borrowings 24, 25 3,837 4,212 Other non-current liabilities 22 242 326 Non-current liabilities 6,222 6,798 Current interest-bearing borrowings 24, 25 389 28 Income tax payable 14 381 391 Contract liabilities 7 1,085 Other current liabilities 22, 25 4,575 5,345 Current liabilities 6,430 5,764 Total equity and liabilities 27,325 27,617 Paris, 21 March 2019 Schibsted ASA’s Board of Directors ............................................................... ............................................................... ............................................................... ............................................................... ............................................................... ............................................................... Ole Jacob Sunde Christian Ringnes Birger Steen Philippe Vimard Eugénie Van Wiechen Torbjörn Ek Chairman of the Board Board member Board member Board member Board member Board member ............................................................... ............................................................... ............................................................... ............................................................... ............................................................... Ingunn Saltbones Finn E. Våga Marianne Budnik Orla Noonan Kristin Skogen Lund Board member Board member Board member Board member CEO 46 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENT / GROUP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER (NOK million) Note 2018 2017 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit (loss) before taxes 1,681 3,144 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses 5, 13, 17, 18 1,479 685 Net effect pension liabilities (90) (91) Share of loss (profit) of joint ventures and associates 5 (60) 113 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 5 40 21 Taxes paid (941) (828) Sales losses (gains) on non-current assets and other non-cash losses (gains) (23) (1,697) Change in working capital and provisions * (304) (57) Net cash flow from operating activities 28 1,781 1,290 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Development and purchase of intangible assets, and property, plant and equipment 17, 18 (817) (865) Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 28 (38) (1,279) Proceeds from sale of intangible assets, and property, plant and equipment 20 23 Proceeds from sale of subsidiaries, net of cash sold 28 1 380 Net sale of (investment in) other shares (134) (2,929) Net change in other investments 15 124 Net cash flow from investing activities (953) (4,546) Net cash flow before financing activities 828 (3,256) CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES New interest-bearing loans and borrowings 11 4,293 Repayment of interest-bearing loans and borrowings (2,521) Change in ownership interests in subsidiaries (97) (228) Capital increase 2,491 Net sale (purchase) of treasury shares (13) 17 Dividends paid to owners of the parent (417) (396) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 27 (92) (98) Net cash flow from financing activities (608) 3,558 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (2) 55 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 218 357 Cash and cash equivalents as at 1 January 1,626 1,268 Cash and cash equivalents as at 31 December 1,844 1,626 * Changes in working capital and provisions consist of changes in trade receivables, other current receivables and liabilities, and other accruals. 47 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENT / GROUP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Other Foreign currency ShareNonShare paid-in Retained transl. Hedging holders' controlling (NOK million) Note capital equity earnings reserve reserves equity interests Total As at 31 December 2016 113 4,259 5,555 576 (268) 10,235 305 10,540 Profit (loss) for the period 2,130 2,130 55 2,186 Other comprehensive income (267) 711 (42) 403 6 408 Total comprehensive income 1,863 711 (42) 2,533 61 2,593 Capital increase 6 2,488 2,494 7 2,501 Share-based payment 29 29 29 Dividends paid to owners of the parent (396) (396) (396) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 12 12 (98) (86) Change in treasury shares 17 17 17 Business combinations 4 7 7 Loss of control of subsidiaries (16) (16) Changes in ownership of subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control 4 (127) (127) (5) (132) Share of transactions with the owners of joint ventures and associates (5) (5) (5) Total transactions with the owners 6 2,517 (498) 2,025 (105) 1,921 As at 31 December 2017 119 6,776 6,920 1,287 (310) 14 793 261 15,054 Changes due to changes in accounting policies IFRS 2 (Note 2) 13 13 13 Changes due to changes in accounting policies IFRS 15 (Note 2) (58) (58) (2) (59) As at 1 January 2018 119 6,776 6,875 1,287 (310) 14,748 259 15,008 Profit (loss) for the period 648 648 68 715 Other comprehensive income (26) (363) 16 (373) (3) (376) Total comprehensive income 622 (363) 16 274 65 339 Capital increase 2 2 Share-based payment 10 32 32 32 Dividends paid to owners of the parent (417) (417) (417) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 11 11 (92) (81) Change in treasury shares 26 (13) (13) (13) Changes in ownership of subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control 4 (220) (220) 27 (192) Share of transactions with the owners of joint ventures and associates (4) (4) (4) Total transactions with the owners 32 (643) (611) (62) (674) As at 31 December 2018 119 6,808 6,854 924 (294) 14,411 262 14,673 48 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT GENERAL INFORMATION Note 1 General information Note 2 Basis for preparing the financial statements Note 3 Significant accounting judgements and major sources of estimation uncertainty GROUP STRUCTURE Note 4 Changes in the composition of the Group Note 5 Investments in joint ventures and associates INFORMATION ON INCOME STATEMENT ITEMS Note 6 Operating segments Note 7 Revenue recognition Note 8 Other operating expenses Note 9 Personnel expenses and remuneration Note 10 Share-based payment Note 11 Pension plans Note 12 Other income and expenses Note 13 Financial items Note 14 Income taxes Note 15 Earnings per share INFORMATION ON STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION ITEMS Note 16 Impairment assessments Note 17 Intangible assets Note 18 Property, plant and equipment and investment property Note 19 Other non-current and current assets Note 20 Trade receivables Note 21 Financial liabilities related to business combinations and increases in ownership interests Note 22 Other non-current and current liabilities CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Note 23 Financial risk management Note 24 Interest-bearing borrowings Note 25 Financial instruments by category OTHER INFORMATION Note 26 Number of shares Note 27 Non-controlling interests Note 28 Supplemental information to the consolidated statement of cash flows Note 29 Transactions with related parties Note 30 Auditors' remuneration Note 31 Lease agreements Note 32 Events after the balance sheet date 49 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP NOTE 1: disclosed in relevant notes to the consolidated financial statements. GENERAL INFORMATION -----------------------------------------------Statement of cash flows The statement of cash flows is prepared under the indirect method. General Consolidation principles Schibsted ASA is a public limited company and its offices are located in Akersgata The consolidated financial statements include the parent Schibsted ASA and all 55, Oslo in Norway. The A-shares and B-shares of Schibsted ASA are listed on subsidiaries, presented as a single economic entity. All the entities have applied the Oslo Stock Exchange. Schibsted Media Group is an international media group consistent principles and all intercompany matters have been eliminated. with leading positions within online classifieds and strong positions within media houses. The business areas are described in segment information in note 6. Subsidiaries are all entities controlled, directly or indirectly, by Schibsted ASA. The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable The consolidated financial statements including notes for Schibsted ASA for the returns from the involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those year 2018 were approved by the Board of Directors on 21 March 2019 and will be returns through power over the entity. Power over an entity exists when the proposed to the General Meeting 3 May 2019. Group has existing rights that give the current ability to direct the activities that significantly affect the entity's returns. Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights result in control. The Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether NOTE 2: control exists, including contractual arrangements and potential voting rights to BASIS FOR PREPARING THE CONSOLIDATED the extent that those are substantive. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date Schibsted ASA effectively obtains control of the subsidiary (acquisition date) and -----------------------------------------------until the date Schibsted ASA ceases to control the subsidiary. Compliance with IFRS The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and presented in Non-controlling interests is the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted indirectly, to the parent Schibsted ASA. Non-controlling interests are presented by the EU. The valuation and recognition of the items in the financial statements in the consolidated balance sheet within equity, separately from the equity of have been carried out in accordance with applicable IFRS standards. the owners of the parent. Profit (loss) and comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests are disclosed as allocations for the period of profit New and amended standards adopted by the Group (loss) and comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests and Except for the mandatory implementation of IFRS 2 Share Based Payment, IFRS owners of the parent, respectively. 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue From Contracts With Customers as at 1 January 2018, the accounting policies adopted are consistent with those Foreign currency translation of the financial year 2017. Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the The implementation of IFRS 15 Revenues from contracts with customers has entity operates (‘the functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements impacted the accounting principles and the comparable figures. See note 7 for are presented in Norwegian kroner (NOK), which is Schibsted ASA's functional more information. and presentation currency. The implementation of IFRS 9 Financial instruments had no significant impact. Foreign currency transactions are translated into the entity's functional curSee note 25 for more information. rency on initial recognition by using the spot exchange rate at the date of the transaction. At the balance sheet date, assets and liabilities are translated from The implementation of IFRS 2 Share Based Payment had no significant impact. foreign currency to the entity’s functional currency by: See note 10 for more information. translating monetary items using the exchange rate at the balance sheet date translating non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost Financial statements in a foreign currency using the exchange rate at the transaction date The consolidated financial statements have been prepared based on a historical translating non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in a foreign curcost basis, with the exception of financial instruments in the categories Financial rency using the exchange rate at the date when the fair value was determined assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss or OCI and Financial assets and liabilities at amortized cost. Assets that no longer justify their value Exchange differences arising on the settlement of, or on translating monetary are written down to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use items not designated as hedging instruments, are recognised in profit or loss and fair value less selling costs. in the period in which they arise. When a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised in other comprehensive income, any exchange component of that An asset or liability is classified as current when it is part of a normal operating gain or loss is also recognised in other comprehensive income. When a gain or loss cycle, when it is held primarily for trading purposes, when it falls due within on a non-monetary item is recognised in profit or loss, any exchange component of 12 months or when it consists of cash or cash equivalents on the statement that gain or loss is also recognised in profit or loss. of financial position date. Cash and cash equivalents consists of bank deposits and other monetary instruments with a maturity of three months or less. Other Upon incorporation of a foreign operation into the consolidated financial stateitems are non-current. A dividend does not become a liability until it has been ments by consolidation or the equity method, the results and financial position formally approved by the General Meeting. Discontinued operations and assets is translated from the functional currency of the foreign operation into NOK (the held for sale are presented on separate lines as current items. presentation currency) by using the step-by-step method of consolidation. Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the balance sheet date All amounts are in NOK million unless otherwise stated. Tables may not and income and expenses are translated monthly at the average exchange rates summarise due to roundings. for the month and accumulated. Resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income until the disposal of the foreign operation. The accounting principles applied and significant estimation uncertainties are 50 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP Exchange rates are quoted from the Norwegian state bank (norges-bank.no). liabilities of that foreign operation. They are therefore expressed in the functional currency of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate at Goodwill and fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and the balance sheet date. liabilities arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation, is treated as assets and New standards and interpretations not yet adopted Certain new accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to standards have been published that are not mandatory for 31 December 2018 reporting periods and have not been early adopted in the combined financial statements. The Group's assessment of the impact of these new standards and interpretations are set out below. Title of standard IFRS 16 Leases Nature of change IFRS 16 sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases and requires lessees to account for all almost leases under a single on-balance sheet model. At the commencement date of a lease, a lessee will recognise a liability to make lease payments and an asset representing the right to use the underlying asset during the lease term. Lessees will be required to separately recognise the interest expense on the lease liability and amortisation on the right-of-use asset. Repayment of the lease liability will be classified as cash flows from financing activity in the cash flow statement. Impact The Group plans to adopt IFRS 16 retrospectively by using the modified retrospective approach, with the accumulated effect of implementation charged against equity 1 January 2019, hence the comparative figures for 2018 will not be restated. The Group will elect to apply the standard to contracts that were previously identified as leases applying IAS 17 and IFRIC 4. Upon implementation of the standard, a liability will have to be recognised for the net present value of remaining lease payments and an asset will be recognised for the right to use the underlying asset during the remaining lease term. The Group’s equity ratio will consequently decrease. Lease expense will change from being linear over the lease term to being declining and the lease expense will change classification from operating expenses to a combination of amortisation and interest expenses. The effect on assets, liabilities and expenses will depend on the agreements actually in force on implementation. The Groups' assessment indicates a right-of-use asset of approximately NOK 1.9 billion to be recognized and a corresponding lease liability of approximately NOK 2.1 billion in respect of all these leases. Net impact on equity is estimated to be NOK 136 million. The impact on profit or loss is to decrease Operating expenses by an amount in the range of NOK 450-500 million, to increase depreciation by approximately NOK 400 million and to increase interest expense by approximately NOK 70 million. The impact on cash flow is to move approximately NOK 420 million from operating to financing activities. The Group will elect to use the exemptions proposed by the standard and adjust the right-of use-asset at the date of initial applicataion by any provision for onerous lease contracts, recognized under IAS 17 at 31 December 2018. Any accruals or deferrals of lease payment or incentives previously recognised in respect of the operating leases will be derecognised and the amount factored into the measurement of the right‑to‑use assets and lease liabilities. The Group will for all lease contracts, except for significant office lease contracts, elect to use the exemptions proposed by the standard on lease contracts for which the lease terms ends within 12 months as of the date of initial application, and lease contracts for which the underlying asset is of low value (below NOK 50 000). The Group has leases of certain office equipment (i.e., personal computers, printing and photocopying machines) that are considered of low value. For significant office leases the right-of-use assets will be measured as if the standard had been applied since the commencement of the lease . For all other leases the right-of-use assets will be measured at an amount equal to the lease liability adjusted for any prepaid or accrued lease payments at 31 December 2018. At the date of initial application the Group will elect to separate non-lease components from lease components, and will account for each lease component and any associated non-lease component separately. At initial application the group will apply the incremental borrowing rate as of 1 January 2019 for all leases. Date of adoption by Group 1 January 2019 51 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP NOTE 3: Changes in ownership of subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING Loss of control JUDGEMENTS AND MAJOR SOURCES When control of a subsidiary is lost, the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary and the carrying amount of any non-controlling interests are derecognised. Any OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY consideration received and any investment retained in the former subsidiary is recognised at their fair values. The difference between amounts recognised and -----------------------------------------------derecognised is recognised as gain or loss in profit or loss. Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income related to the subsidiary are reclassified to The management has made use of estimates and assumptions in preparing the profit or loss or transferred to equity similarly as if the parent had disposed of consolidated financial statements. The most important areas where estimates the assets and liabilities directly. Amounts reclassified to profit or loss (including are having an impact are listed below. Detailed information of these estimates accumulated translation differences) are included in gain or loss on loss of and judgements is included in the relevant notes. control of subsidiary in profit or loss. Significant estimates and judgements: Calculation of value in use in testing for impairment (note 16) Capitalisation of development costs (note 17) Business combinations Schibsted has in 2018 invested NOK 37 milion (NOK 1,278 million in 2017) related Calculation of present value of defined benefit pension obligations (note 11) to acquisition of businesses (business combinations). The amount comprises cash Recognition of deferred tax asset for carried forward tax losses (note 14) consideration transferred reduced by cash and cash equivalents of the acquiree. Fair value of contingent consideration and liabilities related to non-controlling The Group has in addition paid NOK 1 million (NOK 1 million in 2017) of contingent interests' put options (note 21) consideration related to prior year's business combinations. Recognition of contracted listing fees and premium products according to normal pattern of views (note 7) In November 2018, Schibsted completed a bolt-on acqusition of Videdressing.com, Liabilities measured at fair value (note 25) a general goods vertical within second-hand fasihion, through the acqusition of 100 % of the shares of Videdressing SAS. Schibsted has also been involved in other minor business combinations, including NOTE 4: step acquisitions. CHANGES IN THE COMPOSITION In step acquisitions, the previously held equity interest is measured at fair value at the acquisition date, and a total gain of NOK 506 million is recognised in 2017 OF THE GROUP in profit or loss in the line item Other income and expenses. -----------------------------------------------Acquisition-related costs of NOK 3 million (NOK 8 million in 2017) related to business combinations closed are recognised in profit or loss in the line item Principle: Other income and expenses. Business combinations The acquisition method is used to account for all business combinations where Schibsted ASA or a subsidiary is the acquirer, i.e. the entity that obtains control over another entity or business. When a subsidiary or business is acquired, a purchase price allocation is carried out. Identifiable assets acquired and contingent liabilities assumed are measured at fair value at the acquisition date. Any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree is measured either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree's identifiable net assets. The residual value in the acquisition is goodwill. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Contingent consideration is recognised as part of the consideration transferred in exchange for the acquiree. Subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration deemed to be a liability is recognised in profit or loss. In business combination achieved in stages, the previously held equity interest is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date. Any gains or losses arising from such remeasurement are recognised in profit or loss. Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control Transactions with non-controlling interests are recognised in equity. The carrying amount at non-controlling interests is adjusted to reflect the change in their relative share in the subsidiary. Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests is adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or recieved is recognized directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent. When put options are granted by Schibsted to holders of non-controlling interests, Schibsted determines and allocates profit (loss), other comprehensive income and dividends paid to such non-controlling interests. Accumulated non-controlling interests are derecognised as if the non-controlling interest was acquired at the balance sheet date and a financial liability reflecting the obligation to acquire the non-controlling interest is recognised. The net amount recognised or derecognised is accounted for as an equity transaction. In the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, such amounts are included in the line item 52 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP The table below summarises the consideration transferred and the amounts recognised for assets acquired and liabilities assumed after the business combinations: Total 2018 Yapo.cl 2017 Other 2017 Total 2017 Consideration: Cash 93 582 788 1,370 Contingent consideration Consideration transferred 93 582 788 1,370 Fair value of previously held equity interest 442 75 517 Total 93 1,024 863 1,887 Amounts for assets and liabilities recognised: Intangible assets 11 65 162 227 Property, plant and equipment 1 1 2 3 Other non-current assets 1 Trade and other receivables 9 8 32 40 Cash and cash equivalents 56 10 82 92 Deferred tax liabilities (16) (34) (50) Other non-current liabilities (5) (107) 94 (13) Current liabilities (66) (11) (92) (103) Total identifiable net assets 7 (50) 247 197 Non-controlling interests (7) (7) Goodwill 87 1,074 623 1,697 Total 93 1,024 863 1,887 The purchase price allocations for acquisitions made in 2018 are preliminary due In May 2017, Schibsted entered into an agreement to acquire Telenor's 25% to uncertainty in certain valuation factors. There are no significant effects from interest in the Brazilian online classifieds operation olx.com.br and its 50% interest finalising preliminary purchase price allocations in any subsequent year. in the Chilean online classifieds operation Yapo.cl. Simultaneously, Schibsted entered into an agreement to sell to Telenor its 33.3% ownership interest in the The goodwill recognised is attributable to inseparable non-contractual customer associate 701 Search Pte Ltd operating online classifieds operations in Malaysia, relationships, the assembled workforce of the companies and synergies. None of Vietnam and Myanmar. The transactions were closed 30 June 2017. As a result of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes. differences in value of assets acquired and sold, Schibsted made a cash payment The business combinations are carried out as part of the Group's growth strategy, of USD 405 million. Before the transaction, the Brazilian and Chilean operations and the businesses acquired are good strategic fits with existing operations within were both joint ventures of Schibsted, accounted for using the equity method the Schibsted Media Group. of accounting. The transaction in respect of olx.com.br is accounted for as an increase in ownership interest of a joint venture from 25% to 50%. The transThe fair value of acquired receivables is NOK 9 million in 2018 (NOK 40 million action in respect of Yapo.cl in Chile is accounted for as a business combination. in 2017), of which NOK 6 million (NOK 10 million in 2017) are trade receivables. There is no material difference between the gross contractual amounts receivable Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries are accounted for as equity and the fair value of the receivables. transactions. The effect on the equity attributable to owners of the parent is presented in the table below: Non-controlling interests are measured at the proportionate share of the acquiree's 2018 2017 identifiable net assets. Net consideration received (paid) (97) (260) Financial liabilities previously recognised related 102 53 The companies acquired in business combinations have since the acquisition to non-controlling interests' put options dates contributed NOK 7 million to operating revenues in 2018 (NOK 153 million in 2017) and contributed negatively to consolidated profit (loss) by NOK 3 million Adjustment to equity 5 (207) in 2018 (positively NOK 15 million in 2017). If the acquisition date of all business Of which adjustment to non-controlling interests 13 (35) combinations completed through purchase of shares was as at 1 January, the Of which adjustment to equity attributable to (8) (172) operating revenues of the Group would have increased by NOK 34 million in 2018 owners of the parent (NOK 136 million in 2017) and profit (loss) would have decreased by NOK 13 million (decreased NOK 15 million in 2017). The above figures do not include business The adjustments to equity presented above is included in the line item Changes in combinations completed through purchase of assets for which no separate ownership of subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control in the Consolidated financial statements exists. statement of changes in equity. Included in that line item is also changes in financial liabilities related to non-controlling interests' put options recognised in Other changes in the composition of the Group equity as disclosed in note 21 Financial liabilities related to business combinations Total net gains of NOK 13 million is recognised in 2018 (NOK 1,066 million in and increases in ownership interests. 2017) from the sale of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in the line item Other income and expenses. In 2017 gains of NOK 195 million is from sale of subVidedressing SAS, Olx.com.br, Yapo.cl SpA, 701 Search Pte Ltd and Finderly sidiaries (primarily Hittapunktse AB), NOK 15 million from sale of joint ventures are included in operating segment Marketplaces. Hittapunkt AB is included in and NOK 856 million from sale of associates (primarily 701 Search Pte Ltd). operating segment Growth. Schibsted has in 2018 invested NOK 97 million (NOK 228 million in 2017) related to increased ownership interests in subsidiaries. The amount invested in 2018 is primarilly related to increase of ownership interest to 100% in Finderly GmbH (Shpock). 53 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP NOTE 5: INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES -----------------------------------------------Principle: or loss and the share of changes in other comprehensive income is recognised in other A joint arrangement is an arrangement of which two or more parties have joint control. comprehensive income with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement and the investment. Dividends received reduce the carrying amount of the investment. exists when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. Investments in joint arrangements are classified as When the Group’s share of losses equals or exceeds its interest in the entity, including joint ventures if they are structured through separate vehicles and the parties have any other unsecured long-term receivables, the Group does not recognise further rights to the net assets of the arrangements. losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the other entity. An associate is an entity that Schibsted, directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, Changes in ownership has significant influence over. Significant influence is normally presumed to exist The use of the equity method is discontinued from the date an investment ceases to when Schibsted controls 20% or more of the voting power of the investee. be a joint venture or an associate. The difference between the total of the fair value of any retained interest and any proceeds from disposing of a part interest in a joint Interests in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method. venture or an associate, and the carrying amount of the investment, is recognised as gain or loss in profit or loss. Equity method Under the equity method of accounting, the investments are initially recognised at If the Group's ownership interest in a joint venture or an associate is reduced, but the cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Group’s share of the post-acquisition equity method is still applied, a gain or loss from the partial disposal is recognised in profits or losses. The Group's share of the investee's profit or loss is recognised in profit profit or loss. The retained interest is not remeasured. 2018 2017 Development in net carrying amount Joint ventures Associates Total Joint ventures Associates Total As at 1 January 4,005 486 4,491 537 410 947 Change in accounting principle IFRS 15 (5) (5) Additions 12 88 99 3,659 104 3,763 Disposals (14) (832) (846) Transition from (to) subsidiaries 5 5 (9) 1 (8) Transition from (to) joint ventures and associates 3 (3) Transition from (to) other shares 7 7 Transition from (to) receivables (18) (18) Share of profit (loss) 65 (6) 60 (69) (44) (113) Share of other comprehensive income (3) (3) (2) (9) (11) Increase from dividend received from subsidiary (reciprocal interests) 11 11 12 12 Gain 8 8 15 856 871 Dividends received (3) (42) (44) (21) (21) Share of transactions with the owners of joint ventures and associates (4) (4) (5) 1 (4) Translation differences (377) (1) (379) (110) 11 (99) As at 31 December 3,679 549 4,228 4,005 486 4,491 Of which presented in Investments in joint ventures and associates 3,679 569 4,248 4,005 509 4,514 Of which presented in Other current liabilities (20) (20) (23) (23) For more details on acquisitions and divestments of joint ventures and associates, see note 4 Changes in the compositition of the Group. The carrying amount of investments in joint ventures and associates comprises the following investments: Country of 2018 2017 Development in net carrying amount incorporation Interest held Joint ventures Associates Interest held Joint ventures Associates Silver Brazil JVCO BV Netherlands 50.00 % 3,600 50.00 % 3,952 Willhaben Internet Service GmbH Austria 50.00 % 56 50.00 % 33 Polaris Media ASA Norway 28.97 % 205 28.97 % 205 Bynk AB Sweden 32.00 % 79 29.90 % 60 Younited SA France 11.09 % 71 11.55 % 81 TT Nyhetsbyrån AB Sweden 33.67 % 63 33.67 % 56 Norsk Telegrambyrå AS Norway 29.47 % 49 29.45 % 45 eEducation Albert AB Sweden 24.60 % 34 n/a Fronteer Solutions AS Norway 16.90 % 20 17.20 % 21 Other 23 29 19 18 Carrying amount as at 31 December 3,679 549 4,005 486 If the company mentioned is the parent company of a group, the figures presented are for the consolidated group. 54 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP Description of the business of the joint ventures and associates: Silver Brazil JVCO BV Operates an online classified site in Brazil (olx.com.br, 50% joint venture from July 2017) (see note 4) SnT Classified ANS Operates online classified sites in Chile (Yapo.cl until June 2017), Brazil (olx.com.br, 25% joint venture until June 2017) and Bangladesh (ekhanei.com, closed down) Willhaben Internet Service GmbH Operates online classified sites in Austria (willhaben.at, car4you.at, and autopro24.at) Polaris Media ASA A Norwegian media group that operates local and regional media houses Bynk AB Operates a lending marketplace in Sweden Younited SA Operates peer-to-peer lending marketplaces in France, Italy and Spain (younited-credit.com, it.younited-credit.com and es.younited-credit.com) TT Nyhetsbyrån AB A Swedish news agency Norsk Telegrambyrå AS A Norwegian news agency eEducation Albert AB Operates an application that educates children in mathematics Fronteer Solutions AS A tech company doing research on investment strategies The following table sets forth summarised financial information for material joint ventures as at 31 December: 2018 2017 Silver Brazil Other Total Silver Brazil SnT Other Total Interest held as at 31 December 50.00% 50.00% n/a Income statement and statement of comprehensive income: Operating revenues 601 239 29 Depreciation and amortisation (11) (5) (1) Interest income 4 2 Taxes 103 Profit (loss) 95 (56) (122) Profit (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests (21) Profit (loss) attributable to owners of the parent 95 (56) (100) Other comprehensive income attributable to owners of the parent (4) Total comprehensive income attributable to owners of the parent 95 (56) (104) Share of profit (loss) 48 18 65 (28) (50) 9 (69) Share of other comprehensive income (2) (2) Share of total comprehensive income 48 18 65 (28) (52) 9 (72) Balance sheet: Non-current assets 323 207 Other current assets 93 102 Cash and cash equivalents 117 22 Non-controlling interests Non-current financial liabilities (excluding trade and other payables) (48) (53) Other non-current liabilities (76) (31) Current financial liabilities (excluding trade and other payables) (22) (1) Other current liabilities (196) (87) Net assets 191 159 Share of net assets 96 80 Goodwill 3,504 3,872 Carrying amount as at 31 December 3,600 79 3,679 3,952 52 4,005 Fair value (if there is a quoted market) n/a n/a n/a The Silver Brazil and SnT figures presented are for the consolidated Silver Brazil and SnT groups. Schibsted's share is presented on separate line items. Other includes Schibsted's share of all individually immaterial joint ventures. The SnT figures relate to yapo.cl, olx.com.br and ekhanei.com, in the period from January to June 2017, while the Silver Brazil figures relate to olx.com.br in the period from July to December 2017. This must be seen in conjunction with the agreement with Telenor closed end of June 2017. The agreement is further described in note 4. 55 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP The following table sets forth summarised financial information for material associates as at 31 December: 2018 2017 Polaris Media Other Total Polaris Media Other Total Interest held as at 31 December 28.97% 28.97% Income statement and statement of comprehensive income: Operating revenues 1,525 1,518 Profit (loss) 59 66 Profit (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests 2 1 Profit (loss) attributable to owners of the parent 57 64 Other comprehensive income attributable to owners of the parent (11) (40) Total comprehensive income attributable to owners of the parent 46 24 Share of profit or loss 17 (22) (6) 19 (62) (44) Share of other comprehensive income (3) (3) (12) 2 (9) Share of total comprehensive income 13 (22) (9) 7 (60) (53) Dividends received (21) (21) (42) (14) (7) (21) Balance sheet: Non-current assets 903 976 Current assets 407 371 Non-controlling interests (18) (33) Non-current liabilities (427) (453) Current liabilities (379) (379) Net assets 487 482 Share of net assets 141 140 Goodwill 65 65 Carrying amount as at 31 December 205 345 549 205 281 486 Fair value (if there is a quoted market) 374 264 The Polaris Media figures presented are for the consolidated Polaris Media group. Other includes all individually immaterial associates. NOTE 6: OPERATING SEGMENTS -----------------------------------------------In the operating segment information presented, Gross operating profit (loss) Principle: is used as measure of operating segment profit (loss). For internal control and The operating segments correspond to the management structure and the monitoring, Operating profit (loss) is also used as measure of operating segment internal reporting for 2018 to the Group's chief operating decision maker, defined profit (loss). as the CEO. The operating segments reflect an allocation based partly on the type of operation and partly on geographical location. New operating segments, based on the organisational adjustment announced late 2018, will be presented in the quarterly report for first quarter 2019. Schibsted's operating segments are Marketplaces, Publishing, Growth and Other/ See also note 7 for Disaggregation of revenues. Headquarters. Operating segments were changed from 1 January 2018, and are restated retrospectively to give comparable information. Marketplaces comprises online classified operations in Norway, Sweden, France and Spain as well as several other countries. Publishing comprises news operations in Norway and Sweden. Growth is a portfolio of web-based growth companies including Lendo, Prisjakt, Servicefinder, Mittanbud, Let's Deal and other companies. Other/Headquarters comprises operations not included in the other reported operating segments, including the Group's headquarter Schibsted ASA and centralised functions including Product and Technology. Eliminations comprise intersegment sales. Transactions between operating segments are conducted on normal commercial terms. 56 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP Operating revenues and profit (loss) by operating segments Other/ 2018 Marketplaces Publishing Growth Headquarters Eliminations Total Operating revenues from external customers 8,415 7,776 1,838 29 18,059 Operating revenues from other segments 129 476 16 707 (1,328) Operating revenues 8,544 8,252 1,855 736 (1,328) 18,059 Gross operating profit (loss) ex. Investment phase 3,367 687 422 (766) 3,709 Gross operating profit (loss) 2,925 687 422 (766) 3,268 Depreciation and amortisation (241) (215) (40) (235) (731) Share of profit (loss) of joint ventures and associates 66 31 (36) 60 Impairment loss (472) (11) (133) (131) (747) Other income and expenses (51) 37 (7) (34) (55) Operating profit (loss) 2,227 528 204 (1,165) 1,794 Gross operating profit (loss) ex. investment phase excludes operations in growth phase with large investments in market positions, immature monetisation rate and where sustainable profitability has not been reached. For 2018, investment phase operations provided Operating revenues of NOK 564 million and reduced Gross operating profit by NOK 441 million. For information regarding Other income and expenses, see Note 12. Other/ 2017 Marketplaces Publishing Growth Headquarters Eliminations Total Operating revenues from external customers 7,349 7,735 1,828 31 16,943 Operating revenues from other segments 163 425 7 537 (1,133) Operating revenues 7,512 8,160 1,835 568 (1,133) 16,943 Gross operating profit (loss) ex. Investment phase 2,973 795 392 (879) 3,282 Gross operating profit (loss) 2,297 795 392 (879) 2,606 Depreciation and amortisation (213) (235) (40) (146) (634) Share of profit (loss) of joint ventures and associates (126) 20 (11) 3 (113) Impairment loss (2) (15) (32) (49) Other income and expenses 1,321 35 182 (33) 1,505 Operating profit (loss) 3,279 615 509 (1,088) 3,315 Gross operating profit (loss) ex. investment phase excludes operations in growth phase with large investments in market positions, immature monetisation rate and where sustainable profitability has not been reached. For 2017, investment phase operations provided Operating revenues of NOK 478 million and reduced Gross operating profit by NOK 676 million. For information regarding Other income and expenses, see Note 12. Operating revenues and non-current assets by geographical areas In presenting geographical information, attribution of operating revenues is based and an attribution based on customer's location. Operating revenues presented on the location of group companies. There are no significant differences between in the table below are revenues from external customers. Non-current assets the attribution of operating revenues based on the location of group companies are attributed based on the geographical location of the assets. 2018 2017 2018 2017 Operating revenues Non-current assets Norway 7,471 7,065 Norway 2,263 2,370 Sweden 4,705 4,957 Sweden 2,035 2,121 France 2,940 2,410 France 5,032 4,895 Spain 1,535 1,293 Spain 4,845 4,795 Other Europe 1,129 994 Other Europe 2,641 2,588 Other countries 278 223 Other countries 4,823 5,715 Total 18,059 16,943 Total 21,639 22,486 The non-current assets comprise assets, excluding deferred tax assets and financial instruments, expected to be recovered more than twelve months after the reporting period. Other countries consists primarily of Schibsted's businesses in Latin America. 57 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP NOTE 7: REVENUE RECOGNITION -----------------------------------------------Principle: Advertising Schibsted has implemented IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Offline advertising revenues are sales of advertisement space on printed newseffective 1 January 2018. IFRS 15 supersedes IAS 11 Construction contracts, papers while online advertising revenues are from sales of advertisement space IAS 18 Revenue and related interpretations and it applies to all revenue arising on online sites. Advertising revenue in printed media is recognized when inserted. from contracts with customers, unless those contracts are in the scope of other Online advertising revenues are recognized as the ads are displayed. standards. The new standard establishes a five-step model to account for revenue arising from contracts with customers. The core principle of the standard is that Classifieds an entity shall recognise revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or Listing fees in contracts entitling the customer to have an ad displayed for a services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the defined maximum period of time is recognized over that period, reflecting the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. normal pattern of views of such ads. Revenue from premium products that are active for a defined maximum period is recognized over that period. Revenue Schibsted has applied the following principles for revenue recognition for the from other premium products benefiting the customer in a pattern similar to different categories of products and services: that of a listing fee is recognized over the applicable period similar to listing fees. Circulation Revenue is measured at the fair value of the goods or services delivered or received, Circulation revenues are subsription revenues from printed and online newspapers, depending on which item that can be measured reliably. and casual sales of printed newspapers. Subscription revenues are invoiced in advance and recognized upon delivery over the subscription period. Revenue Management expects that incremental commission fees paid to intermediaries as from casual sales, are recognized upon delivery, taking into account estimated a result of obtaining customer contracts are recoverable. Schibsted has therefuture returns. Accumulated experience is used to estimate such returns at year fore applied the principle to capitalize contract costs. Capitalized commission end, using expected value method. fees are amortized over the period when related revenues are recognized. implementation of IFRS 15 that primarily affects Schibsted is related to the period Estimation uncertainty: over which certain revenue streams from online classifieds operations are recogFor classified revenues from certain listing fees and premium products recnised. Revenue from certain listing fees and premium products were up and until ognized over time, judgement is required in determining the normal pattern of 31 December 2017 recognised when the ad was initially displayed or when the views for ads displayed for a defined maximum period of time. The management premium products were initially activated. From 1 January 2018 listing fees in believes that, based on past experience, a declining rate is the most appropriate contracts entitling the customer to have an ad displayed for a defined maximum reflection of the normal pattern of views, i.e. ads are viewed more frequently in the beginning of the period it is displayed than towards the end of the maximum period of time is recognised over that period, reflecting the normal pattern of period. Relevant contracts applying this recognition principle normally has a duviews of such ads. Revenue from premium products that are active for a defined ration of 3060 days. maximum period is recognised over that period. Revenue from other premium products benefiting the customer in a pattern similar to that of a listing fee is recognised over the applicable period similar to listing fees. Effects of implementing new accounting The new standard is implemented retrospectively applying the modified retrostandard on revenue recognition spective method. Under this method, the comparative information is not restated. The recognition of the majority of the revenue of Schibsted is not affected by The cumulative effect of initially applying IFRS 15 of NOK 59 million (net of the new standard. This applies to brand advertising revenues being recognised related tax effect) is recognized as a reduction to the opening balance of equity as the ads are displayed, subscription revenue recognised over the subscription at 1 January 2018. Below is presented the effects of applying IFRS 15 compared to period and casual sales recognised upon delivery. The policy change from the the amounts that would have been reported applying the former accounting policies: Statement of financial position 31 December 2018 1 January 2018 Decrease in Investments in joint ventures and associates (5) (5) Decrease in Trade receivables and other current assets (280) (275) Increase in Contract asset 280 275 Decrease in total assets (5) (5) Decrease in Other current liabilities (1,007) (854) Increase in Contract liabilities 1,085 927 Decrease in Deferred tax liabilities (21) (19) Decrease in Equity attributable to owners of the parent (59) (58) Decrease in Non-controlling interests (2) (2) Decrease in equity and liabilities (5) (5) Income statement 2018 Decrease in Operating revenues (4) Decrease in Gross operating profit (loss) / Operating profit (loss) / Profit (loss) before taxes (4) Decrease in Taxes 2 Decrease in Profit (loss) (2) Decrease in Profit (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests Decrease in Profit (loss) attributable to owners of the parent (1) 58 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP Revenue from contracts with customers Disaggregation of revenue In the following table, revenue is disaggregated by category. 2018 Revenue from contracts with customers 17,983 2018 2017 Other revenues 76 Circulation revenues online 859 708 Operating revenues 18,059 Circulation revenues offline 2,967 3,185 Advertising revenues online 3,934 3,809 Other revenues include revenues from lease contracts in the amounts of NOK 16 Advertising revenues offline 1,051 1,178 million in 2018 and government grants of NOK 58 million in 2018. Classifieds revenues 6,600 5,616 Other operating revenues 2,648 2,447 Contracts with customers typically have a contract period of one year or less and Operating revenues (Note 6) 18,059 16,943 do not contain significant variable consideration. Contract assets and liabilities The revenue is measured at the transaction price agreed under the contract. No The contract assets primarily relate to the Schibsted’s rights to consideration element of financing is deemed present as the sales are normally made with for advertisements and newspapers delivered but not billed at the reporting a credit terms of 30-60 days, which is consistent with market practice. While date. The contract assets are transferred to receivables when the rights bedeferred payment terms exceeding normal credit terms may be agreed in rare come unconditional. It is expected insignificant credit loss on contract assets. circumstances, the deferral never exceeds twelve months. The contract liabilities relate to payments received in advance of performance under subscription, advertising and classified contracts. Contract liabilities are Schibsted has no significant obligations for refunds, warranties and other similar recognized as revenue when we perform under the contract. obligations. The following table provides information about receivables and significant changes in contract assets and contract liabilities from contracts with customers. Receivables from contracts with customers Contract assets Contract liabilities Balance as at 1 January 2018 1,699 275 927 Net of cash received and revenues recognized during the period (74) 276 150 Transfer from contract assets recognized at the beginning of the period to receivables 271 (271) Business combination 6 Impairment losses recognized (21) Currency translation (2) 8 Balance as at 31 December 2018 1,880 280 1,085 All contracts have duration of one year or less, hence contract liability at the Contract costs beginning of the period are recognized as revenue during the period. Remaining In 2018 there was no significant incremental commission fees capitalized and no performance obligations at the reporting date have original expected durations impairment loss related to capitalized contract costs was recognized. of one year or less. Schibsted applies the practical expedient in IFRS 15.121 and does not disclose information about remaining performance obligations that have original expected durations of one year or less. NOTE 9: NOTE 8: PERSONNEL EXPENSES OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES -----------------------------------------------AND REMUNERATION -----------------------------------------------2018 2017 2018 2017 Distribution 1,004 938 Salaries and wages 5,099 4,904 Commissions 785 814 Social security costs 1,106 1,106 Rent, maintenance, office expenses and energy 704 713 Net pension expense (note 11) 427 432 PR, advertising and campaigns 2,193 2,140 Share-based payment (note 10) 19 61 Printing contracts 266 273 Other personnel expenses* (53) (186) Editorial material 369 374 Total 6,598 6,317 Professional fees 1,058 936 Travelling expenses 296 310 Number of full time equivalents 8,348 8,070 IT expenses 873 774 * Other personnel expenses are deducted with amount of capitalised salaries, wages and social security. Other operating expenses 238 316 Total 7,784 7,588 59 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP The Board of Directors’ Statement schemes for senior executives based in Sweden are adapted to the market, and of Executive Compensation these schemes will continue without any major changes. Pursuant to section 6-16a of the Public Limited Liability Companies Act, the Board Pension schemes for senior executives outside Norway and Sweden must be of Directors must draw up a special statement of guidelines for the pay and other viewed in connection with the individual manager’s overall salary and employment remuneration of senior executives. According to section 5-6 (3) of the same Act, conditions, and should be comparable to the overall compensation package offered the Annual General Meeting shall hold an advisory vote on the Board of Directors’ to executives in Norway and Sweden. Local rules governing pension entitlement, guidelines for the remuneration of the executive management for the coming social security entitlement and taxation are taken into account when designing financial year (section 1 below), and a binding vote on guidelines concerning individual pension plans. share-related incentive programs (section 2 below). 1.6 Severance pay The Board of Directors has appointed a dedicated Compensation Committee in order The CEO is entitled to severance payment equivalent to 18 months’ salary in to ensure thorough consideration of matters relating to the CEO’s remuneration. In addition to pay during the six-month notice period. Members of Schibsted’s addition, the Committee advises the Board of Directors and CEO in the work on Executive Team and other senior executives are normally entitled to severance the philosophy, principles and strategy for the compensation of senior executives pay equivalent to 6–18 months’ salary, depending on their position. A non-compete in the Schibsted Group. clause and provisions governing reduction in the severance pay normally apply during the severance pay period. 1. Guidelines for determination of salary and other remuneration for the financial year 2019 The Board of Director’s considers the employees as the Group’s most important 2. Guidelines for share based programs resource, and aims to have reasonable, well balanced, and competitive remunefor the financial year 2019 ration packages that attract and retain talented employees that are crucial to 2.1. Long-term incentive schemes for executives our business. The fixed salary shall form the basis for the total compensation in The long-term incentive plan (the “LTI Plan”), proposed by The Board of Directors addition to both shortand long-term incentive schemes to align and motivate and approved on the Annual General Meeting of 2018, continues to roll during the executive’s efforts in continuous business development and value creation. 2019. Purpose of the LTI Plan is to align shareholder and management interests The compensation of executives is regularly assessed relative to both the market to ensure long term value creation in Schibsted Media Group. and the positions’ responsibilities and complexity. The LTI Plan uses total shareholder return (“TSR”) relative to a peer group to The Group has established policies that cover several human resource aspects, measure the performance-based part of the plan. TSR is an objective long-term including terms related to pay and pension, working environment, development performance measure for value creation as it considers the share price change programs, and more traditional employee benefits. Guidelines have been developed over time plus respective years’ dividends, and as it is less exposed to changes in for the use of variable pay and other incentive schemes in the Group. market conditions than certain other financial metrics. Further, TSR aligns shareholders’ interests with participants’ interests as it links the rewards to participants 1.1 Fixed salary directly to the returns shareholders make on their investment in the company. The fixed salary (the gross annual salary before tax and before variable pay and other additional benefits are calculated) shall be reasonable, balanced and The LTI Plan is an annual 3-year rolling plan, part delivered in restricted shares competitive and represent a significant component of executive compensation. and part delivered in performance shares, with fulfillment in Schibsted B-shares. It is proposed to be offered to the CEO, the members of Schibsted’s Executive 1.2 Directors' fees Team, the members of management teams in the business areas News Media, Employees do not receive directors’ fees for board appointments when they Next and Nordic Marketplaces, as well as other key employees. Under the LTI serve as board members as part of their position. Employee representatives are Plan the participants will be granted an Award equivalent to a percentage of exempted from this rule. their base salary at the time of granting. The CEO shall receive a grant equal to 100% of her base salary, whereas other members of Schibsted’s Executive 1.3 Benefits in kind and other special schemes Team will receive grants between 50% and 100%. Other participants will receive Senior executives will normally be given benefits in kind in line with common grants ranging from 10% to 50% of their base salary. The Award will consist of two market practice, such as mobile phone, laptop, broadband, newspapers, company separate elements; a fixed base (the “Fixed Base”) comprising Restricted Stock car or car allowance, and parking. There are no specific restrictions on what equal to 1/3 of the grant value and a performance-related grant (the “Performance other benefits may be agreed. Selected executives have some outstanding Base”) equal to 2/3 of the grant value. subsidized loans from a previous scheme. The Fixed Base is converted into B-shares based on the share price at the program 1.4 Variable pay – short term incentive scheme start and transferred to participants at the end of the 3-year program period. Senior executives participate in an annual bonus scheme linked to achievements of both financial criteria, and strategic and operational objectives. Annual bonus The Performance Base shall vest at the end of the 3-year program period subject to is limited to a maximum of six months’ salary for the CEO and varies from three performance and be delivered to participants in B-shares. The value of any vesting to six months’ salary for other members of Schibsted’s Executive Team. Other is proposed to be a factor of Schibsted’s Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) perGroup employees may also participate in such schemes. In such cases the maximum formance over a 3-year performance period relative to a predefined peer group. annual bonus is normally limited to three to four months’ salary. Vesting of the Performance Base is subject to a minimum performance threshold whereby Schibsted’s TSR performance must be at or above the 25th percentile 1.5 Pension schemes when compared to the peer group. Subject to the performance threshold being The CEO and other senior executives in the Group have individual pension plans met, the Performance Base shall vest as follows: which mainly entitle them to disability pension, early retirement pension from the age of 62 and thereafter a lifelong retirement pension. As from 2012, the • At the 25th percentile, the face value of the Performance base shall vest at 50% Group's pension scheme for new executives in Norway is a defined contribution • At the 50th percentile, the face value of the Performance Base shall vest in full scheme in line with established market practices. • At or above the 75th percentile, the face value of the Performance Base shall vest at 300% Most of the Group senior executives based in Sweden belong to pension schemes • Vesting in-between the above performance milestones shall be on a entitling them to benefits in line with those offered to Norwegian senior executives straight-line basis from the age of 62 years. The Board of Directors is of the opinion that the current 60 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP The predefined peer group is composed mainly of companies involved in online 2.3 Share-saving program for all Group employees classifieds, but also includes other media companies. The composition of the peer In order to motivate and retain employees, all Group employees are invited group is intended to reflect the underlying values in Schibsted in a balanced matter, annually to save up to 5 percent of their basic annual salary, subject to a maximum and to ensure that the different parts of the Schibsted organization are incenof NOK 50,000, through payroll deductions in order to purchase shares in Schibsted. tivized to create stable and value-creating businesses in line with Schibsted’s The share purchase is made on market terms four times a year, after the release long-term strategy. of Schibsted’s quarterly results. Employees who choose to hold their shares for two years (the “Holding Period”) and who are still employed by the Group at Detailed general conditions have been developed to ensure a fair and consistent the end of the Holding Period, are entitled to receive one free bonus share from governance of the Plan; these include change of control provisions, and “good Schibsted per two shares purchased and held during the Holding Period. leaver”/”bad leaver” provisions related to employment. The LTI Plan also includes a claw-back mechanism which would permit Schibsted to cancel unvested shares and/or to require already transferred shares to be delivered back to the 3. Remuneration principles and implementation in the Company. Such a claw-back scenario would include any event whereby Schibsted previous fiscal year ending 31 December 2018 is required to restate financial statements during a program period, for example The implementation of executive remuneration principles during 2018 have due to material non-compliance with applicable accounting rules. A claw-back overall been in line with the described principles in the Statement of Executive might also be enforced in the event of fraud or criminal activity, a breach of Compensation for 2018, previously approved by Schibsted’s Annual General a non-competition clause or a breach of Schibsted’s Code of Conduct by the Meeting. participant. As both the Fixed Base and the Performance Base are subject to absolute caps, 4. Agreements entered into or amended in 2018 and their the maximum cost of the LTI Plan will be equal the Awards for all participants multiplied by the maximum pay-out of 2.33. impact on the company and the shareholders In 2018 Schibsted entered into agreements with selected executives regarding The LTI Plan has replaced the previous LTI plans: the Senior Executive Plan participation in the share-based long-term incentive plan (the LTI Plan). The (“SEP”) and the “Key Contributor Plan” from 2018. Agreements entered into with Board of Directors believes that share-based remuneration promotes value creation employees under these LTI plans up until 2017, will remain in force for the in the Group and that the impact these agreements have on the company and duration of these plans. Details of KCP and SEP are included in note 10 of the shareholders is positive. financial statements. 2.2 Mandatory shareholding requirements To ensure additional alignment between the interests of senior executives and shareholders, the Board of Directors has broadened shareholding requirements for the senior executives, meaning the senior executives may not sell or otherwise transfer Schibsted shares below the defined requirements. The requirements are set out as follows: • CEO: 4 x base salary • Members of Schibsted’s Executive Team: 2-3x base salary • Other LTI participants: between 10% and 100% of base salary Details of salary, variable pay and other benefits provided to Group management in 2018 (in NOK 1,000): Shared-based Accrued Salary incl. payment Other Total pension Members of Group management 1,2) holiday pay Variable pay (earned 2018)3) benefits remuneration expenses Kristin Skogen Lund 4) 354 354 20 728 7 Rolv Erik Ryssdal 5) 4,518 1,594 3,712 280 10,105 2,809 Trond Berger 3,034 1,128 2,050 243 6,455 1,648 Raoul Grünthal 2,925 943 2,819 44 6,731 1,065 Rian Liebenberg 6) 4,029 953 881 11 5,874 260 Sondre Gravir 7) 1,998 701 1,176 776 4,651 871 1) Some of the members receive salary in other currencies than NOK. Average annual exchange rate are used to translate the numbers in table above to NOK. 2) For members of Group management who either resigned or joined in the year, total remuneration includes all salary and other benefits received from the Group. 3) Cost details and valuation of share-based payment is disclosed in note 10. 4) Kristin Skogen Lund is CEO from December 1st. Variable pay includes a pro-rated compensation for non-enrollment in the Long Term Incentive Plan of 2018. Her contract grants her the right to take part in the company’s STI and LTI from 1.12. The Board resolved to pay an additional amount and she will join the incentive schemes from 1.1.2019.. 5) Rolv Erik Ryssdal was CEO until November 30th. 6) Rian Liebenberg left Schibsted in July 2018 7) Sondre Gravir left Schibsted in October 2018. Other benefits for Sondre Gravir include coverage of expenses related to expatriation. 61 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP The development in number of shares not-vested in share-based payment programs for the Group management in 2018 is as follows: Shares Shares not-vested Shares Adjustment not-vested 1 January 2018 granted 1) shares granted 2) Shares vested 3) 31 December 2018 Kristin Skogen Lund Rolv Erik Ryssdal 17,543 10,659 (786) (5,365) 22,051 Trond Berger 10,260 6,139 (280) (3,378) 12,741 Raoul Grünthal 8,473 8,202 (3,781) 12,894 Rian Liebenberg 10,187 1,672 (8,515) (3,344) Sondre Gravir 6,314 8,364 (10,157) (4,521) 1) Shares granted reflects shares granted for the 2018 program and other bonuses settled in shares. 2) Adjustment shares granted mainly reflects forfeited shares and changes to number of shares granted previous years due to tax rate change. 3) Share price for vested shares are in a range of NOK 197-266. Details of salary, variable pay and other benefits provided to Group management in 2017 (in NOK 1,000): Shared-based Accrued Salary incl. payment Other Total pension Loan Members of Group management 1) holiday pay Variable pay (earned 2017) 2) benefits remuneration expenses outstanding 3) Rolv Erik Ryssdal 4,433 1,652 3,789 257 10,131 2,666 Trond Berger 2,933 1,116 2,136 240 6,425 1,509 800 Raoul Grünthal 3,529 718 2,178 59 6,484 1,050 Didrik Munch 3,058 1,086 1,422 263 5,829 1,705 Lena K. Samuelsson 2,465 381 892 29 3,767 972 Terje Seljeseth 4) 2,967 851 325 1,642 5,785 1,526 Rian Liebenberg 3,920 2,000 1,796 21 7,737 298 Gianpaolo Santorsola 3,267 726 1,409 264 5,666 194 Sondre Gravir 5) 2,957 1,086 1,098 1,097 6,238 767 Tina Stiegler 2,303 873 1,105 153 4,434 283 1) Some of the members receive salary in other currencies than NOK. Average annual exchange rate are used to translate the numbers in table above to NOK. 2) Cost details and valuation of share-based payment is disclosed in note 10. 3) Loans to Group management have no installments, and the interest rate is 1% lower than the government-set benchmark interest rate. 4) Terje Seljeseth left Schibsted in October 2017 and received 6 months severance pay, included in other benefits. Didrik Munch and Gianpaolo Santorsola resigned from Group management in December 2017. 5) Other benefits for Sondre Gravir include coverage of expenses related to expatriation. The development in number of shares not-vested in share-based payment programs for the Group management in 2017 is as follows: Shares not-vested Shares Adjustment Shares not-vested 1 January 2017 granted 1) shares granted 2) Shares vested 3) 31 December 2017 Rolv Erik Ryssdal 17,245 10,792 (652) (9,842) 17,543 Trond Berger 10,868 6,096 (266) (6,438) 10,260 Raoul Grünthal 9,056 5,142 (239) (5,486) 8,473 Didrik Munch 11,497 6,783 (6,216) (7,311) 4,753 Lena K. Samuelsson 4,651 2,629 (121) (2,845) 4,314 Terje Seljeseth 11,056 7,101 (10,111) (6,970) 1,076 Rian Liebenberg 6,430 5,635 (1,878) 10,187 Gianpaolo Santorsola 8,794 4,794 (1,455) (6,700) 5,433 Sondre Gravir 5,148 4,735 15 (3,584) 6,314 Tina Stiegler 3,329 4,341 (70) (2,438) 5,162 1) Share price for vested shares are in a range of NOK 186-196. 2) Shares granted reflects shares granted for the 2017 programs. 3) Adjustment shares granted mainly reflects forfeited shares and changes to number of shares granted previous years due to tax rate change. 62 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP Remuneration to the Board of Directors in 2018 (in NOK 1,000): Board remuneration from other Board Commitee Group Total Members of the Board and Committees: remuneration* remuneration companies remuneration Ole Jacob Sunde, Chairman of the Board and the Compensation Committee 1,029 121 1,150 Arnaud de Puyfontaine, Member of the Board and the Audit Committee until June 2018* 583 110 693 Christian Ringnes, Member of the Board and Chairman of the Audit Committee 483 179 662 Birger Steen, Member of the Board and the Audit Committee* 583 110 693 Eugénie van Wiechen, Member of the Board and the Compensation Committee* 583 79 662 Marianne Budnik, Member of the Board and the Compensation Committee from July 2018 * 583 583 Orla Noonan, Member of the Board and the Audit Committee from July 2018 583 265 848 Philippe Vimard, Member of the Board from June 2018 Torbjörn Harald Ek, Employee representative of the Board* 533 533 Finn Våga, Employee representative of the Board and Member of the Compensation Committee until July 2018* 533 79 612 Ingunn Saltbones, Employee representative of the Board and the Compensation Committee from July 2018 * 483 483 Frank Lynum, Deputy employee representative of the Board 45 45 Maria Elisabet Carling, Deputy employee representative of the Board Total 5,976 678 310 6,116 * Board remunerations include compensation for travelling hours for directors who do not live in Oslo. Remuneration of the Nomination Committee Remuneration to the Chairman of the Nomination Committee was NOK 130.000 and NOK 80.000 to the other members of the committee. NOTE 10: Effects of implementing amendment in IFRS 2 Share-based payment Schibsted has implemented amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment. The SHARE-BASED PAYMENT -----------------------------------------------amendment relates to share-based payment transactions with a net settlement feature for withholding tax obligations.The amendments to IFRS 2 are implemented prospectively. A payment liability of NOK 13 million recognised at 31 December 2017 related to unvested share-based payment transactions is reclassified to Principle: equity at 1 January 2018. In equity-settled share-based payment transactions with employees, the employee services and the corresponding equity increase is measured by reference to the Long-term incentive programmes fair value of the equity instruments granted. The fair value of the equity instruments are measured at grant date, and is recognised as personnel expenses and equity In 2015, Schibsted introduced the annual rolling programmes, Key Contributor increase immediately or over the vesting period when performance vesting conPlan (KCP) and Senior Executive Plan (SEP). The 2015 programmes initially ditions require an employee to serve over a specified time period. included 128 participants. The 2016 programmes initially included 117 participants. The 2017 programmes initially included 103 participants. In 2018, the LTI At each reporting date the entities remeasure the estimated number of equity programmes was replaced by the LTI Plan. The programmes started before 2018 instruments that is expected to vest. The amount recognised as an expense is will remain in force for the duration of these programs. The 2018 programme adjusted to reflect the number of equity instruments which are expected to be, includes 90 participants. In addition, certain subsidaries have separate cashor actually become vested. settled local programmes. In cash-settled share-based payment transactions with employees, the employee 2018 2017 services and the incurred liability is measured at the fair value of the liability. The employee services and the liability are recognised immediately or over the Share-based payment 19 61 vesting period when performance vesting conditions require an employee to (included in personnel expenses) serve over a specified time period. Until the liability is settled, the fair value of Of which is equity-settled 33 30 the liability is revised at each balance sheet date and at settlement date, with Of which is cash-settled (14) 31 changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss. In 2018 a settlement of a local programme effected the cash-settled share-based cost positively The programmes vested before 1 January 2018 is treated partly as a shareby NOK 17 millon. based payment transactions settled in cash (tax) and partly as share-based payment transactions settled in equity (net payment in form of shares). The expense related to the portion that is recognised as a share-based payment 2018 2017 transaction settled in equity is recognised in equity, while the expense related to Liabilities arising from share-based 26 75 the portion that is treated as a share-based payment transaction settled in cash payment transactions is recognised as a liability. An amount of NOK 27 million was withheld and paid to the tax authorities in relation to the shares The programmes vested from 1 January 2018 with transactions for which granted in the LTI Plan for 2018. Schibsted is obliged to withhold tax on the employee’s behalf is classified entirely as share-based payment transactions settled in equity. Key Contributor Plan and Senior Executive Plan The SEP is a five-year program applicable for the CEO and Schibsted Executive Team, while KCP is a three-year program applicable for managers in key subsidiaries, high potentials and key contributors across the Group. All participants need to show strong performance to stay eligible for the long-term incentive programs. 63 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP At the start of the program, each participant is granted a number of shares based Such a claw-back scenario would include any event whereby Schibsted was on a certain percentage of their fixed salary and the share price at the start of required to restate financial statements during a program period due, for example the program. CEO can be granted maximum 100 percent of fixed salary, while due to material non-compliance with applicable accounting rules. A claw-back the maximum grants for members of the Senior Executive Team vary between might also be enforced in the event of fraud or criminal activity, a breach of a non50 to 84 percent of fixed salary. Grant to participants in the KCP range from 10 competition clause or a breach of Schibsted’s Code of Conduct by the participant. percent to 50 percent of fixed salary depending on role and position. As both the Fixed Base and the Performance Base are subject to absolute caps, In the SEP, the number of shares calculated at the start of the program vest in the maximum cost of the LTI Plan will be equal the base salary of all participants three equal tranches over a five-year period, subject to the participant’s continuous multiplied by the maximum pay-out of 2.33. employment in Schibsted. The first one-third of the shares vests at the start of the program, the second one-third vests after three years, and the final one-third The LTI Plan has replaced the previous LTI plans: the Senior Executive Plan after five years. In the KCP the number of shares calculated at the start of the (“SEP”) and the “Key Contributor Plan” from 2018. Agreements entered into with program vest in three equal tranches over a three year period, subject to the paremployees under these LTI plans up until 2017, will remain in force for the duration ticipant’s continuous employment in Schibsted. The first one third of the shares of these programs. vests after one year, the second one third vests after two years, and the final one third after three years. Number of shares in the LTI Plan, SEP and KCP programmes: 2018 2017 If the employment in Schibsted is terminated three years after grant date, Number of shares granted, not-vested at 1 January 237,390 311,323 Schibsted’s CEO may in special occasions, such as early retirement, make disNumber of shares granted 151,932 153,632 cretionary exceptions and entitle a SEP participant to receive the last 1/3 of Number of shares forfeited (39,898) (55,878) granted, but unvested shares. Number of shares vested during the period (129,822) (171,687) LTI Plan Number of shares not-vested at 31 December 219,602 237,390 The LTI Plan is an annual 3-year rolling plan, part delivered in restricted shares Average share price at vesting date (NOK per share) 205 195 and part delivered in performance shares, with fulfilment in Schibsted B-shares. Average share price at grant date (NOK per share) 218 182 The program is applicable to the CEO, the members of Schibsted’s Executive Number of granted shares include granted shares and adjustment of performance. Team, the members of management teams in the Media and Marketplaces Divisions, The fair value of shares granted in 2017 and 2018 is measured at grant date by adjusting the quoted as well as other key employees. The participants are granted an award equivalent price by expected dividend yield. to a percentage of their base salary at the time of granting. The CEO receive a grant equal to 100% of the base salary, whereas other members of Schibsted’s Executive Team will receive grants between 50% and 100%. Other participants Settlement of rights under existing Schibsted schemes will receive grants ranging from 10% to 50% of their base salary. The award Existing awards under the Key Contributor Plan and the Long-term Incentive consist of two separate elements; a fixed base (the “Fixed Base”) comprising Plan held by participants who will transfer to Adevinta as part of the Separation Restricted Stock equal to 1/3 of the grant value and a performance-related grant will be settled in connection with the Listing so as to align their incentives with (the “Performance Base”) equal to 2/3 of the grant value. Adevinta. Awards under the Key Contributor Plan will be settled in cash. Payment will be made in in two cash tranches. The first cash payment will be made on or The Fixed Base is converted into B-shares based on the share price at the program about the date of the Listing whilst the second payment will be made one year start and transferred to participants at the start of the performance period, albeit after the date of Listing. Participants must be in Adevinta employment in order with a 3-year holding requirement. to be eligible for either cash payment. The Performance Base is vested at the end of the 3-year program period subject to Existing awards under the Senior Executive Plan will vest according to the existing performance and delivered to participants in B-shares. The value of any vesting schedule, with vesting dates in December 2019, 2020 and 2021 respectively. is a factor of Schibsted’s Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) performance over a Settlement will be made in cash according to the existing terms of the Senior 3-year performance period relative to a peer group. Vesting of the Performance Executive Plan. The only condition for receiving settlement is continued employment. Base is subject to a minimum performance threshold whereby Schibsted’s TSR For participants who transfer to Adevinta as part of the Separation, the condition performance must be at or above the 25th percentile when compared to the for settlement will be continued employment with Adevinta as of the vesting peer group. Subject to the performance threshold being met, the Performance dates of the awards. Base is vested as follows: Existing awards under the Long-term Incentive Plan will be measured as of the • At the 25th percentile, the face value of the Performance base vest at 50% date of the Listing, and recalculated to a number of Adevinta shares based on • At the 50th percentile, the face value of the Performance Base vest in full this measurement. Awards will be reduced on a pro rata basis to reflect that they • At or above the 75th percentile, the face value of the Performance Base are settled before the original vesting date. The Adevinta shares will vest one vest at 300% year following the Listing, subject to continued employment. • Vesting in-between the above performance milestones will be on a straight-line basis Share-saving program for all Group employees To motivate and retain employees, all Group employees are invited to save up The peer group is composed mainly of companies involved in online classifieds, to 5 percent, but a maximum of NOK 50,000, annually of their base gross salary but also includes other media companies. The composition of the peer group is through payroll deductions in order to purchase shares in Schibsted. The shares intended to reflect the underlying values in Schibsted in a balanced matter, and are purchased on market terms four times a year, after the release of Schibsted’s to ensure that the different parts of the Schibsted organization are incentivized quarterly results. If still employed by the Group, participants receive one free to create stable and value creating businesses in line with Schibsted’s long term bonus share from Schibsted per two shares purchased and held for two years. strategy. Detailed general conditions have been developed to ensure the fair and consistent governance of the Plan; these include change of control provisions, and “good leaver”/”bad leaver” provisions related to employment. The LTI Plan also includes a claw-back mechanism which would permit Schibsted to cancel unvested shares and/or to require already transferred shares to be delivered back to the Company. 64 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP NOTE 11: Schibsted has occupational pension plans in several countries established partly as defined benefit plans (primarily in Norway), partly as multi-employer defined PENSION PLANS -----------------------------------------------benefit plans accounted for as defined contribution plans (in Norway and Sweden) and partly as defined contribution plans (in Norway, Sweden and other countries). Schibsted has its occupational pension plans for its employees in Norwegian comPrinciple: panies with Storebrand Livsforsikring AS. These pension plans meet the requireSchibsted has both defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans. In the ments of the Act on Mandatory occupational pensions applicable to Norwegian defined contribution plans, the company pays an agreed annual contribution companies. A significant part of the existing funded defined benefit plans are closed. to the employee’s pension plan, but any risk related to the future pension is borne by the employee. In a defined benefit plan, the company is responsible for paying an agreed pension to the employee based on his or her final pay, and The terms of the funded defined benefit plans are mainly uniform. The benefits the risk related to the future pension is hence borne by Schibsted. are mainly dependent upon number of years of employment, salary level at retirement age and the amount of benefits from the National Insurance pension. The In a defined contribution plan, the pension cost will be equal to the contribution majority of the funded defined benefit plans comprise retirement pension for life paid to the employees' pension plan. Once the contributions have been paid, from 67 years and full retirement pension amounts to approximately 66% of the there are no further payment obligations attached to the defined contribution basis (limited to 12G (the social security base amount) including assumed pension pension, i.e. there is no liability to record in the statement of financial position. from the National Insurance pension (based on calculated National Insurance pension). Some of the plans include spouse pension, child pension and disability pension. In a defined benefit plan, the net liability recognised is the present value of the benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, less fair value of plan assets. The present value of defined benefit obligations, current service cost and past As at 31 December 2018 the funded defined benefit plans in Norway covered service cost is determined using the projected unit credit method and actuarial approximately 943 working members and 0 retirees (1,050 in 2017). In 2017, assumptions regarding demographic variables and financial variables. Net pension retirees was withdrawn from the funded defined benefit plans. Paid-up policies expense include service cost and net interest on the net defined benefit liability were issued, transferring the obligation for future payments to the insurance recognised in profit or loss and remeasurements of the net defined benefit company (Storebrand). Estimated contributions in 2019 to the above mentioned liability recognised in other comprehensive income. funded defined benefit plans amount to approximately NOK 67 million. Future contributions will be dependent on the accumulation period for each member's Past service cost is the change in the present value of the defined benefit pension rights according to the principle of linear accumulation. obligation resulting from a plan amendment or curtailment. Past service cost is recognised at the earlier date of when the plan amendment or curtailment occurs and when related restructuring costs or termination benefits are recognised. The terms related to contributions to defined contribution plans in Norway are mainly uniform, and for most companies the contribution in 2018 amounts to In the cases where a multi-employer plan is classified as defined benefit plans, 5,55% of salaries within the interval from 1G to 7,1G and 8% in the interval from but sufficient information is not available to enable recognition as a defined 7,1G to 12G. The plans include disability pension. benefit plan, they are accounted for as if they were defined contribution plans. In addition to the pension obligations that arises from the funded defined Social security taxes are included in the determination of defined benefit obligations benefit plans, the Group's Norwegian companies have unfunded defined benefit and net pension expense. obligations related to disability pensions (if not covered by other pension plans or insurances), supplementary pensions for salaries above 12G, Agreement-based pension (AFP) and early retirement pensions. Estimation uncertainty: Defined benefit plans are calculated on the basis of a set of selected financial The Group's companies outside Norway have pension plans, mainly defined contriand actuarial assumptions. Changes in parameters such as discount rates, future bution plans, in accordance with local practice and local legislation. wage adjustment, etc. could have substantial impacts on the estimated pension liability. The Group has certain pension schemes in Norway and Sweden established as multi-employer plans. These multi-employer plans are defined benefit plans, but the Group does not have access to the necessary information for the accounting years 2018 and 2017 required to account for these plans as defined benefit plans, and the plans are therefore accounted for as defined contribution plans. The amounts recognised in profit or loss and in comprehensive income: 2018 2017 Current service cost 95 101 Past service cost and gains and losses arising from settlements (67) (129) Net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) 26 27 Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability 27 333 Net pension expense defined benefit plans 81 332 Pension expense defined contribution plans 176 140 Pension expense multi-employer defined benefit plans accounted for as defined contribution plans 157 193 Net pension expense 414 665 Of which included in Profit or loss Personnel expenses (note 9) 427 432 Of which included in Profit or loss Other income and expenses (67) (129) Of which included in Profit or loss Financial expenses (note 13) 26 27 Of which included in Other comprehensive income Remeasurements of defined pension liabilities 27 333 Past service cost comprise restructuring costs in the form of pensions as well as the effect of plan amendments. 65 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP The amounts recognised in the balance sheet: 2018 2017 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 1,467 1,538 Fair value of plan assets (1,017) (1,012) Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations 792 838 Net pension liability 1,241 1,364 The average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 18 years (2017: 22 years). Changes in net pension liability, present value of defined benefit obligations and plan assets: 2018 2017 Net pension Defined benefit Net pension Defined benefit liability obligations Plan assets liability obligations Plan assets As at 1.1 1,364 2,376 1,012 1,273 4,236 2,963 Current service cost 95 95 101 99 (2) Past service cost and gains and losses arising from settlements* (67) (177) (110) (129) (2,134) (2,005) Interest income and expense 27 51 25 27 103 76 Remeasurements (see below) 27 23 (4) 333 332 (1) Contributions to the plan (95) 2 97 (117) 2 119 Payments from the plan (84) (85) (1) (73) (211) (138) Business combinations and disposals (25) (25) Social security costs (26) (26) (26) (26) As at 31.12 1,241 2,259 1,017 1,364 2,376 1,012 * Past service cost in 2017 was effected by gain on amendment of pension plans and mainly related to retirees having been withdrawn from funded defined benefit plans. Paid-up policies were issued, transferring the obligation for future payments to the insurance company (Storebrand). Remeasurements of defined benefit pension obligations include: 2018 2017 Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 40 403 Other remeasurements (experience adjustments) (17) (71) Remeasurements of defined benefit pension obligations 23 332 Remeasurements of fair value of plan assets include: Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 30 70 Cost of managing plan assets (7) (17) Other remeasurements (experience adjustments) (28) (54) Remeasurements of fair value of plan assets (4) (1) The fair value of plan assets is disaggregated by class: Quoted in Quoted in 2018 active markets Unquoted 2017 active markets Unquoted Equities 15.4% 100 % 14.9% 100% Alternative investments 0.7% 100 % 2.0% 100% Real estate 13.7% 100 % 12.1% 100% Bonds 9.5% 95 % 5% 19.9% 95% 5% Corporate bonds 16.1% 80 % 20 % 14.1% 80% 20% Bonds loans & receivables 35.7% 80 % 20 % 32.3% 80% 20% Money market / other 8.4% 100 % 5.0% 90% 10% Total 100.0% 100.0% The actual return on plan assets (value-adjusted return on relevant portfolio of assets) was approximately 0.9 % in 2018 and approximately 5.1 % in 2017. Significant actuarial assumptions used to determine the present value of the defined benefit obligation: 2018 2017 Discount rate 2.60 % 2.40 % Future salary increases 2.75 % 2.50 % Future increase in the social security base amount 2.50 % 2.25 % Future pension increases 0.80 % 0.50 % Schibsted determines the discount rate by reference to high quality corporate bonds. Schibsted has concluded that a deep market exists for covered bonds ( OMF-obligasjoner ) in Norway and that this interest rate therefore shall be used as reference under IAS 19 Employee benefits. The assumption regarding expected pension increases is used for pensions being increased in accordance with the Act on Company pensions. For pension agreements containing specific clauses on increases in pension, those clauses are applied. 66 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP Sensitivity analysis, indicating increase (decrease) in present value of defined benefit pension liabilities, for significant actuarial assumptions: 2018 2017 Discount rate increase 0.5 percentage points (228) (235) Discount rate decrease 0.5 percentage points 245 251 Future salary increases increase 0.5 percentage points 150 150 Future salary increases decrease 0.5 percentage points (164) (160) Future increase in social security base amount increase 0.5 percentage points (81) (77) Future increase in social security base amount decrease 0.5 percentage points 52 51 Future pension increases increase 0.5 percentage points 141 152 Future pension increases decrease 0.5 percentage points (149) (154) Any increases or decreases in present value of defined benefit pension liabilities from changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in Other comprehensive income. NOTE 12: Gain from remeasurement of equity interests is primarily related to the step acquisition of Yapo.cl SpA. See note 4 Changes in the composition of the Group. OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSES -----------------------------------------------Principle: NOTE 13: FINANCIAL ITEMS Income and expenses of a special nature are presented on a separate line within operating profit (loss). Such items are characterised by being transactions and events not considered to be part of operating activities and not being reliable indicators of underlying operations. Other income and expenses include items -----------------------------------------------Financial income and expenses consists of: such as restructuring costs, acquisition-related costs, gains or losses on sale or remeasurement of assets, investments or operations and other. Acquisition-related costs may include both costs related to acquisitions done and transactions that 2018 2017 were not completed. Interest income 25 10 Other financial income 5 6 Total financial income 29 16 2018 2017 Gain on sale of subsidiaries, joint ventures 13 1,072 Interest expenses (116) (104) and associates Net foreign exchange loss (12) (60) Gain on sale of intangible assets, property, plant 10 and equipment and investment property Impairment loss financial assets available for sale (2) Gain on amendments and curtailment of pension 67 123 Other financial expenses (13) (20) plans (note 11) Total financial expenses (142) (187) Gain from remeasurement on equity interests in 506 business combinations Net financial items (113) (171) Other income or gain 90 1,701 Restructuring costs (136) (170) Net foreign exchange gain (loss) consists of: Acquisition-related costs (3) (8) Net foreign exchange gain (loss) currency derivatives (33) (144) Loss on sale of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates (6) Net foreign exchange gain (loss) other 21 84 Other (7) (12) financial instruments Other expenses or loss (145) (196) Net foreign exchange gain (loss) (12) (60) Total (55) 1,505 2018 Schibsted hedges the majority of its currency exposure by using loans and derivatives, Gain on amendments and curtailment of pension plans includes gain on curtailment see note 23 Financial risk management. Net foreign exchange loss in both 2018 and of pension plans related to restructuring of NOK 61 million and gain on amendment of 2017 are largely related to currency effects in the Group's businesses in Latin America. pension plans of NOK 6 million. Restructuring costs are mainly related to redundancy packages and provisions for loss on office rental contracts. Interest expenses includes NOK 36 million (NOK 38 million in 2017) related to pension liabilities and put options, see note 11 Pension plans, note 21 Financial 2017 liabilities related to business combinations and increases in ownership interests Restructuring costs are mainly related to structural measures in the Group, primarily and note 25 Financial Instruments by category. in Media House Norway and in Headquarters, in total amounting to NOK 112 million. Financial income and financial expenses include the following amounts of interest Gain on sale of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates mainly comprises of a gain income and interest expenses related to financial assets and liabilities that are from the sale of the associate 701 Search Pte Ltd and a gain from the sale of the not included in the category Financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value subsidiary Hittapunktse AB. See note 4 Changes in the composition of the Group. through profit or loss: Gain on amendment of pension plans is mainly related to retirees having been with2018 2017 drawn from funded defined benefit plans. Paid-up policies were issued, transferring Interest income 25 10 the obligation for future payments to the insurance company (Storebrand). Interest expenses (130) (123) 67 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP NOTE 14: The Group’s net deferred tax liabilities (assets) are made up as follows: INCOME TAXES -----------------------------------------------Current items 2018 (24) 2017 (4) Pension liabilities (268) (287) Principle: Other non-current items 1,105 1,103 Current tax liabilities and assets are measured at the amount that is expected to Unused tax losses (1,603) (1,377) be paid to or recovered from the tax authorities. Calculated net deferred tax liabilities (assets) (790) (565) Deferred tax liabilities and assets are computed for all temporary differences Unrecognised deferred tax assets 1,458 1,210 between the tax basis and the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the conNet deferred tax liabilities (assets) recognised 667 646 solidated financial statements and the tax basis of tax losses carried forward. Of which deferred tax liabilities 901 897 For deferred tax assets and liabilities, the nominal tax rates expected to apply Of which deferred tax assets (233) (251) when the asset is realised or the liability is paid will be used. Deferred tax assets relating to tax deficits and other tax-reducing temporary The Group’s unused tax losses are mainly related to operations in United Kingdom, differences are recognised to the extent that it is probable that they can be applied Mexico, Austria and Italy as well as other countries in which online classified against future taxable income. operations has been established. The majority of the tax losses can be carried forward for an unlimited period. Approximately 25% of the unused tax losses Deferred tax liabilities for temporary differences associated with investments expire during the period until 2028. in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are recognised when it is probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised for the initial recognition of goodwill. The development in the recognised net deferred tax liabilities (assets): Tax expense (tax income) comprises current tax expense (current tax income) and deferred tax expense (deferred tax income). Any amount recognised as current 2018 2017 tax assets or liabilities and deferred tax assets or liabilities are recognised in As at 1 January 646 590 profit or loss, except to the extent that the tax arises from a transaction or event Change in accounting policy (19) recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity or arises from a business combination. Change included in tax expenses 43 (41) Change from purchase and sale of subsidiaries 31 Translation differences (2) 66 Estimation uncertainty: As at 31 December 667 646 Judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and the level of future taxable The Group's deferred tax assets recognised are mainly related to operations in profits together with tax planning strategies. For unrecognized deferred tax assets Norway and Spain. The Group's unrecognised deferred tax assets are mainly see table below. related to foreign operations with recent tax losses where future taxable profits may not be available before those unused tax losses expire. Deferred tax liabilities The Group’s income tax expense comprises the following: and assets are offset for liabilities and assets in companies which are included in local tax groups. 2018 2017 Current income taxes 921 905 Deferred income taxes 43 (41) Taxes Of which recognised in profit or loss 963 965 864 958 NOTE 15: Of which recognised in other comprehensive income Of which recognised in equity (2) (90) (4) EARNINGS PER SHARE -----------------------------------------------The Group’s effective tax rate differs from the nominal tax rates in countries where Principle: the Group has operations. The relationship between tax expense and accounting Earnings per share and diluted earnings per share are presented for ordinary profit (loss) before taxes is as follows: shares. Earnings per share is calculated by dividing profit (loss) attributable to 2018 2017 owners of the parent by the weighted average number of shares outstanding. Profit (loss) before taxes 1,681 3,144 Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing profit (loss) attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of shares outstanding, Estimated tax expense based on nominal tax rate in Norway 387 755 adjusted for all dilutive potential shares. Tax effect share of profit (loss) of joint ventures (14) 27 and associates The dilutive effect is calculated as the difference between the number of shares Tax effect impairment loss goodwill 138 1 which can be acquired upon exercise of outstanding options and the number of shares which could be acquired at fair value (calculated as the average price of Tax effect gain from remeasurement on equity (121) the Schibsted share in the period) for the consideration which is to be paid for the interests in business combinations shares that can be acquired based on outstanding options. Tax effect other permanent differences 18 (105) Change in unrecognised deferred tax assets 278 280 Adjusted earnings per share is calculated as profit (loss) attributable to owners Effect of tax rate differentials abroad 153 112 of the parent adjusted for items reported in the income statement as Other income and expenses and Impairment loss, adjusted for taxes and non-controlling inEffect of changes in tax rates 5 10 terests. The number of shares included in the calculation is the same as the Taxes recognised in profit or loss 965 958 number for earnings per share and diluted earnings per share, as described above. Permanent differences include, in addition to non-deductible operating expenses, taxfree dividends and gains (losses) on sale of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies. Such gains (losses) are recognised in Other income and expenses. 68 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP 2018 2017 Weighted average number of shares outstanding 238,329,205 227,529,314 Effects of dilution 232,330 274,468 Weighted average number of shares outstanding diluted 238,561,535 227,803,782 Profit (loss) attributable to owners of the parent 648 2,130 Earnings per share (NOK) 2.72 9.36 Diluted earnings per share (NOK) 2.72 9.35 Calculation of adjusted earnings per share Profit (loss) attributable to owners of the parent 648 2,130 Other income and expenses 55 (1,505) Impairment loss 747 49 Taxes and non-controlling effect of Other income and expenses and Impairment loss (8) 106 Profit (loss) attributable to owners of the parent adjusted 1,442 780 Earnings per share adjusted (NOK) 6.05 3.43 Diluted earnings per share adjusted (NOK) 6.05 3.43 NOTE 16: IMPAIRMENT ASSESSMENTS -----------------------------------------------Principle: Property, plant, equipment, intangible assets and goodwill are reviewed for impairFor the purpose of impairment testing, assets, except goodwill, are grouped together into ment whenever an indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable is the smallest group of assets that generates independent cash flows (cash-generating identified. Goodwill and other intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life units). Goodwill is allocated to the cash-generating units, or groups of cash-generating are tested annually for impairment. Impairment indicators will typically be changes units, that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Testing for in market developments, competitive situation or technological developments. An impairment of goodwill is done by comparing recoverable amount and carrying amount impairment loss is recognised in the income statement if the carrying amount of of the same groups of cash-generating units as to which goodwill is allocated. an asset (cash-generating unit) exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill. Any remaining amount is then Value in use is assessed by discounting estimated future cash flows. Estimated cash allocated to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the unit on a pro rata flows are based on management’s experience and market knowledge for the given period, basis. Impairment losses are reversed if the loss no longer exists for all property, plant normally five years. For subsequent periods growth factors are used that do not exceed and equipment and intangible assets with the exception of goodwill where impairment the long-term average rate of growth for the relevant market. Expected cash flows are losses are not reversed. discounted using an after tax discount rate that takes into account the expected long-term interest rate with the addition of a risk margin appropriate for the assets being tested. Estimation uncertainty: The valuation of intangible assets in connection with business combinations and the The risk of changes in expected cash flows that affect the financial statements will testing of intangible assets for impairment will to a large extent be based on estimated naturally be higher in markets in an early phase and be more limited in established future cash flows. Correspondingly, the expected useful lives and residual values included markets. Furthermore, the risk of changes will be significantly higher in periods with in the calculation of depreciation and amortisation will be based on estimates. uncertain macroeconomic prognosis. The Group has activities within established media, but is also active in establishing posiThe structural changes in media consumption, with accelerated migration from print to tions at an early point in time in new media channels through both business combinations digital results in pressure on profits and cash flows for the media houses in Norway and and its own start-ups. Estimates related to future cash flows and the determination of Sweden. Rapid adaption of the business model and cost base is required to be relevant discount rates to calculate present values are based on management’s expectations and profitable in the digital future. Inability to convert print cash flows to digital cash on market developments, the competitive situation, technological development, the flows can consequently lead to a negative adjustment to the Group's cash flows. ability to realise synergies, interest rate levels and other relevant factors. Goodwill and trademarks with indefinite expected useful life specified on cash-generating units GOODWILL TRADEMARKS, INDEFINITE Operating segment 2018 2017 2018 2017 Marketplace operations France Marketplaces 3,846 3,716 936 926 Marketplace operations Spain Marketplaces 3,436 3,400 180 178 Marketplace operations Chile Marketplaces 601 1,138 63 67 Marketplace operations France, Italy, Austria, Germany and UK Marketplaces 542 536 228 226 Marketplace operations Ireland Marketplaces 374 369 160 159 Marketplace operations Spain, Italy and Mexico Marketplaces 1,282 1,268 Marketplace operations Sweden Marketplaces 692 661 Marketplace operations Norway Marketplaces 487 487 Subscription-based newspapers Norway Publishing 237 237 431 436 Other CGUs 1,514 1,706 145 148 Total 11,729 12,249 3,426 3,408 69 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP Impairment testing / Impairment assessments Value in use of the marketplace operations Mexico is calculated using a pre-tax Schibsted recognised impairment losses related to goodwill of NOK 601 million weighted average discount rate of 17.7% and a sustained growth of 3% in 2018. in 2018 and NOK 3 million in 2017. The impairment losses in 2018 were mainly Changes in significant assumptions would have increased (decreased) recoverable related to Compricer AB and Yapo.cl SpA. amount (NOK million) of those operations as at 31 December 2018 as follows: The carrying amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite Pre-tax discount rate +1% (35) useful lives are disclosed above. Recoverable amounts of cash generating units (1%) 40 are estimated based on value in use. Discount rates applied takes into considSustained growth +1% 15 eration the risk-free interest rate and risk premium for the relevant country (1%) (13) as well as any business specific risks not reflected in estimated cash flows. Expected sustained growth reflects expected growth for the relevant market. An increase in pre-tax discount rate of one percentage point or a decrease in In estimating cash flows used in calculating value in use, consideration is given sustained growth of one percentage point would not have resulted in any impairto the competitive situation, current developments in revenues and margins, ment loss having to be recognised. The recoverable amount is also significantly trends and macroeconomic expectations for the relevant area of operations. The affected by assumptions used for future cash flows which are uncertain. The media houses in Norway and Sweden are experiencing pressure on profits and estimated future cash flows may decrease by approximately 16% compared to the cash flows from the structural changes in media consumption while marketestimates actually used before any impairment loss would have to be recognised. place operations experience good growth. Schibsted has goodwill related to cash generating units in certain markets that presently recognise negative or For all cash-generating units pre-tax discount rates are determined by country low profitability due to large investments in market positions and immature and are in the range between 8.2% and 17.7%. Sustained growth is determined monetization rates. Such units are dependent on future growth in profitability by cash generating unit and does not exceed 3%. to recover goodwill. For the marketplace operations in France and Spain, recoverable amount is significantly higher than the carrying amount. The structural digital shift is continuing but Schibsted remains focused on digital NOTE 17: product development combined with cost adaptions aiming at producing healthy cash flows and operating margins. INTANGIBLE ASSETS -----------------------------------------------Value in use of the Subscription-based newspapers Norway is calculated using a pre-tax discount rate of 9.7% and a sustained growth of 0% in 2018. In 2017 Principle: Intangible assets are measured at its cost less accumulated amortisation and pre-tax discount rate of 9.6% and sustained growth of 0% was used. Changes in accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation of intangible assets with a definite significant assumptions would have increased (decreased) recoverable amount useful life is allocated on a systematic basis over its useful life. Intangible assets (NOK million) of those operations as at 31 December 2018 as follows: with an indefinite useful life are not amortised. Costs of developing software and other intangible assets are recognised as an expense until all requirements for Pre-tax discount rate +1% (116) recognition as an asset are met. The requirements for recognition as an asset (1%) 143 include, among other requirements, the requirement to demonstrate probable future economic benefits and the requirement that the cost of the asset can be Sustained growth +1% 103 measured reliably. Costs incurred after the time that all the requirements for (1%) (84) recognition as an asset are met are recognised as an asset. The cost of an internally generated intangible asset is the sum of expenditure incurred from An increase in pre-tax discount rate of one percentage point or a decrease in the time all requirements for recognition as an asset are met and until the time sustained growth of one percentage point would not have resulted in any impairthe asset is capable of operating in the manner intended by management. ment loss having to be recognised. The recoverable amount is also significantly affected by assumptions used for future cash flows which are uncertain. The Subsequent expenditure incurred in the operating stage to enhance or maintain estimated future cash flows may decrease by approximately 36% compared to an intangible asset are normally recognised as an expense as the requirement to demonstrate probable increased economic benefits will normally not be met. the estimates actually used before any impairment loss would have to be recognised. Intangible assets with a finite expected useful life are as a general rule amortised on a straight line basis over the expected useful life. The amortisation period of An impairment loss of NOK 469 million was recognised in 2018 related to the software and licenses is normally 3 years, and 1.5-10 years is used for Other cash-generating unit marketplace operations Chile. After the impairment the intangible assets. The amortisation method, expected useful life and any residual carrying amount is equal to value in use. value are assessed annually. Value in use of the marketplace operations Chile is calculated using a pre-tax weighted average discount rate of 12.9% and a sustained growth of 3% in 2018. Estimation uncertainty: Changes in significant assumptions would have increased (decreased) recoverSchibsted has significant activities related to developing new technology to able amount (NOK million) of those operations as at 31 December 2018 as folfacilitate digital transformation and the strategy of forming identity-based lows: ecosystems and products that improve the ability to offer targeted advertising and personalised products for customers within both online and news. Costs of developing such technology is expensed until all requirements for recognition Pre-tax discount rate +1% (74) as an asset is met. When requirements for recognition as an asset are met, the (1%) 91 costs are capitalised. The requirements for recognition as an asset include the Sustained growth +1% 45 requirement to demonstrate probable future economic benefits and the require(1%) (37) ment that the cost of the asset can be measured reliably. Determining whether cost shall be charged to expense or be recognised as an asset based on the existing requirements involves the use of judgement by management. 70 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP Trademarks, Trademarks, Software Customer Development in net carrying amount in 2018 Goodwill indefinite definite and licenses relations Total As at 1 January 12,249 3,408 10 1,150 166 16,983 Additions 1 658 2 660 Acquired through business combinations 87 3 8 98 Disposals (1) (1) Reclassification 3 (3) Amortisation (1) (426) (49) (476) Impairment loss (601) (5) (137) (0) (743) Translation differences (7) 23 (16) (1) (1) As at 31 December 11,729 3,426 12 1,228 126 16,521 Of which accumulated cost 14,523 3,440 260 3,460 369 22,051 Of which accumulated amortisation and impairment loss (2,794) (13) (248) (2,232) (243) (5,530) Trademarks, Trademarks, Software Customer Development in net carrying amount in 2017 Goodwill indefinite definite and licenses relations Total As at 1 January 10,022 3,156 10 805 107 14,100 Additions 661 661 Acquired through business combinations 1,697 99 35 94 1,924 Disposals (1) (1) Disposals on sale of businesses (236) (80) (4) (320) Reclassification (15) (15) Amortisation (1) (347) (47) (395) Impairment loss (3) (3) (45) (51) Translation differences 770 235 1 61 13 1,080 As at 31 December 12,249 3,408 10 1,150 166 16,983 Of which accumulated cost 14,429 3,416 253 2,877 359 21,335 Of which accumulated amortisation and impairment loss (2,180) (8) (243) (1,728) (192) (4,352) Additions in Software and licenses mainly consists of internally developed intangible assets. Research and development expenditure that do not meet the criteria for recognition as intangible assets are recognised as an expense when incurred. Such investments and maintancene of existing software reduced Gross operating profit by NOK 1,245 million in 2018 and NOK 1,214 million in 2017. Impairment of NOK 137 million from Software and licenses in 2018 are related to closure of the joint generalist platform projekt Rocket and certain other projects. For information on impairment loss on goodwill see note 16. NOTE 18: PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND INVESTMENT PROPERTY -----------------------------------------------Principle: Property, plant and equipment are measured at its cost less accumulated depreThe carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment is derecogciation and accumulated impairment losses. nised on disposal or when no economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Gain or loss arising from derecognition is included in profit or loss when Property that is not owner-occupied, but held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation, the item is derecognised. is classified as investment property. Investment property is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Property, plant and equipment and investment properties, excluding land, are depreciated on a straight line basis over their estimated useful life. DepreciaThe depreciable amount (cost less residual value) of property, plant and equipment tion schedules reflect the assets' residual value. Items of property, plant and is allocated on a systematic basis over its useful life. Each part of an item of property, equipment where material components can be identified with different useful plant and equipment with a cost that is significant in relation to the total cost of life are depreciated over the individual component's expected useful life. Buildthe item, is depreciated separately. ings (25-50 years), Plant and machinery (5-20 years), Equipment, furniture and similar assets (3-10 years). The depreciation method, expected useful life and Costs of repairs and maintenance are recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Cost of any residual value are reviewed annually. replacements and improvements are recognised in the carrying amount of the asset. 71 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP Equipment, Buildings Investment Plant and furniture and Development in net carrying amount in 2018 and land properties machinery similar assets Total As at 1 January 209 67 149 564 989 Additions 4 6 146 156 Acquisitions through business combinations 1 1 Disposals (3) (10) (13) Reclassification Depreciation (18) (3) (53) (182) (256) Impairment loss (reversal of loss) (4) (4) Translation differences (4) (4) As at 31 December 192 64 102 511 869 Of which accumulated cost 434 68 1,692 1,456 3,650 Of which accumulated depreciation and impairment loss (242) (4) (1,590) (945) (2,781) Equipment, Buildings Investment Plant and furniture and Development in net carrying amount in 2017 and land properties machinery similar assets Total As at 1 January 217 67 201 534 1 019 Additions 24 9 171 204 Acquisitions through business combinations 3 3 Disposals (18) (4) (8) (31) Reclassification 15 14 Depreciation (15) (58) (166) (239) Impairment loss (reversal of loss) 2 2 Translation differences 2 14 16 As at 31 December 209 67 149 564 988 Of which accumulated cost 435 68 1 686 1 354 3 542 Of which accumulated depreciation and impairment loss (226) (1) (1 537) (790) (2 554) Investment properties carrying amount of NOK 63 million. The other is a commercial building in Farsund Schibsted has two properties classified as investment properties at year-end (Norway) with a carrying amount of NOK 4 million. Fair values as at 31 December 2018. One of them is a separable unused property in Stavanger (Norway) with a 2018 are not expected to deviate significantly from the carrying amount. NOTE 19: NOTE 20: OTHER NON-CURRENT TRADE RECEIVABLES -----------------------------------------------AND CURRENT ASSETS -----------------------------------------------2018 2017 Trade receivables 1,984 1,799 Non-current Current Less provision for expected credit loss on (104) (100) 2018 2017 2018 2017 trade receivables (note 25) Trade receivables, net (note 7 and 20) 1,880 1,699 Trade receivables (net) 1,880 1,699 Prepaid expenses and accrued revenue 22 22 395 932 Income tax receivables 111 103 The aging of the past due, not impaired Loans to joint ventures and associates 59 16 trade receivables: Other shares 55 17 Up to 45 days 380 313 Financial derivatives (note 25) 8 5 40 52 More than 45 days 255 224 Other receivables 46 70 699 328 Total 635 537 Inventories 15 11 For information regarding receivables transferred from contract assets during 2018, see Note 7. Total 131 114 3,199 3,141 For information regarding effects of implementation of IFRS 9, see note 25 72 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP NOTE 21: FINANCIAL LIABILITIES RELATED TO BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND INCREASES IN OWNERSHIP INTERESTS -----------------------------------------------Principle: Estimation uncertainty: Contingent consideration in business combinations and the present value of future The liabilities are measured at fair value which is based on the best estimate of consideration to be paid related to non-controlling interests' put options over future considerations. The estimates take into account the principles for detershares in subsidiaries are recognised as financial liabilities. If the agreement mination of the consideration in the existing agreements. The estimates take further with non-controlling interests implies that Schibsted may be required to acquire into account, when relevant, management's expectations regarding future the shares and settle the liability within a period of twelve months from the balance economic development used in determining recoverable amount in impairment sheet date, the liability is classified as current. Other liabilities related to put tests. The estimate can be changed in future periods as the consideration to be options are classified as non-current. The requirement to settle the liability is paid is dependent upon future fair value as well as future results. Estimation contingent on the non-controlling interests actually exercising their put options. uncertainty is significantly reduced due to settlement of non-controlling interest For agreements where the option can be exercised over a defined period, the put option in January 2019, see note 32 for further information. actual settlement may therefore occur in later periods than presented in the maturity profile below. See note 25 Financial instruments by category for principles related to financial instruments. Non-controlling interests' put options Contingent considerations Development in net carrying amount 2018 2017 2018 2017 As at 1 January 924 969 1 5 Settlement (102) (53) (1) (1) Change in fair value recognised in equity 198 (75) Change in fair value recognised in profit or loss (3) Interest expenses 9 10 Translation differences 10 73 As at 31 December 1 039 924 1 Of which non-current (note 22) 29 39 Of which current (note 22) 1 010 885 1 The maturity profile of the financial liabilities Maturity within 1 year 1 010 885 1 Maturity between 1 and 2 years 29 Maturity between 2 and 5 years 39 The non-controlling interests' put option related to Finderly GmbH was settled in 2018. The most significant liabilities related to non-controlling interests' put options in 2017 are related to shareholdings in Schibsted Classified Media Spain S.L and Finderly GmbH. For information on non-controlling interests' put option settled after 31 December 2018 see note 32. NOTE 22: OTHER NON-CURRENT AND CURRENT LIABILITIES -----------------------------------------------Non-current Current Principle: 2018 2017 2018 2017 Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive Financial liabilities related to non-controlling 29 39 1,010 885 obligation as a result of past events, it is probable an outflow of resources will interests' put options (note 21) be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses. The provision is calcuContingent considerations business 1 1 lated on the basis of the best estimate of anticipated expenses. If the effect is combinations (note 21) material, anticipated future cash flows will be discounted, using a current pre-tax Trade payables 1,010 1,040 interest rate that reflects the risks specific to the provision. Prepaid revenues 914 Contingent liabilities and contingent assets are a possible obligation or a possible Public duties payable 751 710 asset that may be incurred depending on the outcome of a future event, and is not recAccrued salaries and other 17 32 845 832 ognised in the financial statements. Contingent liabilities are disclosed unless the proemployment benefits bability that an economic settlement will be required to settle the obligation is remote. Accrued expenses 497 440 Contingent assets are disclosed where an inflow of economic benefits are probable. Provision for restructuring costs 82 114 81 109 Prepaid revenues and deferred revenues included in other liabilities for 2017 are Financial derivatives (note 25) 70 83 71 27 reported seperately for 2018 as contract liabilities in the combined statements Other liabilities 44 58 308 387 of financial position, following implementation of IFRS 15. Total 242 326 4,575 5,345 73 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP NOTE 23: FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT -----------------------------------------------Capital management and funding The Group's capital consists of net interest-bearing debt and equity: Schibsted aims to provide a competitive rate of return based on healthy finances. Schibsted targets to maximise the shareholders’ return through long-term 2018 2017 growth in the share price and dividend. The Group’s dividend policy is to place Non-current interest-bearing borrowings 3,837 4,212 emphasis on paying a stable to increasing dividend amount over time. In years Current interest-bearing borrowings 389 28 when there is an economic slowdown, or for other reasons weaker cash flows of Cash and cash equivalents 1,844 1,626 the company, the company may reduce or decide not to pay dividend. Net interest-bearing debt 2,383 2,614 The Group's strategy and vision imply a high rate of change and development of Group equity 14,673 15,054 the Group’s operations. Schibsted’s capital structure must be sufficiently robust in Net gearing (net interest-bearing debt/equity) 0.16 0.17 order to maintain the desired freedom of action and utilise growth opportunities Undrawn long-term bank facilities (note 24) 2,984 2,952 based on strict assessments relating to allocation of capital. Funding and control of refinancing risk is handled by Group treasury on the parent Financial risks company level. Schibsted has a diversified loan portfolio both in terms of loan Schibsted is exposed to financial risks, such as currency risk, interest rate risk, sources and maturity profile, see note 24 Interest-bearing borrowings. The most credit risk and liquidity risk. Group treasury is responsible for keeping the Group's important funding sources are banks and the Norwegian bond market. Schibsted's exposure in financial risks in accordance with the financial strategy over time. objective is to be considered as an investment grade rated company over time (BBBor better). Schibsted does not have an official credit rating, but has been Currency risk rated by lenders and was classified BBB. Due to new regulations most of Schibsted has Norwegian kroner (NOK) as its base currency, but is through its operations outside Norway also exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates of the banks have now discontinued such ratings. Schibsted will follow up on the other currencies, mainly Euro (EUR) and Swedish kronor (SEK). Schibsted has requirement for rating going forward. The financial flexibility is good and the currency risks linked to both balance sheet monetary items and net investments refinancing risk is considered as low. in foreign operations. The Group makes use of loans in foreign currencies and financial derivatives (forward contracts and cross currency swaps) to reduce this Schibsted’s loan agreements contain financial covenants regarding the ratio of currency exposure. The loans in foreign currencies and the financial derivatives net interest-bearing debt (NIBD) to gross operating profit (EBITDA). The ratio are managed actively in accordance with the Group’s financial strategy. As at shall normally not exceed 3, but can be reported at higher levels up to three 31 December 2018 the Group had entered into several forward contracts and quarters during the loan period, as long as the ratio stays below 4. According to several interest rate and cross currency swap agreements. the definition of the loan agreements, the ratios were 0,73 as at 31 December 2018 and 1.0 as at 31 December 2017. The target level is 1-2. Currency gains and losses relating to borrowings and forward contracts which hedge net investments in foreign operations are recognised in Other comprehensive Available liquidity should at all times be equal to at least 10 % of expected annual income until the foreign operation is disposed of. Other currency gains and losses revenues. Available liquidity refers to the Group's cash and cash equivalents and are recognised in the income statement on an ongoing basis as financial income available long-term bank facilities. or expenses. As at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 Schibsted has the following forward contracts, which all mature within 12 months: 2018 2017 Currency Amount NOK Amount NOK Forward contracts, sale SEK 832 807 250 250 Forward contracts, sale EUR 127 1,263 114 1 122 Forward contracts, sale MXN 77 34 66 27 Forward contracts, buy SEK 870 844 260 260 Forward contracts, buy MXN 77 34 As at 31 December 2018 forward contracts for the sale of SEK 832 million are Cash flows in foreign currencies relating to considerable investments or significant related to hedging of net investments in foreign operations. As at 31 December individual transactions are hedged by using financial instruments. At year-end 2017 the corresponding figure was SEK 250 million. Fair value of the contracts the Group had no such contracts. The Group’s foreign exchange exposure relating accounted for as hedges was NOK (14) million as at 31 December 2018 and NOK (4) to operations is low, since most of the cash flows take place in the individual million as at 31 December 2017. Fair value of other forward contracts was NOK businesses' local currency. (22) million as at 31 December 2018 and NOK (15) million as at 31 December 2017. As at 31 December 2018 Schibsted has the following cross currency swaps, which mature in 2019-2021: Currency NOK to Currency payment receive Cross currency swap EUR 21 Euribor 3 months + margin 195 Nibor 3 months + margin Cross currency swap EUR 40 Euribor 3 months + margin 350 Nibor 3 months + margin Cross currency swap EUR 43 Euribor 3 months + margin 405 Nibor 3 months + margin Cross currency swap SEK 161 Stibor 3 months + margin 150 Nibor 3 months + margin 74 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP The cross currency swap agreements are linked to bonds and floating rate notes A change in exchange rates also affects the translation of net foreign assets and matches the payments completely during the contract period. The agreeto NOK. The equity effect of these changes is to some extent reduced by the ments are accounted for as hedges. The fair value of the agreements was NOK Group's currency hedging, where changes in the value of net foreign assets are (89) million as at 31 December 2018 and NOK (74) million as at 31 December 2017. mitigated by changes in the value of the Group's foreign-denominated interestbearing borrowings and currency derivatives. Schibsted follows a currency hedging strategy where parts of net investments in foreign operations are hedged. As at 31 December 2018 66% of the Group's Interest rate risk interest-bearing debt and derivatives was in EUR. Similarly, 3% of the Group's Schibsted has floating interest rates on most of its interest-bearing borrowings interest-bearing debt and derivatives was in SEK. As at 31 December 2017 62% according to the financial strategy, see note 24 Interest-bearing borrowings, and of the Group's interest-bearing debt and derivatives was in EUR and 13% was is thereby influenced by changes in the interest market. A change of 1 percentage in SEK. point in the floating interest rate means a change in Schibsted's net interest expenses of approximately NOK 24 million. The sensitivity of exchange rate fluctuations is as follows: if NOK changes by 10% compared to the actual rate as at 31 December 2018 for SEK and EUR, the Interest rate swap agreements have been entered into to swap the bonds issued carrying amount of the Group's net interest-bearing debt and currency derivatives in 2012 from fixed interest rates to floating interest rates based on Nibor 6 in total will change by approximately NOK 179 million. Currency effects will have months with addition of a margin. An interest rate swap has also been entered into a limited effect on Group profits since changes in value will be tied to instruments converting the floating rate note issued in December 2012 from Nibor 3 months hedging the net foreign investments or matching interest-bearing loans to with addition of a margin to Nibor 6 months with addition of a margin. non-Norwegian subsidiaries. As at 31 December 2018 Schibsted has the following interest rate swap agreements in NOK million: Amount Pay Receive Interest rate swap 150 Nibor 6 months + margin 5.9% Interest rate swap 150 Nibor 6 months + margin 5.9% Interest rate swap 250 Nibor 6 months + margin 5.4% Interest rate swap 150 Nibor 6 months + margin Nibor 3 months + margin The fair value of the interest rate swap agreements was NOK 24 million as at 31 December 2018 and NOK 35 million as at 31 December 2017. The interest rate swaps involving fixed rates are accounted for as hedges with a corresponding loss related to the hedged item. Credit risk Trade receivables are diversified through a high number of customers, customer placed in the Group's cash pool, and at times in the short-term money market categories and markets. Trade receivables consist of a combination of prepaid with the relationship banks. Schibsted requires all relationship banks to have a subscription or advertisements and sales invoiced after delivery of the product. certain rating. For some receivables there is no or very little credit risk (prepaid subscription and payments made by credit card at purchase date) and for other receivables Liquidity risk the credit risk is higher. Credit risk will also vary among countries in which Schibsted At year-end the Group's portfolio of loans and loan facilities is well diversified operates. To some extent credit insurance is also used. In total the credit risk is both regarding maturity profile and lenders. considered as low. Net carrying amount of the Group's financial assets, except for equity instruments, represents maximum credit exposure, and the exposure As at 31 December 2018 Schibsted has a long-term liquidity reserve of NOK as at 31 December 2018 is disclosed in note 25 Financial instruments by category. 4,828 million and net interest-bearing debt is NOK 2,383 million. The liquidity Exposure related to the Group's trade receivables is disclosed in note 20 Trade reserve corresponds to 27% of the Group’s turnover. At the end of 2017 Schibsted's receivables. long-term liquidity reserve was NOK 4,578 million, and net interest-bearing debt was NOK 2,614 million, where the liquidity reserve corresponded to 27% of the Schibsted has a conservative placement policy. Excess liquidity is temporarily Group's turnover. 75 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP NOTE 24: INTEREST-BEARING -----------------------------------------------BORROWINGS Carrying amount Fair value (1) Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 2018 2017 2018 2017 Currency Coupon Bonds ISIN NO0010637275 (2012-2019) 300 300 302 315 NOK 5.9% ISIN NO0010667843 (2012-2022) 250 250 273 281 NOK 5.4% ISIN NO0010667850 (2012-2022) 150 150 157 159 NOK FRN: Nibor 3 months + 250 bps ISIN NO0010710569 (2014-2021) 600 600 602 601 NOK FRN: Nibor 3 months + 110 bps ISIN NO0010786866 (2017-2024) 500 500 494 494 NOK FRN: Nibor 3 months + 120 bps ISIN NO0010797533 (20172020) 1,000 1,000 1,003 1,002 NOK FRN: Nibor 3 months + 100 bps ISIN NO0010797541 (2017-2023) 600 600 602 603 NOK FRN: Nibor 3 months + 145 bps ISIN NO0010797558 (2017-2023) 300 300 297 300 NOK 2.825% Total bonds 3,700 3,700 3,730 3,755 of this current interest bearing liabilities 300 302 Bank loans 417 499 417 499 Other loans 20 13 20 13 Total non-current interest-bearing liabilities 3,837 4,212 3,866 4,267 Current interest bearing liabilities Bonds, maturity <1 year 300 302 Bank loans, overdrafts 87 22 87 22 Other loans 2 6 2 6 Total current interest-bearing liabilities 389 28 391 28 Total interest-bearing liabilities 4,227 4,240 4,257 4,295 (1) The fair value of exchange-traded bonds is quoted prices, whereas book values are assumed to represent fair value for other loans. Schibsted has issued three bonds with fixed interest rates, where two of the bonds are hedged with interest rate swap agreements implying floating interest rates in practice for these bonds. The nominal interest rate is not an expression of the Group’s actual interest cost, as various interest rate swaps have been entered into. Contractual amount in NOK million of interest-bearing borrowings Maturity profile interest-bearing liabilities and unutilised breaks down as follows by currency: credit facilities (contractual amounts): Interest-bearing liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities Unutilised credit facilities 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 NOK 3,718 3,741 Maturity <3 months EUR 515 506 Maturity 3 months-1 year 392 33 Other 5 Maturity 1-2 years 1,097 402 Total contractual amount 4,233 4,252 Maturity 2-5 years 2,130 2,227 2,984 2,952 Maturity >5 years 615 1,589 Total contractual amount 4,233 4,252 2,984 2,952 The Group also holds cash pools and bank accounts with short-term credit lines. Credit facilities Unutilised credit lines on these accounts are not included in the table. Schibsted has a long-term revolving credit facility of EUR 300 million. The lenders consist of seven Nordic and international banks. The facility has interest terms Guarantees based on Euribor with the addition of a margin, and Schibsted pays a commitment The Group has provided guarantees of NOK 2 million. The Group has no mortgage fee to maintain the facility’s availability. The facility was not drawn as at 31 debt. December 2018. 76 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP NOTE 25: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS BY CATEGORY -----------------------------------------------Principle: fair values, due to their short-term nature. Short-term loans and receivables are New standards implemented for practical reasons not amortised. Effective interest related to financial assets at IFRS 9 replaced IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. IFRS 9 amortised cost is recognised in profit or loss as Financial income. has been implemented retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the standard recognized at the date of initial application. Equity instruments held The Group elected to classify irrevocably all its investments in non-listed equity at date of implementation will be presented with subsequent changes in fair value instruments as equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI (FVOCI) in other comprehensive income. Related AFS reserve will be reclassified from when they meet the definition of equity under IAS 32 Financial instruments: accumulated OCI to retained earnings. Presentation. When designated at FVOCI, items are not recycled through profit and loss upon derecognition. Exception is made for dividends which are recognised as The classification and measurement requirements of IFRS 9 did not have a significant other income and expense in the statement profit and loss. Carrying amount of impact to the Group. The Group continued measuring at fair value all financial assets investment in equity instruments is included in the balance sheet item Other nonpreviously held at fair value under IAS 39. The following are the changes in the current assets. Equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI are not classification of the Group’s financial assets: subject to impairment assessment. • Trade receivables and Other non-current financial assets classified as Loans and Financial liabilities not included in any of the above categories are classified as receivables as at 31 December 2017 are held to collect contractual cash flows financial liabilities at amortized cost. The category other financial liabilities is and give rise to cash flows representing solely payments of principal and interest. included in the balance sheet items Non-current interest-bearing borrowings, These are classified and measured as Debt instruments at amortised cost beginOther non-current liabilities, Current interest-bearing borrowings and Other current ning 1 January 2018. liabilities. After initial measurement, financial liabilities at amortized cost are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Effective interest • Equity investments in non-listed companies classified as AFS financial assets is recognized in income as financial expenses. Short-term financial liabilities are for as at 31 December 2017 are classified and measured as Equity instruments practical reasons not amortized. designated at fair value through OCI beginning 1 January 2018. The Group elected to classify irrevocably its non-listed equity investments under this category at Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows the date of initial application as it intends to hold these investments for the forefrom the financial asset expire and the Group has transferred substantially all the seeable future. There were no impairment losses recognised in profit or loss for risks and rewards of ownership. Financial liabilities are derecognised when the these investments in prior periods. obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires. Any rights and obligations created or retained in such a transfer are recognised separately as assets or liabilities. The implementation impact of IFRS 9 is immaterial, and Schibsted’s equity as at January 2018 have consequently not been adjusted upon adoption of the standard. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the balance In accordance with the IFRS 9’s transitional provisions, comparative figures have sheet when the Group has a legal right to offset the amounts and intends to settle not been restated. on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Principle The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence The Group initially recognizes loans, receivables and deposits on the date that they that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. Indications of impairare originated. All other financial assets and financial liabilities (including financial ment is evaluated separately for each investment, but normally a decline in value of assets designated at fair value through profit or loss or other comprehensive income) more than 20% compared to cost will be considered to be significant, and normally are recognized initially on the trade date at which the Group becomes a party to a decline in value below cost lasting for more than 12 months will be considered the contractual provisions of the instrument. All financial instruments are initially to be prolonged. measured at fair value plus or minus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs. For the years prior to 1 January 2018 Schibsted have used the incurred loss model when assessing credit quality of financial instruments. From 1 January 2018 Schibsted The Group classifies at initial recognition its financial instruments in one of the has assessed at each balance sheet date the general pattern of deterioration or following categories: Financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through improvement in the credit quality of financial instruments. The amount of Expected profit or loss, Financial assets at amortized cost, Equity instruments designated at Credit Loss (ECL) recognized as a loss allowance or provision depends on the extent fair value through OCI and Financial liabilities at amortized cost. The classification of credit deterioration since initial recognition. The simplified approach using lifedepends on both the entity’s business model for managing the financial asset and time ECL forms the basis for the assessment. the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset For trade and other receivables Schibsted has applied the practical expedient, the Financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are financial carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account reflecting assets held for trading and acquired primarily with a view of selling in the near the lifetime expected credit losses for trade and other receivables, and the loss is term. The category consists of financial derivatives unless they are designated and recognized as other operating expenses in the income statement. Impairment of all effective hedging instruments. Financial derivatives are included in the balance sheet other financial assets are recognized as financial expenses. items Trade and other receivables, Other current liabilities and Other non-current liabilities. These financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value when Fair value of financial instruments is based on quoted prices at the balance sheet recognised initially, and transaction costs are charged to expense as incurred. date in an active market if such markets exist. If an active market does not exist, Subsequently, the instruments are measured at fair value, with changes in fair fair value is established by using valuation techniques that are expected to provide value, including interest income, recognised in profit or loss as financial income or a reliable estimate of the fair value. The fair value of listed securities is based on financial expenses. current bid prices. The fair value of unlisted securities is based on cash flows discounted using an applicable risk-free market interest rate and a risk premium Financial assets at amortised cost are non-derivative financial assets with fixed specific to the unlisted securities. Fair value of forward contracts is estimated or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. The category based on the difference between the spot forward price of the contracts and the is included in the balance sheet items Other non-current assets, Trade and other closing rate at the date of the balance sheet. The forward rate addition and deduction receivables and Cash and cash equivalents. Financial assets at amortised cost is recognised as interest income or interest expense. Fair value of interest and are recognised initially at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs. currency swaps is estimated based on discounted cash flows, where future interest Subsequently, financial assets at amortised cost are measured at amortised cost rates are derived from market-based future rates. using the effective interest method, reduced by any impairment loss. The carrying amounts of trade and other current payables are assumed to be the same as their 77 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are classified according to Hedges valuation method: On initial designation of a hedge, the Group formally documents the relationship between the hedging instrument(s) and the hedged item(s), including risk manageLevel 1: Valuation based on quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for ment objectives and strategy in undertaking the hedge transaction, together with identical assets or liabilities. the methods that will be used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging relationship. Level 2: Valuation based on inputs other than quoted prices included within level The Group makes an assessment both at the inception of the hedge relationship 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as as well as on an ongoing basis, whether the hedging instruments are expected to prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices). be highly effective in offsetting the changes in the fair value or cash flows for the Level 3: Valuation based on inputs for the asset or liability that are unobservable respective hedged items during the period for which the hedge is designated. market data. In a fair value hedge, the gain or loss from remeasuring a derivative hedging instrument If one or more of the significant inputs are not based on observable market data, the at fair value is recognised in profit or loss. The gain or loss on the hedged item instrument is included in level 3. attributable to the hedged risk is also recognised in profit or loss. Changes in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in Gains or losses related to loans or currency derivatives in foreign currencies, the line item Exchange differences on translating foreign operations. Changes in fair designated as hedging instruments in a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operavalue recognised in profit or loss are presented in the line item Financial expenses tion, are recognised in other comprehensive income until disposal of the operation. and Other income and expenses. Estimation uncertainty: Certain financial instruments are measured at fair value. When no quoted market price uncertainty is significantly reduced due to settlement of non-controlling interest is available, fair value is estimated using different valuation techniques. Estimation put option in January 2019, see note 32 for further information. Carrying amount of assets and liabilities divided into categories: Equity Financial assets and Financial instruments Financial liabilities at fair value assets at at fair value liabilities at 31 December 2018 Note through profit (loss) amortised cost through OCI amortised cost Total Other non-current assets 19 8 68 55 131 Contract assets 280 280 Trade and other receivables 19, 20 40 3,143 3,184 Cash and cash equivalents 1,844 1,844 Total assets 48 5,335 55 5,439 Non-current interest-bearing borrowings 24 3,837 3,837 Other non-current liabilities 22 70 171 242 Current interest-bearing borrowings 24 389 389 Other current liabilities 22 71 4,446 4,517 Total liabilities 141 8,844 8,985 Financial assets and Financial asOther liabilities at fair value Loans and sets available financial 31 December 2017 Note through profit (loss) receivables for sale liabilities Total Other non-current assets 19 5 91 17 114 Trade and other receivables 19, 20 52 3,078 3,130 Cash and cash equivalents 1,626 1,626 Total assets 57 4,795 17 4,869 Non-current interest-bearing borrowings 24 4,212 4,212 Other non-current liabilities 22 83 215 298 Current interest-bearing borrowings 24 28 28 Other current liabilities 22 27 4,337 4,364 Total liabilities 110 8,792 8,902 The fair value of the Group’s financial derivatives: Assets Liabilities 2018 2017 2018 2017 Forward contracts 17 8 52 27 Interest rate and cross currency swaps 24 44 89 83 Warrants 8 5 Total 48 57 141 110 78 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP The Group's financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value, analysed by valuation method: 31 December 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Equity instruments at fair value through OCI 55 55 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 48 48 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 141 141 Financial liabilities business combinations and increases in ownership interests (note 21) 1,039 1,039 31 December 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Equity instruments at fair value through OCI 17 17 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 57 57 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 110 110 Financial liabilities business combinations and increases in ownership interests (note 21) 925 925 Changes in level 3 instruments: 2018 2017 Net carrying amount 1 January (908) (962) Additions 48 9 Disposals (9) (2) Settlements 103 54 Changes in fair value recognised in equity (198) 75 Changes in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income (12) (57) Changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss (9) (25) Net carrying amount 31 December (984) (908) NOTE 26: NUMBER OF SHARES -----------------------------------------------Principle: Own equity instruments which are reacquired (treasury shares) are deducted from The transaction costs of issuing or acquiring own equity instruments are accounted equity. No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancelfor as a deduction from equity, net of any related income tax benefit. lation of treasury shares. Consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity. The development in share capital and other paid-in equity is set out in the Consolidated statement of changes in equity. The development in the number of issued and outstanding shares: NUMBER OF A-SHARES NUMBER OF B-SHARES TOTAL NUMBER OF SHARES Shares Treasury Shares Treasury Shares Treasury 2017 outstanding shares Issued outstanding shares Issued outstanding shares Issued As at 31 December 2016 107,727,595 276,020 108,003,615 118,323,179 480,797 118,803,976 226,050,774 756,817 226,807,591 Capital increase 11,880,397 11,880,397 11,880,397 11,880,397 Decrease in treasury shares 15,551 (15,551) 259,603 (259,603) 275,154 (275,154) As at 31 December 2017 107,743,146 260,469 108,003,615 130,463,179 221,194 130,684,373 238,206,325 481,663 238,687,988 Increase in treasury shares (105,000) 105,000 (105,000) 105,000 Decrease in treasury shares 4,242 (4,242) 223,550 (223,550) 227,792 (227,792) As at 31 December 2018 107,747,388 256,227 108,003,615 130,581,729 102,644 130,684,373 238,329,117 358,871 238,687,988 In November 2017 Schibsted completed a capital increase of 11,880,397 B-shares, equal to 10% of the B-shares outstanding. After the capital increase, the share capital of Schibsted ASA is NOK 119,343,994 split on 108,003,615 A-shares with a nominal value of NOK 0.50 and 130,684,373 B-shares with a nominal value of NOK 0.50. The B-shares are carrying equal rights as A-shares in all respects except that the A-shares have 10 votes per share while the B-shares have one vote per share. No shareholder may own more than 30% of the shares or vote for more than 30% of the total number of votes which may be cast under the Company's Articles of Association. The Annual Shareholder's Meeting has given the Board authorisation to acquire up to 10% of the company's shares as treasury shares. The authorisation was renewed at the Annual Shareholder's Meeting on 3 May 2018 for a period until the Annual Shareholder's Meeting in 2019. At the Annual Shareholder's Meeting on 3 May 2019 the Board will propose a resolution to extend the authorisation for the Board to acquire and dispose of up to 10% of the share capital in Schibsted ASA according to the Norwegian public limited liability companies act under the conditions evident from the notice of the Annual Shareholder's Meeting. Schibsted has in 2018 transferred a total of 137,307 treasury B-shares to key managers in connection with share-based payment plans. Fair value of treasury shares transferred was NOK 33 million. In 2018, 4,242 treasury A-shares and 86,243 treasury B-shares were sold in connection with an employee share saving plan. Total consideration was NOK 15 million. Schibsted acquired 105,000 treasury B-shares in 2018 at a total purchase price of NOK 28 million. 79 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP NOTE 27: NON-CONTROLLING -----------------------------------------------INTERESTS 2018 2017 NonProfit NonProfit controlling (loss) Accucontrolling (loss) Accuinterest attributable mulated Dividends interest attributable mulated Dividends Location (%) to NCI NCI paid to NCI (%) to NCI NCI paid to NCI Finn.no group Oslo, Norway 9.99% 63 59 43 9.99% 51 41 45 Aftonbladet Hierta group Stockholm, Sweden 9.00% 7 45 13 9.00% 13 52 13 Distilled SCH group Dublin, Ireland 50.00% 20 142 28 50.00% 13 149 24 Finderly GmbH Vienna, Austria (27) 9.05% (31) SCM Spain S.L Barcelona, Spain 10.00% 26 4 10.00% 16 3 Other (22) 16 4 (7) 19 13 Total 68 262 92 55 261 98 In December 2018 Schibsted increased its ownership interest in Finderly GmbH from 90.95% to 100%. When put options are granted by Schibsted to holders of non-controlling interests, the related accumulated non-controlling interest is derecognised. For information on non-controlling interests' put option settled after 31 December 2018 see note 32. Summarised financial information for subsidiaries with Aggregate cash flows arising from obtaining control of material non-controlling interests: subsidiaries and businesses: Finn.no group 2018 2017 2018 2017 Cash in acquired companies 56 92 Cash and cash equivalents 755 592 Acquisition cost other current assets 10 40 Other current assets 276 222 Acquisition cost non-current assets 99 1,927 Non-current assets excluding goodwill 95 80 Aggregate acquisition cost assets 165 2,059 Goodwill 488 487 Equity and liabilities assumed (70) (172) Total assets 1,613 1,381 Contingent consideration paid (1) 1 Current liabilities 1,049 881 Contingent consideration deferred Non-current liabilities 18 25 Gross purchase price 94 1,888 Total liabilities 1,067 906 Fair value of previously held equity interest (note 4) (517) Cash in acquired companies (56) (92) Operating revenues 2,029 1,811 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 38 1,279 Gross operating profit (loss) 880 678 Profit (loss) 564 447 Comprehensive income 564 447 Aggregate cash flows arising from losing control of subsidiaries and businesses: Net cash flow from operating activities 715 702 2018 2017 Net cash flow from investing activities (56) (37) Cash in sold companies 36 Net cash flow from financing activities (496) (698) Carrying amount other current assets 3 314 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 163 (33) Carrying amount non-current assets 81 Aggregate carrying amount assets 3 431 Equity and liabilities transferred (2) (94) Gain (loss) 5 194 NOTE 28: Gross sales price 6 531 SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION Fair value of retained equity interest (5) (2) Cash in sold companies (36) TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT Sales price deferred Proceeds from sale of subsidiaries, net of cash sold 1 (113) 380 OF CASH FLOWS -----------------------------------------------The following amounts of interest paid, and interest and dividend received Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities: are classified as cash flow from operating activities: Interest-bearing Financial Put borrowings derivatives obligations 2018 2017 Debt as at 1 January 2017 2,343 53 969 Interest paid (78) (64) Cash flows from financing activities 1,860 (88) (53) Interest received 25 10 Foreign exchange adjustments 39 110 72 Dividends received 40 21 Changes in fair value (75) Other (1) 10 Debt as at 31 December 2017 4,240 75 924 80 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities: NOTE 31: LEASE AGREEMENTS Interest-bearing Financial Put borrowings derivatives obligations Debt as at 1 January 2018 4,240 75 924 -----------------------------------------------Cash flows from financing activities (19) 29 (102) Foreign exchange adjustments (15) 7 Principle: Leases are classified as either finance leases or as operating leases. Leases Changes in fair value 198 that transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to the asset are Other 5 12 classified as finance leases. Other leases are classified as operating leases. All Debt as at 31 December 2018 4,227 89 1,039 of the Group's material leases are considered to be operational. Lease payments related to operating leases are recognised as an expense over the lease term. Future minimum payments under non-cancellable operational NOTE 29: leases where Schibsted is the lessee: TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES -----------------------------------------------Within one year 2018 506 2017 506 Schibsted ASA has direct and indirect control of around 207 entities in various parts Between one and five years 1,745 1,616 of the world. Directly-owned subsidiaries are presented in Note 7 to Schibsted ASA's More than five years 490 464 financial statements. Schibsted has lease obligations related to off-balance sheet operating assets, Schibsted has ownership interests in joint ventures and associates. For loans to mainly office buildings. Rental expenses were NOK 502 million in 2018 and NOK joint ventures and associates see note 19 Other non-current and current assets. 506 million in 2017. The most significant leases relate to the leases of Schibsted For loans from joint ventures and associates, see note 22 Other non-current and Sverige's premises in Västra Järnvägsgatan 21 in Stockholm (the agreement current liabilities. expires 2023), VG and Aftenposten's premises at Akersgata 55 (the agreement expires in 2023) and Schibsted Norge's premises in Sandakerveien 121 (the Schibsted has in 2018 received NOK 13 million from Polaris Media Group related to agreement expires in 2025). The most significant of the Group's leases contains decreased ownership interests in subsidiary. rights to an extension. For remuneration to management, see note 9 Personnel expenses and remuneration. NOTE 32: NOTE 30: EVENTS AFTER THE AUDITORS' REMUNERATION -----------------------------------------------BALANCE SHEET DATE -----------------------------------------------Details on fees to the Group’s auditors for the fiscal year 2018 (excl. VAT): Adevinta Spin-off Schibsted announced 18 September 2018 the Board’s resolution to initiate a Other Tax Other Audit attestation advisory non-audit process to reorganize the company into two growth-oriented companies. The services services services services Total international online classifieds operations (preliminarily named Adevinta ) will Schibsted Group be spun off and established as an independent, listed company. The company will EY 15 1 6 8 30 seek listing on Oslo Stock Exchange, Norway. First day of trading is planned Other auditors 1 1 10 April 2019. Total 16 1 6 8 31 The spin-off of the Adevinta business is carried out by way of transactions and demergers of such business from Schibsted ASA as described in the steps below: Schibsted ASA EY 1 4 2 7 (i) Adevinta ASA was incorporated as an empty subsidiary of Schibsted ASA 9 November 2018. Details on fees to the Group’s auditors for the fiscal year 2017 (excl. VAT): (ii) Before the demerger of Schibsted ASA, certain intra-group transactions were carried out to ensure that the assets, rights and liabilities of the Other Tax Other Adevinta business are owned by companies which are part of the Adevinta Audit attestation advisory non-audit services services services services Total Group following completion of the spin-off which is expected 9 April 2019. Schibsted Group (iii) Before the demerger of Schibsted ASA, a demerger of Schibsted ASA's EY 13 1 4 7 25 wholly owned subsidiary Schibsted Multimedia AS was carried out, with Other auditors 1 1 Adevinta ASA as the acquiring company. Through this demerger, assets Total 14 1 4 7 26 representing approximately 65% of the net value of the international online classifieds business were transferred to Adevinta ASA and Schibsted ASA Schibsted ASA received shares in Adevinta ASA in consideration. These shares represented EY 1 3 4 approximately 65% of the share capital of Adevinta ASA following completion of the spin-off. 81 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP (iv) Through a demerger of Schibsted ASA, assets representing approximately expected to be completed by 9 April 2019. The transactions will be accounted 35% of the net value of the international online classifieds business were for as group continuity basis in Adevinta ASA’s future consolidated financial transferred to Adevinta ASA and the shareholders of Schibsted ASA will statements receive shares in Adevinta ASA in consideration. These shares will represent approximately 35% of the total number of shares in Adevinta ASA following Schibsted plans to retain a 60% ownership in Adevinta at the time of the listing, completion of the spin-off. The demerger was approved by the shareholders after selling down up to 5 percent in the market and distributing shares to on an Extraordinary General Meeting of Schibsted ASA on 25 February 2019 Schibsted’s shareholders. and will be completed after the creditor notification period expires 8 April 2019. Change in minority interests Following the transactions described above, Schibsted ASA will own approximately 23 January 2019 Schibsted announced the aquisition of 10 percent of SCM Spain, 65% of the shares in Adevinta ASA and the shareholders of Schibsted ASA will increasing the ownership to 100 percent. Consideration paid for the shares was own approximately 35% of the shares in Adevinta ASA. The transactions are EUR 100 million. DEFINITIONS AND RECONCILIATIONS -----------------------------------------------The consolidated financial statement is prepared in accordance with international operational data as described and reconciled below. As APMs are not uniformly financial reporting standards (IFRS). In addition, management uses certain alterdefined, the APMs set out below might not be comparable with similarly labelled native performance measures (APM). The APMs are regularly reviewed by measures by other companies. management and their aim is to enhance stakeholders' understanding of the business' performance and financial position alongside IFRS measures. Operating segments were changed from 1 January 2018, and effected APM's are restated retrospectively to give comparable information. See note 6 Operating APMs should not be considered as a substitute for or superior measures of Segments for more information. performance in accordance with IFRS. APMs are calculated consistently over time and are based on financial data presented in accordance with IFRS and other Alternative Performance Measures MEASURE DESCRIPTION REASON FOR INCLUDING EBITDA (before other income and expenses, EBITDA (before other income and expenses, impairment, Shows performance regardless of capital structure, tax impairment, joint ventures and Associates) joint ventures and Associates) Equals gross operating situation and adjusted for income and expenses related profit (loss). Gross operating profit is operating profit transactions and events not considered by management excluding depreciation and amortisation, Share of profit to be part of operating activities. Management believes the (loss) of joint ventures and associates, Impairment loss and measure enables an evaluation of operating performance. Other income and expenses. EBITDA (before other income and EBITDA (before other income and expenses, impairment, Convey information of segment profitability in developed expenses, impairment, joint ventures and joint ventures and Associates) ex. investment phase is the phase operations. Associates) ex. Investment phase gross operating profit from developed operations. The excluded operations are characterized by growth phase with large investments in market positions, immature monetization rate and sustainable profitability has not been reached. Underlying tax rate Underlying tax rate is defined as tax cost excluding effects Management believes that adjusted tax rate represent a that do not result in current tax payables. more understandable measure of what is tax payable by the Group. Liquidity reserve Liquidity reserve is defined as the sum of cash and Management believes that liquidity reserve show the cash equivalents and Unutilised drawing rights on credit total liquidity available for meeting current or future facilities. obligations. Net interest-bearing debt Net interest-bearing debt is defined as interest bearing Management believes that net interest-bearing debt liabilities less cash and cash equivalents and cash pool provides an indicator of the net indebtedness and an holdings. indicator of the overall strength of the statement of financial position. The use of net interest-bearing debt does not necessarily mean that the cash and cash equivalent and cash pool holdings are available to settle all liabilities in this measure. Earnings per share adjusted EPS (adj.) Earnings per share adjusted for other income and The measure is used for comparing earnings to shareholders expenses, impairment loss, non-controlling interests adjusted for income and expenses related transactions and related to other income and expenses and impairment loss events net of tax not considered by management to be part and taxes. of operating activities. Management believes the measure enables an evaluation of value created to shareholder excluding effects of non operating events and transactions. 82 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP Reconciliation of EBITDA (before other income and expenses, Online classifieds Investment phase impairment, joint ventures and Associates) Subsidiaries Finland: Tori 2018 2017 Chile: Yapo (as subsidiary from Q3 2017) Gross operating profit (loss) 3,268 2,606 Mexico: Segundamano = EBITDA (before other income and expenses, 3,268 2,606 Belgium: Kapaza (until Q2 2017) impairment, joint ventures and Associates) Belarus: Kufar Tunisia: Tayara Morocco: Avito Reconciliation of EBITDA (before other income and expenses, Dominican Republic: Corotos impairment, joint ventures and Associates) ex. Investment phase Portugal: Custo Justo Shpock in all markets: Austria, Germany, United Kingdom, Norway, 2018 2017 Sweden and Italy Gross operating profit (loss) 3,268 2,606 EBITDA (before other income and expenses, (442) (676) Joint ventures and associates impairment, JVs and Associates) Investment Chile: Yapo (as 50% JV until Q2 2017) phase Marketplaces Vietnam: Cho Tot (until Q2 2017) EBITDA (before other income and expenses, 1 Indonesia: OLX impairment, joint ventures and Associates) Thailand: Kaidee (until Q2 2018) Investment phase Other Bangladesh: Ekhanei (until Q2 2017) = EBITDA (before other income and expenses, 3,709 3,282 impairment, joint ventures and Associates) ex. Investment phase Other Marketplaces companies are companies not included in proportionally consolidated Marketplaces, that mainly consist of holding companies and overhead within Marketplaces International. Marketplaces operations Developed phase and Investment phase Online classifieds Developed phase Subsidiaries Norway: Finn, MittAnbud and Lendo Sweden: Blocket, Servicefinder and Bytbil France: Leboncoin, MB Diffusion, Kudoz and Avendrealouer Italy: Subito, Infojobs Spain: mainly Coches, FotoCasa, Vibbo, Milanuncios, InfoJobs, Habitaclia Ireland: Daft, Done Deal and Adverts Hungary: Hasznaltauto, Jofogas Colombia: Fincaraiz Brazil: Infojobs Joint ventures and associates Malaysia: Mudah (until Q2 2017) Austria: Willhaben Brazil: OLX (increased ownership from 25% to 50% from Q3 2017) 83 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP Reconciliation of underlying tax rate 2018 2017 Profit (loss) before taxes 1,681 3,144 Share of profit (loss) of joint ventures and associates (60) 113 Other losses for which no deferred tax benefit is recognised 1,035 1,000 Gain on sale and remeasurement of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates (13) (1,023) Impairment losses (goodwill and associates) 731 3 Adjusted tax base 3,375 3,237 Taxes 965 958 Adjusted effective tax rate 28.6 % 29.6 % Reconciliation of liquidity reserve Reconciliation of earnings per share adjusted 2018 2017 2018 2017 Cash and cash equivalents 1,844 1,626 Profit (loss) attributable to owners of the parent 648 2,130 + Unutilised drawing rights on credit facilities 2,984 2,952 Other income and expenses 55 (1,505) = Liquidity reserve 4,828 4,578 Impairment loss 747 49 + Taxes and Non-controlling interests related to (8) 106 Other income and expenses and Impairment loss Reconciliation of net interest-bearing debt = Profit (loss) attributable to owners of the parent adjusted 1,442 780 Earnings per share – adjusted (NOK) 6.05 3.43 2018 2017 Diluted earnings per share – adjusted (NOK) 6.05 3.43 Non-current interest-bearing borrowings 3,837 4,212 + Current interest-bearing borrowings 389 28 Cash and cash equivalents 1,844 1,626 Currency rates used when converting profit or loss = Net interest-bearing debt 2,383 2,614 2018 2017 Swedish krona (SEK) 0.9364 0.9680 Euro (EUR) 9.5995 9.3301 84 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / GROUP 85 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENT / ASA INCOME STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER (NOK million) Note 2018 2017 Operating revenues 16 86 156 Personnel expenses 4 (127) (153) Depreciation and amortisation (7) (5) Other operating expenses 3, 16, 17 (151) (235) Operating profit (loss) (199) (237) Financial income 5 1,898 1,297 Financial expenses 5 (506) (1,428) Net financial items 1,392 (131) Profit (loss) before taxes 1,193 (368) Taxes 6 (174) (147) Profit (loss) 1,019 (515) STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION (NOK million) Note 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 ASSETS Deferred tax assets 6 89 91 Intangible assets 19 22 Property, plant and equipment 4 6 Investments in subsidiaries 7 23,156 20,113 Investments in associates 7 128 128 Other non-current assets 8 6,096 7,827 Non-current assets 29,492 28,187 Current assets 8 988 979 Cash and cash equivalents 9 1,138 1,131 Current assets 2,126 2,110 Total assets 31,618 30,297 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Share capital 119 119 Other paid-in capital 6,721 6,690 Retained earnings 9,943 9,414 Equity 10 16,783 16,223 Pension liabilities 12 269 279 Other non-current liabilities 13, 14 3,893 4,302 Non-current liabilities 4,162 4,581 Current liabilities 13, 14 10,673 9,493 Total equity and liabilities 31,618 30,297 86 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENT / ASA STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER (NOK million) Note 2018 2017 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit (loss) before taxes 1,193 (368) Taxes paid 6 (154) (5) Depreciation and amortisation 7 5 Impairment loss on shares / net reversal of impairment loss 5 1,063 Share-based payment 1 (3) Group contributions included in financial income 5 (852) (823) Dividend not included in financial income 246 Change in non-current assets and liabilities 8 (86) 151 Net effect pension liability (20) 3 Change in working capital 8 (446) (85) Net cash flow from operating activities (357) 184 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchase of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (2) (20) Change in subsidiaries receivables and liabilities in cash pool (net) 8, 13 4,956 (842) Group contributions (net) 818 266 Acquisitions of and capital increase in subsidiaries (1,359) (2,630) Repayment of non-current loans to subsidiaries 8 (3,627) (206) Sale of shares Net cash flow from investing activities 786 (3,432) CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Capital increase 10 2,491 New interest-bearing loans and borrowings 13 3,800 Repayment of interest-bearing loans and borrowings 13 (27) (1,927) Dividends paid 10 (417) (396) Purchase / sale of treasury shares 10 22 54 Net cash flow from financing activities (422) 4,022 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 7 774 Cash and cash equivalents as at 1 January 1,131 357 Cash and cash equivalents as at 31 December 9 1,138 1,131 * Change in working capital consist of changes in trade receivables other current receivables and liabilities and other accruals 87 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / ASA NOTE 1: deducted from the recorded value of the acquisition in the balance sheet. COMPANY INFORMATION -----------------------------------------------Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation, amortisation and impairment. Property, plant and Schibsted ASA is the parent company of the Schibsted Media Group. The financial equipment and intangible assets with limited economic lives are depreciated statements of the holding company cover the head office activities. Activities at over the expected economic life. An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying head office include the Group´s executive management and the corporate and amount exceeds the recoverable amount. Impairment losses are reversed if the common functions within finance, HR, legal, M&A, communication, learning and basis for the impairment is no longer present. development. Leases The financial statements for Schibsted ASA for the year 2018 were approved Leases are classified as either finance leases or operating leases. Leases that by the Board of Directors on 21 March 2019 and will be proposed to the General transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to the asset are Meeting 3 May 2019. classified as finance leases. Other leases are classified as operating leases. All of the company´s leases are considered to be operational. Lease payments related to operating leases are recognised as expenses over the lease term. NOTE 2: Foreign currency Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency on initial SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES recognition by using the spot exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Foreign currency monetary items are translated with the closing rate at the balance -----------------------------------------------sheet date. Foreign currency gains and losses are reported in the income stateThe financial statements for Schibsted ASA have been prepared in accordance with ment in the lines Financial income and Financial expenses, respectively. the Norwegian Accounting Act and Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in Norway. Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised at nominal value less provision for expected loss. All amounts are in NOK million unless otherwise stated. Treasury shares Cash and cash equivalents Acquisition and proceeds from sale of treasury shares are accounted for as eqSchibsted ASA is the ultimate parent of Schibsted's multi-currency corporate uity transactions. cash pool system. Schibsted ASA's funds in the cash pool are classfied as Cash and cash equivalents. The subsidiaries positions in the cash pool are recognised Pension plans as receivables and liabilities in Schibsted ASA's balance sheet. Liabilities are Schibsted ASA has chosen, in accordance with NRS 6, to use measurement and classified in their entirety as current. The classification of receivables as current presentation principles according to IAS 19R – Employee Benefits. or non-current depends on agreement with each subsidiary. The accounting principles for pension are consistent with the accounting principles Cash and cash equivalents consist of bank deposits and other monetary instrufor the Group, as described in note 11 Pension plans in the consolidated financial ments with a maturity of three months or less. statement. Revenue recognition Share-based payment Revenues are recognised in the period when the services are rendered. Schibsted ASA accounts for share-based payment in accordance with NRS 15A Share-Based Payment. NRS 15A requires share-based payments to be accounted Classification for as required by IFRS 2 Share-based Payment. See note 10 Share-based Payment An asset or liability is classified as current when it is part of a normal operating to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. cycle, held primarily for trading purposes, falls due within 12 months or when it consist of cash or cash equivalents on the statement of financial position date. Taxes Other items are classified as non-current. Tax expense (tax income) comprises current tax payable and changes to deferred tax assets/liabilities. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are computed for all tempoShares rary differences between the tax basis and the carrying amount of an asset or Subsidiaries are all entities controlled, either directly or indirectly, by Schibsted ASA. liability in the financial statements and the tax basis of tax losses carried forFor further information concerning evaluation whether Schibsted ASA controls an ward. Deferred tax assets are recognised only when it is probable that the asset entity, please see note 2 in the consolidated financial statement. will be utilised against future taxable profit. Taxes payable and deferred taxes are recognised directly in equity to the extent that they relate to equity transactions. Shares are classified as investment in subsidiaries from the date Schibsted ASA effectively obtains control of the subsidiary (acquisition date) and until the date Contingent liabilities Schibsted ASA ceases to control the subsidiary. Contingent liabilities are recognised when it is more probable than not that future uncertain events will result in outflow of economic resources. The best An associate is an entity that Schibsted ASA, directly or indirectly through estimate of the amount to be paid is included in other provisions in the balance subsidiaries, has significant influence over. Significant influence is normally sheet. Other obligations, for which no liability is recognised, are disclosed in presumed to exist when Schibsted controls 20% or more of the voting power of notes to the financial statements. the investee. Dividend Subsidiaries and associates are recognised according to the cost method and Dividend for the financial year, as proposed by the Board of Directors, is recognised yearly testet for impairment. as a liability as at 31 December. Group contributions and dividends received are recognised as financial income Statement of cash flows provided that it does not represent a repayment of capital invested. If dividends / The statement of cash flows is prepared under the indirect method. Cash and group contribution exceed withheld profits after the acquisition date, the excess cash equivalents include cash, bank deposits and cash on hand. amount represents repayment of invested capital, and the distribution will be 88 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / ASA NOTE 3: Financial expenses consist of: OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES 2018 2017 Interest expenses 76 64 -----------------------------------------------Interest expenses cash pool 36 38 2018 2017 Interest expenses on pension plans (note 12) 5 6 Rent and maintenance 19 34 Impairment on shares 1,063 Office and administrative expenses 10 21 Foreign exchange loss (disagio) 379 239 Restructuring costs (8) 40 Other financial expenses 10 18 Professional fees 101 99 Total 506 1,428 Travel, meetings and marketing 29 41 Total operating expenses 151 235 Interest expenses relates to bonds and bank loans, as well as financial derivatives. Restructuring costs in 2017 were mainly related to structural changes. Some of All material foreign exchange gains and losses relates to financial derivatives, these costs were reversed in 2018 as Schibsted ASA renegotiated some of the loans and bank balances. See note 13 Non-current and current liabilities for further agreements. details. Foreign exchange gains must be seen in connection with foreign exchange losses. Schibsted ASA undertake treasury operations to offset currency exposure for the Group as a result of foreign investments. NOTE 4: PERSONNEL EXPENSES In connection with a reorganization process of the group, the ownership of Schibsted Marketplaces AB was moved from Schibsted Sverige AB to Schibsted -----------------------------------------------ASA. The transaction was carried out as a dividend, using a book value of NOK 2018 2017 2,468 million. NOK 436 million were recognized as financial income, while NOK Salaries and wages 82 108 2,032 million were reallocated from the aquisition cost of Schibsted Sverige AB Social security costs 13 15 to Schibsted Marketplaces AB. Net pension expense (note 12) 13 15 Shares in Schibsted Products & Technology UK Ltd were written down by NOK Other personnel expenses 10 7 1,070 million in 2017. The company has been transferred to Schibsted Classified Share-based payment 9 8 Media AS in 2018. . Total personnel expenses 127 153 Number of FTEs, including trainees 64 88 Kristin Skogen Lund is the CEO of both Schibsted ASA and the group. NOTE 6: For further information concerning remuneration to management and sharebased payment, see note 9 Personnel expenses and remuneration and note 10 INCOME TAXES -----------------------------------------------Share-based payment in the consolidated financial statements. Set out below is a specification of the difference between the profit before taxes and taxable income of the year: For information related to auditor's fee, see note 30 Auditors' remuneration in the consolidated financial statements. 2018 2017 Profit (loss) before taxes 1,193 (368) Dividends and tax free group contributions received (458) (104) Group contributions payable (54) (5) NOTE 5: Other permanent differences Change in temporary differences 2 10 1,067 69 FINANCIAL ITEMS -----------------------------------------------Effect of unrecognised actuarial gain (loss) in the pension liability (10) (1) Financial income consists of: Effect of Capital increase costs, recognised (16) 2018 2017 in equity (note 10) Interest income 23 10 Taxable income 682 642 Interest income cash pool 154 165 Group contributions received 852 823 Tax rate 23 % 24 % Dividends from subsidiaries 436 86 Dividends from associates 22 17 Foreign exchange gain (agio) 411 196 Total 1,898 1,297 89 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / ASA Taxes payable and taxes charged to expenses are calculated as: The net deferred tax liability (asset) consists of the following: 2018 2017 2018 2017 Calculated taxes payable 157 154 Temporary differences related to: Change in net deferred tax asset 6 (9) Property, plant and equipment (1) (1) Tax related to change in tax rate on deferred tax (4) (4) Pension liabilities (264) (261) Tax related to Capital increase costs, recognised 4 Other current liabilities (141) (135) in equity (note 10) Total basis for deferred tax liability (asset) (406) (397) Tax related to unrecognised actuarial gain (loss) 2 in the pension liability Tax rate 22 % 23 % Tax related to Group contributions payable 13 1 Tax expense 174 147 Net deferred tax liability (asset) with applicable (93) (95) year's tax rate The effect on Net deferred tax liability (asset) related 4 4 Effective tax rate is a result of: to change in tax rate from 24% to 23% (25% to 24%) 2018 2017 Net deferred tax liability (asset) (89) (91) Profit (loss) before taxes 1,193 (368) Tax charged based on nominal rate 274 (88) Tax effect permanent differences (105) 227 Tax of Capital increase, recognised in Equity (note 10) 4 Tax related to change in tax rate from 23% to 4 4 22% (24% to 23%) on deferred tax Taxes 174 147 NOTE 7: SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES -----------------------------------------------Schibsted ASA is the ultimate parent company in the Schibsted Media Group with operations world wide. For more information about these operations, see note 6 Operating segments to the consolidated financial statements. Shares in subsidiaries directly owned by Schibsted ASA: Ownership and Carrying Carrying voting share Location amount 2018 amount 2017 Schibsted Multimedia AS 100,00 % Oslo, Norway 15,273 12,241 Schibsted Products & Technology UK Ltd 100,00 % London, United Kingdom 1,075 Schibsted Products & Technology Switzerland AG 100,00 % Sachseln, Switzerland 2 2 Schibsted Tech Polska sp. z.o.o * 100,00 % Krakow, Poland Schibsted ePayment AS 100,00 % Oslo, Norway 14 14 Schibsted Eiendom AS 100,00 % Oslo, Norway 105 87 Schibsted Norge AS 100,00 % Bergen, Norway 2,502 Schibsted Media AS 100,00 % Oslo, Norway 3,203 Schibsted Sverige AB 100,00 % Stockholm, Sweden 2,733 Schibsted Marketplaces Sweden AB 100,00 % Stockholm, Sweden 2,468 Schibsted Enterprise Technology AB 100,00 % Stockholm, Sweden 2 Finn.no AS 90,01 % Oslo, Norway 1,454 1,428 Schibsted Vekst AS * 96,00 % Oslo, Norway 32 31 Adevinta ASA 100,00 % Oslo, Norway 1 Schibsted AG Verlagsgesellschaft 100,00 % Berlin Kapaza Belgium NV 100,00 % Brussel, Belgium 4 Schibsted Classified Media Suomi Oy 100,00 % Helsinki, Finland 598 Total 23,156 20,113 * Direct ownership and voting shares in Schibsted Vekst and Schibsted Tech Polska are 10.00% and 1.00%, respectively. For these companies the table also includes shares in subsidiaries where Schibsted ASA has indirect control. 90 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / ASA 2018 1 Group contributions payable (net) is capitalised as part of investments, with a Marketplaces AB was moved from Schibsted Sverige AB to Schibsted ASA. total of NOK 42 million. See note 5 Financial items. 2 In addition to group contribution, Schibsted Multimedia received new equity 5 A dividend of NOK 26 million from Schibsted Norge AS was settled in 2018. of NOK 3 009 million, including the direct ownership of Schibsted Products & The dividend consisted of shares in Finn.no. Technology. UK Ltd. 6 Schibsted Enterprise Technology AB was bought from Schibsted Products & 3 Adevinta ASA was established in 2018 and received new equity of NOK 1 million. Technology UK Ltd. In addition Schibsted Media AS was established by receiving new equity of NOK 3,203 million. The transaction included the shares in Schibsted 7 Kapaza Belgium and Schibsted Classified Media Suomi Oy was bought from Sverige AB and Schibsted Norge AS. Furthermore the ownership of Schibsted Schibsted Classified Media NV. Shares in associates: Ownership and Carrying voting share Location amount 2018 Equity Profit (loss) Polaris Media ASA 28.97 % Trondheim, Norway 127 1,828 95 Svanedamsveien 10 AS 31.40 % Kristiansand, Norway 1 54 4 Total 128 * Ownership and voting share for Svanedamsveien 10 AS include shares own indirect by Schibsted ASA. Direct ownership and voting shares in Svanedamsveien 10 AS is 25 %. Fair value of the shares in Polaris Media ASA is NOK 374 million as at 31 December 2018. NOTE 8: NON-CURRENT AND CURRENT RECEIVABLES ----------------------------------------------NON-CURRENT CURRENT 2018 2017 2018 2017 Group companies' liabilities in cash pool 2,928 7,174 Other receivables from Group companies 3,164 646 932 929 Other receivables 4 7 39 34 Financial derivatives 17 16 Total 6,096 7,827 988 979 Non-current receivables from Group companies in 2018 consist of loan to Schibsted Classified Media AS of NOK 2 487 million, a loan to Schibsted France SAS of NOK 676 million, and a loan to Sentinel Software AS of NOK 2 million. NOTE 9: CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS ----------------------------------------------2018 2017 Net assets in cash pool 386 1,131 Net assets outside the cash pool 752 Total Cash and cash equivalents 1,138 1,131 Schibsted ASA has a multi-currency cash pool with Danske Bank and a EUR cash Excess liquidity is placed in our relationship banks, in the cash pool or in the pool with BNP Paribas, in which almost all the Nordic and some of the European short-term money market. subsidiaries are included. These cash pools has been established to optimise liquidity management for Schibsted. Payroll withholding tax is not restricted cash as Schibsted holds a tax guarantee for the purpose. The Group has an overdraft facility of NOK 400 million linked to the cash pool with Danske Bank and an uncommitted overdraft facility of EUR 10 million linked to the cash pool with BNP Paribas. At year-end 2018 these facilities were not drawn. 91 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / ASA NOTE 10: EQUITY ----------------------------------------------Share Treasury Other paid-in Retained capital shares capital earnings Total Equity as at 31 December 2017 119 6,690 9,414 16,223 Capital increase Placement of shares Change in treasury shares 26 (5) 21 Share-based payment 5 5 Unrecognised actuarial gain (loss) in pension plans (8) (8) Profit (loss) 1,019 1,019 Dividend (477) (477) Equity as at 31 December 2018 119 6,721 9,943 16,783 The share capital of Schibsted ASA is NOK 119,343,994 divided on 108,003,615 For the year 2018, NOK 2.00 has been allocated for the distribution of dividends A-shares of NOK 0.50 par value and 130,684,373 B-shares of NOK 0.50 par value. to the Shareholders for each owned A and B share. Treasury shares as at 31 December 2018 comprise 256,227 A-shares and 102,644 B-shares. The par value of treasury shares is presented on a separate line within In September 2018 Schibsted announced a propose of reorganizing the Group other paid-in capital with a negative amount. For more information on number of into two growth-oriented companies. See note 18 Events after the reporting shares, see note 26 Number of shares to the consolidated financial statements. period. NOTE 11: SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE ----------------------------------------------The 20 largest shareholders as at 31 December 2018 Number of Number of Toal number A-shares B-shares of shares Ownership Voting share Blommenholm Industrier AS 28,188,589 28,598,589 56,787,178 23.8 % 25.6 % Folketrygdfondet 6,121,141 11,159,950 17,281,091 7.2 % 6.0 % NWT Media AS 4,274,300 4,063,000 8,337,300 3.5 % 3.9 % State Street Bank And Trust Comp * 2,516,097 5,321,907 7,838,004 3.3 % 2.5 % Alecta Pensionsforsakring, Omsesid 3,464,000 3,633,600 7,097,600 3.0 % 3.2 % State Street Bank and Trust Comp 3,267,810 2,477,982 5,745,792 2.4 % 2.9 % Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft 433,517 4,728,332 5,161,849 2.2 % 0.7 % State Street Bank And Trust Comp * 2,066,438 2,711,094 4,777,532 2.0 % 1.9 % Goldman Sachs & Co. Llc * 325,102 4,157,393 4,482,495 1.9 % 0.6 % Ako Master fund Ltd 2,561,356 1,275,542 3,836,898 1.6 % 2.2 % Morgan Stanley & Co. Llc * 1,250,625 2,106,204 3,356,829 1.4 % 1.2 % The Northern Trust Comp, London Br * 1,510,712 1,467,545 2,978,257 1.2 % 1.4 % Ubs Securities Llc * 2,160,420 771,870 2,932,290 1.2 % 1.8 % JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., London * 1,380,744 1,285,819 2,666,563 1.1 % 1.2 % State Street Bank And Trust Comp * 1,356,557 1,057,928 2,414,485 1.0 % 1.2 % Verdipapirfondet Dnb Norge (IV) 723,246 1,536,521 2,259,767 0.9 % 0.7 % JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., London * 1,997,700 248,922 2,246,622 0.9 % 1.7 % BNP Paribas Securities Services 1,124,216 1,065,170 2,189,386 0.9 % 1.0 % JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., London * 1,172,679 1,009,349 2,182,028 0.9 % 1.1 % Citigroup Global Markets Ltd 1,106,810 1,000,103 2,106,913 0.9 % 1.0 % Total 20 largest shareholders 67,002,059 79,676,820 146,678,879 61.5 % 61.9 % *) Nominee accounts. The list of shareholders is based on the public VPS list. For further information regarding the underlying ownership, see the chapter Shareholder information in Schibsted's annual report. 92 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / ASA Number of shares owned by the Board of Directors and the Group Management: Number of Number of Toal number A-shares B-shares of shares Ole Jacob Sunde (Chairman of the Board) 40,000 100,000 140,000 Birger Steen (Member of the Board) 520 520 Marianne Budnik (Member of the Board) Christian Ringnes (Member of the Board) 40,000 40,000 80,000 Philippe Vimard Eugénie Van Wiechen (Member of the Board) Orla Noonan (Member of the Board) 2,500 2,500 5,000 Ingunn Saltbones (Employee representative) 416 674 1,090 Torbjörn Ek (Employee representative) 133 493 626 Finn Våga (Employee representative) 96 96 192 Kristin Skogen Lund Rolv Erik Ryssdal 20,357 51,305 71,662 Trond Berger 4,425 38,810 43,235 Raoul Grünthal 17,484 26,004 43,488 Total Board of Directors and Group Management 125,931 259,882 385,813 The total number of issued shares in Schibsted ASA is 108,003,615 A-shares and 130,684,373 B-shares as at 31 December 2018. The number of shareholders as at 31 December 2018 is 5,099. Foreign ownership is 56.2% (57.1% in 2017). See note 26 to the consolidated financial statement for more information regarding number of shares. The Chairman of the Board, Ole Jacob Sunde is also member of the Board in Blommenholm Industrier. NOTE 12: PENSION PLANS -----------------------------------------------The company is obliged to have an occupational pension scheme in accordance As at 31 December 2018 the pension plans covered 14 working members and with the Act on Mandatory Company Pensions (“Lov om obligatorisk tjeneste23 retirees (total 75 as at 31 December 2017). Note 11 Pension Plans to the pensjon”). The company’s pension scheme meets the requirements of the Act. consolidated financial statements contains further description of the pension plans and the principal assumptions applied. Amounts recognised in profit or loss: 2018 2017 Current service cost 9 10 Net interest on the net defined benefit liability 5 6 Net pension expense – defined benefit plans 14 16 Pension expense defined contribution plans 3 4 Pension expense multi-employer defined benefit plans accounted for as defined contribution plans 1 1 Net pension expense 18 21 Of which included in Profit or loss Personnel expenses 13 15 Of which included in Profit or loss Financial expenses 5 6 Amounts recognised in the balance sheet: 2018 2017 Present value of funded defined benefit liabilities 27 26 Fair value of plan assets (20) (19) Present value (net of plan assets) of funded defined benefit liabilities 7 7 Present value of unfunded defined benefit liabilities 262 272 Net pension liabilities 269 279 Social security tax included in present value of defined benefit liabilities 33 34 93 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / ASA Changes in pension liabilities: 2018 2017 As at 1 January 279 275 Net pension expense 14 16 Contributions / benefits paid (34) (13) Unrecognised actuarial gain (loss) recognised in equity (incl. tax) 10 1 As at 31 December 269 279 New measurement of defined benefit obligation includes: 2018 2017 Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 2 14 Other effects of remeasurement (experience deviation) 8 (13) Remeasurement of defined benefit liabilities 10 1 NOTE 13: NON-CURRENT AND CURRENT LIABILITIES -----------------------------------------------NON-CURRENT CURRENT 2018 2017 2018 2017 Liabilities to credit institutions (note 14) 421 505 90 27 Bond issues (note 14) 3,400 3,700 300 Financial derivatives 70 83 71 27 Dividends accrued 477 417 Group companies receivables in cash pool 9,426 8,717 Other liabilities to Group companies 68 15 Other liabilities 2 14 241 290 Total 3,893 4,302 10,673 9,493 NOTE 14: FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTEREST-BEARING BORROWINGS -----------------------------------------------Financial risk management Funding and control of refinancing risk is handled by Group treasury in Schibsted For management of interest rate risk and currency risk, see note 23 Financial ASA. Schibsted has a diversified loan portfolio both in terms of loan sources and Risk Management to the consolidated financial statements. maturity profile. The most important funding sources are the Norwegian bond market and banks. Interest-bearing borrowings, composition and maturity profile: NON-CURRENT CURRENT 2018 2017 2018 2017 Bonds issued 3,400 3,700 300 Bank loans 421 505 90 27 Total carrying amounts 3,821 4,205 390 27 of which maturity beyond 5 years 615 1,589 For more details on bond issues, bank loans and credit facilities, see note 24 Interest-bearing borrowings to the consolidated financial statements. 94 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES / ASA NOTE 15: NOTE 18: GUARANTEES EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------2018 2017 The Board of directors of Schibsted ASA has in accordance with the decision Guarantees on behalf of Group companies 331 328 announced on 18 September 2018 resolved to propose to demerge its international Other guarantees 1 3 online classifieds operations into a separate listed company. The demerger was Total 332 331 approved on the extraordinary general meeting of Schibsted on 25 February 2019. Schibsted has established Adevinta ASA as a wholly-owned subsidiary for the A guarantee of up to NOK 282 million to Danske Bank is included in Guarantees purposes of the demerger, which will assume Schibsted's activities in international on behalf of Group companies. This amount primarily relates to guarantees for tax online classifieds business (excluding the Nordics). Adevinta will apply for listing of withholdings. Also included in Guarantees on behalf of Group companies are units shares on the Oslo Stock Exchange. secured pension liabilities of NOK 46 million related to key management personnel. Upon completion of the demerger, shares representing 35% of the total number of Schibsted ASA has issued parent company guarantee as security for payment of shares in Adevinta will be issued to Schibsted shareholders as consideration in the office rent in some subsidiaries. demerger. Holders of A shares in Schibsted will receive one A share in Adevinta for each A share held in Schibsted, and similarly, holders of B shares in Schibsted will receive one B shares in Adevinta for each B share held in Schibsted. Schibsted will upon completion of the demerger hold the remaining 65% of the shares in Adevinta. Provided that prevailing market conditions so permit, Schibsted intends NOTE 16: to sell down 5% Adevinta shares in the market. TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES -----------------------------------------------DECLARATION BY THE BOARD Schibsted ASA has business agreements with companies in the Group. The pricing of all transactions with Group companies are based on arm's length principle. Schibsted ASA charge their subsidiaries for their share of costs related to Group OF DIRECTORS AND CEO -----------------------------------------------services (management fee). In addition, revenues consist of consultant fees, income from lease of office premises as well as fees for subsidiaries' participation in We confirm that, to the best of our knowledge, the financial statements for the programmes for management and organisational development. All Schibsted ASA´s period from 1 January to 31 December 2018 have been prepared in accordance operating revenues are from Group Companies. with applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the Group taken as a whole and that the Board of Directors’ report includes a fair review of the 2018 2017 development and performance of the business and the position of the Company Sale of services to Group companies 86 156 and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks Purchase of goods and services from Group companies 70 75 and uncertainties that they face. Remuneration to management Paris, 21 March 2019 See note 9 Personnel expenses and note 10 Share-based payment to the Schibsted ASA’s Board of Directors consolidated financial statements for information concerning remuneration to management and share-based payment. ...................................................... ...................................................... ...................................................... NOTE 17: Ole Jacob Sunde Chairman of the Board Birger Steen Board member Philippe Vimard Board member LEASE AGREEMENTS -----------------------------------------------Schibsted ASA has lease obligations related to off-balance sheet operating assets. ...................................................... ...................................................... ...................................................... Rental expenses were NOK 19 million in 2018 and NOK 32 million in 2017. The Torbjörn Ek Ingunn Saltbones Finn E. Våga Board member Board member Board member most significant leases relate to lease of office premises and software/IT-services. Rental costs in 2018 are significantly lower than last year mainly due to Schibsted ASA moving out from Apotekergata 10. ...................................................... ...................................................... ...................................................... Orla Noonan Marianne Budnik Eugénie Van Wiechen Board member Board member Board member ...................................................... ...................................................... Christian Ringnes Kristin Skogen Lund Board member CEO 95 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 AUDITOR’S REPORT 96 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 AUDITOR’S REPORT 97 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 AUDITOR’S REPORT 98 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 AUDITOR’S REPORT 99 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 AUDITOR’S REPORT 100 101 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SHARE INFORMATION SHARE INFORMATION Schibsted is listed on Oslo Børs, and our aim is that our shares should Schibsted’s capital structure must be sufficiently robust to take be perceived as an attractive investment. A competitive return advantage of value-enhancing opportunities in the context of the should be based on a sound financial position and be ensured competitive dynamic as well as of fluctuations in general and through long-term growth in the share price and a dividend. The economic conditions. The share is split into an A-share with 10 voting company’s share price should reflect the company's long-term rights and a B-share with 1 voting right. These two share classes value creation. enhance Schibsted’s long-term financial flexibility by enabling the company more freely to access the equity market. The strategy and vision adopted by Schibsted’s Board of Directors implies that the Group’s operations must adapt and develop rapidly. Shareholders 31 December 2017 31 December 2018 Number of registered shareholders 5,056 5,195 Share of non-Norwegian shareholders 57% 57% Average daily trading volume (SCHA/SCHB) 331k/164k 250k/129k Average daily trading value (SCHA/SCHB) NOK 72 m / NOK 33 m NOK 66 m / NOK 32 m Turnover velocity (SCHA/SCHB) 77%/34% 57%/25% Turnover velocity Oslo Børs 47% 48% 31 December 2017 31 December 2018 Norway 46.4% 43.8% USA 22.7% 25.1% UK 11.0% 10.3% Sweden 5.3% 4.7% Luxembourg 2.6% 3.1% The trading data in the table above are based on data from Oslo Schibsted conducts a quarterly analysis of shareholders registered Børs. In 2018 around 41 percent of trading of the A-shares took at nominee accounts. A list of Schibsted’s shareholders including place in marketplaces other than Oslo Børs. In 2017 this was around those registered at nominee accounts is presented below. The list 34 percent. For the B-share, around 34 percent of the trading took is updated as of 17 January 2019. place on alternative platforms in 2018, compared to 25 percent in 2017 (source: Fidessa Fragulator). 102 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SHARE INFORMATION RANK NAME A-SHARES B-SHARES TOTAL % OF CAPITAL 1 Blommenholm Industrier AS 28,188,589 28,598,589 56,787,178 23.8% 2 Folketrygdfondet 6,024,397 11,159,950 17,184,347 7.2% 3 Baillie Gifford & Co. 7,166,419 5,790,156 12,956,575 5.4% 4 NWT Media AS 3,022,068 5,997,730 9,019,798 3.8% 5 Fidelity Management & Research Company 3,022,068 5,997,730 9,019,798 3.5% 6 Platinum Investment Management Ltd. 3,943,173 3,415,801 7,358,974 3.1% 7 Alecta pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt 3,152,000 3,633,600 6,785,600 2.8% 8 Adelphi Capital LLP 3,216,005 3,139,475 6,355,480 2.7% 9 The Vanguard Group, Inc. 2,592,757 2,679,993 5,272,750 2.2% 10 AKO Capital LLP 3,025,870 1,966,569 4,992,439 2.1% 11 Marathon Asset Management LLP 2,269,272 1,971,855 4,241,127 1.8% 12 Pelham Capital Ltd 4,209,851 4,209,851 1.8% 13 Luxor Capital Group, L.P. 220,712 3,555,609 3,776,321 1.6% 14 DNB Asset Management AS 911,745 2,777,739 3,689,484 1.5% 15 Storebrand Kapitalforvaltning AS 1,756,694 1,531,995 3,288,689 1.4% 16 FMR Investment Management (U.K.) Limited 2,646,950 360,505 3,007,455 1.3% 17 Echinus Partners LP 2,159,781 771,870 2,931,651 1.2% 18 Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation 1,525,050 1,353,005 2,878,055 1.2% 19 KLP Forsikring 155,102 2,705,681 2,860,783 1.2% 20 Nordea Funds Oy 907,777 1,948,973 2,856,750 1.2% The shareholder identification data are provided by Nasdaq OMX. The Board of Directors plans to propose to the Annual General Meeting The data are obtained through an analysis of beneficial ownership to give Schibsted’s Board of Directors authorization to repurchase and fund manager information provided in replies to disclosure of up to 10 percent of the company’s shares. The repurchase will take ownership notices issued to all custodians on the Schibsted share place over time and should be viewed in connection to Schibsted’s register. Whilst every reasonable effort is made to verify all data, dividend policy, investment opportunities, and long-term perspectives neither Nasdaq OMX or Schibsted can guarantee the accuracy of for its capital structure. the analysis. Shareholder structure For an overview of the 20 largest shareholders as of 31 December Blommenholm Industrier, which is controlled by the Tinius Trust, 2018 from the public VPS register, refer to the annual accounts for is Schibsted’s largest shareholder, giving the Group long-term Schibsted ASA, note 11. ownership stability. A consequence is that the number of A-shares issued will normally remain stable over time. B-shares may, together Dividend and repurchase of shares with debt, be used as a source of financing for growth in the form of Distribution of dividend and opportunity to repurchase shares acquisitions or organic investments. are regarded as suitable ways to adapt the capital structure. The Group’s dividend policy is to place emphasis on paying a stable to Schibsted’s shares are freely marketable. The wording of the company’s increasing dividend amount over time. In years when there is an Articles of Association reflects the Group’s publishing responsibilities economic slowdown, or for other reasons weaker cash flows in the and role in society as a media company. Schibsted’s independence company, the company may reduce or decide not to pay dividend. and integrity are ensured through restrictions on ownership and voting rights in Article 6 of the Articles of Association. No shareThe Board of Directors has decided to propose to the Annual General holder may own or exercise voting rights for more than 30 percent Meeting on 3 May 2019 to pay a dividend for 2018 of NOK 2.00 per of the shares represented at the Annual General Meeting. share. Subject to the decision of the Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid on 14 May 2019 to those registered as shareAny shareholder owning 25 percent or more of Schibsted’s A-shares holders on the date of the Annual General Meeting. is entitled to appoint one director directly. Blommenholm Industrier, 103 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SHARE INFORMATION which owns 26.1 percent of the A-shares, is currently the only On 25 February 2019, an Extraordinary General Meeting in Schibsted shareholder to hold this right. The Tinius Trust has a controlling approved the demerger plan. In connection with the completion of interest in Blommenholm Industrier. the Demerger, Adevinta will be listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange, planning for listing on 10 April 2019. In the Demerger, 35% of the Return shares in Adevinta will be distributed to Schibsted's shareholders, The Schibsted shares are listed on Oslo Stock Exchange with the while Schibsted will retain the remaining 65% of the shares. Schibsted ticker codes SCHA and SCHB. Both share classes are among the plans to retain a 60% ownership in Adevinta at the time of the listing, most traded in Norway. The A-shares were included in OBX index after selling down up to 5% in the market. There are no plans to throughout 2018. The OBX index comprises the 25 most liquid raise capital through a stock issue in Adevinta. Schibsted intends to stocks on Oslo Børs. remain a long-term owner of Adevinta. The size and time horizon of Schibsted's ownership will be tailored to support and develop The Schibsted share is covered by sell-side analysts in Scandinavia shareholder value for both companies, which could also lead to and London. At year-end 2018, 16 sell-side institutions, five of them Schibsted becoming a non-majority shareholder over time. based outside Scandinavia, officially covered the Schibsted share. Initially Adevinta will inherit Schibsted’s share structure with Aand In 2018, the Schibsted A-share produced a total return for shareB-shares carrying different voting rights. However, Schibsted, as a holders of 24.6 percent, including dividend of NOK 1.75 per share majority owner, will support a simplified governance structure (reinvested). The Schibsted B-share produced a total return for without ownership or voting limitations and an amalgamation into shareholders of 21.4 percent, including dividend of NOK 1.75 per share only one share class in due course. (reinvested). By comparison, the Oslo Stock Exchange Benchmark Index (OSEBX) produced a negative return of 1.9 percent. For more information on the demerger, visit Schibsted.com. Share price development for Schibsted compared to various indices and peers can be accessed at www.schibsted.com/ir. Adevinta demerger On 18 September 2018, Schibsted announced the resolution of the Board of Directors to initiate a process to demerge its international online classified operations into a separately listed company. Following the Separation, Adevinta will be majority owned by Schibsted, while Schibsted's shareholders will receive 35% of the shares in Adevinta through the Demerger. All businesses other than the Adevinta business will remain in Schibsted after the completion of the Separation. 104 105 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 MEMBERS OF THE BOARD MEMBERS OF THE BOARD (2017-18) Ole Jacob Sunde Marianne Budnik Philippe Vimard (Born 1954) (Born 1968) (Born 1974) Chairman of the Board Board member Board member Orla Noonan Christian Ringnes Birger Steen Eugénie van Wiechen (Born 1970) (Born 1954) (Born 1966) (Born 1969) Board member Board member Board member Board member Torbjörn Ek Ingunn Saltbones Finn E. Våga (Born 1977) (Born 1971) (Born 1960) Board member Board member Board member For biographies of the Board of Directors, visit schibsted.com/about/who-we-are/the-board/ 106 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 MEMBERS OF THE BOARD 107 Layout: Adundas Design Schibsted ASA Akersgata 55 PO Box 490 Sentrum NO-0105 Oslo, Norway Phone +47 23 10 66 00 Fax +47 23 10 66 01 schibsted@schibsted.no www.schibsted.com 108
