UN Global Compact Communication on Progress DAFA A/S 2018/2019 – November 12th 2019 In 2010 DAFA A/S joined UN Global Compact, the world’s largest initiative for corporate social responsibility. DAFA A/S is a private owned Danish production company with more than 80 years of experience on the segment where we operate. DAFA develop, manufacture and deliver a wide range of sealing, absorption and protection products and total solutions for the construction sector and industry. Profit, planet and people matter to DAFA. Based upon our history, we regard our way of doing business as a sustainable success with a sound balance between economic, ecological, social responsibility and social performance. DAFA Group cares about its employees and the employs are the most important assets of the business and its success. Every year DAFA organize different activities to show appreciation for the employee’s efforts and their dedication to DAFA. The company has safety policy, staff policy and a management guideline in place and a collaboration committee has been established to improve collaboration across functions. As we are developing our company into a more globalized business operation, it is important for us to include our ethic standard in a global perspective. The UN Global Compact provides us a frame that enables us to do so in a formalized manner and demonstrate our continuing commitment to advance the ten principles of the Global Compact in both policies and business operations. This our 10th UN Global Compact Communication of Progress. The focus areas since last COP have been: • In DAFA Denmark, DAFAUSA, DAFA Sweden and DAFA Germany certification of environmental management system according to ISO 14001:2015 have been successfully completed by the external 3rd party certification body Bureau Veritas. • In DAFA China the environmental management system has been implemented and successfully been assessed by the external 3rd party certification body Bureau Veritas. The certification is imminent and planned this fall. • Radon System has been introduced to the market to prevent ingress and reduce content of Radon gas in houses improving the indoor air quality and prevent related sicknesses. Radon in homes is the second most common cause of lung cancer. • DAFA Group has implemented a Code of Conduct for DAFA employees and strategic suppliers to underline that DAFA acts a responsible and creditable partner focusing on ethical, social and environmental matters. • DAFA Denmark has identified the most energy consuming process and implemented new technologies to reduce the energy requirement with 40% in that process and the overall C02 emission. • DAFA Denmark has conducted an anonymous survey of employee satisfaction. The survey has been developed and standardized by TEKSAM a cooperation between employers and workers unions • organization within Danish Industry. The survey is important to improve the working environments. The results have been analyzed and improvement plans are under establishment. • We have financial contributed to the organizations “Families with cancer-affected children” and “Danish Hospital Clowns” • DAFA Group acknowledge diversity in management and employees is a strength and as a part of this equality in gender contribute to business development. The long-term aim is that the company reflects the surrounding society and especially the company’s customers, not only in terms of gender, but also in terms of nationality and ethnicity. The policy of the company states that both genders are encouraged equal to apply for vacant positions in the company. Both genders are also guaranteed the same rights and conditions during their employment. As DAFA strive for an equal gender representation in management, we acknowledge that women are currently underrepresented. Therefore, we have put special focus on ensuring that women are, where possible, included in the list of candidates for new hires and internal promotions. Moreover, we have in situations where more candidates are assessed to be equally qualified for a position selected the female candidate. In the next year we will be focusing on • The staff turn is above 5% in DAFA Group and the objective is to have a staff turn below 5% per year. The goal will be achieved by implementing the improvement plan initiated from the employee’s satisfaction survey. • DAFA China shall complete the certification to ISO 14001:2015 by Bureau Veritas • Development of a formal CSR policy for DAFA group including human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. • DAFA Group will standardize dimensions of packaging carboard boxes globally to increase efficient use. Additionally, it will be investigated if the content of recycled cardboard can be increased and that bleaching can be avoided or performed after the best practices in the market. DAFAs most water consuming process. • DAFA will investigate if water consumption can be reduced through recycling of water in the most water consuming process in the manufacturing processes. • DAFA commits to “The global goals for sustainable development” and it is a goal for the next year to establish framework for achievement of selection of 2-3 global goals that the company´s business model can support actively. • DAFA has a goal for 2020 that the majority of DAFAs own brands in building materials will be assessed to be included in the Nordic Ecolabelling database of products that can be part of Nordic Swan Eco-labelled buildings and constructions. • Training and increase knowledge of DAFA Code of Conduct within the employees in the group. DAFA constantly aim for continuously improvements in the whole organization and we believe that it is our responsibility to handle the impacts from our improvements correctly. We are very aware of our limited size seen from a global perspective, but we know we make a difference in our local business area. By using UN Global Compact as our overall guideline, we will extend our sustainable business ethics while striving for our vision of becoming a more global company. We look forward communicating our progress in the years to come.
