Securing better food for the future Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Contents We play a vital role in the Overview 2018 in numbers 01 02 food chain to safely feed Chief Executive Officer’s statement 02 Chief Executive Officer’s statement the world and take care Our business model of our planet. Creating value now and for the long term 04 Through more than 150 listening sessions around the world with Our offer stakeholders from across the We will be the most Innovation with purpose 06 value chain, we now have a much better understanding of collaborative and trusted Crop Protection Seeds 08 14 what society expects from us and what sustainable agriculture team in agriculture, The Good Growth Plan means to different groups. providing leading seeds Introduction 18 08 At a glance 19 and crop protection Make crops more efficient 20 04 14 innovations to enhance Rescue more farmland Help biodiversity flourish 23 26 Our business model Crop Protection Seeds We’re constantly seeking new Market-leading crop protection Developing and producing the prosperity of farmers, Empower smallholders 28 ways to better use resources, products with broad coverage seed for farmers, commercial deliver value-adding products across extremely diverse growers, retailers and small wherever they are. Help people stay safe Look after every worker 30 32 and services, and create value geographies seed companies for our stakeholders Our operations Resources we use Introduction 36 People 37 What we do Sustainable operations 40 Business integrity 43 What we create Corporate information The value we provide Board of Directors 46 Executive Team 48 Non-financial performance 18 36 52 Non-financial information 50 The Good Growth Plan Our operations Non-financial performance Non-financial performance The Good Growth Plan contributes Securing the long-term viability summary summary 52 to the sustainability of both our own of our business means using The summary presents data on our business and the wider world that resources with ever greater progress in four areas: The Good we serve efficiency in all our operations Growth Plan, People, Sustainable % operations and Business integrity Syngenta’s Sustainable Business Report includes quantitative For further information and qualitative information on policies and actions taken regarding and answers to many our business and sustainability goals. “Questions about Syngenta”, It also serves as our annual Communication on Progress (COP) visit our corporate website: for the United Nations Global Compact. www.syngenta.com Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance 2018 in numbers $13.5bn Group sales 27,732 Employees4 North America Europe, Africa and Middle East Asia Pacific 8.3m 99.6% Latin America People trained on safe use 5 Suppliers included in sustainability $10.4bn and fair labor programs6 North America Sales2 $m 3,514 Crop Protection sales1 Employees 4,120 4 9 + Research and Development sites 30 Production and Supply sites 30 Latin America Sales2 $m 3,646 Employees45,676 Research and Development sites 21 $3.0bn Countries Production and Supply sites 19 Europe, Africa and Middle East 0.32 120 Sales2 $m 3,877 Seeds sales2 Employees4,811,690 Research and Development sites 44 Recordable injury Research and Production and Supply sites 35 and illness rate7 Development sites Asia Pacific 104 Sales2,9 $m 1,986 Employees46,246 Research and Development sites 25 Production and Supply sites 20 Production and Supply sites3 1 Including sales to Seeds 6 The seed supply chain represents about 2 Excluding Flowers 98 percent of the suppliers targeted by our 3 Including 4 multi-functional production sites sustainability and fair labor programs 4 Permanent full-time equivalent (FTE) as of 7 Per 200,000 hours, according to US September 30, 2018 OSHA definition 5 Includes smallholders reached 8 Including headquarters (Switzerland) through training reported under 9 Including China ‘Empower smallholders’ 01 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Chief Executive Officer’s statement 2018 was Continued innovation Our broad spectrum ADEPIDYN® fungicide is now registered for use on more than 80 a landmark crops in the United States and – under the brand name MIRAVIS™ – for use on canola, grapes and potatoes in Australia and New Zealand. Our new generation fungicide year for AMPEXIO® WG Pepite® was launched in 11 European countries. In weed control, our first post-emergent broad-spectrum herbicide, TALINOR™, was launched in the Syngenta US and Australia and controls more than 45 weeds. In France, CALARIS® herbicide is now providing fast and effective broadleaf weed control in corn. MINECTO® continued its strong performance in the US, controlling insects in vegetables and specialty crops, and was introduced to growers in Spain and Columbia. We also continued our leadership and innovation in seed treatment, where FORTENZA™ Duo was introduced to African and Indian growers, helping them with early control of the devastating fall armyworm. We saw double-digit growth in acres committed to our data-driven AGRIEDGE Through more than 150 listening It was our first full year of operations under the Record Free Cash Flow in 2018 EXCELSIOR® farm management system, ownership of ChemChina, during which we sessions around the world with acquired several new businesses, delivered Sales increased in 2018 by 7 percent to while offers such as AGRICLIME™ – sharing $13.5 billion. We maintained profitability stakeholders from across the strong financial growth and strengthened our and record free cash flow of $1.76 billion. the risk of low rainfall – and HYVIDO® Cashback Yield Guarantee have provided growers with value chain, we now have a position as a thought leader. We continued to Crop Protection sales of $10.4 billion the confidence to invest in new technology. much better understanding of make a substantial contribution to ensuring increased 7 percent compared to 2017, The acquisition of FarmShots™ in the United that farmers can safely feed the world with solid recovery in Latin America and what society expects from us today, while planning to sustainably feed States and Strider® in Brazil further enhances good new product sales of SDHI fungicides our digital capability. and what sustainable agriculture future generations. in North America and Europe. Seeds sales of means to different groups. $3.0 billion were 6 percent higher, reflecting Along with the acquisition of Nidera™ Seeds in stronger performance in Latin America and 2018, we also purchased Abbott & Cobb™, a Eastern Europe. Our Flowers business vegetable seeds company. To ensure the right grew by 7 percent. leadership in our Seeds business, we have brought on a number of new hires and further developed internal talent. We are also opening a major global Seeds office in Chicago in the heart of US corn and soy growing regions. 02 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued Contributing to sustainable agriculture We are demonstrating substantial increases In my remarks last year, I highlighted our in smallholder yields, improving on-farm commitment to working more closely and practices, with productivity across smallholder transparently with governments, NGOs reference farms up by 21.9 percent and society to collectively find the solutions compared to the 2014 baseline. At the same we need. Through more than 150 listening time, we were able to extend the number sessions around the world with stakeholders of smallholders reached through training from across the value chain, we now have a across the world to 6.1 million, bringing the much better understanding of what society cumulative total of people trained in safe use expects from us and what sustainable to 33.8 million, some two thirds more than our agriculture means to different groups. Our aim original 2020 target. has been to have a more direct and inclusive Our people are at the center of all we do conversation to help rebuild the trust between society and science. The sessions have None of this success would be possible helped us better understand our role so we without the dedication and passion of some can continue to build society’s confidence in 28,000 people of Syngenta. We depend on the farming and agricultural innovation sectors. their knowledge, expertise and commitment to bring innovation to farmers, collaborators and The Good Growth Plan: strong progress partners along the value chain. In 2018, we made excellent progress – in We continue to invest in capability some cases exceeding – the 2020 targets set development with the company-wide ‘Pulse down in The Good Growth Plan. Through our Survey’ providing us with excellent feedback commitments we have also contributed on where to focus our efforts in 2019. It is great significantly to the achievement of the United to see that engagement is highest among the Nations Sustainable Development Goals. millennials in our workforce, for it is this group In 2018, the greenhouse gas footprints from that represent the future of our industry. our reference farms showed an average efficiency increase of 8.8 percent compared And the future of our industry is bright. with the 2014 baseline. Across 1,443 reference 2018 has showed us what is possible when farms we have seen a 13 percent improvement we align as one team with one plan. Our work, in productivity since 2014 baseline, well on the in bringing sustainable agriculture solutions to way to the target of 20 percent. millions of farmers around the world, meeting the needs and expectations of society, while Working to actively promote conservation protecting and enhancing the environment, agriculture, we have exceeded the 2020 target matters more than ever. of improving the fertility of 10 million hectares of land on the brink of degradation. We have also exceeded our 2020 biodiversity target by 27 percent. J. Erik Fyrwald Chief Executive Officer 03 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Our business model Creating value Our strategy is to grow through customerIf we succeed, we will achieve not only growth focused innovation – not just in product for our business but also growth for all – research and development, but in every creating value that benefits our employees, aspect of our business model. We seek new now and for customers, communities and food chain and better ways to use resources, to develop partners. Our success will be measured and deliver products and services to farmers, through the benefits we bring to agriculture and to create value for our many stakeholders and the environment. But in a sector as the long term – including employees, the communities where challenging as agriculture, success is not a they live and society at large. given. It will require determined execution. We will need to collaborate with many partners All this innovation has one focus: a passion to achieve better outcomes and to earn trust for our customers, the farmers who grow by delivering on our commitments. Syngenta plays a vital role in enabling the food the world’s food. To make our business work, we have to understand their needs and That trust depends not just on what we do: the chain to feed the world safely and take care deliver products and services that they value. “how” matters, too. So transparency, ethics, of our planet. Our ambition is to be the most And to make our business sustainable, we safety and compliance are core to the way collaborative and trusted team in agriculture, have to take the long view: ensuring that we work. In operating our business model, providing leading seeds and crop protection what we do today strengthens Syngenta and we’re determined to live by the values we have the food chain for tomorrow – economically, set ourselves – which are emboldened in the innovations to enhance the prosperity environmentally and socially. paragraphs above. of farmers, wherever they are. That’s why our Good Growth Plan commitments are integral to our business strategy. They put sustainability center stage in the way we do business and align closely with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. See The Good Growth Plan on pages 18–35 04 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance 1. Resources we use 2. What we do Financial capital Research and development Production Commercial Supporting activities People and the intellectual Crop protection discovery Production of active ingredients Product management Product registration and stewardship and innovation and intermediate chemicals property they create Marketing and sales Health, safety and environment Advanced seed breeding Formulation, fill and pack Distribution management Chemical, biological, genetic Addressing insect, disease, weed Production of seeds Employee engagement and environmental stress on crops and computational sciences Production of flowers Who we work with Business integrity and upholding human rights Natural resources Who we work with Who we work with Growers Multi-stakeholder dialogue Distributors Research institutions and universities Suppliers Facilities and services Demonstration farms Farmers and suppliers Toll manufacturers Who we work with Processors and the food chain Local communities Agricultural extension services Agronomists Industry associations NGOs Government and regulatory authorities Agricultural extension services Laws and regulations NGOs and IGOs Technology providers Communities 3. What we create 4. The value we provide Products, services Sustainable agriculture innovation Sustainable production Development of our people and & solutions for smallto large-scale farms and supply practices partners along the value chain Crop protection Seeds Reliable availability and affordability Economic value shared Promotion of decent work Herbicides Seeds of safe, nutritious food and feed with employees, suppliers, and good governance Insecticides Traits Efficient, effective fiber and fuel governments and communities Stimulating research, Fungicides Seed treatment Grower Tools for grower empowerment Rural development and collective sharing data and knowledge programs Biologicals and stronger food systems well-being of communities Crop enhancement Digital agriculture 05 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview model Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Our offer Innovation with purpose Society’s expectations around farming technology do not stand still; neither does the technology itself. In recent years, there has been a shift in focus from feeding a growing world population to increasing debates around environmentally sustainable diets and nutrition — from ‘enough food’ to ‘good food’. 06 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance For many years, we have been advancing the We strive to build constructive and open they need and meet their specifications in technologies for sustainable crop protection relationships with governments, regulators, areas such as traceability and sustainability. practice. Data science and precision agriculture and NGOs. And we continue to establish continue to reduce the quantities of chemicals strategic partnerships and alliances with In Italy, for example, we work with pasta manufacturers including De Matteis on the We are committed to driving needed for effective control, and new organizations such as the World Business biocontrols are adding non-chemical Council for Sustainable Development, Grano Armando project to establish crop ever more sustainable agricultural solutions to the farmer’s toolbox. the International Rice Research Institute, protection protocols that enable growers to practices and to working with produce higher yields of top-quality durum The Nature Conservancy, and many others across society and the We’re proud of the progress we’re making, scientific and academic institutions wheat and secure them higher and more reliable while recognizing that there’s still a long way to incomes. We have now also bred a new wheat value chain to deliver better worldwide. These collaborations and go. We’re eager to have a better conversation partnerships have always been an variety with tailored agronomy specifically for food for the future. about what sustainable agriculture really important part of the way we work. this project. In Argentina, we are working with Alexandra Brand means – with farmers, channel partners, soybean and peanut growers together with a Chief Sustainability Officer food companies, food retailers, NGOs, Sustainability matters increasingly to local food processor – AGD – on multifunctional academics and governments. Not only to value chain companies because of the landscapes that enhance biodiversity and explain our views, but also to equally listen commitments they are making to consumers. pollination. One key goal is to satisfy the and understand the expectations of all our We prioritize sustainability issues at every developing sustainability requirements of stakeholders. We need to build greater stage of our work, from the lab to the their European export customers. consensus through wider discussion with field. Our research and development stakeholders about how we can work together processes assess the impacts of candidate Sustainable agriculture matters increasingly to create truly sustainable solutions in ways compounds and techniques from the earliest to governments, too. This is encouraging that reinforce society’s confidence in farming possible stages. And we are integrating them to work more closely with us, and and agricultural innovation. sustainability into our commercial offer to nowhere more so than in China, where the farmers, promoting the benefits of using our government is driving rapid modernization of products to grow crops with lower impacts. agriculture alongside a transition to a much Working more closely with downstream more sustainable economy. Along with partners in the value chain means we can our stewardship programs, we support integrate innovative products and agronomic sustainable manufacturing and production services that enable growers to deliver what of crop protection active ingredients and products in China. We do this through our long-term commitment to rigorous supplier selection, continuous supplier management and applying our world-class manufacturing standards. 07 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Crop As well as protecting plants from insects and diseases, we provide crop enhancement products that help them tolerate environmental stresses such Protection as heat, cold and drought. We also offer products that boost crops’ nutrient uptake – increasing yields while improving sustainability by using fertilizers more efficiently. Syngenta is a world market leader in crop While our principal customers are farmers and protection products, with broad coverage of channel partners, our Syngenta Professional Solutions an extremely diverse market. We develop and business adapts our agricultural technologies to produce herbicides, insecticides, fungicides serve professionals in turf, tree and landscape care, and seed treatments that promote strong residential and commercial pest management, and healthy plant growth. disease vector control, commercial flower production and consumer garden care. 08 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Crop Protection continued Did you know? Strengthening the farmers’ toolbox: innovations in 2018 50-90% In recent years, we’ve been working to accelerate the pace of our innovation, as we continue to design and develop breakthrough loss ‘blockbuster’ molecules for the future, along with smaller active ingredients that meet specific needs within our strategic markets. In 2018, we filed a total of 110 patent applications (2017: 111) Without fungicides, yields of most fruits for crop protection innovations. and vegetables would fall by 50–90 percent Our research and development work aims Source: CropLife Foundation, 2005 to give farmers a broader, better and more flexible toolbox. Following are some key examples from 2018. Disease control We continued to bring new products to market based on our broad-spectrum ADEPIDYN® fungicide. It delivers a longer duration of control, allowing growers to better adapt application interval to disease pressure, As expectations evolve, We recognize our responsibility to develop resulting in less application per season. sustainability is critical products that are safe and sustainable, and In 2018, introductions included MIRAVIS™ Farmers must meet the needs and expectations to steward them carefully. Some 30 percent fungicide for canola, grapes and potatoes in of food processors and retailers, consumers, of our investment in developing each new Australia and also for potatoes and grapes in society and our planet. As these needs and active ingredient is spent on product safety. New Zealand. ADEPIDYN® products are now expectations become more complex, so do We also invest substantially in training farm registered for use on over 80 key crops in the the challenges for farmers. Whether they are workers to use our products safely: in 2013, US, where we also launched POSTERITY™ smallholders or big corporations, they must we committed to train 20 million by 2020. fungicide for use on turf. reconcile the imperatives of running a business In fact, we’ve already beaten that target by 13.8 million. AMPEXIO® WG PEPITE®, our new-generation with their societal responsibilities as stewards fungicide for downy mildew in grapes, won of the land. See “Help people stay safe” the 2018 Agrow Award for Best Formulation At Syngenta, we apply science and on pages 30–31 Innovation. Launched in 11 European countries technology to help them meet those complex in 2018, it has a favorable environmental needs consistently, safely and sustainably. profile and low application rates. Our products enable farmers to deliver food We diligently comply with current regulatory that is abundant, nutritious and affordable systems and fully support realistic, science– without using more land or other inputs. based regulation for crop protection products. For example, we actively argue the case for transnational consistency of standards, such as maximum residue levels (MRLs), so that crops which meet regulatory requirements where they are grown are not barred from sale elsewhere. 09 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Crop Protection continued $100m ORONDIS®, a new mode of action Insect control FORTENZA™ Duo insecticide made a timely oxathiapiprolin fungicide for citrus fruits and Insecticide launches in 2018 included: entry into the African and Indian markets: vegetables, launched in Guatemala and PROCLAIM® for lepidoptera and ENGEO® this best-in-class corn seed treatment is sales Mexico in 2018. We continue to extend the second-generation neonicotinoid for foliar highly effective against fall armyworm, a use of ELATUS™ based on SOLATENOL® and soil pests in Brazil; and FORCE® 6.5G for devastating pest that has spread across Africa fungicide across a growing range of crops rootworm and other soil-borne pests in corn in the past two years and arrived in India in and countries. in the US, which produces less dust than 2018. VIBRANCE™ Cinco – combining five European sales of ELATUS™ fungicide for older technology and has an excellent powerful modes of action to provide the most cereals passed $100 million in 2018, following Weed control consistent and comprehensive seed-applied environmental profile. launch in 2017 TALINOR™, our first post-emergent broaddisease protection available – received US spectrum broadleaf weed solution in cereals, MINECTO®, our new insecticide family for registration approval for use on corn. reached the market in the US and Australia. hard-to-control sucking pests in vegetable and It controls more than 45 weeds, even specialty crops, has so far been introduced Biocontrols where resistance is a problem. AVOXA®, for tree nuts in the US, potatoes in Columbia, Soybean cyst nematodes cause growers a post-emergent cereal herbicide for grass and tomatoes and peppers in Spain. With annual losses of around $1.5 billion in the US control that also supports active resistance tailored formulation mixture partners, its alone. CLARIVA™, the only available biological management, launched in Germany. And multi-pest spectrum and long-lasting control seed treatment that controls these nematodes CALARIS® herbicide now provides French allows growers to reduce the total number on contact, was launched in Brazil in 2018. growers with fast and effective control of of applications; the new mode of action Because soybean cyst nematode damage is broad-leaved weeds and grasses in corn. allows growers to better manage resistant often more severe in stress conditions, we are insect species. also offering CLARIVA™ to Brazilian growers in Our Integrated Weed Management (IWM) combination with our EPIVIO™ Vigor biological approach combines chemistry and agricultural Seed treatment seed treatment for abiotic stress management. practices to optimize yield by improving Syngenta Seedcare announced the overall weed control in a sustainable way. European debut of PLENARIS®, a powerful This integrated approach helps to delay the new fungicide for downy mildew control in onset of weed resistance, reduces the buildup sunflowers. It delivers unprecedented value of weed seeds in the soil, while also improving for the grower as it uses a significantly lower soil health and structure, resulting in reduced amount of active ingredient per hectare. erosion and improved water quality. 10 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Crop Protection continued Did you know? Other 2018 introductions included Inventing chemistry for the future Our newly-formed Digital Agriculture Solutions BOTRISTOP ®2, a plant-extract offer group is collaborating with research and 821m Our work on developing new chemistries is against botrytis, in Chile; and QUANTIS™, gaining unprecedented precision. Scientific development, Syngenta Ventures, and our a nutrient-enriched by-product of sugarcane insights generated in the field and throughout commercial, production and supply functions and yeast fermentation that protects yields and our R&D cycle inform precise product to create innovative new tools for growers. hungry quality in corn and sunflowers by helping them development. Increasingly, we can model And, in 2018, we made two further significant to resist heat and drought stresses, in India, and design molecules to address specific tech acquisitions: Paraguay and Romania. challenges such as resistance management. UU Strider®3, a Brazilian company providing Grower Program Offers For some years, we have made sustainability operational management solutions for Around the world, 821 million1 people are criteria a key factor in the earliest stages of farms, from monitoring machinery and pest currently going hungry. One way to reduce Grower Program Offers combine our selecting and developing candidate molecules; world-class technology with protocols that control to satellite imaging of crops. It will hunger is to increase food productivity. now we are also exploring “predictive Crop protection products help farmers do that. help the grower to maximize the product, help us to bring growers new ways toxicology” techniques to design molecules to manage on-farm information. together with services that growers need. proactively for safety. Source (1): Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), 2018 Syngenta Sustainable Solutions and its UU FarmShots™, a US company that processes data-driven AGRIEDGE EXCELSIOR® farm We have a portfolio of around 70 active high-resolution field images from satellites management system, for example, have been ingredients. We regularly revisit our portfolio to assess plant health, helping farmers, operating successfully for over a decade. of active ingredients to ensure we provide agronomists and retailers to spot field And where once these were niche activities, the best solutions to farmers. issues such as diseases, weeds and other today they’re mainstream. Holistic offers, pests. It will accelerate our development such as AGRIEDGE EXCELSIOR®, Grape Crop protection beyond chemistry: the digital revolution and new technologies of farm management and crop decisionQuality Contract, POTATOPACK™ and making tools. AGRICLIME™ are expanding fast and earning Increasingly, we’re an agricultural technology exceptionally high customer loyalty rates. business. We bring together chemistry, In Europe, the HYVIDO® Cashback Yield biology, digital technologies, new monitoring Guarantee adds insurance that guarantees and application techniques, biologicals – and return on investment for hybrid barley growers. even new breeding techniques – to create In Australia, AGRICLIME™ adds a financial novel solutions. guarantee against the occurrence of pre-agreed heat or drought conditions. 2 Registered trademark of Inversiones Santa Inés Limitada 3 Registered trademark of Strider Software S.A. 11 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Crop Protection continued 32m Did you know? Digital technology is giving us new ways to For many years, we have been complementing turn data into meaningful information – and our chemistry portfolio with biocontrol 20m to put it into customers’ hands. For example, products to add modes of action that enhance people daily access to mobile technology plays resistance management. Demand growth for an important role in the modernization of biocontrols is now outpacing conventional hectares agriculture in China, where it enables us to products, and by 2030 they could represent reach extensive retailer and grower networks up to 10 percent of the global crop across the country. protection market. In particular, there are Our ACTELLIC® 300CS mosquito control great opportunities for limiting conventional product protected an estimated 32 million In 2018, farmers used drones to treat an Our Retailer Hub app has the potential to chemistry residues on fruit and vegetables service over 500,000 retailers, providing people in malaria endemic countries in 2018 estimated 20 million hectares in China alone by using chemical treatments in early growth agronomy information, training and support. stages and finishing with biocontrols in the Source: National Agro-tech Extension and Service Center And our Grower Club app brings growers later stages. (NATESC), China, 2018 agronomic support as well as advice on our crop protection products and seeds, weather Over the past three years, our “BioAlliance” forecasts and pricing information; it also with sustainable bioscience company, DSM, connects users with retailers in our network. has been establishing a powerful and unique biocontrols discovery platform. This continues Precision agriculture is allowing farmers to to deliver a diversity of interesting product use crop protection with unprecedented candidates, and we expect to bring the efficiency and economy. Advances in sensor first products from this alliance to market technology, satellite and drone imaging, around 2024. and data science provide increasingly sophisticated information to help growers Meanwhile, we are preparing to launch manage their crops sustainably, from planting TAEGRO®1, our new microbial biofungicide through to harvest. Combined with precision against diseases such as powdery mildew application technology and advanced product and botrytis, across the EU, Mexico and formulations, this data revolution will help elsewhere in 2019. growers to maximize benefits and minimize impacts from farm inputs such as fertilizer and Investments and partnerships crop protection products. Partnerships and collaborations enable us to access existing technologies or jointly develop Better application technologies are further entirely new classes of chemistry. For instance, reducing the volume of product required per we are working with the Innovative Vector hectare and improving control of drift and Control Consortium (IVCC) and the Bill and overspray. Drone spraying is now feasible Melinda Gates Foundation on insecticides to even for smallholders, and in 2018 farmers help eradicate malaria by 2040. One result used drones to treat an estimated 20 million is a promising new active ingredient with a hectares in China alone. Where regulations novel mode of action to address resistance limit drone use, autonomous row-walking in malaria vector control. This entered early robots could deliver similar efficiencies. development in 2018. Our work with the IVCC has already produced the highly successful long-lasting mosquito control product ACTELLIC® 300CS. 1 Registered trademark of Novozymes A/S 12 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Crop Protection continued Happy 90th In-licensing also helps us fill gaps in our Other investments include stakes in innovative coverage. In 2018, we announced a global start-up companies through Syngenta seed treatment licensing agreement for Ventures, our corporate venture capital group: b rthday Picarbutrazox, a new fungicide from a chemical class discovered by Nippon Soda. UU BioPhero, which explores biological ways Its novel mode of action will strengthen our to make pheromones as lower-cost, Seedcare capability in corn, soybeans, canola, sustainable insect controls oilseed rape, cereals and other crops. UU AgBiome™1, which provides biological Our largest crop protection R&D and product support site, Our research center at Jealott’s Hill celebrated controls for insects and plant diseases Jealott’s Hill International Research Centre in the UK, celebrated its 90th birthday, illustrating our long-term its 90th birthday in 2018. It employs over 800 people UU Sound Agriculture™2, which develops new commitment to scientific excellence in the UK. products to help plants perform better We constantly invest in new facilities and under stressed conditions. resources to maintain our pace and quality of innovation. In 2018, we opened our 14th Seedcare Institute in Wagga Wagga, Australia, to support our Seedcare customers in Southeast Asia. We also committed to capital investments in increasing production capacity and efficiency. 1 Trademark of AgBiome, Inc. 2 Trademark of Sound Agriculture Company 13 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Seeds Syngenta is one of the world’s largest We offer a broad portfolio of crops and have particular strength in corn, soybean, sunflower, cereals and vegetables. developers and producers of seed for Syngenta Flowers, one of the few global players, is a farmers, commercial growers, retailers market leader in mass-market and value-added plants, and small seed companies. ranking in the top two in most key market segments. 14 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Seeds continued 75% Innovating to meet market needs We develop products and services that enable Now ENOGEN® corn is also demonstrating The global seed market was estimated at growers to be more productive, to secure major benefits as feed for dairy or beef cattle, around $40 billion in 2018, with 3 percent their livelihoods despite relentless pressure on due to its high digestibility. A 2018 study by forecast annual growth during the next five commodity prices, to manage risks such as two US universities shows that it provides an 75 percent of Brussels sprouts drought and disease, and to grow crops more average feed efficiency uplift of 5 percent, with years. Over half its value comes from corn and worldwide are Syngenta varieties sustainably – using less arable land, less water improved silage quality and reduced spoilage. soybean, and over half of sales are made in Brazil, China and North America. Growth over and fewer inputs. To do this, we strive to know and understand not only growers but also the Our AGRISURE DURACADE® corn, offering the next few years is expected to be driven multiple modes of action to resist 16 kinds by Brazil, China and India. customers they serve. of yield-limiting insects, has been a major Every seed is a package of genetic material Delivering what customers need success in North America, with approval for with the potential to deliver an extraordinary We have a strong pipeline and ongoing export to 15 countries including Brazil, China range of benefits and value: nutrition for people programs in plant breeding and biotech and Australia. and livestock, aesthetic pleasure, energy, and innovation to help farmers meet the In 2018, it cleared the first hurdle towards income and prosperity for farmers. By applying increasingly complex needs of their customers. import approval in the EU, following a science, our Seeds business aims to tailor this ‘positive scientific opinion’ from the material as precisely as possible to meet the For example, we’re providing corn growers with the technology they need to serve the European Food Safety Authority. increasingly complex needs and challenges of our customers’ markets, regions and growing growing demand for ethanol. In 2018, we We’re also supporting vegetable growers to conditions. We do this through accelerated further expanded our ENOGEN® corn offering meet the needs of their entire value chain. breeding and product development and by with seven new hybrids. Already a gameIn vegetables, we launched around 170 new providing expert agronomic advice. changer in the biofuel market, ENOGEN® varieties in 2018 across all crops to meet the grain makes ethanol production more efficient, needs of growers, processors and retailers. earning premium prices for growers and Highlights included: a red sweet pepper helping to produce clean fuel closer to the with outstanding yield and quality; an eyepoint where it’s used. catching black tomato with high anti-oxidant and vitamin content; a high-yielding corn especially suited to sweet corn processors’ requirements; an attractive golden seedless watermelon that stays crisp when cut; and a new spinach variety for European and US baby leaf markets. 15 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Seeds continued Did you know? Strategic acquisitions and Digital technologies are transforming In addition to these acquisitions, we have collaborations to meet market needs agriculture, and we are developing a growing entered into strategic partnerships and 37% less In 2018, we made several acquisitions portfolio of digital solutions and capabilities. licensing agreements to expand the choice that enhance our ability to give customers We made two important acquisitions in 2018: we can offer growers, while strengthening the products, innovation, advice and FarmShots™ in the US, an innovator in highour germplasm pool. pesticide services they need to run successful, resolution satellite imagery; and Strider ®1 in Brazil, a digital farm management company. We also hold minority positions in a sustainable businesses. growing number of digital start-ups Both of these technologies have important The acquisition of Nidera™ Seeds nearly roles to play in helping farmers to manage risk, through Syngenta Ventures. use doubled the size of our field crop Seeds select traits and germplasm that suit predicted Investing for growth in our key markets business in Latin America. Nidera™ is a major conditions in the coming season, and deploy force in soybean with strong offers in corn and In 2018, we announced a joint venture with assets effectively. sunflower. Its products, germplasm pool and Yuan Longping High-Tech Agriculture to On average, biotech crop adoption cuts research and development complement ours, We expanded our Flowers offering with the develop and sell new corn varieties, both with pesticide use by 37 percent, while raising yields enabling us to bring more choice, innovation acquisition of Floranova™, an established and without biotech traits. Longping is the by 22 percent and farm profits by 68 percent flower and home garden vegetable seeds largest seeds company in China, the world’s and value to Latin American growers. Source: Klümper, W. and Qaim, M.; 2014 breeder with a broad portfolio and a strong second-largest corn market. In the US, we acquired Abbott & Cobb™, a international presence in over 50 countries. breeder, producer, and marketer of vegetable The US is our biggest market. In 2018, we seeds. The company has particular strength in announced plans for a major global and North sweet corn, one of our core crops globally. America Seeds office in Chicago, at the heart of the US Corn Belt which grows over 50 percent of US corn and soybean. 1 Registered trademark of Strider Software S.A. 16 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Seeds continued The move brings us closer to many US corn Using new technologies, we have reduced the We believe this represents a missed opportunity Did you know? and soybean customers, gives us access to time it takes to pair the best traits with the best for the EU. As other parts of the world move 39% Chicago’s world-class talent pool for digital genetics, so we can bring new products to ahead with innovations that enable breeders and tech innovation and provides excellent market faster than ever, and we are increasing and farmers to do more with less water, transportation links connecting us more investment in breeding and hybridization. As a fertilizer and pesticides, Europe’s breeders and less closely with other important markets, such result, our output of new corn hybrids in 2018 farmers will miss out – with significant negative as China, Brazil and Eastern Europe. was 50 percent higher than in recent years. economic and environmental consequences. We also began work on a US$30 million trait We’ve been active in genome editing for over Our global lead genome-editing and biotech land conversion accelerator at our Idaho R&D and a decade, and in 2017 we licensed CRISPR site is in Beijing. Farming is crucial to China’s seed production facility. Most of our North Cas9 and Cpf1 genome-editing technology modernization, and its current five-year plan American corn trait conversion work will take for agricultural applications. We are now aims to achieve basic self-sufficiency in cereal place there, allowing us to bring new traits to applying the technology to accelerate the rate grains and absolute food security. Biotech is market faster. of innovation in crops including corn, wheat, one of the most promising paths to these Compared to 30 years ago, tomatoes, rice and sunflowers. However, objectives, and the plan envisages a significant a ton of corn can be grown Technological innovation is at the heart of commercialization of our genome-edited contribution from genetically modified crops. using 39 percent less land China’s agricultural modernization, and we are portfolio will depend on how regulators view Syngenta has an important role to play to Source: US Department of Agriculture (USDA), 2018 investing in further strengthening our Beijing genome-editing technologies; this varies support Chinese agricultural modernization Innovation Center, which is driving important around the world. through partnerships with key stakeholders collaborations with Chinese institutes. and by bringing Chinese growers the benefits Unlike genetically modified organisms of biotechnology. Applying transformative (GMOs), most forms of gene-editing do not technologies for the future involve inserting foreign DNA. Often, they are We believe we’re tackling one of the biggest While plant breeding has been going on for simply a more rapid and precise process for challenges humanity faces: to safely feed centuries, it has changed radically in the past achieving outcomes essentially the same as the world and look after the planet. That’s few years. Traditional trial-and-error processes those produced by conventional breeding. not something we can do on our own – we are being supplanted by collaboration We believe agricultural products should be need to engage with the best minds we between breeders and data analytics judged by their characteristics, not the process can find. So we are working with leaders in experts – integrating mathematics, genetics, used to produce them, and that new varieties many fields and disciplines, including data breeding, physiology and agronomy to select that do not contain foreign DNA should fall analytics, software and the supply chain, genetics that enhance crop performance. outside the scope of GMO legislation. We are and sharing expertise and data with them. Plant breeding is increasingly design-driven: committed to openly demonstrating the safety We believe the result of this worldwide effort using quality data and advanced analytics and efficacy of products resulting from plant will be a continuing flow of new digital tools, through each stage of the R&D process, we breeding innovations such as gene editing, services and products to help the world’s can understand challenges better, determine and we periodically publish data to engage growers rise to the challenge – successfully optimum solutions and create products to with stakeholders in open dialogue. and sustainably. match those specifications. We can also use mathematical modeling to determine We will wait to see how the regulatory how products are likely to perform in specific landscape for gene-edited plant products environmental conditions and to place unfolds in China, Latin America and the US. the right seeds for specific fields. But a 2018 ruling by the European Court of Justice means that most plants developed with these methods will be subject to the EU’s regular GMO legislation, which may entail prohibitive costs and political uncertainty over final market approval. 17 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance The Good Growth Plan The Good Growth Plan is a core element of our strategies for both our Crop Protection and Seeds businesses to ensure their success and long-term viability. It defines six commitments in areas where improvement is essential to secure the future of agriculture and our planet’s ecosystems. Each commitment sets hard, stretch targets to be achieved by 2020. We report our progress against these KPIs each year and provide additional progress information online at www.data.syngenta.com. The Good Growth Plan’s principles and priorities are deeply embedded in the way we do business. We are gathering unprecedented agricultural data and insight from our reference farms, which we are sharing with partners, academics, NGOs and public institutions worldwide. The lessons we learn are enabling us to enhance our commercial offer, delivering real and measurable benefits to farmers, rural communities and the environment. In these ways, the Plan contributes to the sustainability both of our own business, and of the wider world that we serve. So it’s appropriate to view our sustainability development not only in business terms, but also in relation to the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In the UN’s words, achieving these goals “requires the partnership of governments, private sector, civil society and citizens alike to make sure we leave a better planet for future generations”1. We believe that Syngenta is actively contributing to many of the SDGs, and we recognize a responsibility to maintain a culture of continuous improvement against them. In the following sections – on The Good Growth Plan and our own operations – we highlight the relevant SDGs alongside our report on the progress we are making. 1 United Nations Development Programme 18 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview model Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information performance Non-financial performance Our six commitments help farmers meet the challenge of feeding a fast-growing world population sustainably. Make crops Rescue Help biodiversity Empower Help people Look after more efficient more farmland flourish smallholders stay safe every worker 2020 target Increase the average Improve the fertility of Enhance biodiversity Reach 20 million Train 20 million farm Strive for fair labor productivity of the world’s 10 million hectares of on 5 million hectares smallholders and workers on labor conditions throughout major crops by 20 percent farmland on the brink of farmland enable them to safety, especially in our entire supply without using more land, of degradation increase productivity developing countries chain network water or inputs by 50 percent 2018 progress and key achievements 13.0% 10.8m 6.4m 21.9% 19.5m 33.8m 99.6% Land productivity Hectares of benefited Hectares of benefited Smallholder Smallholders People trained Suppliers included in increase1 farmland2 farmland2 land reached through on safe use5 sustainability and productivity training and fair labor programs6 increase3 sales4 We’re still raising reference We’ve already benefited The experience and We’re demonstrating We’re reaching We’re on track to reach our farm yields ahead of their an area about the size of evidence base we’re substantial increases in unprecedented numbers 100 percent target – and benchmarks and taking a lead in Guatemala – and we’re building demonstrates that smallholder yields and and finding new ways to be first in our industry the digital revolution that’s set building momentum biodiversity investment makes working with partners for to help people use our with global Fair Labor to transform agriculture in with the help of a wide business sense better on-farm practices products safely Association accreditation the coming years range of partners R  ead more on  ead more on R  ead more on R  ead more on R R  ead more on  ead more on R pages 20–22 pages 23–25 pages 26–27 pages 28–29 pages 30–31 pages 32–35 1 On reference farms compared to baseline 2014 4 Differences in totals may occur due to rounding 6 The seed supply chain represents about 98 percent of the suppliers targeted 2 Cumulative since baseline 2014. Differences in totals may occur due to rounding 5 Cumulative since baseline 2014. Differences in totals may occur due to rounding. by our sustainability and fair labor programs 3 On smallholder reference farms compared to 2014 baseline Includes smallholders reached through training reported under ‘Empower smallholders’ Additional progress information online at www.data.syngenta.com 19 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Make crops Increase the average productivity of the world’s major crops by 20 percent without using more land, water or inputs more efficient We’re still raising reference farm yields ahead of their benchmarks and taking a lead in the digital revolution that’s set to transform agriculture in the coming years UN Sustainable Development Goals 2, 12, 17 Did you know? The world needs a step-change in crop Reference farms continue to outperform Progress and key achievements productivity to ensure sustainable food 10x Globally, a further rise in yields on our reference UU Further productivity increase security. We are targeting a 20 percent farms took the increase since the 2014 baseline on reference farms – while increase across the world’s most important to 13.0 percent. This represented continuing crops in partnership with growers who use outperformance against the benchmark farms, benchmark farms underperform more our products and agronomic advice. We are where the uplift since 2014 reduced slightly UU Continued to extend sustainability devoting particular effort to smallholders, to 7.0 percent. partnerships with growers, food who have the greatest potential to increase productivity. Today, farmers feed at least 10 times more people using the same amount of land as 100 years ago chain companies and governments UU Sponsored first US Sustainable See “Empower smallholders” Land productivity increase %1 13.0% on pages 28–29 2020 20.0 Source: International Seed Federation, 2018 Agronomy Conference 2018 13.0 To test and measure what’s possible, 2017 10.9 1,443 reference farmers are working with 2016 1.2 our field experts to share know-how and trial new solutions for 20 crops in 39 countries. 1 On reference farms compared to baseline 2014 Another 2,316 benchmark farms, many also using Syngenta products, deepen our Farm network understanding of what drives productivity 2018 2017 2016 and efficiency, and help us track progress No. of reference farms 1,443 1,459 1,039 over time. No. of benchmark farms 2,316 2,630 2,694 20 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Make crops more efficient continued Within this good overall result for the reference We advise reference farms in the safe and Case study farms, there was significant variation among efficient use of Syngenta products according Sustainable Solutions: adding individual countries and crops. A good to optimized protocols: the right product at year for China included particularly strong the right time in the right amount. In 2018, gains for potato growers adopting seed reference farms’ pesticide field application treatment and locally-bred disease-resistant varieties. By contrast, in LATAM, Brazilian and Guatemalan coffee growers experienced efficiency increased to a total of 24.7 percent (2017: 14.2 percent), compared to 2014 baseline. value for the value chain weather challenges – mainly drought – which Responding to consumer demand, Farmers in the program are able to assess reduced crop yields, while maize growers were In 2017, we began reporting greenhouse food retailers take increasing account their farm’s environmental results against unable to match the record yields achieved gas (GHG) footprints from our farm network. of sustainability criteria in their purchasing anonymized community benchmarks. in the previous year’s exceptionally favorable This data is increasingly important to the food decisions. Syngenta Sustainable Solutions Covering efficiency indicators such as land-, weather conditions. industry’s efforts to better understand the works directly with growers and partners in waterand nitrogen-use, as well as soil sustainability of its supply chains. In 2018, the US food value chain, helping farmers conservation and GHG emissions, this Deepening our understanding our reference farms showed an average collect and analyze data to make more data demonstrates sustainability metrics of farm productivity 8.8 percent in GHG emission efficiency sustainable input decisions. to value chain customers. Our reference and benchmark farm networks increase compared with the 2014 baseline. remained little changed in 2018. But we Comparing performance at crop level, averaged continue to develop and refine our systems and over the five years of monitoring, 69 percent processes for collecting and analyzing their of reference farms have outperformed the data. The digital tools that we are now bringing benchmark farms. to market are creating opportunities to further improve the quality of the data we collect, and, eventually, may greatly increase the number of farms we monitor. This direction supports an increasingly evidence-based approach, in which we use technologies such as artificial intelligence to mine data for insights that improve our product development and commercial offers, help growers connect better with the value chain, and bring demonstrable, measurable and documented benefits to society and the environment. 21 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Make crops more efficient continued +20% yield improvement Yield improvement achieved with potato growers in Dingxi, northwest China Applying what we learn Current programs include using data collected In 2018, we sponsored North America’s first Already, our farm data is helping to shape through AGRIEDGE EXCELSIOR® to test Sustainable Agronomy Conference, organized a better future. By applying what we learn, we strategies for managing weed resistance more by the American Society of Agronomy, and help growers and the value chain in new ways. effectively. We are also working with farmers, focused on how to move sustainable agriculture food companies and universities on feeding from the research field to the commercial field. The development of our NUCOFFEE® Sustentia cattle with ENOGEN® corn for more sustainable project in Brazil demonstrates the evolving meat and milk production. One study has Governments at local, national and regional benefits for growers and value chain partners. confirmed a 5 percent feed efficiency gain level are increasingly engaging our insights and When we launched it in 2006, with UTZ as our with ENOGEN®, and others are appraising expertise through partnerships to support their value chain certification partner, the project its potential to cut GHG emissions. own agendas and goals. In China, for example, was focused on crop quality. Later, we were we are working with a growing number of able to help participating farmers improve their Sharing what we learn agencies on projects that support government productivity and efficient use of inputs such Syngenta is at the forefront of using and sharing sustainability and agricultural modernization as crop protection and nutrients. Now we’re data to help growers make better decisions that agendas. Examples include partnering with working with them to better understand the lead to significant productivity and efficiency the Dingxi Agricultural Bureau and local drivers of sustainability improvements such improvements. As a result, we are also well government to enhance the productivity as GHG reduction. As we collect more data placed to give food chain companies and of potato and other vegetable farms in the through The Good Growth Plan – and integrate governments insight into how best to support northwest of the country. We have trained more it with other inputs such as weather data – we more sustainable agriculture. than 500 farm workers, introduced sunflowers, are seeing a step change in the spectrum of vegetables and herbs as commercially-valuable insights and benefits that we bring to growers We publish detailed Good Growth Plan cover crops, and achieved yield uplifts of and the value chain. progress data on our open data website at around 20 percent for potatoes and www.data.syngenta.com. By visualizing and 14 percent for cabbages. In North America, Syngenta Sustainable offering data in a wider range of formats, we Solutions has been helping customers for a aim to increase accessibility and engage others decade – not only to make their farms more with what we are doing. We continue to work productive and sustainable, but also to engage with the Open Data Institute to ensure we share effectively with the value chain by documenting data in ways that can be used effectively by and supporting good environmental practice those who need it for their own research. (see case study on page 21). 22 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Rescue more farmland Progress and key achievements UU 2020 target exceeded with Today, over 50 percent of farmland is affected by soil degradation. We’re working to promote practices that help farmers maintain healthy In the fifth year of our soil health programs, we surpassed the target that we committed to reach by 2020. We aimed to improve Improve the fertility of 10 million benefited hectares up by 7 percent, soil, protect it from wind and rain erosion, 10 million hectares – an area about the size hectares of farmland on the and increase soil fertility. The solutions we of Guatemala. With 197 projects implemented as digital technologies support offer also help them to reduce their carbon in 41 countries, we are already benefiting brink of degradation continuing rapid scale-up footprints and adapt to climate change. 10.8 million hectares. We’ve already benefited an area UU Strong progress in demonstrating We actively promote conservation agriculture This success has been driven by three key about the size of Guatemala – and benefits to value chain based on minimum soil disturbance, crop factors: integration of conservation practices we’re building momentum with the rotation and permanent ground cover. It is a into our commercial offer; digital solutions; help of a wide range of partners UU New commitment to improve central element in climate-smart agriculture, and partnerships with governments and the 2 million hectares in China under helping to reduce emissions, prevent land value chain. UN Sustainable Race to Zero initiative degradation, improve food security, increase Development Goals 2, 13, 15, 17 farm and community resilience, and deliver Integrating soil health into our sales offer better crops to the value chain. As well Integrating soil conservation practices into as working with farmers, we are raising our crop protocols and training is helping awareness of soil conservation among value to differentiate our commercial offer and chain partners, government institutions also benefits our own seed multiplication and academics. operations. Examples include INTEGRARE™, our high-yield soybean solution combining 10.8m Hectares of benefited seeds, seed treatment, crop protection and farmland1 m services such as waterand soil-nutrition management. Since its launch in 2015, 2020 10.0 INTEGRARE™ acreage in Brazil passed 2018 3.4 10.8 1.1 million hectares. 2017 7.5 In Europe, we have developed HYVIDO® to 2016 4.3 help farmers produce better-yielding, higherquality barley. This technology brings together 1 Cumulative since baseline 2014. three barley hybrids with tailored cultivation Differences in totals may occur due to rounding protocols to allow higher yields and better soil conservation management. 23 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Rescue more farmland continued Did you know? Digital solutions are making With a further 2 million hectares added Together, we have organized over 30 Soil a big difference in 2018, this is now our largest soil health Leadership Academy workshops to raise It takes nature The digital agriculture solutions we’ve developed are adding further impetus to soil project worldwide. Runoff is a major cause of land degradation. awareness among UNCCD member nations, civil society organizations and academia. 500 years to health programs. This applies particularly in With the WBCSD, we have published a report Reducing it helps to keep soils fertile and on the business case for investment in soil Latin America, which accounted for most waterways clean; and good soil management of the additional acreage benefited by our health, targeting governments, value chains, replace 25mm practices can significantly cut runoff farmers and land users. This was launched initiatives in 2018. and erosion. on World Soil Day in December 2018. Our strategy is increasingly linked of lost soil Bigger partnerships drive wider adoption We have also joined value chain partners to digitalization of agriculture through multi-stakeholder platforms with partners Over time, we have been able to develop including Unilever, Olam, Barry Callebaut and who provide equipment and machinery, larger-scale collaborations with a wide Rabobank to launch the CSA100 initiative. financial solutions and educational support. range of partners. This provides added This aims to unite 100 leading food value Source: Pimental, D. and Pimental, M.; 2003 This enables us to build propositions leverage and credibility with growers, and chain companies in promoting climatethat farmers will adopt because they it helps us to make the case for supportive smart agriculture that increases agricultural can see demonstrable economic and government policies. productivity and incomes sustainably, builds sustainability benefits. resilience to climate change and reduces Syngenta has been the private-sector greenhouse gas emissions. In Brazil, for example, we worked with a partner of the UN Convention to Combat digital technology company, SmartBio, to Desertification (UNCCD) for five years, develop a pest management platform that alongside the World Business Council for integrates field mapping, digital monitoring, Sustainable Development (WBCSD). satellite imaging, weather data and specialist training. This enables sugarcane growers to map areas susceptible to different stress factors and optimize crop management and treatment accordingly. 24 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Rescue more farmland continued Other initiatives with value chain partners in 2018 included a transformative series of interventions on Vietnamese coffee plantations, see case study (right), and an ambitious national project to reboot corn cultivation in Italy. The ‘Mais in Italy’ program is a collaboration between Syngenta and farmers, scientists and value chain partners to make the crop more productive, efficient and sustainable by integrating the most appropriate Case study genetics, crop protection and agronomic Brewing more protocols. As part of this program, we are also promoting best practice in soil conservation. This includes minimal machinery passes and soil disturbance, crop rotation to sustainable coffee with reduce runoff exposure and digital systems to optimize irrigation. value chain Helping China race to zero carbon We promote cover crops as an aid to partners minimum-tillage soil conservation in most parts of the world. In 2018, the main focus of these efforts was China, where we have committed to reduce carbon emissions over the next five In Vietnam, we are working to improve years through soil conservation programs soil management on coffee plantations on 2 million hectares of farmland. This area with two value chain partners – the Louis represents 2 percent of all farmland in China, Dreyfus Company and Jacobs Douwe and the initiative is part of our contribution Egberts – and IDH The Sustainable Trade to China’s Race to Zero drive towards zeroInitiative. Using 30 demonstration plots as carbon, zero-waste business practices. well as direct action on farms, the threeIn Yantai and Shandong provinces, permanent year project aims to develop and promote ground cover projects with apple and grape sustainable landscapes that reduce soil growers have improved soils and shown degradation, combat deforestation, conserve economic benefits for employees, suppliers, irrigation water and improve climate change governments and communities – increasing resilience. We aim to train some 2,500 farmers’ incomes by over US$900 per hectare. farmers and agronomists on sustainability issues, eliminating overuse and unsafe use of pesticides. We are also working with local authorities to develop a model that can be scaled up further. The next phase of the partnership will extend the model into three more Highlands provinces, benefiting a total of 5,500 farmers by 2021. 25 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Help biodiversity Enhance biodiversity on 5 million hectares of farmland The experience and evidence base we’re building flourish demonstrates that biodiversity investment makes business sense UN Sustainable Development Goals 2, 15, 17 Progress and key achievements The sustainability of agriculture relies on After an exceptional year in 2016, the roundtables with our partners, using this biodiversity — for plant breeding, pollination pace of increase in impacted acreage has paper to generate interest from value chain UU 2020 target exceeded and food diversity. We are promoting and moderated. Though integrating biodiversity companies and the financial sector that by over 27 percent enabling action to increase and connect into commercial offers is a complex task, will drive higher investment in MFFMs. habitats that support healthy and diverse we have continued to develop and promote Download the joint discussion paper UU Published research to quantify wildlife populations. A key strategy is managing programs that emphasize biodiversity as an on multi-functional field margins the economic and social benefits less-productive farmland alongside fields integral part of good agricultural practice www.publications.syngenta.com of multi-functional field margins and waterways to reintroduce local species, and land stewardship. provide buffers for soil and water, and 6.4m Hectares of benefited Scaling up Operation Pollinator™ UU Stepped up biodiversity projects provide corridors connecting wildlife habitats. farmland1 m We continue to promote landscape with national institutions in China These multi-functional field margins (MFFMs) connectivity – a key factor for habitat and support sustainable intensification on the 2020 5.0 biodiversity conservation in agricultural more productive land. 2018 0.8 6.4 landscapes. Our largest program is in Brazil, Demonstrating the value of diversity 2017 5.6 where we started work in 2008 and are still building momentum with policy makers, Although we surpassed our 2020 target 2016 4.9 farmers, local communities, NGOs and in 2017, we continue investing in both Did you know? value chain companies. Projects that began new and existing biodiversity initiatives. 1 Cumulative since baseline 2014. 84% Differences in totals may occur due to rounding in municipalities now expand across whole We have now implemented 301 projects in states. In addition to this, our principal focus 39 countries, benefiting a total of 6.4 million In collaboration with Bioversity International in 2018 has been on extending our Operation hectares. Benefits for farmers include and Arcadis, we have developed a discussion Pollinator™ programs around the world. reduced soil erosion and better soil nutrient paper evaluating the value of MFFMs in the cycling, crop pollination, pest control and agricultural landscape. It documents 20 natural In the European Union, 84 percent of water quality regulation. Wider social crop species depend at least partly and environmental benefits, along with 15 gains include enhanced genetic diversity, social-capital benefits, and quantifies them on pollination by wildlife carbon sequestration, flood attenuation financially, to help farmers see the monetary Source: Proceedings of the Royal Society, Klein et al, 2007 and recreation opportunities. value that MFFMs create for them and for society. We are now organizing events and 26 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Help biodiversity flourish continued Case study Bees are the keys to kiwis that please In China, we have been working with the field margins and put beehives on farms. Institute of Apiculture Research at the We have shown how bee pollination Academy of Agricultural Sciences on projects can provide a cheaper and more to improve fruit yields and quality through efficient alternative to hand pollination, better pollination. We have had significant producing higher quality fruit with success with bees in kiwi orchards in strong consumer appeal. Sichuan province where we established In 2018, we joined several Chinese government agricultural and research bodies in staging a Bee Conference with the theme “Bee Booming, Plant Flourishing, Green Growing”. This provided an opportunity to share our experience gained through implementing our Operation Pollinator™ and Hives on Farms programs on over 10,000 acres of Chinese farmland and fruit orchards, see case study (right). Value chain companies are increasingly interested in collaborating on Operation Pollinator projects, and we began new initiatives with food companies in Argentina and Brazil in 2018. We are also looking beyond farmland: in North America we have been applying our management expertise and seed consulting services to transform a growing number of out-of-play areas on golf courses into improved habitat for bees and other pollinators. 27 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Smallholders produce more than 80 percent of Very often, smallholders’ yields are impaired Progress and key achievements the food consumed in much of the developing by limited access to technology, or lack of UU Further land productivity increase world. Their crop productivity lags well behind knowledge about how to apply it effectively. that of larger producers, so closing the gap For example, reference tomato growers in on smallholder reference farms Empower could significantly improve food security Africa have seen significant yield gains since to 21.9 percent and reduce poverty. we introduced them to hybrid seeds and gave UU Global reach increased and them appropriate training. Over half of our sales are made in growing smallmore people trained economies where smallholder farmers In the Philippines, we found particularly poor predominate. Our contact with these customers yields among rice growers using low-quality UU Increasing involvement with crop protection. After training in efficient use of is generally indirect: they buy through local value chain partners to drive holders distributors and retailers. high-performance products such as VIRTAKO® smallholder improvement insecticide, some of these growers have Yields up and reach boosted by training doubled their yields per hectare. Our network of smallholder reference farms Reach 20 million smallholders and enable them to increase maintained the yield increase achieved since 2014, with a small additional increase: their Smallholders reached through training and sales2 m 19.5m productivity by 50 percent overall land productivity was 21.9 percent 2020 20.0 above the 2014 baseline (2017: 21.6 percent). 2018 6.1 19.5 13.4 We’re demonstrating substantial This was 3.5 times the increase achieved increases in smallholder yields by benchmark smallholders over the 2017 5.6 13.9 19.4 and working with partners for same period. 2016 4.6 16.6 21.3 better on-farm practices 21.9% Did you know? Smallholder land 20-30% Training Sales productivity increase1 % UN Sustainable 2 Differences in totals may occur due to rounding Development Goals 1, 2, 17 2020 50.0 Our smallholder reach is estimated by adding yield gap 2018 21.9 the numbers of smallholders reached based on 2017 21.6 sales volume data and the number of farmers reached through training. The number of 2016 8.0 smallholders reached through sales decreased 1 On smallholder reference farms compared to baseline 2014 slightly: from 13.9 million in 2017 to 13.4 million Globally there’s a 20-30 percent yield gap between men and women farmers in 2018. We saw significant variation between in developing countries regions: an increase in China thanks to higher corn prices; an increase in Africa and the Source: Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations Middle East due to adding new products to (FAO), 2011 the smallholder offer; stable results for South Asia; and declines in ASEAN and LATAM. 28 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Empower smallholders continued At the same time, we were able to extend When we bring products like this to Case study the number of smallholders reached through smallholder markets, technology together Better corn keeps training across all regions to 6.1 million (see with training and technical advice – supported “Help people stay safe” on pages 30–31). by partners – are important elements of our The growing impact of our training is driven offer. We want to ensure that growers use our by three principal factors. Our commercial teams increasingly see training as an important part of our offer to customers. We are making products both safely and efficiently to get the best return on investment and improve the livelihoods of their families and communities. family dairy farms viable better use of our customer relationship The Mexican state of Jalisco may be better On over 40 smallholder farms, our crop management tools to promote and record Demonstrating best practice known for tequila, but it supports around protection protocols on corn and technical training activity, improving training data Training for smallholders is important across 14,000 family dairy farms. Many of these support and training have cut the cost of collection. And our safety training resources our Good Growth Plan commitments. are struggling to stay viable. Together with feeding cattle by 30 percent. Also, milk continue to expand as we train more trainers, For example, in India we have joined forces the local Agricultural Council and large milk quality has increased, enabling these family particularly in APAC and LATAM. with a global food and beverage producer purchasers, we launched an initiative to farms to realize better prices for their milk. to establish a model farm in the state of transform their economic situation through By 2021, we aim to be bringing these Tailoring our offer to smallholder needs Maharashtra. We provided training and best better feed production. benefits to 1,500 family farms. Smallholders are necessarily very focused on practice demonstrations in areas such as price, and high-quality products like ours face soil conservation and biodiversity, as well as strong and growing competition from low-cost safe storage and use of chemicals. And our generics. We are developing new commercial WeCare initiative in India, while focused on partnerships to better tailor our offer to product stewardship, educates growers smallholder needs, so that we offer attractive in protecting crops effectively to improve cost/benefit propositions. productivity and thus livelihoods (see case study on page 31). For example, by training West African cocoa growers in safe and effective use of PERGADO® Smallholders can significantly improve their Cocoa fungicide, we have enabled them to incomes if their crops meet the specifications increase yields by 40 percent or more, satisfy of corporate buyers. So we have a growing value chain residue requirements, and increase number of joint projects with value chain family incomes by US$300 a year. We have partners focused on specific crops. In addition launched PERGADO® Cocoa in Côte d’Ivoire to our work with coffee growers in Vietnam as our first copper-free solution and expect to (see case study on page 25), in Mexico, we extend this new mandipropamid-based product have joined several corporate partners to across West Africa in the near future. improve feed crops for family dairy farms, see case study (right). 29 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Help people Train 20 million farm workers on labor safety, especially in developing countries stay safe We’re reaching unprecedented numbers and finding new ways to help people use our products safely UN Sustainable Development Goals 2, 3, 17 33.8m We share a responsibility to help improve People trained Protecting crops efficiently and safely Progress and key achievements occupational safety and health in agriculture. on safe use1 m The benefit for customers comes not only UU Exceeded our 2020 target Ensuring that our products are used correctly from using our products safely, but also from 2020 20.0 by over two-thirds is integral to our business model – to protect using no more than is necessary, so that they not only the health and safety of farm workers 2018 8.3 33.8 minimize environmental impact and maximize UU Train-the-Trainer programs and the public, but also the environment. 2017 25.5 their return on investment. continue to increase capacity This is particularly important for smallholders, especially in developing countries, who 2016 17.2 In China, Syngenta has long been an industry UU Increased collaboration with often lack access to guidance on using crop 1 Cumulative since baseline 2014. Differences in totals may occur leader in safe-use training. We work with companies and partners to protection efficiently, responsibly and safely. due to rounding. Includes smallholders reached through training many partners including national and local improve safety reported under ‘Empower smallholders’ government bodies, such as the National Making training a key part of our offer Agricultural Technology Extension and In 2018, we reached 8.3 million people Our successful Train-the-Trainer programs Service Center, with whom we have had (2017: 8.2 million) with safety training and are greatly increasing our capacity to promote joint programs in all 31 mainland provinces safe-use awareness-raising initiatives linked good stewardship. As well as educating our since 2000. Training sessions cover both to commercial activities. This brought the own sales teams, we have also included safe use and new application technology, cumulative total since 2014 to 33.8 million, partners, distributors and researchers pollinator safety, resistance management and two-thirds more than the 20 million target we working in the field. This is helping them to support for the government’s Pesticide Zero originally set for 2020. impart technical knowledge – how to use our Growth strategy, which promotes optimal products safely and minimize environmental application to increase effectiveness without Smallholders make up about 70 percent of the impacts – as well as to engage and influence increasing volumes. people we train: in 2018, we reached a further people more effectively to change behaviors. 6.1 million smallholders (2017: 5.6 million). 30 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Help people stay safe continued More than just training Training is only one aspect of our approach to stewardship. We are also developing digital tools to help growers identify the right – and wrong Case study Making the – weather or groundwater conditions for using particular products. We aim to maximize the clarity of labeling, for example, to communicate effectively with illiterate users. In Bangladesh, we have introduced and monitored the success of using life-size photo posters to promote news in India recognition and understanding of label guidance Communication of safe-use principles is as well as pictograms on appropriate personal challenged by low literacy levels and the protective equipment. remoteness of many farming communities in India. As one of many initiatives to broaden We have also been partnering with equipment awareness, we introduced the WeCare manufacturers on enhancements to product stewardship campaign, based in five cities design, handling and training. For example, across five states. This included programs in LATAM we have helped aerial spraying to teach basic hygiene and stewardship in equipment manufacturers to train pilots more schools, demonstrations of safe-use and effectively in optimizing speed, height and good agricultural practices on Syngenta wind conditions for safer spraying. We also reference farms, classroom sessions for work with equipment manufacturers on growers on application technology, and more secure ways to transfer product from pre-season maintenance camps to help containers to application equipment. growers calibrate and repair their application equipment. The campaign reached over In association with the industry association 5,000 young people, 2,000 growers and a CropLife, we have also been running programs broader public through extensive national to make personal protective equipment more media coverage. widely available in India. 31 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance 2018 progress: target nearly achieved Progress and key achievements We are committed to ensuring fair labor UU On track to have 100 percent of our conditions across our supply chain, and Look seed production farms included in we recognize our responsibility to ensure our Fair Labor Program suppliers meet the highest ethical standards. In 2018, we made strong progress towards UU 96 percent of flowers farms now our targets in the seed, flowers and chemical after every have GLOBALG.A.P. certification, 44 percent with G.R.A.S.P. supply chains.. Suppliers included 99.6% worker assessments in sustainability and fair labor programs1 % UU 94 percent of chemical suppliers covered by our Supplier 2020 100.0 Strive for fair labor conditions Sustainability Program 2018 99.6 throughout our entire supply 2017 86.0 chain network 2016 82.0 We’re on track to reach our 100 1 The seed supply chain represents about 98 percent of the suppliers percent target – and to be first targeted by our sustainability and fair labor programs in our industry with global Fair Labor Association accreditation UN Sustainable Development Goals 2, 8, 17 32 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Look after every worker continued Fair labor on seed supply farms The acquisition of Nidera™ Seeds in 2018 Addressing challenges effectively In many countries, migrant workers are Our seed supply chain poses particular brought us additional corn and soybean In India, we have been a prime mover especially vulnerable to exploitation on farms. challenges. Comprising some 36,000 farms in seed supply farms, mostly in Brazil but also in addressing farms’ widespread nonWe take appropriate action whenever we 32 countries, it represents about 98 percent in Argentina. Integration of these into the Fair compliance with minimum wage standards. encounter such cases. In Thailand, there has of the suppliers targeted by our sustainability Labor Program began in 2018 and will be This requires an industry-wide approach. been particular concern over the treatment and fair labor programs. Since 2004, we have complete in 2019. In consultation with our major competitors, of migrants from Myanmar. In 2018, we partnered with the Fair Labor Association we have drawn-up safeguards, so that prices asked the FLA to help us investigate the Seeking global recognition extent of the problem in our farm network. (FLA) to develop and roll out our Fair Labor paid for crops reflect applicable minimum Program tailored specifically for this complex In 2015, the FLA gave us accreditation in India. wage levels, and new contract and payment This has enabled us to work with local NGOs supply chain. It sets and monitors labor rights We were the first agricultural company to earn structures are designed to ensure that on remedial action, including improving standards in areas such as job contracts this status, which confirms that a company’s payments made to farmers actually reach accommodation and working conditions, and compensation, safe and just working systems and procedures have been shown farm workers. as well as raising awareness among conditions, and dignity and respect. to uphold fair labor standards successfully employers about fair labor practices. throughout its supply chain. Since then, Fair Labor Program coverage of our seed we have been working to achieve the supply farms reached 99.9 percent in 2018 agricultural sector’s first global accreditation. (2017: 86 percent). We completed coverage After considerable work in 2018, we hope in a further nine countries during the year, to receive this in 2019. including Canada, France and the US. This leaves only three countries to be added – vegetable seed farms in Honduras, Guatemala and Peru – and by mid-2019 we will have full coverage of all our seed-producing countries. 33 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Look after every worker continued Transparent, Digitizing audits A more rigorous view of process safety Did you know? >25% of Every year, we collect and manage data We engage with our chemical suppliers independent from thousands of seed supply farm audits. Over the years, different countries have to assess and drive improvement in their health, safety, environmental and social audits developed their own procedures. We have standards through our Supplier Sustainability workers now developed a digital tool that ensures Program. This consists of on-site audits by we apply consistent processes everywhere. our own auditors, and audits or assessments The FLA publishes its audit findings The new system enables us to plan and conducted through the chemical industry’s with all remediation plans and reports arrange farm inspection visits, collect audit Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative. on progress against them data from them and collate it for each farm More than one quarter of the world’s and crop, ensure full visibility of compliance, The program aims to assess suppliers’ working population is employed in agriculture Read more on track our recommendations and actions, and performance against our standards, identify Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), 2018 www.fairlabor.org/affiliate/syngenta monitor implementation of improvements. It is potential gaps, and support suppliers in already adding rigor and transparency to the making the required improvements. We are way we manage our Fair Labor Program, and now close to our goal of bringing all chemicals it will enable us to see more clearly where to suppliers in material risk categories into the focus attention in future. program. In 2018, we increased coverage to 94 percent of suppliers in these categories Flowers: Fairtrade status (2017: 90 percent) and broadened the and a stronger G.R.A.S.P. program’s reach to include formulation, fill and In our flowers business, we are aiming for pack suppliers and packaging manufacturers. all our own and third-party flowers farms to Our focus is on helping suppliers to improve have GLOBALG.A.P. certification, covering in the most critical areas, in particular process worker well-being and production quality, safety management. Our technology and with larger farms also meeting the G.R.A.S.P. sourcing managers visit suppliers’ facilities standard for labor conditions. In 2018, we to run on-site safety awareness training. extended GLOBALG.A.P. certification to 96 Other initiatives, such as a three-day process percent of flowers farms (2017: 90 percent), safety workshop recently staged in India, with 44 percent also undergoing G.R.A.S.P. help suppliers address process safety assessment (2016: 32 percent). gaps in areas from risk assessment to In June 2018, our Kenya cuttings farm achieved emergency management. Fairtrade accreditation, our first accreditation Through the chemical industry’s TfS under this scheme. Fairtrade recognizes decent initiative, we work collectively with other working conditions, local sustainability and fair member companies to drive improvement terms of trade, and, in addition, certified sales in the sustainability of industry supply generate a Fairtrade Premium for workers to chains. Our membership gives us valuable invest in community projects of their choice. access to pooled supplier data from For details, see case study on page 35. audits and assessments covering all areas of sustainability. See “Sustainable operations” on pages 40–42 34 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Look after every worker continued Case study Fairtrade recognition for Kenya operation Consumers are increasingly concerned about the ethics behind the products they buy. The Fairtrade program certifies that producers meet defined labor, sustainability and trading standards. We sought Fairtrade accreditation for our Kenya cuttings farm in response to growing value chain demand for cuttings and young plants with this globally recognized endorsement. As the farm already met the standards for GlobalG.A.P. certification and G.R.A.S.P. assessment, Fairtrade certification was the logical next step in supporting the local community and satisfying our customers’ desire to offer the market ethical choices. As well as achieving accreditation for the cuttings farm, we also certified Syngenta Seeds in the Netherlands as a Fairtrade trader. 35 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Our operations Securing the long-term viability of our business means using resources with ever greater efficiency in all our operations. Greater efficiency also means actively reducing adverse impacts on climate, the environment and society. Our Good Growth Plan defines ways in which we can help the agricultural industry increase efficiency and reduce adverse impact. We set targets and report our progress towards them; we also consider how these activities support the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In a similar way, we are assessing the impact of our own operations as a basis for clear progress measurement and reporting. For each focus area, we look at how we support specific SDGs as part of our contribution to leaving a better planet for future generations. The relevant SDGs are indicated in the following sections. Our Sustainable Operations team works with colleagues in research and development and operations to ensure that sustainability considerations help to shape our future products and solutions. Examples include building lifecycle analyses, product safety and sustainability into our innovation processes. Most of the impact of our operations comes from our supply chain, rather than the operations we own and manage ourselves. Managing Syngenta’s impact effectively means working closely with our suppliers. To meet our own sustainability targets, we help them to achieve the same standards that we set for ourselves. Our ambition to be the most collaborative and trusted team in agriculture depends on the actions and attitudes of every one of us. Our competitive strength comes from our people and their shared culture: we believe it’s not just what we do that matters, but how we do it. By fostering a culture of doing the right thing, we aim to manage risk and earn recognition as a trustworthy and collaborative partner at every level in the business chain – from suppliers and customers to NGOs, policymakers and society at large. 36 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Developing our people and capabilities During the year, we rolled out our refreshed Like many organizations, we use Yammer Our competitive strength comes from our cultural framework – our Backbone – as an internal networking and collaboration People people, and in 2018 we introduced a new, more hands-on approach to managing their setting out our values, goals and strategies. We incorporated this into employee and tool. Following the largest-ever analysis of Yammer networks, Syngenta received a 2018 performance and development. Pause2Talk, leadership training programs and continue SWOOP Award as one of “the world’s most Our success depends on our people to embed our values in everything we do. collaborative companies”. The awards were our approach to ongoing dialogue, aims to and the way they work together. based on a study of more than 12 million ensure that every employee can discuss their In 2018, we made further significant contribution, engagement and growth with Our peer-to-peer recognition program interactions between over 1.4 million progress in developing our leadership launched in September 2017, Val-You, enables people worldwide. their manager throughout the year. people to celebrate and reward great work by capability, employee engagement colleagues. It is a global online platform that Building diverse and successful teams and collaborative culture. The renewed leadership and talent development program we launched in 2017 is investing allows employees to thank colleagues at any Total staff numbers remained flat at 27,732, as a UN Sustainable Development Goal 8 $30 million over five years in building the level across the organization and award them 3.6 percent reduction driven by restructuring was capabilities we need for the future. In 2018, points exchangeable for rewards. It has been offset by a similar increase from the acquisition we invested a total of $6.5 million – significantly well received, with 5,650 people expressing of Nidera™ Seeds. The voluntary attrition rate, more than in 2017 ($4.2 million), when the new close to 38,000 recognitions in its first excluding retirement and restructuring, rose program ran for less than the full year. year. It is playing a useful part in supporting to 5.8 percent (2017: 5.2 percent). collaboration across teams and functions: During 2018, we introduced our new people 91 percent of people nominated someone information platform that gives our line outside their own team. managers and employees greater access to their own data. Engaging and rewarding our people A key measure of employee engagement is our Pulse survey. A record 77 percent of employees – 21,000 people – chose to take part in 2018. The results indicated continuing high levels of engagement. Overall, 84 percent saw themselves as highly engaged, with particularly strong ratings from millennials. Nine out of 10 said they clearly understood their function’s goals and objectives, and 92 percent agreed that ethics, safety and 84% compliance are core to the way we work. We also identified areas for improvement, including encouraging more diversity, a greater engaged focus on individual development planning and closer senior leader alignment – ‘one team’ to deliver the strategy. 84 percent of our employees see themselves as highly engaged, in particular millennials 37 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance People continued Our employee survey tells us that in Case study Syngenta male employees have higher levels of engagement than women, who Honors constitute 30 percent of the workforce. We are working on addressing this, and for women on bringing more women into leadership roles. The proportion of women in senior management remained unchanged at 17 who are percent in 2018. However, the number of nationalities represented at these levels rose shaping our from 33 to 36, with increased representation from emerging markets. sustainable We continue striving to increase diversity in our workforce and have appointed our first Global future Head Diversity & Inclusion (D&I). The D&I team will be responsible for delivering our fiveyear D&I strategy, embedding leading-edge One of Syngenta’s senior leaders, Tina thinking and capabilities across Syngenta, Lawton, received the 2018 Leading Women strengthening external partnerships and raising Award from the World Business Council our profile in this area. Increasing gender for Sustainable Development for her diversity and working to support millennials, work as Regional Director in Asia Pacific. particularly in Syngenta’s emerging markets, The award recognizes outstanding business will be priorities. leadership by women in companies working For the ninth year running, our employment to contribute to the UN’s Sustainable policies and performance earned us external Development Goals. “As a female leader,” recognition in Science magazine’s annual she commented, “I’m proud that we’ve made Top 20 Employers list. In 2018, our ranking a difference to girls and women in agriculture remained unchanged at 12th. through training and stewardship.” 38 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance People continued Keeping our people safe We aim to be an industry leader in health and safety. In 2018, we further reduced our illness We continue to implement satellite tracking telematics for our fleet vehicles, enabling proactive assessment of risks to support In APAC, our Karachi site won the Annual Environment Excellence Award organized by the National Forum for Environment & Health. Safety shares preventive and remedial action. The program And in EAME, our Turkish driving safety Regularly sharing real-life stories helps and injury rate to 0.32 recordable incidents per now covers the US, four countries in LATAM, campaign proved so successful that it was employees take responsibility for being safer 200,000 hours (2017: 0.37). But the number of motor vehicle incidents per million kilometers including Brazil, 10 in EAME and two in taken up by local news media. rose to 1.6 (2017: 1.3), and driving remains APAC, including India. In LATAM, we focused all our commercial our principal employee risk category. Integration of our fleet management under one operations on safety at the annual sales dedicated service team, begun in 2016, has conference, launched a behavior-based Recordable illness and injury rate (IIR) per 200,000 hours1 0.32 also enabled development and implementation of a wider driver safety program embracing safety program in our Flowers business, and undertook process risk assessments at all vehicle safety technology, driver training and seeds processing and crop protection finished 2018 0.32 risk management. product processing sites. In North America, 2017 0.37 Syngenta was named by Healthiest Employers To improve health, safety and environmental as one of the ‘100 healthiest workplaces 2016 0.39 (HSE) performance, we are empowering in America’. And among many US sites and equipping leaders to take ownership of recognized for their safety performance, 1 According to US OSHA definition for injuries and illness HSE in their areas of responsibility, making it our Greensboro plant and Research Triangle Sadly, there were three fatalities in 2018, part of everyday business. We are backing Park R&D center both received Safety all involving motor vehicles. Two involved this approach with training and new tools, Excellence Awards from the North Carolina directly-supervised sales contractors riding including our new HSE Management System, Department of Labor. motorcycles in India and Indonesia. The third and will complete roll out by the end of 2019. involved a Syngenta employee driving a car In 2018, 126 of our production and research in Brazil. This prompted ‘safety pause’ events and development sites across all regions worldwide, where teams reflected on practical reported a year without a single recordable steps towards our Goal Zero vision of zero incident. This was six more than the total harm to people and zero safety incidents. of incident-free sites in 2017. We have now made safety and ethics ‘pauses’ an integral part of team meetings. See “Business integrity” on pages 43–45 39 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance What makes a sustainable business? Suppliers’ impact outweighs our own Our efforts to increase energy efficiency and We have a vital part to play in making In all the key areas identified by our reduce carbon intensity in our operations have Sustainable agriculture more sustainable. If we want to go on making that contribution over the long Sustainable Operations team, most of our impact comes from our supply chain rather been focused on our top 10 manufacturing sites. These account for 80 percent of our operations term, we must ensure that Syngenta is itself sustainable: that we run a viable, efficient than the operations we own and manage ourselves. Managing our impact effectively direct energy use. Energy management plans were in operation in all these plants during 2018. Key projects included custom software business; that we minimize its adverse impacts means working closely with our suppliers. We are continually improving the and that we earn society’s continuing support To meet our own sustainability goals, we must installed at our Research Triangle Park facility efficiency of our operations, while for our work. help them to achieve the same standards that in the US to control greenhouse lighting levels, always seeking to reduce any adverse we set for ourselves. which helped to achieve 20 percent savings impacts. Increasingly, the long-term In 2018, our newly-formed Sustainable in 2018. We also continued to develop and sustainability of our business also Operations team worked on developing CO2 from operations: production implement plans at smaller sites. relies on engaging our supply chain detailed sustainability KPIs and goals for growth drives higher energy use our business. Although the team’s primary In logistics, we have continued to expand in these efforts. We’re working to reduce emissions from focus is on improving our environmental our baseline assessments across different energy use in operations, supply chains and UN Sustainable Development Goals performance, we know from experience to modes of transport into countries across logistics. Collaboration with our supply chain is 3, 6, 8, 12, 13, 17 date that attention to sustainability delivers the globe. Where overland baselines have crucial to this, as suppliers account for nearly far-reaching benefits across the organization. been established, such as in North America, 90 percent of our overall footprint. These include greater operational efficiency, Europe and parts of Latin America, we have lower costs, better risk management, worked with our logistics providers on route safer and healthier working conditions, a stronger reputation and enhanced CO2e emissions intensity g/$ sales 117 optimization. We have also been promoting modes of transport with lower CO2 impacts, employee engagement. such as rail in preference to road. For sea 2018 117 transport, we are working with our logistics The team is helping colleagues in 2017 120 providers to transition away from high research and development to ensure that sulfur-content diesel. We are also working 2016 121 sustainability considerations help to shape to ensure that air transport is used only as a our future products and solutions. This work last resort. Restrictions on business trips drove includes building lifecycle analyses for In 2018, increased production of both crop a 41 percent reduction in emissions from product safety and sustainability into our protection products and seeds raised total travel in 2018, although the impact on innovation processes. CO2 emissions by 5 percent to 1.59 million overall emissions was very modest. tonnes (2017: 1.52 million tonnes). CO2 intensity further reduced by 2 percent to 117 g/$sales Water: use and intensity improved (2017: 120 g/$sales). Energy consumption We are working to minimize water use rose by 6 percent in absolute terms and on production sites and farms, whether improved by 1 percent in intensity. operated by us or our suppliers. This will benefit communities and the environment – particularly in water-stressed areas – as well as our own operational efficiency. We are also improving the quality of waste water and cooling water. All sustainable operations performance indicators reported are for our own operations only. 40 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Sustainable operations continued Over the past couple of years, we have Waste: hazardous waste volumes up, Case study identified the most critical Syngenta and but intensity reduced Circular economy: Brazil supplier-managed sites in water-stressed In partnership with our supply chain, we aim areas. We have been developing and to optimize the use of natural resources, work introducing water conservation programs at towards zero waste generation, and support Syngenta sites, and co-operating with thirdparty seeds suppliers to help them do the same on their farms. As a typical example, our transition to a circular economy – for example, by building on the early success of container shows how it’s done take-back initiatives. major seeds research and production facility In Brazil’s agricultural sector is a major user of recycled. Syngenta is a key participant in the Brazil, Ûberlandia, cut water use by 10 percent modern technology to protect its crops. As Campo Limpo (Clean Field) program, which through improved water management and a switch to sub-surface drip irrigation. Hazardous waste intensity g/$ sales 14.0 a result, it has a lot of empty crop protection packaging to dispose of – around 45,000 collects and processes cardboard, metal and plastic containers – supported by legislation tonnes a year, mostly plastic. But very little that requires farmers to return them. 2018 14.0 of that goes to waste: today, 90 percent is Water usage intensity liters/$ sales 2.3 2017 14.3 2016 15.2 2018 2.3 2017 2.5 In 2018, higher production levels increased 2016 2.5 hazardous waste generation at Syngenta sites by 4 percent to 189,000 tonnes – of which In 2018, our water use was down by 1 percent about 45 percent was recycled or reused. in absolute terms – due largely to a reduction Hazardous waste intensity improved by in cooling water abstraction. Water efficiency 2 percent to 14.0 g/$sales (2017: 14.3 g/$sales). gains helped to improve intensity to The amounts of non-hazardous waste 2.3 liters/$sales (2017: 2.5 liters/$sales). generated in our operations also increased in Industrial wastewater discharges 2018. Contributing factors included increased remained unchanged in absolute terms, seeds production and debris created by but intensity improved to 0.67 liters/$sales construction and reconstruction work following (2017: 0.72 liters/$sales). hurricane damage at sites in the US. Our strategy for continuing waste reduction is based on considering whole-lifecycle use of water and materials from the product 10% development stage onwards. In this way, we can design efficiencies in at every possible stage. We also have an ongoing commitment less water to minimize packaging – where this can be done safely – and to introduce circulareconomy initiatives such as product and packaging take-back schemes. The case study (right) highlights one such scheme Sub-surface drip irrigation helped reduce water in Brazil – and there are other examples in use at our Ûberlandia site in Brazil by 10 percent Australia, Canada, France and Spain. 41 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Sustainable operations continued Air quality: slight reduction Biodiversity and soil health: We are members of Together for Sustainability, in emissions intensity demonstrating the economic benefits a non-profit association that aims to drive We’re striving to improve air quality by reducing Our Good Growth Plan initiatives on improvement in social and environmental hazardous air emissions, including particulates biodiversity and soil health are building an standards within the chemical industry and ground-level ozone, in our operations increasingly strong evidence base to show through global audit and training programs. and supply chains. This includes emissions that farmers’ investment in these areas is fully In 2018, the association’s achievements were from our seeds operations and diesel use justified in economic terms as well as in the recognized with an award from the Chartered in distribution and supply chain logistics. social and environmental returns. Institute of Procurement & Supply, which Energy sourcing, particularly in countries such praised its “clear results and engagement as China with a high proportion of coal-fired See “Rescue more farmland” and with the supply chain”. “Help biodiversity flourish” power generation, will be a major factor. on pages 23–27 In 2018, we extended the scope of our supplier In 2018, air emissions (other than CO2) totaled sustainability program to include formulation, 900 tonnes (2017: 884 tonnes). While this It therefore makes sense for the farms in our fill and pack contractors and packaging was a 2 percent increase in absolute terms, seeds supply chain to invest in these areas, manufacturers, and we have started to work Leading by intensity was down by 5 percent. The great majority of these emissions were nitrous and we want them to be an example to all our customers of the benefits to be gained with waste management contractors. This will create new opportunities to engage with them example oxides (NOx) or non-halogenated volatile organic compounds (VOCs), and the slight by minimizing soil erosion and enhancing biodiversity. Many of our seed supply farms on sustainability risks and opportunities. In China, the introduction of increasingly absolute increase was driven by NOx, have, for example, active soil conservation By introducing biodiversity and soil health stringent regulations and enforcement has particulates and SO2 from increased fuel programs: so far, these account for about 40 initiatives in our seeds supply chain, we can impacted operations at chemical plants across demonstrate how such investments are consumption. A 59 percent increase in the percent of total acreage. We intend to publish the country. However, the relatively limited economically justified figure for halogenated VOCs was due to better biodiversity and soil conservation targets for impact on Syngenta’s supply chain indicates measurement rather than increased activity. our seed farms in 2019, and we will report the effectiveness of our supplier improvement annually on progress. and compliance programs over the past Other air emissions intensity g/$ sales 0.067 People and health, safety and environment: taking a broader, deeper view 10 years. In addition to our audit programs, we are now 2018 0.067 broadening our engagement with chemical In line with our Good Growth Plan suppliers to focus on improving their carbon, 2017 0.070 commitment, we aim to ensure fair labor water and waste impacts. conditions – including health and safety 2016 0.071 standards – throughout our Seeds and Crop Protection supply chain networks. See “Look after every worker” on pages 32–35 42 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Building the most collaborative In recent years, we have been devolving Managers throughout the organization and trusted team in agriculture compliance responsibility deeper into the continue to lead dedicated sessions to discuss Business Farmers, research bodies, governments and other organizations want to collaborate with organization to stimulate awareness and attention wherever ethical issues may arise. relevant compliance topics with their teams. For these sessions in 2018, teams were asked integrity companies whose leaders and employees have a reputation for working ethically. In 2018, we announced that accountability for risk, financial and ethical compliance would rest with line managers in each of to discuss a real-life scenario, consider the ethical or safety implications and determine the best approach to tackle compliance dilemmas. Integrity is crucial to growing a We aim to be the most collaborative and our geographies at region, territory, We reached deeper into the organization by sustainably successful business. trusted team in agriculture, and this depends country and site level. adding a further layer of management to those By fostering a culture of doing the on every one of us. Trust helps us build already responsible for leading sessions with As well as what we do, the way we do it is right thing, we aim to manage risk the long-term partnerships we need to their teams. This increased the number of achieve our goals. We earn trust when our important: “How matters” is one of our values. and earn recognition as a trustworthy To help line managers – and all employees managers charged with leading sessions and collaborative partner at every leaders and employees live by our values, by 42 percent to 3,208 (2017: 2,263). work transparently and hold one another – address compliance in the right way, we level in the business chain. We strive have supplemented our Code of Conduct These regular sessions encourage accountable to keep our commitments to to preserve the security and integrity growers and the planet. with a new series of How Matters guides. employees to raise concerns to their of our organization, operations and These provide simple do’s and don’ts for managers or through our confidential products, and to engage actively This culture is led from the top and issues such as managing conflicts, giving and compliance helpline. Fresh promotion for with the communities in which underpinned by a strong compliance function. receiving gifts, and workplace diversity. the helpline in 2018 included articles and we operate, building mutual Our Ethics and Compliance Board, formed in an animation on our intranet. Together with 2018, comprises the Chief Financial Officer, We are building a culture where both ethics employees’ increasing confidence in the understanding and benefit. and safety are highly and visibly valued. Group General Counsel, Head Internal Audit process, this prompted an increase in cases UN Sustainable Development Goals 1, 8, 16, 17 and Financial Compliance, and Head Group Our Senior Executive Team has asked raised to 299 (2017: 215). Compliance and Risk. This Board is primarily managers to start all team meetings and responsible for setting policies and standards, departmental town hall sessions with a fivedeciding on material non-compliance issues and resolving stubborn or systemic issues. minute ‘pause’ to reflect on a topical health, safety, environmental or ethical issue. All levels Compliance cases reported 299 of managers are actively participating and 2018 299 support materials are available on our intranet. 2017 215 2016 214 How matters We are devolving compliance responsibility deeper into the organization to stimulate awareness and promote ethical behaviors 43 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Business integrity continued To enable greater transparency, we developed All our sites classified as risk-relevant are This sharp uplift was driven largely by progress a compliance dashboard sharing data across covered by our Security 360° program to in two key areas of our strategy: engagement Syngenta, making the state of compliance assess risks and take appropriate measures and enforcement. We stepped-up the visible throughout the organization. This was to protect people and assets. In 2018, this engagement of Syngenta sales and advisory launched in 2018 and dashboards are now program supported 131 sites (2017: 129). teams, training and encouraging them to look published regularly across the business. out for suspicious activity on farms and online. Our global Security Operation Center And we have continued to strengthen our We expect our suppliers to meet the is making good progress in detecting relationships with law enforcement agencies: standards set out in our Code of Conduct – as potential cybercrime activities, enabling us at every level from local authorities to Interpol, well as relevant external regulations on issues to address identified issues swiftly and act they are recognizing Syngenta as a valuable such as health and safety, the environment, to prevent recurrences of malicious activity. partner and source of intelligence, data and fair labor practices and animal welfare – and The digitalization of agriculture is presenting evidence. This strongly supports their own we monitor their compliance. In 2018, as part new opportunities for criminals to scam roles in protecting public safety and the of the appointment process, we upgraded Syngenta customers, for example through environment, as well as fighting crime. Fake products our process of screening third-party service phishing and fake apps that generate orders providers for compliance risks. for counterfeit products. In 2018, we detected Earning the support of our neighbors and took down over 80 such apps. We recognize that we have a part to play in Counterfeits of our products can harm Protecting our assets: human, tangible and intangible Counterfeits of our products can harm users, community life. By actively engaging with our users, the public and the environment the public, and the environment – and also neighbors, we can contribute to local needs Our security team works to detect, deter and build mutual understanding and trust. and address criminal risks to Syngenta our reputation. Our product security program people, as well as our tangible and intangible focuses on targeting criminals at the source This activity takes many different forms. assets worldwide. of the largest illegal activities. This strategy is Common themes include contributing to increasingly successful: in 2018, it resulted livelihoods through employment or training The security of our people is our foremost in the seizure of 1,657 tonnes (2017: 541 and education, and working to improve local priority. To safeguard employees traveling on tonnes) of illicit crop protection products environments by ensuring access to safe business, we provide pre-departure advice. and 196 tonnes (2017: 93 tonnes) of illicit and clean water or by improving habitats and Continuous worldwide monitoring of risks such seeds product. land management. Recent examples include as terrorist attacks or earthquakes also means building sanitation facilities in an Indonesian that, in an emergency, they can be quickly elementary school, raising awareness contacted, alerted and given assistance about sustainable agriculture in Brazilian if necessary. There were 69 such incidents schools, working with United Way to help the in 2018. underprivileged in our communities in the US, and sponsoring sport events and conducting educational programs in Ukraine. We support employees’ own humanitarian fundraising through local matching programs and donations. In 2018, these focused on providing natural disaster relief in Asia and the US. 44 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Business integrity continued $24m Corporate community Syngenta Foundation for Case study investment $m Sustainable Agriculture 2018 2017 24 23 The Syngenta Foundation (SFSA) improves the livelihoods of smallholders in Africa and Asia. It helps increase farmers’ income by Better water, better life improving their harvests and links to markets. It’s not only crops that need water. With our local partner, Waterlife India, we’ve 2016 24 SFSA works with numerous partners across In Rajasthan, India, 90 percent of villages set up a filtration plant to supply safe, clean three areas: access to seed, insurance rely on ground water – which can be water. The result: not only better health, but and agri-services. Syngenta provides core virtually undrinkable. The water in Toliysar, also greater economic well-being – through Each year we report our total “corporate funding, and where appropriate is a partner in a community of over 3,000 people, is laden lower medical expenses, fewer days of community investment”. This was $24 million initiatives. SFSA makes technology from many with salt, waterborne disease bacteria education missed and fewer earnings lost. in 2018 (2017: $23 million). In addition to sources available to smallholders. It also scales and hazardous concentrations of fluoride. this financial investment, we add further up its own innovations through commercial value by sharing our practical skills and and other organizations. expertise – for example in improving farming practices, keeping communities and schools In 2018, SFSA opened offices in Nigeria free from disease-spreading insects, and and China, and began an international managing waste. program to improve soil health. In 2014, we introduced a Community Further milestones are Engagement Policy to formalize standards described in the report on and expectations globally. Our activities have www.syngentafoundation.org continued to develop since then; we are currently conducting a review to understand common themes, future focus and standardize our approach, and take our efforts to the next level. Community life By actively engaging with our neighbors, we can contribute to local needs and build mutual understanding and trust 45 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Board of Directors at December 31, 2018 Frank Ning Jürg Witmer Gunnar Brock Carl M. Casale Hongbo Chen Chairman of the Board Non-executive Director and Lead Non-executive Director and Non-executive Director and Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director Born: 1973 Born: 1958 Chairperson of the Committee of Chairperson of the Audit Committee Member of the Audit Committee and the Nationality: Chinese Nationality: Chinese Independent Directors and member and member of the Committee of Committee of Independent Directors Initial appointment: 2017 Initial appointment: 2018 of the Compensation Committee Independent Directors Born: 1961 Professional background Born: 1948 Born: 1950 Nationality: American Professional background Nationality: Swiss Nationality: Swedish Initial appointment: 2018 Hongbo Chen is Executive Director of China Frank Ning was appointed as Chairman Initial appointment: 2006 Initial appointment: 2012 National Agrochemical Company Limited of China National Chemical Corporation Professional background (CNAC) since 2017. Limited (ChemChina) in 2018. He has also Professional background Professional background Carl Casale spent twenty-six years working After joining CNAC in 2005, he held served as Chairman of the Sinochem Jürg Witmer joined Hoffmann-La Roche Gunnar Brock worked for the Tetra Pak for Monsanto Company, starting as a sales various senior positions, including Deputy Group Co., Ltd. since 2015. Prior to that, in Basel in 1978 and subsequently held Group for many years, with spells in Asia, representative in 1984 and after several Secretary of Communist Party of China, Frank Ning was Chairman of COFCO a number of positions including Legal Australia and Europe, returning – after a sales, marketing, business development, Assistant President and Chief Strategy Corporation (COFCO) from 2004 to Counsel, Assistant to the CEO, General period as President and Chief Executive and business leadership roles concluded Officer (2014–2017), Assistant President 2015 and Vice Chairman and President Manager and China Project Manager of Officer of Alfa Laval – to become President his tenure as Chief Financial Officer. and Chief Strategy Officer (2011–2014), of China Resources (Holdings) Co., Ltd. Roche Far East based in Hong Kong, and Chief Executive Officer of the Tetra In 2011, he left Monsanto to become CEO and Assistant President and Director of from 1998 to 2004. He also worked at China Head of Corporate Communications and Pak Group, headquartered in Switzerland. of CHS, Inc. which is the largest farmer the Planning Department (2008–2011), Resources in top management positions Public Affairs at Roche headquarters in From 2002 to 2009, he served as President owned cooperative in the United States Director of the Planning Department for 18 years. In addition to his functions in Basel, Switzerland, and General Manager and Chief Executive Officer of the Atlas and a Fortune 100 Company. Carl Casale (2005–2008). From 2000 to 2005, he was Syngenta, Frank Ning holds the following of Roche Austria. From 1999 to 2005, he Copco Group. Apart from his functions in is a Senior Agricultural Partner at Ospraie Senior Engineer and Project Manager at board memberships: acted as Chief Executive Officer and from Syngenta, Gunnar Brock currently holds Management, LLC which is engaged in the China National Petroleum and Chemical UU Listed companies: Chairman of Far East 2005 to 2017 as Chairman of the Givaudan the following board memberships: ag tech venture capital and private equity Planning Institute. From 1998 to 2000, he Horizon Ltd., Chairman of China Jinmao Group in Vernier/Geneva. From 2008 to investing. He is also a co-owner with his worked at the Planning Department of UU Listed companies: Non-executive China National Petroleum Administration Holdings Group Ltd., Chairman of 2012, he was also Chairman of Clariant AG, Director of Investor AB wife Kim of Casale AG, LLC which is a Sinochem Hong Kong (Group) Co., Ltd. Basel. Apart from his functions in Syngenta, commercial blueberry farming operation Authority. From 1994 to 1998, he worked at Jürg Witmer currently holds the following UU Non-listed companies: Chairman in Oregon. the Chinese Ministry of Chemical Industries, UU Non-listed companies: Chairman of Mölnlycke Health Care and nonholding positions in the Planning Department of Sinochem Group Co., Ltd., board membership: He holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Agricultural executive Director of Patricia Industries and the Planning Institute. Chairman of China National Chemical UU Non-listed companies: Non-executive (both 100 percent affiliates of Investor Economics from Oregon State University Corporation Ltd. Director of A. Menarini IFR Florence, Italy, and an Executive MBA from the Olin School He holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Fine AB), and Chairman of Stena AB. and Chairman of Montcaud Holding SA, of Business at Washington University in Chemicals and Engineering Management Frank Ning ranks among China’s most Geneva, Switzerland. He holds an MBA from the Stockholm Saint Louis, Missouri. from Tianjin University and an MBA from influential business leaders and is Co-chair School of Economics. Tsinghua University in China. of APEC Business Advisory Council (ABAC), He holds a Doctorate in Law from the Chairman of APEC China Business Council, University of Zurich, as well as a Degree and an Executive Director of the International in International Studies from the Graduate Chamber of Commerce (ICC). Institute of the University of Geneva. Frank Ning earned an MBA Degree from the Business School of the University of Pittsburgh in the United States and a Bachelor’s Degree in Economics from Shangdong University in China. He is a certified Senior International Business Engineer. 46 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Board of Directors at December 31, 2018 continued Olivier T. de Clermont-Tonnerre Paul Fribourg J. Erik Fyrwald Dieter Gericke Sophie Kornowski Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Chief Executive Officer Non-executive Director Non-executive Director and Chairperson of the Compensation Member of the Compensation Executive Director Member of the Audit Committee Independent Director Committee Committee Chairman of the Syngenta Foundation Born: 1965 Member of the Compensation Born: 1951 Born: 1954 for Sustainable Agriculture Nationality: Swiss Committee and the Committee Nationality: French Nationality: American Initial appointment: 2017 of Independent Directors Born: 1959 Initial appointment: 2017 Initial appointment: 2018 Nationality: American Born: 1963 Professional background Nationality: French Initial appointment: 2018 Professional background Professional background Dieter Gericke is a partner at the law firm Initial appointment: 2018 Olivier T. de Clermont-Tonnerre is Chief Paul Fribourg is Chairman and Chief Professional background Homburger AG in Zurich since 2004, where Strategy and Corporate Development Executive Officer of Continental Grain he heads the Corporate/M&A practice Professional background J. Erik Fyrwald was previously President and Officer at China National Bluestar (Bluestar), Company. He has held his current role at team as well as the China Focus Group. Dr. Sophie Kornowski is currently senior Chief Executive Officer of Univar, a leading a subsidiary of China National Chemical Continental Grain since 1997. Prior to that, Before joining Homburger in 2000, he Partner at Gurnet Point Capital, an investment distributor of chemistry and related products Corporation (ChemChina). Previously, he was he held senior management, commercial worked as a foreign associate with Hale fund based in Boston, Massachusetts, and services (2012–2016); President of Chief Executive Officer of Bluestar Silicones and commodity trading roles with the and Dorr LLP in Boston. Previously, he held which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Ecolab, a cleaning and sanitation, water from 2007 to 2011. Before joining Bluestar, company in the United States and Europe positions as a law clerk at the district court Waypoint Capital Group. In her role, Dr. treatment, and oil and gas products he was (2001–2007) a member of the Rhodia beginning in 1976. Apart from his functions of Meilen (Zurich) and in another Zurich law Kornowski provides investment advisory and services provider (2011–2012); and Executive Committee and CEO of Rhodia in Syngenta, Paul Fribourg currently holds firm. Apart from his functions in Syngenta, services in the healthcare and lifescience Chairman, President and Chief Executive Silcea grouping three Rhodia Enterprises the following board memberships: Dieter Gericke currently holds the following sector. Waypoint Capital Group is the Officer of Nalco, a water treatment and oil (Silicones, Silica and Rare-Earth). Most of his UU Listed companies: The Estée Lauder board memberships: investment fund associated with the Bertarelli and gas products and services company early professional experience has been in Companies, Inc., Restaurant Brands (2008–2011). He was Group Vice President UU Non-listed companies: Member of family. Dr. Kornowski previously served as the Rhône-Poulenc Group, based in France International, Inc., Bunge Limited and of the Agriculture and Nutrition Division the Board of Directors of Homburger Executive Vice President of Roche Partnering or in the United States, among others as Loews Corporation. of the DuPont Company (2003–2008). AG, Tigen Pharma SA, and Gericke and was a member of the Roche Extended CEO Surfactant and Specialties, CEO Food He currently serves on the Board of Holding AG. Corporate Executive Committee as well as Additives and member of the Rhône-Poulenc UU Non-listed companies: Continental Directors for CropLife International and the a member of the Board of Chugai, Japan. Inc. Operational and M&A Committees. Grain Company, Wayne Farms LLC He is a member of the International Bar Swiss-American Chamber of Commerce. Prior to that, she led the French affiliate of Apart from his functions in Syngenta, and Restaurant Technologies. Association’s Corporate/M&A and Securities Apart from his functions in Syngenta, Roche in France for 5 years. Before joining Olivier T. de Clermont-Tonnerre currently He holds a Bachelor’s Degree from Law Committees. Roche in 2007, she held several management J. Erik Fyrwald currently holds the holds the following board memberships: Amherst College and is a graduate of following board memberships: He obtained a Law Degree and a Doctorate positions at Merck & Co. (1996-2007), UU Listed companies: Elkem (ChemChina Harvard Business School’s Advanced from the University of Zurich and an LL.M. Sanofi Winthrop (1991–1996), and Abbott Management Program. UU Listed companies: Bunge Limited, from Harvard Law School. He is an attorneyDiagnostics and Abbott Pharmaceutical Group’s majority shareholding) Eli Lilly and Company. at-law admitted to all courts of Switzerland. Products (1985–1991). In addition to her UU Non-listed companies: Member of He holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Chemical functions in Syngenta, Dr. Kornowski holds the Board of Directors of Bluestar Engineering from the University of Delaware the following board memberships: and its subsidiary REC Solar and completed the Advanced Management (ChemChina Group). UU Non-listed companies: Founder and Program at Harvard Business School. Non-Executive Director of Même He is also a member of the Board of Cosmetics, France. Directors of the Nouvel Institut FrancoChinois de Lyon. Dr. Kornowski is also a member of the Swiss Innovation Council and the Strategic He holds a Degree in Chemical Engineering Committee of the Genopole in France. from Toulouse University, a License in Economics from Paris-Nanterre University She holds a Doctorate in Pharmacy from the and an MBA from INSEAD in Fontainebleau. Faculty of Pharmacy Paris V, and an MBA in Marketing and Finance from the University of Chicago Booth, Graduate School of Business. 47 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Executive Team at December 31, 2018 J. Erik Fyrwald Stephen Landsman Jonathan Parr Chief Executive Officer Group General Counsel President Global Crop Protection and Executive Director Born: 1959 EAME, LATAM and APAC Nationality: American Born: 1961 Chairman of the Syngenta Foundation Initial appointment: 2018 Nationality: British for Sustainable Agriculture Initial appointment: 2015 Born: 1959 Professional background Nationality: American Professional background Prior to his appointment as Group Initial appointment: 2016 General Counsel, Stephen Landsman Prior to his current function as President was Global Head of Mergers, Acquisitions Global Crop Protection and EAME, Professional background and Integration at Syngenta (2017–2018). LATAM and APAC, Jonathan Parr was J. Erik Fyrwald was previously President and Before joining Syngenta, he was Executive Chief Operating Officer (COO) EAME & Chief Executive Officer of Univar, a leading Vice President, General Counsel and Latin America (2015–2016). Before that, distributor of chemistry and related products Corporate Secretary at Univar Inc. he was Head of Global Crops & Assets and services (2012–2016); President of (2013–2017), and Vice President, General for Syngenta (2014), Regional Director for Ecolab, a cleaning and sanitation, water Counsel and Corporate Secretary at Nalco EAME (2009–2013), Head of Syngenta treatment, and oil and gas products Company (2003–2013). Mr Landsman’s Flowers (2007–2008), Head of Marketing and services provider (2011–2012); and previous positions in Nalco company were and Strategy (2004–2007), and European Chairman, President and Chief Executive Deputy General Counsel and Division VP Manufacturing Manager (2000–2003). Officer of Nalco, a water treatment and oil Mergers and Acquisitions (2000–2003), and Before joining Syngenta, he worked and gas products and services company Director of Acquisitions and Senior Attorney for AstraZeneca as a Factory Manager (2008–2011). He was Group Vice President (1997–2000). (1998–2000), Global Product Manager of the Agriculture and Nutrition Division Fungicides (1996–1998), and Supply Chain He holds a Juris Doctorate from the of the DuPont Company (2003–2008). Project Manager (1994–1996). From 1987 University of Illinois College of Law, an He currently serves on the Board of to 1994, he held Project and Engineering AB (Artium Baccalaureatus) Degree from Directors for CropLife International and the Management functions at Imperial Chemical the University of Illinois, and is a Certified Swiss-American Chamber of Commerce. Industries (ICI). Apart from his function in Public Accountant. Apart from his functions in Syngenta, Syngenta, Jonathan Parr holds no other J. Erik Fyrwald currently holds the mandates in the supreme executive bodies following board memberships: of listed or non-listed companies. UU Listed companies: Bunge Limited, He is a Chartered Engineer and also Eli Lilly and Company. holds a Bachelor’s Degree with Honors He holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Chemical in Civil Engineering from the University of Engineering from the University of Delaware Southampton as well as a Master’s Degree and completed the Advanced Management in Management from the University of McGill, Program at Harvard Business School. Canada, and a Diploma in International Management from the INSEAD Institute. 48 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Executive Team at December 31, 2018 continued Mark Patrick Laure Roberts Jeff Rowe Chief Financial Officer Head Human Resources President Global Seeds and North Born: 1969 Born: 1963 America and China Nationality: British Nationality: French Born: 1973 Initial appointment: 2016 Initial appointment: 2016 Nationality: American Initial appointment: 2016 Professional background Professional background Prior to his appointment as Chief Financial Prior to her appointment as Head Human Professional background Officer, Mark Patrick was Head Commercial Resources, Laure Roberts was Head Global Prior to his current function as President Finance at Syngenta (2011–2016). Prior to HR Business Partners (2013–2016) and Global Seeds, North America and China, that, he was Head Crop Protection Finance Head Human Resources for the region Jeff Rowe was Vice President, Strategic (2008–2011 and 2005–2006), Head EAME (2011–2013). Before joining Syngenta, Services and Planning at DuPont Pioneer Finance North America Crop Protection she held a number of different HR leadership (2015–2016) and also sat on the company’s (2006–2008), Head Business Reporting functions at Air Products and Chemicals, Leadership Team (DPLT). Before, he was (2003–2005), and APAC Regional Supply Inc., a worldwide industrial gases company Regional Director for DuPont Pioneer Europe Finance Head Syngenta in Hong Kong. where her last role was Vice President, (2011–2015), Vice President Biotech Affairs He joined AstraZeneca in 1993. Apart from Human Resources, Europe and Middle and Regulatory (2008–2011), and Corporate his function in Syngenta, Mark Patrick holds East (2004–2010). Laure Roberts started Counsel (2001–2008). He started his career no other mandates in the supreme executive her career in 1988 with Valeo, a leading with Pioneer in 1995 in Supply Management. bodies of listed or non-listed companies. automotive supplier. Apart from her function Apart from his function in Syngenta, He is a Chartered Management Accountant in Syngenta, Laure Roberts holds no other Jeff Rowe holds no other mandates in and also holds an Honors Degree in mandates in the supreme executive bodies the supreme executive bodies of listed Quantity Surveying and a Post Graduate of listed or non-listed companies. or non-listed companies. Degree in Economics. She holds a Master’s Degree from the He has a Bachelor of Science in Agricultural Ecole Supérieure de Commerce de Paris Economics from the Iowa State University, a and an MBA from the University of Aston Juris Doctorate from Drake Law School, and in Birmingham. a Global Executive MBA from the NYU Stern School of Business and the London School of Economics. 49 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Non-financial information At Syngenta, non-financial information Material topics refers to quantitative and qualitative Our materiality analysis helps us identify where we can provide the most value, drive our information on strategies, policies strategy, allocate effort and resources and direct our external communication and reporting. or activities pursued towards our Medium Relevance to sustainable development High business, environmental and social goals. Importance to Stakeholders 1 Access to seeds 2 Sustainability Sustainability is integral to our business. 3 Air pollution Our ambition is to play a vital role in the food 12 chain to safely feed the world and take care of the planet. The Good Growth Plan sets Biodiversity 15 specific, ambitious and measurable targets focused on boosting resource efficiency, Business 16 rejuvenating ecosystems and strengthening integrity Importance to Syngenta rural communities. We are also committed Climate change 13 to developing our people, reducing the mitigation and adaptation environmental footprint of our operations and doing business responsibly. Dialogue, transparency 17 and partnerships Sustainability governance Employee 8 In 2018, the appointment of the newly created engagement role of Chief Sustainability Officer, reporting The UN Sustainable to the CEO, and the formation of the new Development Goals Human rights and 8 Business Sustainability function brought a fair and safe labor sharper focus to our sustainability work and Innovation in agriculture 2 supported our commitment to work more closely and transparently with governments, NGOs and society to find solutions we Land use changes 2 and deforestation 15 collectively need. Stakeholder engagement Product responsibility 3 We regularly assess stakeholder concerns and expectations. In 2018, we undertook three Resource 2 efficiency 12 months of consultation with stakeholders from around the world in an effort to build a shared Rural development 1 vision for the future of sustainable agriculture. and poverty alleviation Through listening and dialogue, we aim to better understand the role we can play and 2 Safe and nutritious food 12 the commitments needed from all sides to help make a shared vision reality. 13 Soil health 15 Water 6 conservation 50 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Non-financial information continued As a consequence of the input received from Approach to non-financial reporting Internal controls over the listening sessions as well as through our The Non-financial performance summary on non-financial reporting regular engagement channels with growers, pages 52–55 presents data on our progress Syngenta’s internal controls over nonemployees, industry associations, NGOs, towards four goals: financial reporting were designed to provide governments and investors, we have assurance to Syngenta’s Board of Directors revised our materiality matrix. UU The Good Growth Plan: Help shape the and management regarding the reliability of future sustainability of agriculture, and non-financial reporting and the preparation Material topics are identified using deliver solutions that are better, more three criteria: and fair presentation of the information efficient and more beneficial published in the Non-financial performance UU Importance to Syngenta: Matters that to rural economies summary. All internal controls, no matter present the greatest risk and opportunities UU People: Attract and retain talent while how well designed, have inherent limitations for Syngenta’s ability to create long-term creating an environment that stimulates and therefore may not prevent or detect value and achieve our ambition innovation and personal performance misstatements. In designing internal controls and development over non-financial reporting, Syngenta used UU Importance to stakeholders: Concerns the criteria established in COSO’s Internal and expectations frequently raised by UU Sustainable operations: Manage our Control – Integrated Framework (2013). stakeholders about our company, our environmental footprint and maintain industry, agriculture and food systems the highest standards in our operations Syngenta’s Board of Directors and management are responsible for establishing UU Relevance to sustainable development: UU Business integrity: Maintain the highest and maintaining adequate internal controls Level of significant impact on global standards across our entire business and over non-financial information. The information sustainable growth determined using go beyond regulatory compliance, while in the Non-financial performance summary The Global Risks Report 2019, benefiting the communities and economies was approved by the Board of Directors on The Earth Security Report 2017 and wherever we operate February 14, 2019. the Food in the Anthropocene Report of the EAT-Lancet Commission1 Our non-financial reporting covers the Read more on operations of Syngenta Group, including www.cr.syngenta.com The most important issue identified in our material interactions with selected third parties www.gri.syngenta.com materiality analysis is the global challenge of www.questions.syngenta.com as reported in the Non-financial performance providing a growing population with healthy summary. Our non-financial reporting is diets from sustainable food production. guided by the Global Reporting Initiative In particular, stakeholders want to know principles, and the non-financial reporting how Syngenta’s innovations will help farmers period is October 1 to September 30. produce safe and nutritious food, protect natural resources, such as biodiversity and Syngenta is a signatory to the United soil, and mitigate and adapt to climate change. Nations Global Compact. Syngenta’s Sustainable Business Report serves as our Communication on Progress (COP) in implementing the 10 principles. 1 World Economic Forum, The Global Risks Report 2019, 14th Edition, p. 5; Earth Security Group, The Earth Security Report 2017, p. 6; The Lancet Commissions, Food in the Anthropocene: the EAT-Lancet Commission on healthy diets from sustainable food systems, 2019, p. 6, p. 27 and p. 33–39 51 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Non-financial performance summary The Good Growth Plan Cumulative since Cumulative since Reporting period October 1 – September 30 baseline 2014 2018 2017 2016 Reporting period October 1 – September 30 baseline 2014 2018 2017 2016 Make crops more efficient1,2 Help people stay safe Total number of reference farms 1,443 1,459 1,039 People trained on safe use (m)5 33.8 8.3 8.2 6.8 Total number of benchmark farms 2,316 2,630 2,694 Countries with established Syngenta product toxicovigilance Land productivity increase on reference farms 13.0% 10.9% 1.2% programs 100 100 100 Land productivity increase on benchmark farms 7.0% 7.3% -2.6% Crop Protection sales represented 93% 94% 94% Nutrient efficiency increase on reference farms 30.2% 20.3% 1.5% Reference farms outperforming benchmark farms3 64% – – Look after every worker Pesticide field application efficiency increase on reference farms 24.7% 14.2% -16.2% Suppliers included in sustainability and fair labor programs6 99.6% 86% 82% Reference farms outperforming benchmark farms3 38% – – Coverage of Syngenta Fair Labor Program Greenhouse gas emission efficiency increase on reference farms4 8.8% 14.0% 7.0% Syngenta seed producing countries 91% 68% 41% Reference farms outperforming benchmark farms3 69% – – Seed supply farms 99.9% 86% 82% Of which: farms in Fair Labor Association (FLA)’s audit Rescue more farmland scope 100% 67% 62% Hectares of benefited farmland (m) 10.8 3.4 3.1 1.9 Of which: farms monitored7 n/a 20% 18% Coverage of Supplier Sustainability Program Help biodiversity flourish Chemical suppliers8 94% 90% 67% Hectares of benefited farmland (m) 6.4 0.8 0.7 3.3 Formulation, fill and pack tollers8,9 86% – – Packaging manufacturers9,10 50% – – Empower smallholders HSE audits at warehouse/logistics service providers 65 117 137 Land productivity increase on smallholder Commercial flowers farms with valid GlobalG.A.P. certification 96% 90% 73% reference farms1,2 21.9% 21.6% 8.0% Commercial flowers farms with valid G.R.A.S.P. assessment 44% 32% 24% Land productivity increase on smallholder benchmark farms1,2 6.3% 5.1% 1.6% Smallholders reached through training (m) 6.1 5.6 4.6 Smallholders reached through sales (m) 13.4 13.9 16.6 1 Reference farms were selected by Syngenta and are recommended to use Syngenta products and follow optimized protocols. 5 Includes smallholders reached through training reported under ‘Empower smallholders’ Benchmark farms were randomly selected by a third-party research agency and represent grower practice. Reference and benchmark 6 The seed supply chain represents about 98 percent of the suppliers targeted by our sustainability and fair labor programs farms are grouped in clusters. A cluster presents homogeneous agro-climatic conditions and contains reference and/or benchmark 7 The 2018 figure is not available due to the implementation of a new reporting tool farms with similar grower characteristics 8 Includes only chemical suppliers or formulation, fill and pack tollers categorized as posing a high or medium sustainability risk 2 Policy on land productivity and efficiency reporting was revised in 2017. Starting 2017, the aggregation of the farm data is aligned with 9 New KPIs introduced in 2018 to capture the ongoing inclusion of new types of suppliers in the Supplier Sustainability Program harvest seasons to ensure more timely reporting of results. The latest available progress data is 2017 for clusters located in the Northern 10 Includes all packaging manufacturers independently of their level of sustainability risk hemisphere and 2018 for clusters located in the Southern hemisphere. Evolutions are reported for clusters with an established baseline and at least one year of progress data. Figures represent global averages. Details on aggregation, calculation of evolutions and other adjustments can be found on www.data.syngenta.com To find out more about our approach 3 New KPIs introduced in 2018 to capture the performance of reference farms versus benchmark farms 4 Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated consistent with Cool Farm Tool methodology using available farm data and proxies where to open data or to access the files farm data was not available. For US farm data, calculation methodology is consistent with Field to Market: The Alliance for Sustainable www.data.syngenta.com Agriculture. Details on data inputs, methodology, assumptions and limitations can be found on www.data.syngenta.com 52 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Non-financial performance summary continued People Reporting period October 1 – September 30 2018 2017 2016 Reporting period October 1 – September 30 2018 2017 2016 Employment Health, safety and well-being Employees1 27,732 27,669 27,810 Recordable injury and illness rate (IIR) per 200,000 hours6 0.32 0.37 0.39 Europe, Africa and Middle East2 11,690 12,372 12,429 Recordable injury rate per 200,000 hours6 0.29 0.34 0.33 North America 4,120 4,092 4,176 Europe, Africa and Middle East2 0.39 0.43 0.47 Latin America3 5,676 4,907 5,161 North America 0.54 0.64 0.72 Asia Pacific 6,246 6,298 6,044 Latin America 0.18 0.30 0.23 Part-time employees 912 927 919 Asia Pacific 0.14 0.16 0.10 Turnover rate4 12.8% 11.3% 12.2% Recordable occupational illness rate per 200,000 hours6 0.03 0.03 0.06 of which: <35 years 33% 42% 38% Europe, Africa and Middle East2 0.01 0.02 0.03 35-50 years 41% 43% 44% North America 0.07 0.08 0.16 >50 years 26% 15% 18% Latin America 0.03 0.04 0.10 Attrition rate5 5.8% 5.2% 6.0% Asia Pacific 0.02 0.00 0.04 Senior managers 299 339 334 First aid cases 378 382 387 Europe, Africa and Middle East2 55% 62% 61% Recordable injuries 123 151 152 North America 24% 17% 18% Bruise, strain, sprain and dislocation 35% 36% 39% Latin America 9% 11% 11% Cut and abrasion 28% 25% 20% Asia Pacific 12% 10% 10% Bone fracture 13% 15% 20% Concussion and internal injury 5% 3% 4% Diversity Multiple injuries 2% 6% 1% Nationalities in senior management 36 33 34 Other 17% 15% 16% Female employees 30% 30% 30% Cases of recordable occupational illness 11 12 28 Female employees in management roles 24% 23% 23% Cases of work-related stress 7 7 9 Female employees in senior management 17% 17% 16% Employee development Leadership and talent development investment ($m) 6.5 4.2 3.7 1 Permanent full-time equivalent (FTE) 2 Includes headquarters (Switzerland) 3 The 2018 figure includes Nidera™ Seeds which was acquired in 2018 4 Includes voluntary and involuntary leavers and restructuring 5 Includes only voluntary leavers 6 According to US OSHA definition for injuries and illness 53 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Non-financial performance summary continued Sustainable operations Reporting period October 1 – September 30 2018 2017 2016 Reporting period October 1 – September 30 2018 2017 2016 Energy Water Energy intensity (MJ/$sales) 0.66 0.67 0.65 Water usage intensity (liters/$sales) 2.3 2.5 2.5 Energy (TJ) 8,966 8,484 8,341 Water usage (million cubic meters) 31.4 31.7 32.6 Gas (TJ) 3,926 3,405 3,207 Cooling (million cubic meters) 17.9 19.1 19.0 Electricity (TJ) 2,297 2,387 2,400 Irrigation (million cubic meters) 5.3 4.9 6.5 Steam (TJ) 1,318 1,450 1,503 Processing and washing (million cubic meters) 6.3 5.8 5.2 Oil (TJ) 310 287 336 Product ingredient (million cubic meters) 0.2 0.2 0.2 Other (TJ) 1,115 955 895 Sewage and sanitary (million cubic meters) 0.9 1.0 0.9 Other (million cubic meters) 0.8 0.7 0.8 Greenhouse gases Origin of water Total CO2e emissions intensity (g/$sales) 117 120 121 Surface fresh water (million cubic meters) 19.7 21.3 22.6 Total CO2e emissions (000s tonnes) 1,585 1,515 1,551 Underground water (million cubic meters) 8.8 7.5 7.2 Within direct control Drinking water from municipal network (million cubic meters) 2.8 2.8 2.7 CO2e emissions from own operations (000s tonnes) 521 443 445 Recovered rain water (million cubic meters) 0.1 0.1 0.1 CO2 emissions from company vehicles (000s tonnes) 68 70 71 Within indirect control Wastewater effluents CO2e emissions from purchased energy (000s tonnes) 330 353 381 Industrial wastewater discharge intensity (liters/$sales) 0.67 0.72 0.79 CO2 emissions from business trips (000s tonnes) 27 46 43 Industrial wastewater discharge (million cubic meters) 9.1 9.1 10.1 CO2 emissions from distribution (000s tonnes) 639 603 611 Total organic carbon (TOC) (tonnes) 490 499 504 Chemical oxygen demand (COD) (tonnes) 1,441 1,522 1,556 Other air emissions Biological oxygen demand (BOD) (tonnes) 162 154 165 Other air emissions intensity (g/$sales) 0.067 0.070 0.071 Total suspended solids (tonnes) 451 252 295 Other air emissions (tonnes) 900 884 914 Soluble salts discharged (000s tonnes) 146 122 118 NOx (tonnes) 440 410 402 Direct discharge of uncontaminated cooling water (million cubic meters) 17.9 19.1 19.0 Non-halogenated VOCs (tonnes) 276 322 354 Halogenated VOCs (tonnes) 27 17 17 Particulates (tonnes) 105 88 84 SO2 (tonnes) 38 32 42 NH3 (tonnes) 4 5 5 HCl (tonnes) 10 10 10 54 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta Overview Our business model Our offer The Good Growth Plan Our operations Corporate information Non-financial performance Non-financial performance summary continued Sustainable operations continued Business integrity Reporting period October 1 – September 30 2018 2017 2016 Reporting period October 1 – September 30 2018 2017 2016 Waste Corporate conduct Hazardous waste intensity (g/$sales) 14.0 14.3 15.2 Compliance cases reported1 299 215 214 Hazardous waste (000s tonnes) 189 181 195 Leaders engaged in leader-led compliance sessions 3,208 2,263 1,741 Recycled and re-used (000s tonnes) 87 85 88 Completion rate2 22% 95% 95% Incinerated (000s tonnes) 86 81 83 Landfill (000s tonnes) 1 1 10 Security management Other (000s tonnes) 15 14 14 Sites included in Syngenta Security 360º Program 131 129 122 Hazardous waste by type: Product Security cases 880 723 761 Chemical 57% 58% 56% Suspect counterfeit Crop Protection product seized Solvents 35% 36% 36% by authorities (tonnes) 1,657 541 326 Other 8% 6% 8% Suspect counterfeit Seed product seized Non-hazardous waste intensity (g/$sales) 11.0 9.4 9.1 by authorities (tonnes) 196 93 615 Non-hazardous waste (000s tonnes) 149 119 117 Recycled and re-used (000s tonnes) 118 87 87 Animal testing compliance Incinerated (000s tonnes) 6 4 5 Management system audits performed in contract laboratories 4 17 14 Landfill (000s tonnes) 17 19 17 Management system non-compliances found 0 0 0 Other (000s tonnes) 8 9 8 Non-hazardous waste by type: Biotechnology and regulatory compliance Plant and seed waste from seed sites 68% 63% 58% Employees completing field trial regulatory compliance training 1,140 1,426 1,378 Inerts 7% 5% 9% Field trial locations planted under country regulatory compliance programs3 434 299 307 Packaging materials 4% 5% 5% Household 4% 5% 5% Economic value shared Other 17% 22% 23% Economic value shared ($m) 16,298 12,095 12,350 Payments to suppliers 7,877 7,508 7,301 Environmental compliance Employee wages and benefits 2,755 3,099 2,801 Significant unplanned releases1 0 0 0 Payments to governments (taxes)4 168 241 400 1 Releases that escape beyond the site boundary and cause either environmental impact and/or concern from neighbors and regulators Payments to providers of capital5 4,819 593 1,263 Capital expenditure 655 631 561 Corporate community investment 24 23 24 1 Since 2018, the number of cases reported includes all cases managed by Group Compliance: cases reported through the compliance helpline, line management, directly to Group Compliance or other channels. In previous years, the value only included cases reported via the helpline 2 Period for completion was extended from 3 to 6 months and overran into 2019 reporting year 3 Represents all trial locations covered by country specific regulatory compliance programs whether they require a permit or not 4 Consists of income and other taxes paid, excluding VAT (included in Payments to suppliers) and employment-related taxes (included in Employee wages and benefits) 5 The increase in payments to providers of capital reflects the dividend paid to the ChemChina group in May 2018 55 Sustainable Business Report 2018 Syngenta AG For the business year 2018, Syngenta has Syngenta supports the 10 principles of Through The Good Growth Plan, Syngenta P.O. Box published the Sustainable Business Report the United Nations Global Compact through supports the United Nations Sustainable CH-4002 Basel 2018 which includes information about our an established commitment to sustainability Development Goals (SDGs). Collectively, the Plan’s Switzerland non-financial performance. and ongoing implementation of policies on six commitments contribute towards delivering human rights, fair labor, environmental the SDGs: all six commitments contribute directly Sustainability The Sustainable Business Report was protection and anti-corruption. to Goal 2 (zero hunger) and Goal 17 (partnerships E sustainability.syngenta@syngenta.com originally published in English. for sustainability), as well as individually towards a number of other goals. Media Relations This publication is available on the Internet: T +41 61 323 2323 www.syngenta.com F +41 61 323 2424 E media.relations@syngenta.com © 2019 Syngenta. All rights reserved. Investor Relations Editorial completion: February 2019 Read more on www.sustainabledevelopment.un.org T +41 61 323 2323 F +41 61 323 2424 Copywriting: KainesLang, Berwick-upon-Tweed, UK E global.investor_relations@syngenta.com Design and production: Radley Yeldar, London, UK Syngenta switchboard ® Registered trademarks of a Syngenta T +41 61 323 1111 Group Company F +41 61 323 1212 ™ Trademarks of a Syngenta Group Company www.syngenta.com The SYNGENTA wordmark, the SYNGENTA logo, THE GOOD GROWTH PLAN and BRINGING PLANT POTENTIAL TO LIFE are trademarks of a Syngenta Group Company. Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements: This document contains forwardlooking statements, which can be identified by terminology such as “expect”, “would”, “will”, “potential”, “plans”, “prospects”, “estimated”, “aiming”, “on track” and similar expressions. Such statements may be subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from these statements.
