UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 December 2018 – November 2019 Dr. Franck Vazquez, CEO MDPI AG, Basel and Adenike Adebukola Akinsemolu CEO’s Statement of Continued Support I am pleased to confirm that MDPI AG reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. MDPI will further demonstrate its commitment to sustainable management and responsibility for its employees. As a global publishing house, we see it as our duty to develop responsible practices that will ensure a bright future for our company and for our planet. Therefore, we have committed ourselves to the ten principles associated with the UN Global Compact, and we will focus on contributing to the following defined goals: Goal 3: Encourage all full-time employees to do sportive activities for good health. Goal 4: Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning. Goal 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. Goal 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and foster innovation. Goal 13: Support a precautionary approach to environmental issues to combat climate change. Goal 17: Seeking sustainable partnerships with universities, schools and other institutions. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders, using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Dr. Franck Vazquez CEO UN Global Compact Principles Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment At MDPI, we continuously support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and we make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Implementation MDPI agrees to and implements all 31 Articles mentioned in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights during the reporting period. We will continuously work to make sure that all our employees know the MDPI policy on human rights. The guidelines are also implemented in MDPI’s ‚General Employment Conditions’. migration ist schön – Hauswand Basel. Photo: Matthias Burkhalter. Labour Rights Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment MDPI has not participated in any form of forced, bonded or child labour and has fully complied with minimum wage standards during the reporting period. Implementation The guidelines are implemented in MDPI’s ‚Employee Benefits Regulations’. MDPI Conference Team. Photo: MDPI Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment MDPI is strongly committed to support societally-relevant research that contributes to regional and global efforts toward a sustainable world. Implementation As part of this effort, MDPI has initiated the World Sustainability Forum (WSF), an international conference at which the World Sustainability Awards will be presented, as well as its smaller counterparts—the physical local forums on ‘Mobility’, ‘Energy’, ‘Climate’ and ‘Health’ and the electronic forums. Furthermore, MDPI fosters scholarly exchange on issues of sustainability with its according publications—the open-access journal Sustainability, Water, IJERPH etc. and the edited book series on the 17 SDGs. Youfu Xia, Mathis Wackernagel, Franck Vazquez, Ed Constable and Zifu Mi Photo: Matthias Burkhalter during the World Sustainability Forum Award Ceremony in Beijing, China. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Committment MDPI is fully commited to work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Implementation Anti-corruption guidelines are also implemented in MDPI’s ‚General Employment Conditions’. Igor Susmeij, Max Bergman, Mark Eisenegger, Andrea Schenker-Wicki und Anita Büntner during our Fighting Fake Facts Conference. Photo: Matthias Burkhalter MDPI and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The World Sustainability Forum and the Basel Sustainability Forum series focus on the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Sustainable Development Goals via UN News Centre. As a global publishing house, we see it as our duty to develop responsible practices that will ensure a bright future for our planet. Based on our purpose and company’s scope, we focus on six UN Sustainability Development Goals: Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being Enable all full time employees to join a sports gym for good health and wellbeing, paid by MDPI. Goal 4: Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning In 2016, we announced the World Sustainability Award and the Emerging Sustainability Leader Award to encourage new initiatives and developments for sustainability. Both awards are bound to the ultimate aim to foster the transfer from research on sustainability to sustainable practices and societies. Recipients of the 2nd World Sustainability Award (USD 100,000) Dr. Mathis Wackernagel and Dr. Zhifu Mi are the joint recipients of the 2nd World Sustainability Award. Dr. Mathis Wackernagel is the main winner and gets 2/3 and Dr. Zhifu Mi gets 1/3 of the prize. Winners of the 2nd Emerging Sustainability Leader Award (USD 10,000) The joint recipients of the second Emerging Sustainability Leader Award are Dr. Bradley Hiller and Dr. Xiaodong Zhang. Goal 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Since the foundation of MDPI two decades ago, we have provided our staff with equal opportunities to grow and develop their career. At MDPI, we foster gender equality and refuse any form of discrimination against women at work. We support women in management positions: 85% of MDPI Staff and Managers/-esses are women. Goal 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and foster innovation Being an academic open access publisher, we support innovation by nature. In comparison to a traditional publishing house, we produce less printed out-put and impact the environment in a less harmful, sustainable way. Goal 13: Climate Action As an academic open access publisher, we support e-conferences and encourage employees to use public transport and reduce business flights to an absolute minimum. We also plan to create satellite events on all continents to reduce CO2 Emissions. Goal 17: Partnership for the Goals Creating sustainable partnerships with establishing an academic network and organize additional local conferences to reach all UN SDGs by 2030.
