TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 Philosophy System for TOTO Group Management The Spirit of TOTO Unchanging for Words of Our Founder Philosophy System for TOTO Group Management Kindness must always come first. Bring the concept of service to your work. Com p Your goal should be to provide good products and Mo any ttos satisfy the customer. Accomplish that, and profit and compensation will follow. TO TO Many in this world chase after the shadow of profit. Co Gro rpo up Ph ilos rate But, in the end, they never capture the real thing. op hy A letter written by TOTO’s first president, Kazuchika Okura, Ch to his successor, Saburo Momoki, contains words that have been TO arter Co T treasured as the Words of Our Founder. rpo O Gr of rat o e B up In 1962, we formulated the Company Mottos based on our eha vio corporate activities in the future while respecting the tradition r of TOTO’s founding. These ideas, which have been passed down since our founding, have been incorporated into the Philosophy System for TOTO Group Management so that they are appropriate for the times and can be shared within the TOTO Group. Common Group Philosophy The Common Group Philosophy represents the inherited values of TOTO that are shared among employees and will be carried forward into the future. Vision Toward a Dynamic, Vibrant and Excellent TOTO Mission Midor Long-Term Management Plan TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan 1 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 100 Years Company Mottos 4 3 2 1 Company Mottos 1 Take pride in your work, The Company Mottos represent the thoughts of the founder to be and strive to do your best passed down through the generations. 2 Quality and Uniformity 3 Service and Trust TOTO Group Corporate Philosophy 4 Cooperation and Prosperity Our Corporate Philosophy, based on the thoughts of the founder to be passed down through the generations, communicates to all of our stakeholders the purpose for which our company exists, our business domains, and the type of company we aim to be. TOTO Group Corporate Philosophy The TOTO Group strives to be a great company trusted by people all Charter of TOTO Group Corporate Behavior around the world, and contributing to the betterment of society. To The Charter of TOTO Group Corporate Behavior stipulates the basic stance of behavior achieve our Corporate Philosophy, TOTO will: of all people working for the TOTO Group to realize all stakeholders’ satisfaction. Create an enriched and more comfortable lifestyle and culture built on our plumbing products. Details are published on our website Pursue customer satisfaction by exceeding expectations with our https://jp.toto.com/en/company/profile/philosophy/group products and services. Provide high-quality products and services through ongoing research and development. Protect the global environment by conserving finite natural resources and energy. Create an employee friendly work environment that respects the individuality of each employee. Heart Body Vision for Business Activities Our vision and mission are positioned as the course of our business activities that change in accordance with the demands of the times. A statement that refers to the future image that the management of the TOTO Group seeks to achieve based on the Common Group Philosophy. Vis ion A statement of the most important plan to implement in the Midor Long-term for sustainable growth. Mi ssi on Lays out the ideal state of the TOTO Group and the system for implementing the plan. We will promote Mi TOTO WILL2022 through the year 2022. dMa or Lo nag n em g-Ter ent m Pla n TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 2 For the Next 100 Years Message from the President Special Feature This section describes the present state President, Representative Director This section describes the five of the TOTO Group, a company with a Madoka Kitamura explains the future strengths of the TOTO Group that history cultivated over the past 100 vision of the TOTO Group and the efforts contribute to value creation. years, and introduces the future vision that will go into making it a reality. of the Group as well as its values as it looks toward the next 100 years. P. 5 — P. 13 — P. 1 7 — TOTO WILL2022 TOTO Global Corporate Governance Mid-Term Management Plan Environmental Vision This section illustrates the TOTO Group’s system of governance, which forms the This section explains the details, aims, This section details the TOTO Global basis for the sustainable enhancement and major efforts related to our Environmental Vision, and describes of our corporate value, and features mid-term management plan. how our specific corporate activities messages from Outside Directors. work toward realizing this greater vision. P. 21 — P. 35 — P. 51 — 3 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 Contents Philosophy System for TOTO Group Management 1 TOTO Global Environmental Vision TOTO Global Environmental Vision 35 For the Next 100 Years Cleanliness and Comfort 37 TOTO Group History 5 Environment 39 TOTO Group Business Performance 7 Relationships 41 TOTO Group in Present Day 9 TOTO Group Value Creation Model 11 Offering Satisfaction That Goes Above and Beyond Message from the President 13 Customer Expectations 43 Together with Our Employees 44 Special Feature Together with Our Suppliers 45 The Globally Unified NEOREST NX For Society 46 A Compilation of TOTO Group Strengths 17 Dialogue with Shareholders and Other Investors 47 Stakeholder Engagement 48 TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan CSR Management 49 Awareness of Opportunities and Risks 21 TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan 23 Corporate Governance  lobal Housing Equipment Business G Corporate Governance 51 (Japan Housing Equipment Business) 25 Messages from Outside Directors 53  lobal Housing Equipment Business G Board of Directors 55 (China & Asia Housing Equipment Business) 27   lobal Housing Equipment Business G (Americas & Europe Housing Equipment Business) 29 Corporate Information 57 New Business Domains (Advanced Ceramics Business) 3 1 N  ew Business Domains (Green Building Materials Business) 32 Cross-organizational Innovation Activities 33 Editorial Policy Guidelines The TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2019 has been published International Integrated Reporting Framework, International as an integrated communication tool for all our stakeholders. Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) This report introduces information such as the origins of the Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation, Ministry of TOTO Group and business activity topics in addition to Economy, Trade and Industry financial/ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance) data. Sustainability Reporting Standards, Global Reporting In addition, it communicates TOTO’s corporate stance to be Initiative (GRI) committed to linking its past and present performance as well Reference guidelines are available on the TOTO Group website. as our initiatives designed to further enhance corporate value https://jp.toto.com/en/company/csr/gri for the future. Financial and Non-Financial Data Period of reporting Financial and non-financial data can be found on our website. FY2018 (April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019) Financial and Non-Financial Data * This report includes some information pertaining to before or after the period. https://jp.toto.com/en/company/profile/library Scope of reporting TOTO LTD. and Group companies TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 4 TOTO Group History Company History 1917 1970 1993 Established Toyo Toki Company, Changed corporate name to TOTO Remodeling Declaration Limited KIKI LTD. 1962 1977 Formulated Company Mottos Established TOTO’s first overseas joint venture company for ceramic sanitary ware production, in Indonesia Products and Technology 1914 1976 1980 1993 Successfully developed Japan’s first Launched CS Series water-saving, Launched WASHLETTM Launched NEOREST EX integrated seated flush toilet noise-reducing toilet 1981 toilet 1946 Launched modular kitchen design 1995 Began faucet production 1985 Discovered photocatalytic super1963 Launched the Shampoo Dresser hydrophilicity (TOTO and the Developed Japan’s first prefabri(bathroom vanity suited for washing University of Tokyo) cated bathroom module (based on hair) 1999 JIS provisions) 1988 Developed CEFIONTECT technology 1968 Started mass production of Launched bathroom vanity units electrostatic chucks in the ceramics business Business Promotion Resources Cultural Support and Other 1985 1989 Activities Opened GALLERY · MA Founded TOTO Publishing Diversity 1993 Established SUNAQUA TOTO LTD. to Timeline in Providing Cleanliness provide a comfortable work environment for people with disabilities and Comfortable Living Spaces 1970s 1980s 1990s Value Creation History 1914  First in 1963  First in 1980  Successfully developed Japan Developed Japan’s first Japan Launched WASHLETTM Japan’s first seated flush toilet prefabricated bathroom module WASHLET was born out of an age where the In an age when public sewage systems were not (based on JIS provisions) standard type of toilet had shifted from the yet common in the country, TOTO’s first president, In anticipation of the 1964 Tokyo Olympic Games, Japanese-style to the seated type. This new style of Kazuchika Okura, set his sights on spreading the Hotel New Otani, Japan’s first high-rise hotel, toilet led to a new lifestyle of “washing” instead of healthy sanitary toilets across Japan. With this goal required the installation of a large number of “wiping” and became a part of Japanese daily life. in mind, he successfully developed Japan’s first bathrooms within a short amount of time. In order seated flush toilet. to meet this demand, TOTO developed the first prefabricated bathroom module in Japan. WASHLET is a trademark or registered trademark of TOTO LTD. 5 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 Since its founding, the TOTO Group has been imbued with the spirit of providing a healthy and civilized way of life. No matter the era, we will continue to pursue challenges and innovations in the name of creating new lifestyles. For the Next 100 Years 2002 2006 2010 2017 Entered into operational agreement Established TOTO Universal Design Announced TOTO Environmental Established new company mission between TOTO, DAIKEN, and Research Center Vision 2017 Announced TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term YKK AP 2007 2014 Management Plan 2003 Changed corporate name to Announced TOTO Global Updated TOTO Global Environmental Vision New Remodeling Declaration TOTO LTD. Environmental Vision 2018 2004 2009 Remodeling “Anshin” Declaration Established the Philosophy System Announced TOTO V-Plan 2017 for TOTO Group Management 2001 2008 2010 2013 Launched Furopia system bathroom Launched Restroom Item 01 Launched AIR-IN SHOWER Launched Bedside Flushable Toilet with quick-drying KARARI floor (Universal Design of public toilets) showerhead 2002 2011 2017 Launched NEOREST EX Series with 2009 Launched WASHLET apricot with Launched NEOREST NX globally built-in TORNADO FLUSH Launched NEOREST Series/SE in EWATER+ antibacterial electrolyzed 2004 Europe water Launched the Faucet 10 series of water Launched Furopia insulated thermal 2012 faucets, distinguished by their sophisticated pot MAHOBIN bathtub Series Launched Drake II 1G water-saving designs, to the global market toilet in the US 2015 2019 Established GALLERY TOTO at Narita International Airport Established experience TOTO at Opened TOTO Museum Narita International Airport 2005 2018 Established the Kirameki Promotion Office to further Obtained Platinum Kurumin accreditation from the Ministry of Health, women’s careers Labour and Welfare as a company that supports child-rearing CSR Activities 2004 2011 2019 Established the CSR Committee Participated in the UN Global Compact Announced endorsement of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Social Contribution 2005 2006 2008 Established the TOTO Embarked on the TOTO Acorn Established the TOTO Water Water Environment Fund Reforestation Project Environment Fund in China 2000s 2010s 2002  2008  2017  Launched NEOREST EX Series with Launched Restroom Item 01 (Universal Launched NEOREST NX globally built-in TORNADO FLUSH Design series of public toilets) TOTO launched NEOREST NX as a globally unified NEOREST, a series of next-generation toilets of the TOTO launched the Restroom Item 01 with the aim of model, highly recognized worldwide for having the highest standard, made “simple and clean” a reality creating a harmonized space that delivers ease of use functionality of WASHLET and wrapped in an thanks to its built-in TORNADO FLUSH system with for an even greater number of people. With its unity of elegant and ergonomic design. RIMLESS design. The whirlpool-like flow of water toilet components and sophisticated design, this new allows for both the efficient use of water and effective approach led to great strides in revolutionizing the cleaning of germs and dirt. public toilet. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 6 TOTO Group Business Performance Net sales, operating profit, and number of new housing under construction Consolidated net sales (left) Consolidated operating profit (right) Number of new housing under construction (10,000 houses) (Billion yen) * Based on the period in which products are delivered 600 163 156 150 148 500 141 134 134 122 121 1 19 400 1 17 1 17 114 1 17 300 200 100 0 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 1998 Remodeling Declaration New Remodeling Declaration Reliance on New Housing Demand Japan Housing Equipment Business  When the bubble economy collapsed in 1993, we announced Ratio of Sales from New Construction/Remodeling to Total Sales the Remodeling Declaration in order to establish the remodelin the Japan Housing Equipment Business ing business as a business pillar with the aim of transitioning to a management structure that does not rely on new housing demand. In the nearly 30 years since, we have been actively promoting the remodeling business. As a result, the remodelNew Remodeling housing ing business now accounts for roughly 70% of all sales in the New 46% Japan Housing Equipment Business, proving that we have housing Remodeling indeed established a business structure that is not dependent 68% on new housing demand. Since April 2018, we have been moving forward with the Anshin Remodeling Strategy in order to further strengthen the remodeling business. FY2001 FY2018 China & Asia Housing Equipment Business / Americas & Europe Housing Equipment Business  In 1977, with the desire to deliver enriched and comfortable Ratio of Overseas Sales to Consolidated Net Sales lifestyles to customers all over the world centered on bathroom and kitchen plumbing products, we established our first Overseas overseas joint venture company for ceramic sanitary ware 8% Overseas production in Indonesia. Since then, we have been actively 22% promoting overseas business expansion. Now, sales from the China & Asia Housing Equipment Business and the Americas & Europe Housing Equipment Business account for 22% of our consolidated net sales. FY2001 FY2018 7 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 To position the remodeling business in Japan as a business pillar, the TOTO Group announced the Remodeling Declaration in 1993. Since then, the Group has established a business structure that does not rely on new housing demand. In addition, the Group has actively expanded overseas guided by the desire to deliver enriched and comfortable lifestyles to customers around the world. For the Next 100 Years (Billion yen) 60 50 124 128 40 103 103 98 97 96 89 92 93 88 81 84 30 77 20 10 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Remodeling “Anshin ” Declaration Shift toward Remodeling Business Developing Products That Create Shared Value with Our Stakeholders  To continue to be a company that contributes to the global environment, we are developing products with high levels of water-saving functionality on a global basis and working to reduce the amount of water consumed by our products when they are used. Particularly in terms of toilet bowls, since the launch of the water-saving CS Series toilet in 1976, we have been working to reduce the amount of water needed to flush toilets and to remove bacteria, germs, and dirt, while ensuring toilets remain pleasant to use. We also strictly adhere to the toilet water volume regulations in each country and region of operation. Today, we are continuing to fine-tune our water-saving technology in such ways as launching products that only require 3.8 L of water per flush. Water-Saving Performance of Toilets C150E 20L Japan 13L Reduced the volume of water per full flush by approx. 70% 3.8L CS Series NEOREST CS Series NEW CS Series AH/RH/DH 10L (Floor drainage) 13L RESTICA Series 8L NEOREST A 6L NEOREST NEOREST AH AH/RH GREEN MAX 5.5L NEOREST AH/RH/DH Overseas 4.8L 4.8L (Floor drainage) U.S. 3.8L U.S. / China U.S. U.S. / China One-piece toilets NEOREST GH/XH/750H 6L 4.8L 6L 1976 1 988 1 994 1997 1 999 2006 2007 2009 2010 201 2 (FY) * Water consumed per full flush TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 8 TOTO Group in Present Day Keep Gaining TOTO Fans around the World Russia U.K. Germany France Korea China Japan Myanmar Taiwan UAE India Thailand Philippines Vietnam Malaysia Singapore Indonesia New Business Domains 5% Americas & Europe Housing Equipment Business 6% China & Asia Housing Equipment Business Sales 16% Breakdown Japan Housing Equipment Business 73% Net Sales  Operating Profit  Operating Margin  ¥ 586.0 billion ¥ 40.1 billion 6.9 % 9 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 TOTO is utilizing its strengths to expand its business across the globe. Moving forward, TOTO will continue to create innovative and appealing products and services, and in doing so will keep gaining fans around the world. TOTO’s Global Network  For the Next 100 Years 18 countries and regions 32 sites (Excluding Japan) Number of Showrooms  U.S.A. 100 Japan: Overseas: 1 4 Mexico (Directly managed showrooms) Number of Employees  33,431 Ratio of Female Managers  14.7% (Total for Japan and overseas) Reduction of Water Consumption during Product Use  860 million m (Reduction effect when compared with the case where 3 products of 2005 continue to be used) Profit Attributable to ROA (Return on Assets)  ROE (Return on Equity)  Owners of Parent  7.1 % 9.6% ¥ 32.3 billion (Based on operating profit) (Based on net profit) * Actual results for FY2018 and as of March 31, 2019 for the entire TOTO Group TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 10 TOTO Group Value Creation Model “Marketing Innovation” Three Cross“Demand organizational Chain Innovation Activities Innovation” “Management Resource Capital Input Innovation” Strength Global Housing Financial capital Equipment Business 1 Advanced fusion of design and functionality Optimal management New Business Domains resources Intellectual capital Mid-Term Management Plan R&D toward TOTO TOTO WILL2022 “Only One” technologies Details on page 23 Manufactured capital Global expansion of Value Chain production sites Integrating CSR into R&D Procurement–Production Human capital Management Diverse human resources Strength 2 sharing our corporate Creating new value through unique technologies philosophy Social/relationship capital TOTO Global Relationships of trust with Environmental Vision stakeholders cultivated through our rich history Details on page 35 EWATER+ RIMLESS CEFIONTECT Natural capital TORNADO FLUSH Resources with care “Cleanliness for a sustainable and Comfort” Strength society Advanced production technolo 3 and global supply system The three material issues derived from “Environment” our mission “Relationships” Corporate Govern Directing created v 11 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 The TOTO Group conducts corporate activities with the aim of continuing to provide greater contributions to society and the environment. To achieve this goal, we are taking steps toward integrating our management and CSR activities. We are also working to create value for our stakeholders while leveraging our strengths and, as we continue to create value through our value chain, we will spread this value throughout society as a whole by way of our social contribution activities. For the Next 100 Years Strength 4 Providing high-quality products and services Business partners Providing Coexist and grow together diverse while contributing to society information and the environment Employees Details on page 45 Work lively and utilize individuality Details on page 44 Showroom proposals Customers Logistics–Sales Products Offer lifestyles that go beyond expectations Details on page 43 Quality in assembly HYDROTECT Society Realize a sustainable society gy After-sales Details on page 46 Shareholders services Earn trust and provide returns over the long term Details on page 47 Created value Strength 5 Relationships with stakeholders TOTO Water Environment Volunteer activities TOTO GALLERY• MA TOTO Museum Fund ance Details on page 51 alue toward capital TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 12 Message from the President Keep Gaining TOTO Fans around the World President, Representative Director Madoka Kitamura 13 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 Leveraging the Vision of Our Founder outstanding technologies alone. Product design is another For the Next 100 Years important element of product value as a good design brings as a Touchstone joy to people and helps brighten their lives. By pursuing TOTO’s first president, Kazuchika Okura, wrote a letter to his challenges and innovations in order to fuse design and successor, Saburo Momoki. The words contained in that functionality, we have improved our production technologies letter have been treasured by the TOTO Group as the Words and realized mass production on a global scale. In this way, of Our Founder. Beginning with “Kindness must always the important elements of product value are mutually concome first,” the Words of Our Founder state that our goal nected to each other and have become Group strengths. should be to provide good products and satisfy the cusWe have also benefited greatly from the fact that we tomer and, by accomplishing that, profit and compensation ourselves are actually consumers. This allows us to conwill follow. Accordingly, the Words of Our Founder represent sider things from the standpoint of our customers, making a vision that I as president must place at the center of the it easier to ascertain what they find inconvenient. This Group’s management. In addition, this vision acts as a reality also underscores the importance of “Kindness must touchstone that has been passed on for over a century, always come first.” I believe the word for kindness in making it an extremely valuable asset to the TOTO Group. Japanese, shinsetsu (親切), explains our employees very Amid the changing times, we must never lose sight of our well. The shin (親) in shinsetsu conveys a sense of familiarvision to constantly pursue new technologies and even better ity, and the setsu (切) conveys a sense of closeness and craftsmanship and strive for levels of satisfaction that exceed empathy. I therefore believe that the word shinsetsu lays the expectations of our customers. As many of our products out ideas based on which we should move forward. Having are used by customers over long periods of time, we place the ability to relate closely to our customers and underimportance on providing after-sales services that cater closely stand their feelings has allowed us to realize the strength of to their needs in the event there is an issue with our products. “providing high-quality products and services.” To that end, The entire process from manufacturing to after-sales and our pursuit of challenges and innovations for further follow-up services contributes to building the TOTO brand, and enhancing these Group strengths is endless. all Group employees understand that this process must be rigorously upheld. I believe that my mission as president is to ensure that this understanding is passed on to future generaAiming to Be a Company That tions so that we can create enriched and comfortable lifestyles Enriches People’s Lives centered on bathroom and kitchen plumbing products. Society is undergoing dramatic changes, and these changes have extended into the business environment in Drawing on the Strengths of which the Group operates. In particular, technological innovation such as AI and the Internet of Things (IoT) has the TOTO Group been advancing rapidly, and it has now become crucial to The TOTO Group began manufacturing seated flush toilets at utilize such tools in various business operations, including a time when the concept of public sewage systems was not product development and frontline production, in an effort yet widespread. Since then, the TOTO Group has opened the to enhance efficiency. Meanwhile, we are placing impordoor to new lifestyles by creating a variety of bathroom and tance on becoming a company that enriches people’s lives. kitchen plumbing products such as WASHLET, which is now In terms of products and services, we will naturally pursue commonly used by numerous households across Japan. efficiency through the use of technologies such as AI and Through the challenges and innovations it has pursued IoT. However, we do not want to emphasize efficiency at the over its 100-year history, the TOTO Group has cultivated expense of providing products that do not have a human the strengths of “advanced fusion of design and functionalnature. There is a sense of awareness and certain emotions ity,” “creating new value through unique technologies,” that only people have, such as the bond between parent “advanced production technology and global supply system,” and child and husband and wife as well as relaxation and and “providing high-quality products and services.” comfort. We therefore want our toilets to provide a clean The Group has created various unique technologies such and comfortable space, our kitchens to be a space where as EWATER+, TORNADO FLUSH, and CEFIONTECT. However, people can enjoy cooking and communication, and our a product’s value is not necessarily realized through baths to be a space where people can relax and refresh. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 14 Message from the President prices of raw materials. These results were also due to our proactive investment toward the start of operations at new plants, the strengthening of sales, and the improvement of wages and employee treatment. While we got off to a rough start in the first year of the plan, we have been able to gain a thorough understanding of our areas of improvement. We therefore position fiscal 2019 as a year in which we will restart efforts to earnestly address the issues we face. Gaining TOTO Fans around the World In the Japan Housing Equipment Business, we are promoting the Anshin (peace of mind) Remodeling Strategy as the next stage of the remodeling business. Our Remodeling “Anshin” Declaration, announced in April 2018, is a declaration of intent In this way, we value people’s emotions, and we therefore to add Anshin to remodeling as we make Companywide wish to be a company that creates products and services efforts to revitalize the renovation market. The starting point that have a human nature. And, in a greater sense, we wish of Anshin Remodeling is establishing an environment in to be a company that enriches people’s lives. which we offer peace of mind to customers by addressing Our desire to provide people with enriched lifestyles is their concerns over remodeling, be it due to cost or lack of the same regardless of age, gender, nationality, or region. knowledge regarding the construction process. Rather than Even with the aging population, people will continue to chasing profit and share increases over the short term, we desire enriched lifestyles. We believe that our products can aim to qualitatively improve and invigorate the renovation provide that sense of enrichment. market under the Anshin Remodeling Strategy by taking the time to build and accumulate trust with our customers. This strategy involves straightforward activities, and we believe it Promoting the TOTO WILL2022 is the perfect strategy for the TOTO Group to execute, as it Mid-Term Management Plan with a has helped drive the renovation market for over the past 30 New Sense of Determination years. I always remind the members of the Support Desk for In fiscal 2018, we commenced the TOTO WILL2022 MidRemodeling, a consultation desk related to remodeling, that Term Management Plan, which embodies our strong “WILL” the role they play is not on behalf of TOTO but rather on as “We Innovate Leading Lifestyles.” Accordingly, the TOTO behalf of the customer. The desk has received various queries Group must continue to be an organization that provides from customers, and many of these customers have stated customers with levels of satisfaction that go above and that the desk members helped resolve their concerns and beyond their expectations. We will therefore strengthen our offered them peace of mind. I therefore believe that the will on a Groupwide basis as we aim to become such an activities of the Support Desk for Remodeling have become a organization by leveraging our long-cultivated strengths true embodiment of the TOTO spirit, and we will further and overcoming the various changes we face in the busiadvance these activities in fiscal 2019. ness environment. In the overall Global Housing Equipment Business, we Our performance during the first year of the mid-term are stepping up our WASHLET Global Strategy. According to management plan was sluggish, with net sales and operata global market survey conducted in March 2018, WASHLET ing profit both declining year on year, to ¥586.0 billion and toilet seats were the number one brand by sales volume in ¥40.1 billion, respectively. In addition, ROA and ROE, which six countries and regions (Japan, China, South Korea, we have adopted as important management indicators, Taiwan, the U.S., and Germany), which comprised 87% of stood at 7.1% and 9.6%, respectively. the global market for toilets with spray seats. Also, cumulaThe main reasons for these results include our delayed tive WASHLET shipments exceeded 50 million units globally response to changes and issues concerning the supply of as of March 2019. By effectively promoting these strengths, ceramic sanitary in the Chinese market as well as the soaring we have firmly established the TOTO WASHLET brand. 15 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 For the China Housing Equipment Business, we have Comfort,” “the Environment,” and “Relationships” as our For the Next 100 Years launched a new project that focuses on visualizing customer three material issues. We position this vision as the driving needs and are strengthening a purchase channel-specific engine of the TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan. strategy, which involves products, prices, logistics, and sales Going forward, we will strive to further integrate CSR into promotions, in order to become the brand of choice among our management and contribute to the SDGs. customers. While gaining an accurate and earnest understanding of market conditions, we will strive to provide customers with value that differentiates us from the competition. Moving toward a Dynamic, Vibrant, Also, in March 2019, we held an exhibition at International and Excellent TOTO Sanitary and Heating 2019 (ISH 2019), held in Frankfurt, The majority of TOTO’s products are used by customers for Germany. At ISH 2019, we promoted the TOTO CLEANOVATION 10 to 20 years. Ensuring that our products are chosen again message, which comes from the combination of the words in 10 to 20 years’ time is what will guide the next 100 and “clean” and “innovation.” This message emphasizes the 200 years of the Company. It is for this reason that we synergistic effects of the cleaning functions realized through believe our main role as a manufacturer is to cherish our TOTO’s toilets and WASHLET. Thanks to this message, our customers and the excellent products that bring joy to their exhibition garnered a high level of praise. The TOTO lives. In addition, customer satisfaction helps enhance CLEANOVATION message also conveys our desire to enrich employee motivation. To pass these ideas on to the next lives through cleanliness as well as to realize cleanliness generation, it is important that we develop our employees. through technologies and innovations. Going forward, we To that extent, the Group’s approach to workstyle reform is will actively communicate our stance of being a company to focus on establishing an environment in which all that continues to pursue technological innovation, thereby employees can work in a lively manner. Also, our business enhancing the level of recognition of the TOTO brand. activities are supported not only by our customers and In Japan, we are moving forward with renovating and employees but also by our various other stakeholders, installing toilets at hotels and public facilities in line with including our shareholders, business partners, and local the government’s policy of reaching a target of 60 million community members. We must therefore strive for collabooverseas visitors by 2030. With the aspiration of turning ration and co-creation with these stakeholders. To be a Japan into a showroom for the rest of the world, we are dynamic and proud company, we must work to strictly accelerating the installation of WASHLET so that a large discipline ourselves, and strengthening our governance is number of overseas visitors can gain a firsthand experian essential element for maintaining our soundness as a ence of this technology for the first time. Through this company. With the aim of enhancing both internal and experience and enjoyment of the comfort offered by external communication, we have our outside directors and WASHLET, we will communicate Japanese toilet culture to outside Audit & Supervisory Board members visit our the rest of the world. locations in Japan and overseas, thereby making our entire business operations as open as possible. While these outside officers offer us their frank opinions at the Board of Further Integrating CSR into Management Directors’ meetings and other venues, the whole point of The expectations and demands of stakeholders around the governance is to receive strict guidance and establish an world continue to change, and the UN Sustainable environment where such guidance can be offered. Development Goals (SDGs) are emblematic of that change. We would like to express our gratitude for the continWe have provided a wide array of products and services in ued support of all of our stakeholders, and we ask that you pursuit of enriched, comfortable lifestyles. These efforts, look forward in anticipation to the future of the TOTO which we have promoted earnestly on a continuous basis, Group going forward. relate closely with the SDGs. In light of this, we reevaluated our mission in October 2017 with the aim of highlighting the President, Representative Director most important matters to tackle in the medium to long term in order to realize sustainable growth. Based on this mission, we have been promoting the TOTO Global Environmental Vision, which establishes “Cleanliness and TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 16 The Globally Unified NEOREST NX A Compilation of TOTO Group Strengths In 2017, TOTO launched the NEOREST NX as a globally unified model. NEOREST NX is one of our most prestigious toilets and is brimming with the strengths that the Group has cultivated over its 100-year history. Drawing on the feel of ceramic, the graceful curves of NEOREST NX offer the highest levels of comfort. At the same time, NEOREST NX creates new value through the use of TOTO’s unique clean technologies. Spe c ial F eature Awards Received for NEOREST NX  i F DESIGN AWARD (February 2018) Red Dot Design Award (April 2018)  old Selection Award, G JIDA Design Museum Selection (January 2019) 17 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 Strength 1 Advanced Fusion of Design and Functionality Special Feature In our product development, we have pursued exquisite designs while also working to provide high levels of quality and functionality. Our aim with NEOREST NX was not simply to have it be a part of a space, but rather to offer a toilet of the future that realizes attractiveness through its pure existence. We conducted countless rounds of examination regarding the design of the functional compartment, which houses our latest technologies. We also made painstaking efforts to eliminate unnecessary surface elements and spaces, which can cause noise. Furthermore, we adopted a curvy design that accenYuji Yoshioka tuates the beauty of ceramic sanitary ware. In this way, we believe we Design Department have realized a truly integrated toilet. By making the lid appear as if it is a part of the ceramic sanitary ware, we were able to realize a beautiful appearance for when the toilet is both open and closed, thereby achieving the ultimate design without compromising beauty or functionality. Accordingly, NEOREST NX is our premier toilet—now used across the world—that was created through the analysis data, sophisticated technological capabilities, and abundance of knowhow we have accumulated over the past 100 years. Strength 1 Strength 2 Strength 2 Creating New Value through Unique Technologies Within the beautiful design of NEOREST NX are various built-in Sachiko Niwano functions that maintain the cleanliness of the product and ensure WASHLET Development Department that it can always be used comfortably. The EWATER+ technology of NEOREST NX keeps water clean after every use by automatically removing bacteria, which can cause darkening of the toilet bowl, thereby controlling dirt buildup and odor. In addition, NEOREST NX is equipped with CEFIONTECT, a unique technology that starts with baking a layer of specialized glass onto the NEOREST NX’s ceramic surface and smoothing out surface unevenness to a level of onemillionth of a millimeter. By doing so, CEFIONTECT helps control and simplifies the removal of dirt buildup. Additionally, NEOREST NX features RIMLESS design, which further prevents stains through elimination of the toilet bowl rim, as well as the TORNADO FLUSH system, which creates a whirlpool-like flow of water that enables both the efficient use of water and the effective cleaning of germs and dirt. In these ways, not only is NEOREST NX strong against stains and easy to clean, but it also offers new value by reaching new heights of cleanliness by effectively cleaning itself. 18 Strength 3 Advanced Production Technology and Global Supply System TOTO’s manufacturing of ceramic sanitary ware exudes originality in all aspects, from the clay used as well as its design and shape, features, and manufacturing process. One challenging aspect in manufacturing ceramic sanitary ware is controlling the shape when baking clay-like materials onto the ceramic surface. We control the deformities that occur between the molding stage and the firing stage to the degree of one millimeter. This allows us to achieve “Quality and Uniformity.” This original production technology standardizes the handcrafting techniques we have inherited for over the past 100 years while fully utilizing IT technologies. Additionally, NEOREST NX is the fruit of our latest production technologies as it integrates ceramic and TOTO SANITECHNO LTD. resin materials, for which manufacturing techniques differ completely, and (Kokura Factory) realizes an extremely natural, curvy form that completely conceals its functional compartment. This approach to manufacturing has been standardized, with TOTO SANITECHNO LTD. (Kokura Factory) acting as the mother factory. Based on this approach, we manufacture products with the same specifications and inspection standards at all of our factories around the world. In addition, we hold ceramic skills competitions where our personnel demonstrate their handcrafting techniques, which are indispensable to the manufacturing process. These competitions help enhance the technological prowess and motivation of our employees. The TOTO Group’s production technologies serve as a vital element for realizing “Quality and Uniformity” on a global scale. Strength 3 Strength 4 Strength 4 Providing High-Quality Products and Services International Sanitary and Heating 2019 (Germany) TOTO products are used in the everyday lives of our customers for long periods of time. For that reason, we operate 100 showrooms across Japan and 14 overseas so that customers can actually observe and gain a firsthand experience with our products and feel assured in selecting them. Through these showrooms, we are able to cater closely to the needs of our customers and offer them optimal choices. Also, we hold global exhibitions in Germany, the United States, and China. These exhibitions allow us to introduce new lifestyles to an even greater number of people and showcase spaces where people can get a sense of what their home would be like with our products. They also allow us to communicate our unique functions and designs in an easy-to-understand manner. TOTO showroom Furthermore, as our products are used by customers over the (Vietnam) course of years, we place importance on offering after-sales services in the event of any product issue. By providing customers with high-quality products and services, the TOTO Group will continue to contribute to enriched lifestyles across the globe. 19 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 Strength 5 Strength 5 Relationships with Stakeholders Special Feature The TOTO Group’s business activities are supported by a wide variety of stakeholders. This means that we must pursue collaboration and co-creation with these stakeholders. To create even better products and services over the medium to long term, we must always value the relationships we have with our customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers, and local community members and promote initiatives that give consideration to society and the global environment. The ideas of “Quality and Uniformity,” “Service and Trust,” and “Cooperation and Prosperity,” which are incorporated into the Company Motto of “Take pride in your work and strive to do your best,” embody our approach to these relationships, and we have continued to put these ideas into practice through the various business activities we have pursued since our founding. The relationships with our stakeholders we have cultivated through our business activities over the years have become a significant strength for the continuation of our business operations going forward. TOTO Water Environment Fund TOTO Museum TOTO GALLERY·MA Volunteer activities Akihisa HIRATA: Discovering New (2018) © Nacása & Partners Inc. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 20 Awareness of Opportunities and Risks External Environment Opportunities and Risks Purchasing behavior of Interest in quality of living and age group suitable for lifestyles remodeling Uneasiness regarding remodeling Economy  radual growth in the global G economy Expansion in Asian markets Extension of healthy life expectancies Increasing middle class Changes in Revitalization of the market for Japan Growing population in demographics existing houses urban areas Shortage of construction workers Increased construction of lodging Tourism Nation and Society facilities inbound tourists I ncreasing global population Establishment of public toilets A  ging population in advanced countries D  eclining population in Japan Progression of the rapidly Widespread use of housing facilities aging population Establishment of urban such as flush toilets following the infrastructure establishment of sewage systems Decline in the working-age population Need for water-saving products Preference for high-value-added Environment Changes in purchasing Overseas products behavior and markets Progression of measures to Diversification of purchasing behavior address climate change  ising demand for resources R and energy G  rowing number of regions Impact of economic and housing facing water shortage Government policies policies and regulations Tightening of environmental regulations Arrival of the 5G era Technology Advancement of semiconductors and Information E  xpanded use of AI, IoT, Technology optical communication devices and robots Introduction of AI and IoT in housing  rogression of open P facilities innovation Progression of workstyle reforms Workforce Human resources development and competition in securing personnel 21 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 We maintain an awareness of opportunities and risks related to the external environment, including in terms of the economy, society, the environment, and technology, from a mediumto long-term perspective. Based on this awareness, we are TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan simultaneously promoting the TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan and the TOTO Global Environmental Vision. TOTO’s Initiatives TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan Japan Housing Equipment Business New Business Domains Housing Evolving our unique technologies to provide distinctive value to Promoting the Anshin Remodeling Strategy to provide additional customers (Advanced Ceramics Business) levels of Anshin, the Japanese word for peace of mind, to remodeling Contributing to the global environment and continuing to provide  ffering attractive products that meet customer needs and O products that offer value and help improve lifestyles strengthening proposal-making capabilities (Green Building Materials Business) Public Facilities Communicating Japanese toilet culture created by TOTO —Turning Japan into a showroom for the rest of the world China & Asia Housing Equipment Business / Cross-organizational Innovation Activities Americas & Europe Housing Equipment Business Continuously providing world-leading, beautiful products that deliver Increasing the number of TOTO fans around the world with the aim of comfort and communicating the evolution of design and functionality to becoming a trustworthy brand in each country and region the world through unified marketing promotions (Marketing Innovation) —Executing strategies that cater to the marketing stages of each Expanding the supply chain on a global scale and taking on new country and region challenges in manufacturing (Demand Chain Innovation) Promoting the sale of water-saving toilets Creating a company that attracts a diverse group of human resources Boosting recognition and expanding sales of WASHLET and offers a vibrant, challenging working environment where employSupplying products to landmark properties ees can work with peace of mind (Management Resource Innovation) Establishing and subsequently reinforcing sales networks TOTO Global Environmental Vision Cleanliness and Comfort Environment Relationships  Realize cleanliness and comfort throughout Protect our limited water resources and  Build deep, long-lasting relationships with the world connect with the future customers Pursue ease of use for everyone Undertake initiatives to fight global warm Offer cultural support and contribute to ing and coexist with the earth society for the next generation Aim for sustainable development together Create and share joy in work together with local communities Clean WASHLET™ Water-saving Energy-saving Showrooms Volunteer technologies products factories activities Universal design TOTO Water Workstyle reforms Environment Fund TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 22 TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan In 2017, the TOTO Group celebrated its 100th anniversary. Looking at the next 100 years, the Group aims to increase the number of TOTO fans around the world. To this end, the Group commenced its five-year TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan in April 2018. Under TOTO WILL2022, with corporate governance acting as our foundation, we will continue efforts to strengthen our global business promotion structure through our two business segments of Global Housing Equipment Business and New Business Domains, as well as our three cross-organizational innovation activities of Marketing Innovation, Demand Chain Innovation, and Management Resource Innovation. Furthermore, we will actively carry out investments aimed at achieving sustainable growth while promoting well-balanced financial strategies that give consideration to shareholder returns. As performance indicators, we have set targets of achieving net sales of ¥720.0 billion, operating profit of ¥80.0 billion, ROA of 12.0% (based on operating profit), and ROE of 13.0% (based on net profit) by fiscal 2022, and will move forward with plans to accomplish these targets. Performance Indicators and Promotion Structure Fiscal 2022 Plan Net sales: Operating profit: ROA (based on operating profit): ROE (based on net profit): ¥ 720.0 billion ¥ 80.0 billion 12.0 % 13.0 % 23 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 Looking toward the next 100 years, we are promoting our five-year TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan in order to achieve our “will” of continuing to gain TOTO fans around the world. We aim to increase our corporate value through our two business segments of Global Housing Equipment Business and New Business Domains, as well as our three cross-organizational innovation activities, which are pursued on TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan a Companywide, cross-departmental basis from the perspective of optimization. Review of Fiscal 2018 and Forecasts for Fiscal 2019 In fiscal 2018, the first year of TOTO WILL2022, we recorded net sales of ¥586.0 billion, down ¥6.3 billion year on year, and operating profit of ¥40.1 billion, a decrease of ¥12.5 billion. In addition, ordinary profit came to ¥43.1 billion, declining ¥11.2 billion, and profit attributable to owners of parent was ¥32.3 billion, down ¥4.4 billion. Also, the Company adopts ROA and ROE as important management indicators. In the fiscal year under review, ROA came to 7.1%, a decline of 2.3 percentage points, and ROE stood at 9.6%, down 2.1 percentage points. In the Global Housing Equipment Business, frequent natural disasters in Japan led to a depressed consumer mindset for housing. In China, market conditions worsened due in part to a decline in the number of high-class properties, which resulted from the tightening of real estate sales regulations centered on 1st tier cities. This, coupled with the delay in launching our new products, led to declines in both sales and profit. Furthermore, profit decreased in New Business Domains, despite increased sales in the Advanced Ceramics Business. As for key initiatives to pursue in fiscal 2019, we will strengthen the Anshin Remodeling Strategy in Japan and further promote the WASHLET Global Strategy overseas. We will also expand sales and step up our marketing activities around the world in such ways as continuing to release products globally. By implementing these initiatives, for fiscal 2019 we forecast net sales of ¥618.0 billion, an increase of ¥32.0 billion year on year; operating profit of ¥45.0 billion, a gain of ¥4.9 billion; ordinary profit of ¥46.0 billion, up ¥2.9 billion; and profit attributable to owners of parent of ¥33.0 billion, a rise of ¥0.7 billion. Fiscal 2018 Results and Fiscal 2019 Plan  (Billion yen) Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 plan Net Sales 592.3 586.0 618.0 Operating Profit 52.6 40.1 45.0 (Operating Margin) (8.9%) (6.9%) (7.3%) Ordinary Profit 54.3 43.1 46.0 Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent 36.7 32.3 33.0 ROA (Based on operating profit) 9.4% 7.1% 7.7% ROE (Based on net profit) 1 1.7% 9.6% 9.6% TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 24 TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan Global Housing Equipment Business Japan Housing Equipment Business We will further promote our remodeling strategy that does not rely on new housing demand. In addition, in the public market, we will work to communicate Japanese toilet culture, which the TOTO Group has helped create, with the aspiration of turning Japan into a showroom for the rest of the world. TOTO Group Strategy  In Japan, for nearly 30 years, the TOTO Group has been creating demand for remodeling with the aim of transitioning to a management model that does not rely on new housing demand. Currently, the remodeling business accounts for 70% of total sales in the Japan Housing Equipment Business, and we have succeeded in establishing our intended management model. As each remodeling project entails different on-sight conditions and customer needs, the remodeling business requires multiple abilities in areas such as construction expertise, planning, and customer communication. To this end, we have cultivated the product appeal and abilities required for performing remodeling work and have rolled out showrooms across Japan. At the same time, we have made swift efforts to establish a network with home improvement stores that have deep ties to local communities. In 2002, we formed the TDY alliance together with DAIKEN and YKK AP, both top-class manufacturers of key housing materials, in order to further accelerate the growth of our remodeling business. To make proposals for comfortable bathroom and kitchen spaces made possible through the high-quality products of each alliance member, all three companies in the TDY alliance made cooperative efforts to open TDY Collaboration Showrooms, organize Remodeling Fairs, and undertake other activities with the aim of realizing sustainable growth. Review of Fiscal 2018 and Forecasts for Fiscal 2019  Fiscal 2018 saw declines in both net sales and operating profit as net sales decreased ¥0.5 billion from the previous year, to ¥425.1 billion, and operating profit fell ¥4.2 billion, to ¥24.4 billion. The primary causes of these declines were the depressed consumer mindset for housing and delays in supply to public facilities resulting from the frequent natural disasters in Japan. In light of these results, we will promote the following key measures in fiscal 2019. In the housing market, new home construction is expected to decline with the continuing transition Housing toward a stock-based society. The remodeling business is therefore becoming more important than ever. Market In light of such market changes, we will continue to build on our Anshin Remodeling Strategy in the remodeling business in an effort to revitalize the market. Under the Anshin Remodeling Strategy, we will work to spur remodeling demand by turning customers’ concerns over remodeling projects into Anshin, the Japanese word for peace of mind. By earnestly addressing their needs and concerns, we will pursue efforts to enrich the lifestyles of our customers through superior remodeling in collaboration with our business partners. Rather than chasing short-term increases in sales or market share, we will aim for the revitalization and qualitative improvement of the renovation market by building up genuine trust with our customers over the next five to ten years. In fiscal 2019, we will continue to enhance our business activities by focusing on our three goals of relating closely to customers, delivering Anshin through information, and providing high-quality remodeling. In the new housing market, we will look to capture demand by strengthening our appealing products and proposal capabilities that meet the needs of customers. 25 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan Relating Overview of Anshin Remodeling closely to customers Three Areas Delivering of Focus Providing Anshin to cushigh-quality tomers through remodeling information Remodeling “Anshin” Declaration TOTO’s Anshin Remodeling Remodeling Library Remodeling Pro Shop Visualize and understand Visualize and understand examples and appropriate prices shops recommended by TOTO for remodeling Examples of actual cases include TOTO remodeling price information club shops 2018 2003 Remodeling “Anshin” Showroom Support Desk for Remodeling 1993 New Remodeling Declaration Remodeling Declaration Visualize and understand Declaration Visualize and understand our response to customers’ life after remodeling Exceeding questions and concerns Bringing more Anshin to customers’ remodeling Consultation desk Turning customers’ expectations Attractive showrooms problems into joy for remodeling Japan In the public market, as part of the WASHLET Net sales Operating profit Operating margin Public Global Strategy, we will strengthen our proposals (Billion yen) (%) Market 500 439.1 25 for clean toilets to the rising number of overseas 425.6 425.1 visitors to Japan. In doing so, we will increase our 400 20 opportunities for promoting the attractiveness of 300 15 WASHLET and other products, thereby bolstering 200 7 10 activities to encourage the purchase of our prod6 6 ucts in not only Japan but also overseas. 100 5 28.6 24.4 24.7 0 0 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Plan Launching “experience TOTO,” the Ultimate in Toilet Hospitality Utilizing IoT In April 2019, we launched “experience TOTO”—the ultimate in toilet hospitality utilizing IoT—at Terminal 1 of Narita International Airport. By having visitors from overseas indulge in “experience TOTO” immediately after arriving in Japan, we aim to introduce the beauty of Japanese toilet culture to the rest of the world. “experience TOTO” features large LCD panel design images outside the toilet to attract visitors as well as a dedicated remote-control tablet*1 inside the toilet that offers instructions and visual guidance in five different languages. Through these features, visitors will be able to get a first-hand experience of WASHLET. Additionally, “experience TOTO” comes equipped with a voice guidance “experience TOTO” Welcoming visitors to state-of-the-art function, which provides instructions in four languages, to enable visitors from overseas, who have Japanese toilets through four captivating LCD panel design images little or no experience using such highly functional toilets, to use them without any constraints. We have also provided greater convenience through the use of IoT by displaying congestion status in real time on the LCD panels*1 outside the toilet. Additionally, we have made public toilets more efficient in terms of management by enabling the monitoring of their use and by displaying information effective for their maintenance.*2 *1 Designed in collaboration with Nippon Telegraph and Telephone East Corporation and Vacan, Inc. *2 Designed in collaboration with KDDI Corporation TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 26 TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan Global Housing Equipment Business China & Asia Housing Equipment Business In China, by responding to market changes and actively making proposals, we are aiming to become the most trusted brand that our customers continue to need and want. Our operations in the rest of Asia will help drive growth in the overall Global Housing Equipment Business, which in turns acts as an engine for the growth of the TOTO Group. In the high-end markets of each country and region, we aim to become the most trusted and beloved brand. TOTO Group Strategy  In China, spray seats* are becoming more common with the rising average income of Chinese citizens. Meanwhile, greater emphasis is being placed on appropriate marketing strategies that address the changing market conditions such as intensifying competition and diversifying customer needs. In the China Housing Equipment Business, we are working to ascertain changes in the market environment and consumer purchasing behavior as we leverage the strengths of TOTO as a high-class brand to promote our business activities. In various other countries and regions in Asia, including Taiwan, Vietnam, India, and Thailand, the TOTO brand continues to gain recognition as a result of rising income levels and the proliferation of sewage systems. While further reinforcing our sales foundation in each country and region, we are building production plants to establish them as a global supply base that can respond to increased demand in the future. * “Spray seat” is a generic name for an ordinary toilet seat equipped with a water-washing function. Review of Fiscal 2018 and Forecasts for Fiscal 2019  Fiscal 2018 saw declines in both net sales and operating profit as net sales decreased ¥8.4 billion from the previous year, to ¥63.5 billion, and operating profit fell ¥5.8 billion, to ¥12.3 billion. Net sales dropped China particularly in urban areas due to the impact of measures to control real estate prices. The lower operating profit was a result of the decline in net sales and the inability to offset the impact of increases in raw material and labor costs through cost-reduction efforts. Based on these results, we will implement the following key measures in fiscal 2019. In the China Housing Equipment Business, we will strive to keep gaining TOTO fans in China by implementing a strategy and PDCA cycle that focuses thoroughly on the customer, enabling us to become their preferred choice. In the retail building materials market, we will make proactive efforts to introduce new products and bolster China our sales proposals for WASHLET/toilet sets that Net sales Operating profit Operating margin leverage our strengths as a comprehensive manufac(Million yuan) (%) 5,000 4,308 4,434 30 turer of bathroom and kitchen plumbing products. 27 3,782 In large-scale buildings, we will move ahead with the 4,000 21 22 24 differentiation of our products in terms of both quality 3,000 18 and functionality as well as supplies to high-class hous2,000 12 ing properties. We will also enhance the adoption of our 1,150 992 800 products at five-star hotels and large-scale office build1,000 6 ings in public markets with the intention of achieving 0 0 2017 2018 2019 (FY) greater sales throughout the entire China business. Plan 27 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan Fiscal 2018 saw net sales increase ¥0.2 billion year on year, to ¥31.8 billion, and operating profit decrease Asia ¥1.3 billion, to ¥5.4 billion. In Taiwan, both net sales and operating profit fell as a result of a drop in new housing demand and a reduction in the number of properties to which TOTO products are supplied. In Vietnam, net sales rose while operating profit fell due to such factors as higher depreciation and amortization resulting from the operation of new plants and the stagnant housing market. In light of these results, we will implement the following key measures in fiscal 2019. In the Asia Housing Equipment Business, in order to fulfill our role as TOTO’s growth engine, we will look to establish a market presence for products unique to TOTO centered on WASHLET and toilet bowls and solidify our position in the high-end brand. In Taiwan, we will actively roll out promotions to heighten recognition of WASHLET in order to establish a sales structure that does not rely on new housing demand. In Vietnam, we will seek to improve sales of WASHLET in the retail market. Throughout the entire Asian market, we will continue to examine the construction of new plants to cater to the anticipated growth in global demand going forward. Taiwan Vietnam Net sales Operating profit Operating margin Net sales Operating profit Operating margin (Million Taiwan dollar) (%) (Billion dong) (%) 5,000 24 23 25 5,000 25 22 22 4,249 3,606 3,672 3,671 4,000 3,438 20 4,000 3,369 20 14 14 3,000 15 3,000 15 2,000 10 2,000 10 865 796 802 743 1,000 5 1,000 522 581 5 0 0 0 0 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Plan Plan Exhibiting at Kitchen & Bath China 2019 In May 2019, TOTO held an exhibit at Kitchen & Bath China 2019, Asia’s most influential trade show for kitchen and bathrooms, in Shanghai, China. Based on our corporate message of Life Anew, we communicated to the world our desire to “generate value unlike ever before and go above and beyond everyone’s expectations.” Constructing a New WASHLETTM Production Plant in Thailand TOTO (THAILAND) CO., LTD. is constructing a new WASHLET production plant (tentative name: TOTO Thailand No. 3 Plant) in a newly acquired location. Construction of this new plant began in May 2018 and the facility will be used for the mass production of WASHLET. It is scheduled to fully begin operating from April 2020. This WASHLET production plant is the fifth of its kind to be established globally and the third to be constructed overseas. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 28 TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan Global Housing Equipment Business Americas & Europe Housing Equipment Business The bathroom culture of Europe has a significant impact on the rest of the world, and we will therefore further promote the Americas & Europe Housing Equipment Business. In addition, we aim to become a company that can bring about change to the bathroom culture in the Americas and Europe, thereby increasing the number of TOTO fans around the world. TOTO Group Strategy  In the Americas and Europe, our unique technologies have received high praise from customers. These technologies include water-saving toilets equipped with TORNADO technology, which uses only one gallon (3.8 liters) per flush, as well as CEFIONTECT, RIMLESS, and TORNADO FLUSH, which support this Tornado technology. In the Americas & Europe Housing Equipment Business, we are enhancing our brand value and working to achieve differentiation through efforts to communicate the superior quality and value of our products. Also, for WASHLET, we are enhancing our showroom exhibits and website content and stepping up efforts to establish new sales routes through e-commerce. Review of Fiscal 2018 and Forecasts for Fiscal 2019  In the Americas, fiscal 2018 saw net sales increase ¥0.6 billion from the previous year, to ¥31.3 billion, and The operating profit decrease ¥0.9 billion, to ¥1.6 billion. The higher net sales was mainly as a result of growth Americas in sales of WASHLET, while the lower operating profit was partly due to a rise in selling, general and administrative expenses and higher costs associated with the deteriorating productivity of ceramic sanitary ware. In light of these results, we have decided to move ahead with the following key measures for fiscal 2019. For the Americas Housing Equipment Business, we will look to achieve greater recognition of the TOTO brand and WASHLET by expanding our contact points with customers. Further, we will expand our supply of WASHLET particularly to high-end hotels and condominiums in major cities with the aim of maximizing its ripple effects on the presence of the TOTO brand. From a manufacturing point of view, we will focus on stabilizing the supply of ceramic sanitary The Americas Net sales Operating profit Operating margin ware by enhancing its productivity. Also, with our (Million dollar) (%) sights set on building customer satisfaction for 400 20 purchases, we will strengthen our after-sales 326 283 service network through timely responses and 300 274 15 outstanding quality, thereby earning the trust and 11 9 9 support of our customers. 200 10 Moreover, through proposals that incorporate 100 5 IoT, we will help resolve the issues of public toilets. 29 24 31 0 0 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Plan 29 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan In Europe, fiscal 2018 saw net sales of ¥3.7 billion, an increase of ¥0.2 billion year on year, and operating Europe loss of ¥1.1 billion, a decrease of ¥0.1 billion. Given these results, we will take the following key measures for fiscal 2019. In Germany, we will strengthen our partnership with plumbers, who propose our products to customers, and draw on our showrooms to heighten awareness of the cleanliness and comfort of WASHLET in order to solidify the presence of the TOTO brand in the country. While our efforts to strengthen partnerships in fiscal 2018 were centered on the southern region of Germany, we will expand on this in fiscal 2019 by focusing on the entire country. In the United Kingdom and France, we will Europe continue to promote the adoption of our prodNet sales Operating profit ucts at high-end hotels and other high-class (Million euro) 40 36 facilities toward our goal of establishing TOTO as 26 26 a high-class brand. We will also strengthen our 30 distribution of information on previous adoption 20 examples and customer opinions to provide 10 more opportunities to experience our products in pursuit of our next adoption. 0 −6 −5 −7 −10 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Plan Showcasing Our Products at CES 2019 In January 2019, TOTO participated as an exhibitor at CES 2019, the world’s largest international electronics trade show, held in Las Vegas, U.S.A. Based on our corporate message of Life Anew NEXT, our exhibit focused on the theme of “bringing more enrichment and enjoyment to the everyday lives of our customers through IoT.” Included in our presentation was a film on TOTO’s next-generation bathroom and kitchen spaces as well as an introduction on examples of our state-of-the-art public toilets. Additionally, we proposed bathroom and kitchen spaces that provide comfort and enrichment to the everyday lives of our customers. Our lineup included TOTO’s premier product series “NEOREST COLLECTIONS,” the FLOTATION TUB, a bathtub for our overseas market that offers the ultimate relaxation experience, and other products combining both functionality and design, as well as exhibits combining toilets, bathroom vanity units, and bathtubs. Exhibiting at International Sanitary and Heating 2019 In March 2019, TOTO took part as an exhibitor at the International Sanitary and Heating 2019, the world’s leading international trade show for bathrooms, buildings, energy, airconditioning technology, and renewable energy, held in Frankfurt, Germany. Based on our corporate message of Life Anew, our exhibits focused on the themes of TOTO CLEANOVATION, TOTO RELAXOLOGY, TOTO DESIGN, and Life Anew NEXT. In terms of restroom space, we garnered the attention of the attendees by demonstrating and showing visuals to clearly present the four synergistic effects for cleanliness generated through the combination of TOTO toilets and WASHLET technology. We also received rave reviews for the design features of our new global lavatory faucet series. Through such efforts, we were able to leave a lasting impression on the European market, where TOTO continues to advance its technological innovations. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 30 TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan New Business Domains Advanced Ceramics Business TOTO will roll out its high-quality, high-precision advanced ceramics, including air bearings, electrostatic chucks, bonding capillaries, and receptacles, for the semiconductor, FPD manufacturing, and optical communication industries. By further leveraging these unique technologies, we will create value together with our customers and suppliers. Electrostatic chucks TOTO Group Strategy  With the arrival of the Internet of Things (IoT) society, the demand for leading-edge devices such as semiconductors and high-speed optical communication and display devices has been rising. Amid these circumstances in the Advanced Ceramics Business, demand is expected to rise for electrostatic chucks used in manufacturing semiconductor memory devices, which are increasingly employing a three-dimensional design. Going forward, we will continue to bolster our production facilities and strengthen our development structure through Demand Chain Innovation, Cross-organizational Innovation Activities. At the same time, we will aim to establish a robust business foundation by employing a customer-oriented business approach and improving profitability. Review of Fiscal 2018 and Forecasts for Fiscal 2019  Fiscal 2018 saw net sales increase ¥2.1 billion year on year, to ¥22.1 billion, and operating profit decrease ¥0.5 billion, to ¥1.2 billion. While the focus of the Advanced Ceramics Business till now has been on increasing its production and strengthening its development structure to Advanced Ceramics Business meet the overwhelming demand for semiconducNet sales Operating profit Operating margin tors, the goal for fiscal 2019 will be to improve (Billion yen) (%) profitability through automation and labor saving 25 22.1 21.3 25 20.0 and the shift to next-generation smart factories. 20 20 Moreover, with the aim of continuing to create 15 15 unique technologies and products, we will proac9 tively invest in research and development to rein10 8 10 6 force our material-handling technology, technology 5 5 1.7 1.2 1.6 for combining with other materials, and production technology that facilitates mass production. 0 0 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Plan Electrostatic Chucks An electrostatic chuck is a component inside semiconductor equipUpper electrode Etching/deposition ment that is used to hold the semiconductor wafer. In the IoT society, material the demand for semiconductors is growing, which in turn has led to plasma Semiconductor wafer annual increases in the need for installing semiconductor manufacInternal electrode turing equipment. Moreover, there has been a need for semiconducElectrostatic chuck tors with higher precision. Our electrostatic chucks, which are Cooling channel Cooling plate incorporated within semiconductor equipment, have received high Energy supply praise from our customers in light of the fact that they are highly durable and produce very little impurities within the equipment itself. Structure of semiconductor manufacturing equipment 31 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan Establishing a New Production Facility for Advanced Ceramics With our sights set on capturing the globally expanding demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, we will establish a new advanced ceramics production facility at the Nakatsu Plant of TOTO Fine Ceramics LTD. Construction of this new plant commenced in January 2019 and its operations are set to begin in October 2020. By utilizing the new factory for the mass production of electrostatic chucks, assembling our cutting-edge advanced ceramics processing technology and know-how we have Rendering of new production facility at accumulated to date, and leveraging our IT technology, we will strive toward our goal of TOTO Fine Ceramics transitioning to next-generation smart factories and improving productivity as a result. Green Building Materials Business TOTO will offer building materials utilizing its HYDROTECT environmental cleaning technology. TOTO will also enter into license agreements with companies worldwide handling exterior building materials, including tile, paint, metal panels, glass, and architectural stone. Ceramic tiles that utilize HYDROTECT—Hydrocera Wall TOTO Group Strategy  HYDROTECT, a green building material technology that makes use of a photocatalyst, has already been adopted by a significant number of partner companies. Looking to the future, we will redouble our efforts to promote HYDROTECT technology globally by engaging in more partnerships with various companies. Review of Fiscal 2018 and Forecasts for Fiscal 2019  Fiscal 2018 saw net sales of ¥8.0 billion, a decrease of ¥0.4 billion from the previous year, and operating loss of ¥0.3 billion, an increase of ¥0.1 billion. In the Green Building Materials Business, we aim to contribute to the global environment by continuing to provide products that help create more comfortable lifestyles and cultures. To that end, Green Building Materials Business we will enhance the efficiency of its operations Net sales Operating profit (Billion yen) by bolstering the selection and concentration of 8.4 8.6 9 8.0 products in all segments, including HYDROTECT, ceramic tiles, high-performance mirrors, and 6 tiles for homebuilders. We will continue to focus on providing and 3 proposing value for products that leverage the strengths of our unique HYDROTECT technology. 0 0 −0.4 −0.3 −1 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Plan TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 32 TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan Cross-organizational Innovation Activities Nozomu Morimura Marketing Innovation By visualizing the global market, we will propose the products needed by Representative Director, Executive Vice President customers around the world and communicate them through impactful marketing promotions. The TOTO Group has a history of utilizing its high level of technological capabilities to enhance the functionality of its products. Fiscal 2018, the first year of TOTO WILL2022, was a year in which we saw our efforts lead to improvement in not only our functionality, but also in our design. In March 2019, we held an exhibition at International Sanitary and Heating 2019 (ISH2019)—the world’s largest trade fair focused on the responsible management of water—which took place in Frankfurt, Germany. At the event, we received high praise for our efforts to steadily evolve the design of not only our toilets but also our faucet parts to the extent that we are now able to compete with the leading manufacturers in Europe. The results of our manufacturing efforts, which aim for the advanced fusion of design and functionality, have been recognized in other ways as well, including the reception of international awards such as the Red Dot Design Award and the iF Design Award. On the other hand, fiscal 2018 was also a year in which various issues came to light, including issues related to our marketing promotions, which communicate our product value to customers, and the provision of products and services that utilize AI, IoT, and other technologies. In fiscal 2019, we will continue to focus on sales of high-value-added products that offer both functionality and design in Japan. To that end, we will further enhance the SYNLA bathroom module and the THE CRASSO modular kitchen design, among other products. Globally, we will roll out “clean marketing promotions”—centered on EWATER+—that resonate with customers based on the message of TOTO CLEANOVATION, which is a combination of the words “clean” and “innovation.” We will also commence new proposals for using IoT technologies to ascertain the congestion status of public toilets and optimize our response to toilet maintenance. Our mission is to provide customers with unique, unrivaled products that offer both functionality and design. Guided by this mission, we will create marketing promotions that communicate the story behind the creation of our products, from the design concept to product development based on human engineering and the evolution of clean technologies. In fiscal 2019, by refining and strengthening our marketing activities to an extent greater than ever before, we will offer impactful products and marketing promotions to customers around the world. In these ways, we will contribute to creating enriched and comfortable lifestyles. Ryosuke Hayashi Demand Chain Innovation To deliver TOTO products to people around the world, we will reorganize Director, Managing Executive Officer our structure for distributing products and information on a global basis and enhance activities aimed at doing so. For Demand Chain Innovation, we are rethinking our conventional approach of local production for local consumption in order to swiftly provide support for our product lineup transformation, which we are promoting in response to changes in the global market and tightening environmental regulations. In addition, we are reorganizing our global supply chain and promoting manufacturing-related efforts around the world. In terms of supply chain innovation, various issues came to light in fiscal 2018, including the fact that we have yet to gain a sufficient understanding of trends in overseas markets. Reflecting upon such issues, in fiscal 2019 we will strive to enhance visualization of the entire supply chain process through consistent production, sales, distribution, purchasing, and information 33 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan communication activities. We will take steps to ascertain changes in the market and in the structure of manufacturing, production, and sales, as well as work to stabilize our supply structure. As for manufacturing innovation, by incorporating IoT into our seed technologies, we will advance the creation of unprecedented technologies centered on the concepts of cleanliness, eco-friendliness, and universal design. To roll out these technologies worldwide from an early stage, we will realize smart factories that leverage AI and IoT. Adopting dynamic improvement in productivity as our goal, we will pursue these efforts comprehensively in Japan in fiscal 2019 and aim to expand them globally in the future. In our cost-reduction efforts, we aim to reduce costs by a total of over ¥8.0 billion each year on a global basis. To that end, we will steadily promote the streamlining and mechanization of not only our production materials but also our products, in addition to enhancing inventory management. To deliver products with unique TOTO functions that society has yet to experience across the world, we will make Groupwide efforts toward establishing a global supply chain structure and strengthening our manufacturing capabilities. Noriaki Kiyota Management Resource Innovation We will create a company that attracts a diverse group of human resources Representative Director, Executive Vice President and offers a vibrant, challenging working environment where employees can work with peace of mind. We believe our employees are the most important resource in becoming a trustworthy organization that is deeply rooted in the cultures of each country and region and in improving the lifestyles of customers around the world. Starting in fiscal 2018, we have been promoting a three-pronged approach that focuses on human resources, information, and finance and accounting with a view to realizing workstyle reforms. In terms of human resources, we introduced a “work-from-home system” in fiscal 2018 in order to offer peace of mind to our diverse group of personnel and encourage them to take on challenges. Currently, approximately 140 employees are making use of this system. Life events such as child-rearing and nursing care are something that everyone experiences, and the insight our employees gain from these experiences becomes valuable know-how for the TOTO Group, which deals with products that are used in everyday life. This know-how can be leveraged to improve our products and services and evolve our business as a whole. By establishing a “work-from-home system” based on the circumstances of each division and employees utilizing the system, as well as feedback from the supervisors of these employees, we believe we can reduce the turnover rate of employees due to life events and further improve the quality of our products and services. Also, to raise the percentage of paid holidays taken and realize an environment where diverse human resources can play an active role, in fiscal 2019 we will take note of the various operational procedures that each division has conducted and work to streamline important procedures and eliminate unnecessary ones. By doing so, we will seek to adjust the allotment of personnel and enhance our overall efficiency. Also, in terms of information, which plays the role of connecting our diverse group of human resources, we will move forward with efforts that utilize IT tools. To that end, we will establish frameworks to enable global collaboration in such ways as sharing operational procedures and enabling remote group work in real time. In these ways, we will encourage collaboration between employees as well as organizations within the Group. For finance and accounting, we are strengthening our financial foundation to support the growth of the Group. In fiscal 2019, we will continue to focus our efforts on “establishing a cash management system for overseas Group finances” and “promoting business activities with an awareness of ROIC.” While our efforts related to human resources are something that will be promoted over the long term, we will aim to realize a workplace environment where all employees of the TOTO Group around the world can work in a lively manner and with a sense of pride. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 34 TOTO Global Environmental Vision CSR Activities Mission Materiality Cleanliness and Comfort Environment Relationships In light of the changing times and social trends, the TOTO Group revised its mission in October 2017, which declares its intent to implement in the medium to long term the primary items for the sustainable growth of the TOTO Group. Based on this new mission, we identified Cleanliness and Comfort, Environment, and Relationships, themes that impact both our business and society, as material issues. Global Environmental Goals Aims Major Initiatives Realize cleanliness and comfort throughout the world Global expansion of clean and Cleanliness and Comfort comfortable toilets Pursue ease of use for everyone Widespread adoption of water-saving products Protect our limited water resources and connect with the future Undertake initiatives to fight global warming and CO2 emission reductions Environment coexist with the earth Aim for sustainable development together with local Social contribution activities entrenched in communities local communities Improved customer satisfaction Build deep, long-lasting relationships with customers Offer cultural support and contribute to society for the Promotion of employee volunteer activities Relationships next generation Create and share joy in work together Become a company that is pleasant to work at 35 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 Coinciding with the implementation of our mid-term management plan, TOTO WILL2022, the TOTO Global Environmental Vision was revised and put into effect in April 2018. This vision acts as a driving force for TOTO WILL2022. By strengthening the promotion of this vision, we are aiming to further integrate our management and CSR activities and increase our corporate value. TOTO Global Environmental Vision TOTO Global Environmental Vision The TOTO Group is promoting its TOTO Global Environmental Vision, for which the number of themes expanded from one, Environment, which was already established, to three, Cleanliness and Comfort, Environment, and Relationships, in order to include social themes closely related to our b ­ usiness. Each theme has a set of key initiatives and specific indicators and targets determined based on our aims. We are working toward achieving these targets by fiscal 2022. Through activities centered on the three global themes specified in this vision, we will also contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set by the United Nations in 2015. Indicators Fiscal 2018 Results Fiscal 2022 Targets SDGs CEFIONTECT shipment ratio (overseas) 71% 79% TORNADO FLUSH shipment ratio (overseas) 36% 53% WASHLET shipment volume (overseas) 0.58 million units 2 million units Reduction of water consumption during product use*1 860 million m3 1,100 million m3 Total CO2 emissions from business sites 351 thousand tons 450 thousand tons Total CO2 emission reductions due to measures implemented 9 thousand tons 22 thousand tons Total CO2 emission reductions during product use*1 3.23 million tons 3.7 million tons Number of projects contributing to solve regional issues 38 cases 100 cases (total number since FY2018) Customer satisfaction from after-sales services (Japan) 91.5% 90% Ratio of repairs completed within two days of reception (overseas) 75.7% 80% Volunteer activity participation rate (total number of participants / 100% or more 100% or more number of consolidated employees = participation rate) Annual paid leave usage rate (Japan) 80.8% 100% Ratio of female managers (Japan) 10.5% 20% Employee turnover rate due to life events (Japan)*2 3.4% 0% *1 Reduction effect when compared with the case where products of 2005 continue to be used *2 Job turnover rate for employees raising children or providing nursing care but still wish to work TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 36 TOTO Global Environmental Vision Cleanliness and Comfort 1 Realize Cleanliness and Comfort throughout the World By providing “clean toilets” through a combination of our technologies that remove bacteria, prevent the buildup of dirt, and support easy cleaning, and “comfort toilets” exemplified by our WASHLET, we will realize cleanliness and comfort throughout the world. Technologies That Maintain Cleanliness and Comfort  The TOTO Group has refined its manufacturing technology over the last one hundred years. To create clean and comfortable toilet spaces for our customers, we have developed a range of clean technologies unique to TOTO, such as EWATER+, CEFIONTECT, RIMLESS, and TORNADO FLUSH. Based on TOTO CLEANOVATION, derived from the words “CLEAN” and “INNOVATION,” in fiscal 2019 we will continue to innovate technologies toward achieving “cleanliness and comfort to everyday lives” around the world. EWATER+ Keeps water clean by removing bacteria, which can cause darkening of the toilet bowl. Remove bacteria Prevent Easy the buildup cleaning of dirt CEFIONTECT RIMLESS/TORNADO FLUSH WASHLET™–Gaining Popularity throughout the World  Launched in 1980, WASHLET has created a new lifestyle and culture for Japanese toilets. After launching in Japan, WASHLET products were introduced to the U.S. market in 1986. From then, we began moving forward with the installation of these products in luxury hotels in countries and regions throughout the world, thereby expanding our sales in China, Asia and Oceania, and Europe. As a result, cumulative WASHLET shipments exceeded 50 million units globally as of March 2019. Going forward, we will continue to evolve our WASHLET technology according to the needs of each country and region in order to realize cleanliness and comfort throughout the world. Trends in Cumulative WASHLET™ Sales November 1987 July 1998 June 2005 January 2011 July 2015 March 2019 June 1980 Cumulative sales Cumulative sales Cumulative sales Cumulative sales Cumulative sales Cumulative sales Sales begin exceed 1 million units exceed 10 million units exceed 20 million units exceed 30 million units exceed 40 million units exceed 50 million units 18 years, 1 month 6 years, 11 months 5 years, 7 months 4 years, 6 months 3 years, 8 months 1980 1990 2000 2010 2015 (FY) 37 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 SDGs  TOTO Global Environmental Vision 2 Pursue Ease of Use for Everyone We propose and develop products by considering the livelihood of each and every one of our customers, including their age, physical condition, family structure, and lifestyle, in pursuit of the development and proposal of new products that blend seamlessly into everyday life. TOTO’s Universal Design  The key principle of universal design at TOTO is to make TOTO’s Five Principles of Universal Design products as easy and comfortable to use as possible for as many people as possible. We firmly believe that the 1 Easy posture and movement starting point for universal design is to define what “easy 2 Simple, easy-to-understand operation to use” and “comfort” means. To that end, we have set out 3 C  oordination to address differences and changes in users TOTO’s Five Principles of Universal Design, which 4 Comfort employees always keep in mind to help them develop 5 Safety better products and improve product ideas. Universal design (UD) activities are promoted throughout the Inspection at TOTO UD Research Center Company, centering on the TOTO UD Research Center, established in 2006. Proposing Public Toilets That Regard Sexual Minorities The TOTO Group has been utilizing its universal design concept as the platform to creating toilet spaces that are easily accessible for as many people as possible, including wheelchair users, ostomates, parents with babies or young children, and the elderly. Making use of the expertise and verification methods we have amassed over the years, we are now incorporating the perspectives of the LGBT* community in our efforts toward improving accessibility. We have been holding a series of seminars on the introduction of plans for public toilets that regard the LGBT community since 2016. Further, in 2018, we conducted a survey targeting the LGBT community on the use of toilets, and announced its results through an analysis focused on transgender people, who tend to encounter a variety of issues when using toilets. * LGBT: Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender; a term used to represent sexual minorities 考 え よう み ん な の パ ブ リックト イ レ 性 の 多 様 性に配 慮して “Providing Public Toilets for All” (published in June 2018) A pamphlet on enhancing the use of public toilets for everyone including those of the LGBT community Participated in Tokyo Rainbow Pride 2019, an event celebrating diversity for gender and living TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 38 TOTO Global Environmental Vision Environment 1 Protect Our Limited Water Resources and Connect with the Future The depletion of water resources has a remarkable impact on the lives of people and, as a supplier of bathroom and kitchen plumbing products, TOTO has a duty to help resolve this issue. With this duty in mind, the TOTO Group will continue to evolve its water-saving technology and contribute to the conservation of water resources by spreading this technology to the rest of the world. Reduction of Water Consumption through Water-saving Products  The surface of the earth is mostly covered in water, but only 0.01% of that water can be consumed by humans.* In addition, as a result of such factors as the global population increase in recent years, economic development, and climate change, by 2050 the amount of water that can be consumed annually by each individual is estimated to be Water Consumption during Product Use reduced to three-quarters of the Water reduction amount in 2010.* 1.1 billion m3 In cases when The TOTO Group continues to Assuming products with advanced Water reduction products of Water reduction 860 million m3 water-saving promote the reduction of water 2005 continue performance 780 million m3 to be used were released consumption during product use and and promoted is working toward the conservation of water resources by developing its water-efficient and comfortable 2005 2017 2018 2022 (FY) products and spreading them on a (base) (actual) (actual) (target) global scale. “Water consumption during product use” refers to the overall volume of water consumed by products during the period of use within the particular fiscal year that said products were shipped. * Source: Current State of Water Resources in Japan (2018), “Water reduction” refers to the effect when compared with the case where products of 2005 Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism continue to be used. 2 Undertake Initiatives to Fight Global Warming and Coexist with the Earth The TOTO Group recognizes the possible impact of climate change on its business and society as one of its business risks. Based on the TOTO Global Environmental Vision, we are making efforts from a long-term perspective toward realizing decarbonization by promoting reductions in CO2 emissions generated from our processes involving manufacturing and product use. Curbing Total CO2 Emissions from Business Sites  We are contributing to the prevention of global warming by curbing the CO2 emissions generated from our business sites, which are increasing in line with the growth of our business. To that end, we are moving ahead with the implementation of various energyTotal CO2 Emissions from Business Sites saving measures. These measures include minimizing energy consumption in our business activities 351,000 tons Japan/overseas through use of the latest energy-saving devices and Total high-efficiency equipment and the sharing of know450,000 tons how on energy conservation activities, as well as proactively expanding the use of renewable energy throughout the Group in line with the increasing 2018 2022 (FY) demand for such energy in each country and region. (actual) (target) 39 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 SDGs  TOTO Global Environmental Vision Reduction of CO2 Emissions during Product Use  CO2 emissions from toilets, as well as bathroom and kitchen plumbing comprise 23% of all CO2 emissions produced by Japanese households.* This is due to the energy used by pumps to deliver water to water purification plants and households as well as energy used in sewage treatment plants. In addition, the energy used to generate hot water also emits CO2. The TOTO Group continues to promote the reduction of CO2 emissions during product use through the global expansion of products that make effective use of water and hot water. * Source: Calculated based on the GHG Emissions Data of Japan (2011), Greenhouse Gas Inventory Office of Japan 3 Aim for Sustainable Development Together with Local Communities Carrying on our founder’s conviction of “providing a healthy and civilized way of life,” the TOTO Group will help revitalize and sustain local communities as well as carry out activities that contribute to their development as part of its role as a good corporate citizen. TOTO Water Environment Fund  The TOTO Group aims to be a company that contributes to the development of an affluent and comfortable society through its focus on plumbing products. To develop a sustainable society that uses its water effectively into the future, not only are the business activities of corporations important, but the role of civic activities is also essential. Accordingly, we established the TOTO Water Environment Fund in 2005 in support of the environmental activities of citizens in various regions of Japan. Since 2008, TOTO has been supporting NPOs and NGOs with environmental conservation activities overseas and the creation of sanitary and comfortable living environments. As of 2018, these efforts have expanded to 40 prefectures in Japan and 14 countries and regions worldwide. Announcing Support for TCFD In May 2019, the TOTO Group announced its support for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), established by the Financial Stability Board (FSB). The TOTO Group views climate change as a material issue facing society. Accordingly, guided by the TOTO Global Environmental Vision, we will undertake initiatives from a long-term perspective toward the year 2050 for the realization of a decarbonized society on a global scale and proactively disclose information on climate change. Please refer to the following section for details on our initiatives related to climate change. https://jp.toto.com/en/company/csr/environment/warming/tcfd.htm TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 40 TOTO Global Environmental Vision Relationships 1 Build Deep, Long-lasting Relationships with Customers We make proposals at showrooms to ensure that customers can purchase our products with peace of mind. We also make various efforts through our call centers to respond to any questions or concerns our customers may have when using our products. In addition, we provide an after-sales service that focuses on being fast, reliable, and courteous. In these ways, we will continue to develop strong, long-lasting relationships of trust with our customers. Initiatives for Showrooms  To enable our customers to feel and experience our products first-hand and thereby provide them with peace of mind when remodeling, we have established 100 showrooms in Japan and 14 directly managed showrooms overseas. Our Japanese locations include 12 showrooms that are operated in collaboration with DAIKEN and YKK AP, where we exhibit and propose living spaces featuring products of the three companies for our customers to immerse themselves in. Initiatives for After-sales Services  “TOTO quality” refers not just to the quality of the products themselves but also to their assembly and maintenance if a problem were to arise. To enhance quality in this regard, we strive, for example, to improve maintenance skills and educate employees on proper etiquette when interacting with customers. We also aim to reduce the amount of time between the receipt of a service request and the completion of necessary repairs by setting goals in our major countries and regions of operation and enhancing our after-sales services. In Japan, as a way to improve the quality of this service, we send a postcard questionnaire to customers in order to gather information on their satisfaction with the service. 2 Offer Cultural Support and Contribute to Society for the Next Generation The TOTO Group contributes to the revitalization and development of local communities through the support of activities in architecture, art, and sports, in addition to encouraging its employees to participate in volunteer activities. In doing so, the TOTO Group strives to become a company that contributes to the development of a better society through its business activities. TOTO GALLERY·MA  TOTO GALLERY·MA was established in 1985 with the goal of supporting the development of the architecture that is deeply tied to our business. As a gallery specializing in architecture and design, we have since facilitated a multifaceted exposure to the varying works, ideas, and worldviews of architects and designers from both Japan and abroad through exhibitions and lectures. These kinds of activities help create a 41 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 SDGs  TOTO Global Environmental Vision sense of appreciation among people from different generations as well as countries and regions, and help us to keep gaining TOTO fans around the world. Tsuyoshi Tane | Archaeology of the Future—Search & Research (2018) © Nacása & Partners Inc. Promotion of Employee Volunteer Activities  The promotion of employee volunteer activities stands as one of our Global Environmental Goals. We actively support Total Number of Volunteers in Fiscal 2018 employee participation in volunteer activities across a broad range of fields, starting with social contribution activities such as tree-planting and city cleanups, as well as activities to 48,300 volunteers provide aid to disaster-affected regions and assist with sports. 3 Create and Share Joy in Work Together We conduct activities to promote diversity and implement workstyle reforms in order to be a company where a variety of personnel can gather, prosper, and be inspired to take on new challenges. In addition, the TOTO Group will continue to work with its suppliers to undertake activities that address CSR issues in areas such as human rights and labor, safety and health, and environmental consciousness. Promotion of Diversity  The TOTO Group respects the individualities inherent in a diverse workforce, including age, gender, and nationality. It is our belief that diversity gives rise to fresh, new ideas that lead to the creation of prosperous and comfortable lifestyles. In particular, one of the flagship goals we are strongly pursuing is increasing the percentage of women in managerial positions in Japan. To this end, we are supporting the continued success of women in the workplace through various efforts for our female employees such as step-up training and training for management position candidates. Promotion of Work–Life Balance  We promote efforts to improve work–life balance because we believe that harmonizing the work and home life of employees will result in greater productivity and a greater sense of accomplishment from work. In addition to encouraging employees to take paid leave, we have also put in place various systems that facilitate the adoption of diverse workstyles and help employees balance work and child/nursing care responsibilities. Further, the TOTO Group introduced its “work-from-home system” in April 2018 in order to establish an environment that allows its employees in Japan to keep working while balancing their childcare and nursing care responsibilities. Through this “work-from-home system,” employees will be able to work from home for a few hours per day or even the entire day Platinum Kurumin certification mark while managing their childcare and nursing care duties. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 42 Offering Satisfaction That Goes Above and Beyond Customer Expectations Through the provision of highly attractive products and services, the TOTO Group strives to offer lifestyles that go above and beyond customer expectations. To that end, we believe that the true quality of TOTO is evident during the process from making proposals at our showrooms to providing after-sales services, and we are promoting a broad range of efforts to improve customer satisfaction throughout this process. A Word from a Offer lifestyles that go beyond expectations Customer We are so happy we can enjoy meals and relax as a family Husband and Wife Before the remodeling, our house was so dark that you basically had to have the lights on all day to do much of anything. Now, the natural light during the day is more than enough to light our entire home. The brightness and use of natural materials make our living room, dining room, and kitchen extremely comfortable to be in, and we are so happy we can enjoy meals and relax together as an entire family, including our parents, in such a home. Also, we are now able to use our bathroom and kitchen spaces in a clean and comfortable manner, and cleaning the house has become so much easier. Parents We are very happy we can live together with our son’s family with just the right sense of space between us. There is a secondary living room with a mini kitchen right next to the entrance of the home, which makes living in the neighborhood more fun as we can easily have visitors. I also really enjoy the wonderful entryway as it almost feels like a veranda. Details of the Remodeling Project (Conducted by SUNPRO DESIGN WORKS) S.K. residence, Nagano Prefecture Remodeling conducted by SUNPRO-REFORM, SUNPRO LTD. This remodeling project involved turning a store/residence with a narrow doorReceived Grand Prize and the national TDY REMODEL way and long interior dimensions into two-family residence. By establishing a SMILE CONTEST 2018 long hallway and windows on the north side of the residence, we ensured ample lighting and an appropriate line of flow. In the living room, dining room, and kitchen area, which is on the second floor, we installed TOTO’s open-type kitchen in order to encourage conversation between family members. TOTO Initiatives Implementing Customer Sharing Examples of Activities Emphasizing the Satisfaction Surveys Customer’s Perspective To find out just how much we are satisfying customers With the aim of sharing examples of activities for improving through our daily service activities, we implement customer customer satisfaction, we hold the TOTO Group Customer satisfaction surveys that evaluate customer satisfaction using Satisfaction Convention every year. At this convention, we four indices. select and present outstanding examples of the activities conducted by each division. Results of Customer Satisfaction Surveys In fiscal 2018, 27 teams, which included participants from （%） (Score) China, Taiwan, and Vietnam, gave presentations. By sharing 89.6% 90.7% 91.5% 100 examples of the outstanding initiatives being carried out at our 69.9% 71.0% locations in each country and region, we are promoting activities 80 68.1% 64.1% to improve customer satisfaction on a Groupwide level. 51.2% 60 57.5% 40 65.6 69.0 70.3 100 20 50 0 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 0 After-sales service satisfaction rate Ratio of customers impressed Total satisfaction index of with bath module assembly Presentation by TOTO VIETNAM at the TOTO Group showrooms Evaluations on customer response quality Customer Satisfaction Convention 43 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 Together with Our Employees To realize the sustainable growth of the TOTO Group, we are promoting various efforts with the aim of creating a workplace that utilizes the individuality of all employees and allows them to work in a lively manner. To realize this aim, we are pursuing human TOTO Global Environmental Vision resources management that embraces diversity and work–life balance. At the same time, we are also working to develop human resources in order to pass on our technologies, which represent our strengths as a corporation, to the next generation. Work lively and utilize individuality A Word TOTO from an Initiatives Fostering a Corporate Culture of A Corporate Culture That Employee Self-Study and Continuous Growth Encourages Growth In addition to level-specific training, we have established and are I am making use of the “in-house foreign implementing such programs as “open training,” in which employlanguage school” to maintain and ees can select their field of study; “musha (warrior) training,” where improve my foreign language ability. I employees acquire insight from other industries and leverage that used to go to a foreign language school insight to achieve growth; the “management school,” which works outside of work to study English, but I to cultivate the leaders of the next generation; and the “in-house often found it difficult to schedule foreign language school,” which helps employees enhance their classes because I had to make reservaAi Iwasaki Public Relations work performance from a global perspective. Going forward, we tions ahead of time and ensure a balDepartment will continue to encourage a ance with my work schedule. With the shared perspective among In-House Foreign Language School, teachers come directly employees of all generations to the office, which makes it easy for me to attend classes as to learn and develop together they are held in the conference room after work. Also, these in order to foster a corporate classes allow me to interact with personnel from other culture of self-study and divisions who I often do not have a chance to communicate continuous growth. In-House Foreign Language School with in my daily work. Realizing Workstyles That Make Flexible Use of Balancing Work Life and Nursing Care Time and Location I am making use of the “work-fromTo prevent employees from leaving their position due to life home system” so that I can work while events such as child-rearing and nursing care, we are promoting supporting and providing nursing care policies to support work–life balance, such as the “shortened to my mother, whose cognitive abilities work hour system” and the “leave-of-absence/holiday system.” have been weakening. When I told my Additionally, we have introduced the “work-from-home system” family that I was considering the use of as an initiative to support the balance between work and childthe “work-from-home system,” they Yuko Eto Cultural Promotion rearing or nursing care by allowing our employees’ time to be were extremely pleased and expressed Department used more efficiently. As part of our efforts to reform workstyles, their appreciation to TOTO for having we have established a dedisuch a wonderful system. When I work from home, my family Number of Employees Using the cated website on the in-house members occasionally forget that I am on the clock and come “Work-From-Home System” intranet where we introduce to talk with me, but there really aren’t any major hindrances Fiscal 2018 result: systems related to workstyle TOTO Group (Japan) to my work. This system allows me to use the early morning reform as well as role models for other employees. 135 hours for work and provides me with peace of mind as I am constantly able to be near my mother. Hosting the Ceramic Sanitary Ware Technical Skills Competition We hold the Ceramic Sanitary Ware Technical Skills Competition every year with the aim of sharing and passing on our know-how on the spirit of craftsmanship cultivated in Japan, in addition to further improving our technological capabilities. In fiscal 2018, preliminary competitions were held at 15 locations in nine countries and regions around the world, including Japan. There were 30 representatives from these locations who competed in the glazing division, and 32 representatives who competed in the molding division. As for the results, representatives from BEIJING TOTO CO., LTD. won the competition in the glazing division while repreMolding division of the Ceramic Sanitary sentatives from TOTO SANITECHNO LTD.’s Kokura Factory were the winners in the molding division. Ware Technical Skills Competition While steadily passing on our technologies in each country and region, we will strive to realize “Quality and Uniformity” across the globe. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 44 Together with Our Suppliers The TOTO Group considers its suppliers to be its partner in contributing to society and the global environment and realizing co-creation and growth. Together with its suppliers, the Group is providing valuable products and services to its customers through fair purchasing practices while giving ample consideration to the environment and social issues such as human rights. Coexist and grow together while contributing to society and the environment TOTO A Word from a Initiatives Biodiversity-conscious Contributing to Excellent Manufacturing Supplier Procurement Activities in High-Quality Environments We have established specific standards for our raw materiWe supply TOTO with over als, such as earth and stone materials, and are conducting 30 different kinds of raw questionnaires and interviews with all supplier mines. materials for ceramic saniThrough these questionnaires and interviews, we verify tary ware, including pottery whether or not suppliers are working to restore forests and stones. High-quality materiother natural surroundings after mining has been comals are crucial to the efficient pleted. We also confirm the status of supplier efforts to production of high-functionEmployees of ETO INDUSTRY CO., LTD. ensure that rivers, lakes, and marshes do not become ing, high-quality products. We have adopted “promoting polluted with mining drainage or pulverized waste. As a proposal-making capabilities,” “providing peace of mind,” result of such efforts, we were able to confirm that all of our and “maintaining the highest levels of satisfaction” as our supplier mines are fully complying with the Standards for corporate policies, and each of our employees thoroughly Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials. Going forward, adheres to these policies. For example, we implement we will continue to conduct biodiversity-conscious procurerigorous control measures to prevent foreign materials from ment while working to bolster our efforts across the entire mixing with our raw materials. We also hold a certain amount supply chain. of domestic inventory for raw materials that come from overseas. In these ways, we offer peace of mind to TOTO. The level of quality that TOTO expects for its CSR proAchievement Rate of Compliance Item curement are extremely strict. I believe that the steady Standards of Mines provision of high-quality raw materials will help TOTO realize Fiscal 2018 result: stable operations and yield improvements at its factories, which in turn will help them utilize their 100% resources more effectively. Toshio Maeda Executive Director ETO INDUSTRY CO., LTD. CSR Procurement Activities Realizing Growth through Transactions and We work with our suppliers to undertake activities that Supporting World-Leading Levels of Quality address CSR concerns in areas such as human rights and We supply TOTO with copper alloy, a raw labor, safety and health, and the environment. In addition to material for faucets. In addition, we holding policy briefings for our suppliers, we carry out survey collect and recycle the copper alloy research and conduct interviews and investigations through chips that are created during TOTO’s on-site visits. In fiscal 2018, we held a total of 12 policy manufacturing process. By doing so, we briefings, in which 635 of our suppliers in Japan participated. collaborate with TOTO in conserving the Overseas, we conduct CSR procurement activities that cater global environment. Kyohei Mano (on right) to the circumstances of each country and region, giving the For its faucets, TOTO strives for Sales Division and utmost respect for local laws and customs as we strive to world-leading levels of functionality, Osaka Branch Manager SAN-ETSU METALS deepen mutual understanding and achieve mutually benefiquality, and design. To that end, we have Co., Ltd. cial relationships. established rigorous standards for both TOTO and other companies. TOTO also pursues high levels of Achievement Rate of effectiveness in terms of BCP. As a result of our efforts to provide Compliance with the TOTO with such high levels of effectiveness, our BCP functioned TOTO Standards flawlessly during the Great East Japan Earthquake, allowing us to Fiscal 2018 result: make deliveries without delay. This in turn earned us high praise. 100% Going forward, we would like to build a relationship through which we can grow together based on our mutual Policy briefing for suppliers efforts toward CSR procurement. 45 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 For Society The corporate activities of the TOTO Group are only made possible through the sound and sustainable development of society. To that end, the Group uses its management resources effectively in conducting social contribution and community TOTO Global Environmental Vision coexistence activities aimed at the resolution of local and global social issues. Through the establishment of “preserving the water environment,” “creating a sanitary and comfortable living environment,” and “developing the next generation” as core issues, we are promoting a broad range of activities. TOTO Realize a sustainable society A Word from a Initiatives Stakeholder Preserving the Water Environment Providing Support Based on Local Needs As a company that offers bathroom and kitchen plumbing To resolve local issues through our activities products, TOTO strives to preserve water environments such in support of developing countries, it is as rivers and oceans. important that we adopt a participationWe established the TOTO Water Environment Fund in based approach where we consider aspects 2005. Through this fund, we are supporting the activities of from the perspective of local community citizens and organizations that work to protect water environmembers and propose solutions that ments. At the same time, our employees participate volunthese members are able to realize. Based Aya Yamagata Leader tarily in such activities. Also, we established the TOTO Water on the experience we have gained thus far, Private Sector & Individual Partnership Environment Fund in China in 2008. With this fund, we have we have often seen the most dramatic Marketing & contributed CNY10 million thus far and have been conductresults when we offer support in a way Communication Dept. Plan International Japan ing educational activities on water conservation and estabthat balances the establishment of infralishing water supply facilities. structure with the development of human resources. Among government and other subsidy programs, there TOTO Water Environment Fund are programs that can be utilized for infrastructure establish24.7 million ment but not for covering labor and personnel costs, making 14th grant assistance: ¥ it difficult for us to make use of such programs. This is why Cumulative amount of assistance: we are extremely grateful for the TOTO Water Environment 337.8 million ¥ Fund, which can be used for both establishing infrastructure and developing human resources. Supporting the Development of Architectural Culture Contributing to the Culture of Japanese Architecture Through the activities of TOTO GALLERY·MA and TOTO In fall 2018, I held a solo exhibit for the Publishing, we have been supporting the development of first time at TOTO GALLERY · MA. When architectural culture, with which our businesses have a deep we held the first meeting regarding the connection. By holding exhibitions and lectures featuring exhibition, I was asked to present architects who are active on a global scale, we are introducsomething that offered a sense of the ing the latest developments in the architecture industry to future for the exhibition itself, and for my students and others who will oversee the future. Furthermore, collection of works, I was asked to create Tsuyoshi Architect Tane we publish books that offer more detailed information on the something that would last for a long (Atelier Tsuyoshi Tane Architects) ideas and works of architects. Our architecture-oriented time. These requests, although simple, Photo: Yoshiaki Tsutsui activities have been highly praised by members of the were quite difficult. However, TOTO staff architectural community around the world. members helped me search for answers to these requests. In order for the exhibition to be a success, the staff at the gallery offered me words of encouragement and provided me with comprehensive support. They also helped me compile my collection of works up until the very last minute, remaining committed to quality throughout the entire process from ensuring paper quality to checking the final colored proof. Results are everything in the work of professionals. The TOTO GALLERY·MA, TOTO Publishing love and passion that TOTO staff members have for their Tsuyoshi Tane | Archaeology of the © Yukikazu Ito work in order to achieve results is an unmeasurable strength Future—Search & Research (2018) © Nacása & Partners Inc. for contributing to the culture of Japanese architecture. I was truly moved by the strong will of TOTO staff members, and I am extremely grateful for the opportunity to experience these emotions with them. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 46 Dialogue with Shareholders and Other Investors TOTO conducts investor relations (IR) activities that reflect the high priority we place on communication with our shareholders and other investors in Japan and overseas. Through the timely and appropriate disclosure of information pertaining to our corporate philosophy, management policies, business strategies, and financial and non-financial data, we aim to establish long-term, trust-based relationships with our shareholders and other investors by deepening their understanding of the Company and engaging in repeated dialogues with them. Working to Ensure Transparency and Fairness in Our IR Activities  Based on our IR Policy, we make timely disclosures through a dedicated webpage, hold individual meetings and financial results briefings, and conIR Policy duct other activities to ensure transparency and fairness in our communicahttps://jp.toto.com/en/company/ir/ disclosure tion with individual and institutional investors. Relations with Institutional Investors  For domestic investors, we announce financial results twice a year, hold meetings to explain our strategies, and conduct showroom and plant tours. In addition, our top management engages in overseas activities aimed at institutional investors outside of Japan. Recently, investor interest in TOTO has been increasing year after year in tandem with the heightened awareness of our products overseas. IR Activities in Fiscal 2018 Financial results briefing 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 External Dialogue with institutional Fiscal 2017 financial First-quarter financial Second-quarter financial Third-quarter financial results briefing results presentation results briefing results presentation Number of dialogues with institutional investors in Japan and overseas: approx. 350 announcements investors September: December: August: March: New York Los Angeles, London Frankfurt City, Boston San Francisco Meeting with overseas investors Dividend Policy  We consider the return of profit to shareholders as an important part of our management policy. We therefore make it a rule to retain sufficient earnings Dividend Ratio to secure funds for building a firm corporate structure and expanding our In conjunction with the formulation of the business while assuring a stable return of profit to shareholders. TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan, 40% we have raised our target dividend We will place priority on utilizing our acquired profit and cash to conduct ratio to 40% from fiscal 2018. growth investments in order to establish a long-lasting and solid management foundation. These investments include improving product appeal, streamlining and strengthening production and sales systems, and developing new and overseas businesses. Any funds remaining after conducting such investments will be returned appropriately to our shareholders. Each fiscal year, we aim for a dividend ratio of 40% of our net consolidated profit for the term. In addition, we will determine the acquisition of treasury stock from a comprehensive standpoint, based on the need for flexibility in capital policies and the impact on our financial position. 47 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 Stakeholder Engagement TOTO considers the concept of stakeholder engagement to be vital in building relationships of trust with stakeholders and in facilitating cooperation. By doing so, TOTO aims to improve societies for generations to come. TOTO Global Environmental Vision CSR Communication with Stakeholders  We place importance on communication with all stakeholders, including customers, employees, shareholders, business partners, and society at large, and endeavor to develop closer relationships with them. We deepen interaction with our customers through various settings, such as events at our showrooms and factories, and we engage in direct dialogue with our business partners through policy briefing sessions and CSR questionnaires. In addition, for our shareholders, we disclose appropriate information in a timely manner and promote understanding of the spirit of TOTO manufacturing through such means as factory tours. Going forward, we will continue to make concerted efforts toward stakeholder engagement through two-way communication. Showrooms Customer Consultation Center Factory remodeling fairs Various exhibitions Customers  ending lecturers to seminars and S educational institutions for training V  arious workplace meetings Assistance for NPOs and community Employee awareness surveys organizations; various volunteer activities Intranet and Group magazine (TOTO Water Environment Fund, etc.) Whistleblowing system Cultural activities (TOTO GALLERY · MA, Society Employees (in-house/external contacts) TOTO Publishing) TOTO Museum Factory tours, TOTO Summer Festivals Skull sessions with NPOs and CSR specialists Shareholders Business partners  eneral Shareholders’ Meeting G P  olicy briefing sessions Various briefings CSR questionnaires Shareholder questionnaires CSR interview sessions Dialogue with institutional investors Whistleblowing system (external contacts) Participating in a Stakeholder Engagement Program  We participate in the Human Rights Due Diligence Workshop, a stakeholder engagement program sponsored by Caux Round Table Japan. This workshop aims for the corporate application of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Under this aim, the workshop has identified human rights issues by sector based on the input of multiple stakeholders, including companies, NGOs/NPOs, and various experts. In fiscal 2018, we worked to revise these human rights issues by sector together with the companies who also participated in the workshop. By doing so, we deepened our understanding of the importance of valuing human rights in our business activities. Furthermore, we shared the content of this workshop internally, and established and implemented the TOTO Group Supplier Code of Conduct in order to ensure the protection of human rights within our supply chain. This code of conduct states the expectations we have of our suppliers in terms of Discussion about “Human Rights Issues by Sector” human rights, labor, the environment, and the prevention of corruption. ©2018CRT-Japan TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 48 CSR Management The TOTO Group considers CSR management to be management by the use of CSR initiatives for the purpose of bringing the TOTO Group Corporate Philosophy to life. Our Corporate Philosophy, based on the thoughts of the founder to be passed down through the generations, communicates to all of our stakeholders the purpose for which our company exists, our business domains, and the type of company we aim to be. CSR Philosophy  The TOTO Group views CSR as “a commitment Process for Identifying Materiality toward creating sustainable value and realizing a We identified issues based on the United Nations Global Step 1: Compact, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), ISO, and better society by building a mechanism for developing Identify issues other international guidelines, as well as on evaluations of the CSR activities we have promoted thus far. synergy between businesses and society.” Guided by this belief, the Group is moving ahead with initiatives to Step 2: We analyzed issues that should be resolved through our realize the TOTO Group Corporate Philosophy. Analyze issues business from a mediumto long-term perspective. Based on this belief, we have identified material issues as themes that impact both businesses and society Step 3: We held discussions at meetings of the CSR Committee, which Hold discussions is chaired by the president and attended by all Company according to our mission, which declares our intent to by management directors. implement in the medium to long term the primary items for the sustained growth of the TOTO Group. Step 4: We established and are promoting a CSR Action Plan based on Develop plans our materiality. In October 2017, in line with the revision to our mission attuned to the changing of the times and society, we established “Cleanliness and Comfort,” “Environment,” and “Relationships” as material issues, and they have been determined as three global themes under the TOTO Global Environmental Vision. CSR Promotion System  We started our CSR activities in 2004 with the establishment of the CSR Committee and a full-time CSR department. The CSR Committee holds meetings once a year and is chaired by the Company’s president. The committee works to strategically integrate our business and CSR activities by taking a comprehensive approach to ESG (environmental, social, and governance) fields. The committee holds discussions on the formulation of plans for CSR activities based on identifying materiality, as well as on climate change and other issues related to CSR. Each subcommittee of the CSR Committee formulates CSR promotion plans, which are then implemented in relevant divisions and at domestic and overseas Group companies. In these ways, we are promoting CSR activities on a cross-organizational basis. Promotion System of the CSR Committee CSR Committee (chaired by the president) (Secretariat) ESG Promotion Department Environmental (E) Social (S) Governance (G) Products and services subcommittee Supply chain management subcommittee Group management subcommittee Energy-saving measure subcommittee Customer satisfaction subcommittee Risk management subcommittee Packaging and logistics environmental subcommittee Human resource management subcommittee Compliance subcommittee Waste management subcommittee Social contribution and Corporate citizenship subcommittee Promoting Widespread Understanding of ESG At the TOTO Group, we undertake concerted Groupwide efforts in CSR and governance and spread awareness of our corporate philosophy and mission to each and every employee. In Japan, we conduct level-specific training programs targeting new hires and newly appointed managers. In fiscal 2018, we provided all employees with e-learning opportunities in order to promote understanding of our new mission, material issues, and the TOTO Global Environmental Vision throughout the Group. Overseas, we prepared educational materials in English and Chinese and held training programs tailored to each country and region as part Guideline training for newly appointed of our efforts to raise awareness of ESG throughout the entire TOTO Group. managers of Group companies 49 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 Risk Management  Basic Approach and Promotion System TOTO Global Environmental Vision The TOTO Group makes relentless efforts to eliminate all factors that could hinder the implementation of management policies in order to maintain the confidence of society and fulfill its corporate social responsibilities. In cases of unexpected problems, maximum efforts will be made to minimize various effects on stakeholders and restore the confidence of related parties by developing appropriate preventive measures. Under the guidance of the president, we have established the Risk Management Committee, which is chaired by the executive vice president. In accordance with the TOTO Group Rules for Risk Management, the committee assesses any risks that may have a significant impact on our business and society, and identifies major risks that the Company must work to address. The identified risks are addressed through collaboration between the risk management divisions designated for each field and all Company divisions and Group companies by striving to prevent such risks and enhancing the Group’s risk management response. Risk Simulations To improve our prevention and response capabilities to major risks, we have been continuously carrying out practical risk simulations at all locations in Japan and overseas. The risks simulated include natural disasters and product-related accidents. In addition, as part of our efforts to establish a robust risk management structure, we conduct level-specific risk management training targeted at employees newly appointed to positions, from department head to the managerial ranks. We are also moving forward with a broad range of other efforts, including unified simulation training that uses a safety confirmation system in anticipation of earthquakes and other large-scale disasters. Risk simulation training Compliance  Basic Approach and Promotion Structure Compliance Activity Cycle The TOTO Group adheres to laws, regulations, and social Plan Do Establish annual plans norms within its corporate activities and strives to foster an and priority issues Promote compliance management systems organizational culture that promotes fair and transparent action. Compliance In 2013, we established the TOTO Group Business Conduct Committee Act Guidelines with the aim of implementing and raising awareness Improve activities and Create an organization frameworks that values compliance of the Common Group Philosophy, particularly the Charter of TOTO Group Corporate Behavior. With the aim of building ethical Legal Control All divisions and Check Division Group companies standards and enhancing awareness of compliance, we are Evaluate implementation of planned activities rolling out the guidelines throughout the Group, including our Conduct employee compliance awareness Implement a compliance and overseas businesses. In addition, to create a solid compliance surveys corporate ethics program (yearly) Perform audits structure, the Group has promoted actions to clarify the roles and authority of the Compliance Committee and the Legal Control Division. The Compliance Committee meets four times a year and works to incorporate processes into the Company’s structure to verify the progress of compliance education, monitoring, and other compliance-related activities. In these ways, the Group is promoting compliance activities that are highly effective and transparent. Developing Employees by Setting High Ethical Standards In accordance with the 2017 revisions to Keidanren’s Charter of Corporate Behavior and social trends, in June 2018 we updated our Charter of TOTO Group Corporate Behavior. The contents of the charter were revised to incorporate the Company’s aim of continuing to integrate its management and CSR. To that end, each and every employee of the TOTO Group will contribute to the resolution of human rights and other social issues on a global scale while adhering to high ethical standards and take a proactive approach in helping to realize a sustainable society. At the same time, we have also revised the TOTO Group Business Conduct Guidelines, which we rolled out in Japan and overseas, and promoted its awareness to all employees in order to develop TOTO Group Business their understanding of proper conduct according to the charter. Conduct Guidelines TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 50 Corporate Governance Basic Stance on Corporate Governance  The TOTO Group strives to be a great company, trusted by people all around the world, contributing to the betterment of society. In addition to being a corporate entity engaged in the pursuit of profit through fair competition, the Group conducts its business in such a way as to continue to benefit society broadly. In order to realize this target, we believe it is important to build a system for pursuing and supervising fair and equitable management, and clearly define a philosophy that serves as the basis of such a system. Please see pages 1–2 for the management philosophy system for TOTO Group management. Composition of the Board of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board in Fiscal 2019  We believe that in order to supervise business operations and to make important decisions, TOTO’s Board of Directors must be composed of members with diverse perspectives, experience, and highly professional skills. Meanwhile, for the purpose of performing the double-check function of supervision by the Board of Directors and of audits by Audit & Supervisory Board Members, Outside Directors need to include not only auditors required by law, but also Directors with voting rights at Meetings of the Board of Directors; and both Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Directors must have considerable independence. As of June 26, 2019, we have 13 Directors with voting rights at Meetings of the Board of Directors, of whom 10 are Inside Directors with careers in the TOTO Group and three are highly independent Outside Directors. These members use their respective skills in discussions to make legal and business management decisions and supervise business operations. The Audit & Supervisory Board consists of two standing members with careers in the TOTO Group and two outside members with a high level of independence, and conducts audits from the perspectives of legality and appropriateness. Reasons for Adoption of Current Corporate Governance System  The TOTO Group considers that an essential aspect of corporate management is ensuring the satisfaction of stakeholders and constantly expanding corporate value by improving objectivity and transparency in management and by clarifying management responsibilities. To achieve this, for matters requiring management decisions, TOTO recognizes the importance of systematizing “who makes decisions about what and where” as well as “what checks are implemented” in a fair and honest manner. TOTO has adopted the Audit & Supervisory Board system and is building a structure of decision-making, supervision, and more efficient and effective business execution, with the aim of continuously increasing corporate value. 1. Clarifying the allocation of management responsibility (introduction of the Executive Officer system and the like) 2. Enhancing management transparency and soundness (establishment of the Nominating Advisory Committee and the Compensation Advisory Committee) 3. Reinforcing supervisory and auditing functions (nomination of highly independent Outside Directors and Outside Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board) 4. Strengthening decision-making functions (establishment of the Management Committee and the like) In order to strengthen these functions, TOTO has adopted the framework of a company with an Audit & Supervisory Board system as its base while integrating the superior functions of a company with a Nomination Committee, etc. Corporate Governance System Three-party TOTO General Meeting of Shareholders (Appointment/Dismissal) audit team Nominating Advisory Committee (Appointment/Dismissal) Five Independent Directors, (Audit) TOTO Board of Directors (Report) two Representative Directors TOTO Audit & Supervisory Board Ten Inside Directors, Two standing members, three Outside Directors Compensation Advisory Committee two outside members Six outside members including five Independent (Appointment, Directors and one Director without the right of TOTO Independent Accounting Auditors (Report) delegation, representation as an inside member supervision) (Direction) (Consultation) TOTO Internal Audit Office TOTO President TOTO Management Committee TOTO Executive Officers (Internal audit) (Delegation) CSR Committee (Direction, supervision) Other meetings and committees Japan Housing China & Asia Housing Americas & Europe Housing New Business Domains Company-wide Divisions Equipment Business Equipment Business Equipment Business Cross-organizational tasks 51 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 Please see our corporate website for more details. https://jp.toto.com/en/company/profile/governance Compensation for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members  The maximum amount of compensation for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members is determined respectively for Directors, Outside Directors, and Audit & Supervisory Board Members by resolutions of General Meetings of Shareholders. Corporate Governance Compensation for Directors of TOTO comprises fixed compensation in the form of base compensation, and performancelinked compensation, The performance-based payment consists of a bonus and the share-based payment. The upper limit to the bonus is 0.8% of the consolidated sales revenue of the previous fiscal year. The payment is synchronized with business performance. In the 152nd annual shareholders’ meeting on June 26, 2018, we decided to adopt share-based payments because it would motivate board members to continuously improve corporate value. In addition, we decided to incorporate share-based payments with restricted transfer rights, in addition to the stock options with share-based payments, to further promote the sense of value-sharing with shareholders. As seen in these decisions, we are designing the payment systems to motivate the board of directors to engage in business administrations from the mid-to-long-term perspectives rather than individual years. In addition, the Compensation Advisory Committee was set up to help ensure that the compensation for Directors is reasonable and objective. The Board of Directors determines the compensation after confirming with the Compensation Advisory Committee that the compensation system and allocation balance are in line with the Articles of Incorporation, the resolutions of the General Meeting of Shareholders, and the Basic Policy for Directors’ Compensation. Note that Outside Directors, who are independent from the business operations, are entitled to only fixed compensation. The base compensation for individual Audit & Supervisory Board Members is determined depending on his/her duties and responsibilities upon consultation with Audit & Supervisory Board Members. In order to preserve the functionality of their role as supervisors of management, Audit & Supervisory Board Members are entitled to only fixed compensation. Total amount of compensation by type for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Number of Base Stock-compensation type Share-based payments with Bonus Total officers compensation stock options restricted transfer rights (million yen) (million yen) (person) (million yen) (million yen) (million yen) Directors 15 401 223 16 48 690 (Outside Directors included above) (4) (34) — — — (34) Audit & Supervisory Board Members 5 68 — — — 68 (Outside members of Audit & (2) (22) — — — (22) Supervisory Board included above) Total 20 470 223 16 48 759 * Stock options with share-based payments have not been additionally issued this business year because of the start of share-based payments with restricted transfer rights. Thus, the amounts appropriated as costs this business year are stated among the amounts issued in past years. * The total amount of compensation approved at the shareholders’ meeting is as follows. (Decision in the 145th Regular Shareholders’ Meeting on June 29, 2011, and decision in the 152th Regular Shareholders’ Meeting on June 26, 2018) Fixed compensation Performance-linked compensation Share-based payments with restricted Base compensation Bonus transfer rights Up to 500 million yen per annum Up to 0.8% of the previous fiscal year’s Director (including an amount up to 50 million yen in total Up to 200 million yen And within 100,000 shares consolidated operating income for Outside Directors) Audit & Supervisory Board Member Up to 150 million yen per annum — — Amounts of compensation, etc. of Directors whose total amount of compensation, etc. exceeds 100 million yen, by type of payment Directors of 100 million yen or more are as the following in Fiscal 2018. Stock-compensation type Share-based payments with Base compensation Bonus Total stock options restricted transfer rights (million yen) (million yen) (million yen) (million yen) (million yen) Representative Director 63 39 2 7 113 Kunio Harimoto Representative Director 63 39 2 7 113 Madoka Kitamura * Stock options with share-based payments have not been additionally issued this business year because of the start of share-based payments with restricted transfer rights. Thus, the amounts appropriated as costs this business year are stated among the amounts issued in past years. Outside Directors and Outside Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board  Since all Outside Directors and Outside Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board are invited to join their respective boards as members who can make decisions materially independent of the management of TOTO and all other specific stakeholders, we designate all Outside Directors and Outside Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board as Independent Directors/Audit & Supervisory Board Members. We nominate candidates for Outside Directors and Outside Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board who fully satisfy the Nominating Advisory Committee’s Requirements for Independent Directors/Audit & Supervisory Board Members*, the satisfaction of which is set forth by TOTO as a mandatory requirement. * Please refer to “Requirements for Independent Directors/Audit & Supervisory Board Members” in the Corporate Governance section of our website. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 52 Corporate Governance Evaluation of Effectiveness of the Board of Directors  In February 2019, a questionnaire survey was provided for all Outside Directors and outside members of Audit & Supervisory Board Member to evaluate the status of improvements in information sharing, which had been identified as an issue as a result of the questionnaire survey conducted in fiscal 2016. In March 2019, the entire members, including Outside Directors and outside members of the Audit & Supervisory Board, attended the meeting of the Board of Directors to evaluate the effectiveness of its activities from the perspective of related items of the Board of Directors in the context of its roles within the company based on the corporate governance code, including the operational status of the internal control system, corporate strategy, and other agendas of the Board of Directors to define general direction. In addition, information sharing was identified as an issue to be tackled from the result of a questionnaire in fiscal 2016 answered by all directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members and the progress of the improvement was checked. The results of these analyses and evaluations concerning the effectiveness of the Board of Directors as a whole are as follows: In accordance with the Basic Policy for Development of Internal Control System, the system ensures that the execution of Directors’ duties complies with the laws and regulations and the articles of incorporation, and all other items are operated positively. Matters to be resolved at Meetings of the Board of Directors are submitted in accordance with the relevant rules, and the system is so operated that the status of the execution of significant deals, such as matters to be resolved at Management Committee meetings, is reported to the Board of Directors. The members engage in detailed inspections of all items of the corporate governance codes, especially the related items of the Board of Directors, to correspond properly. It is recognized that all members are engaged in active discussions at meetings of the Board of Directors and that the enhancement of our governance system is being conducted incorporating the opinions from outside officers. For the information sharing, which was identified as an issue from the questionnaire result, measures have been taken for the improvement of the conditions: Improvements in reporting to Outside Directors the content of discussions and deliberations at the Management Committee meetings Promotion of information sharing by the participation of outside directors in the Executive Officers’ meeting as observers Sharing of information on executive management candidates, including the performance of their job duties, through on-site visits to the Company’s business locations both in Japan and overseas From the above, we have confirmed that the operation of the Board of Directors is functioning properly and its effectiveness is ensured. Going forward, we will continue to monitor conditions to ensure the effectiveness of the Board of Directors and further enhance its functions. Messages from Outside Directors  In fiscal 2018, the first year of TOTO WILL2022, the for realizing customer satisfaction. If a company can sucCompany saw difficult business results. One of the major cessfully accomplish these tasks, then it will be able to reasons for such results was TOTO’s delayed response in realize a simple, virtuous cycle in which it generates profit the Chinese market, which underwent fierce changes. In and returns it to shareholders, which in turn will no doubt terms of new product development, production, and marstrengthen its governance. TOTO’s corporate culture allows keting activities, TOTO was unable to successfully leverage employees to experience many different kinds of work and the insight it has cultivated in Japan within the Chinese emphasizes their personal development. I believe this is one market. In fiscal 2019, it is imperative that TOTO tackles of the most wonderful aspects of the Company. these issues head on through such means as promoting Also, TOTO is simultaneously promoting TOTO new projects in the China business, which has newly WILL2022 and the TOTO Global Environmental Vision. commenced operations. CSR activities are something that should directly, not Being honest and sincere with society is the foundation indirectly, impact a corporation’s business performance of corporate activities. In that sense, governance that places and share price. In that sense, it is clear that TOTO’s too much importance on establishing organizations for the water-saving functions, which benefit the environment, sake of formality cannot function effectively. Instead, sincerprovide the Company with an excellent competitive edge. ity and honesty with stakeholders need to form the basis of TOTO subscribes to the idea that CSR is directly linked to a company’s governance. This means that to strengthen business performance, and I hope that, going forward, governance, a company needs to foster a corporate culture TOTO becomes a company that continues to earn the trust that values sincerity and honesty and ensure that such a of society based on its motto of “Take pride in your work culture is adopted companywide. Strengthening goverand strive to do your best.” nance means consistently prioritizing customer satisfaction Kazuhiko Masuda and valuing and developing employees, who are responsible Outside Director 53 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 In fiscal 2018, a variety of business issues came to light for For a Japanese company to realize sustainable growth, the Company in China. These issues resulted from the globalization, digitization, and environmental management accumulation of various factors, including an intensifying (sustainability) have become more important than ever before. Corporate Governance competitive environment, market stagnation, and producAs globalization continues to progress, considering a tion-related issues. Accordingly, the Company needs to Japanese perspective separately from an overseas one is no revise its business strategies and operational processes longer viable. It is therefore necessary to adopt a management with a multifaceted focus on these issues. approach and develop human resources who can properly TOTO’s corporate governance system is well designed and respond to these circumstances. In terms of digitization, digital operated and is steadily improving. The Board of Directors’ transformations are occurring across the world, with new meetings are conducted appropriately within an environment technologies bringing forth dramatic changes to business as that encourages the active involvement of the Outside Directors. we know it. In light of this, the creation of new products and Until around 2000, IBM—where I serve as a director— services that leverage AI and IoT has become indispensoperated its business centered on local management teams, able. Regarding environmental management, as symbolized but with the development of the IT industry, management by the SDGs, the role of corporations in ensuring the susbased on business segments became increasingly importainability of society has increased in significance, and contant. In light of this, IBM transitioned to a management tributing to the resolution of social issues now has a significant approach that was carried out by a matrix of businesses and impact on improving the corporate value of corporations. local teams. While implementing such management is TOTO is already promoting a broad range of efforts to extremely difficult due to the fact that languages and culaddress social issues, but it needs to do so to a greater tures differ by region, a similar kind of mechanism is needed extent than ever before going forward. I feel that TOTO needs for TOTO’s management. With my experience, I believe I can to continue to promote efforts aimed at enhancing corporate help TOTO set up such a mechanism. Furthermore, in terms value based on the perspectives of globalization, digitization, of diversity in management, TOTO needs to promote the and environmental management, and actively communicate active role of women in each division and develop personnel the progress of these efforts Masatsugu Shimono who can become role models to future employees. to the outside world. Outside Director A company that does not evolve will eventually cease to overseas Group employees. To that end, the Company must exist. Furthermore, as corporations are a public institution of constantly confirm that its way of thinking will be accepted society, a company cannot sustain itself if it does not play a in each region in which it wishes to expand. role in leading social change. Also, I believe that TOTO has a high level of awareness TOTO has an extremely high level of brand power in toward ESG initiatives. In particular, TOTO is thoroughly Japan, and this brand power is starting to extend overseas. promoting environmental efforts at all of its locations, as In addition, visitors to Japan who have used TOTO’s toilets such efforts are closely related to the Company’s busihave helped ensure that the value TOTO offers is communinesses. TOTO is also engaging in various social initiatives, cated overseas. However, to leverage this trend in an effort which have helped establish strong relationships with to expand overseas, TOTO needs to further consider and stakeholders. Furthermore, TOTO is gradually strengthening evolve the measures it needs to take. its corporate governance. Within these efforts, I believe my TOTO’s in-house culture will set the stage for its efforts to role is to promote active governance. To help the Company advance overseas. To that end, TOTO needs to consider its realize sustainable growth, I will focus my attention on vision for the next 10 and 20 years and what approach it examining how TOTO should allocate its personnel, should adopt in order to realize this vision. TOTO also needs to resources, and finances and where it should take risks with consider how it should change its standards for employee a view toward growth. conduct. These are all extremely important themes that need TOTO has a culture of actively incorporating the opinto be thoroughly considered throughout the organization. ions of Outside Directors. Going forward, I hope to engage When it comes to overseas expansion, fusing TOTO’s culture in lively discussions with the aim of realizing TOTO’s sustainwith that of each region to create a new culture is no easy task. able growth. Meanwhile, only when this task is accomplished can Junji Tsuda value systems and conduct standards be established for Outside Director TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 54 Board of Directors Directors  Representative Director, President, Chairman of the Board Representative Director Kunio Harimoto Madoka Kitamura Date of Birth: March 19, 1951 Date of Birth: May 24, 1957 In charge of Global Business Promotion, Management Planning, Design, and Secretary’s Office Representative Director, Representative Director, Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Noriaki Kiyota Nozomu Morimura Date of Birth: October 8, 1961 Date of Birth: July 10, 1957 In charge of Business Divisions & Research & In charge of Sales Groups, Customer Technology, Human Resources, Purchasing, Service, and Cultural Promotion and Engineering Works Also in charge of TOTO WILL2022 Also in charge of TOTO WILL2022 Marketing Innovation Management Resource Innovation Director, Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Soichi Abe Ryosuke Hayashi Date of Birth: August 22, 1961 Date of Birth: September 4, 1963 In charge of China Business Innovation, In charge of New Business Domains Group, China & Asia Housing Equipment Business Bathroom, Kitchen & Lavatory Vanity and Internal Audit Office Business, and Faucets & Appliances Division Also in charge of TOTO WILL2022 Also in charge of TOTO WILL2022 New China & Asia Housing Equipment Business Business Domains and TOTO WILL2022 Demand Chain Innovation Director, Director, Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Taiichi Aso Satoshi Shirakawa Date of Birth: March 5, 1960 Date of Birth: August 12, 1962 In charge of Restroom Business Group and In charge of Sales Promotion Group and Production Technology Business Group Logistics Also in charge of TOTO WILL2022 Japan Housing Equipment Business Director, Director, Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Tomoyuki Taguchi Shinya Tamura Date of Birth: September 24, 1965 Date of Birth: March 13, 1967 In charge of Finance and Accounting, In charge of Americas & Europe Housing Legal Affairs, Information System Equipment Business, Planning, and General Affairs General Manager, Americas Housing Equipment Business Division Also in charge of TOTO WILL2022 Americas & Europe Housing Equipment Business 55 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 Outside Directors  Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Kazuhiko Masuda Masatsugu Shimono Junji Tsuda Date of Birth: April 24, 1942 Date of Birth: December 11, 1953 Date of Birth: March 15, 1951 Mr. Kazuhiko Masuda has been involved in the management of Mr. Masatsugu Shimono has been involved in the management Mr. Junji Tsuda has been involved in the management of Sumitomo Light Metal Industries, Ltd. (currently, UACJ of IBM Japan, Ltd. for many years. He provides valuable Yasukawa Electric Corporation for many years. He provides Corporation) for many years. He provides valuable opinions at opinions at Meetings of the Board of Directors based on his valuable opinions at Meetings of the Board of Directors based Meetings of the Board of Directors based on the expertise he expertise he has developed in his career as a professional on his expertise he has developed in his career as a profeshas developed in his career as a professional corporate corporate manager and displays outstanding supervision skills sional corporate manager and displays outstanding supervision manager and displays outstanding supervision skills by by reflecting his views unfettered by the conventional way of skills by reflecting his views unfettered by the conventional way reflecting his views unfettered by the conventional way of doing things in the Company’s management. of doing things in the Company’s management. doing things in the Company’s management. TOTO believes that he has experience and knowledge of TOTO believes that he has experience and knowledge of TOTO believes that he has experience and knowledge of general management and corporate governance as well as of general management and corporate governance as well as of general management and corporate governance as well as of the management of a global company, and therefore the the management of a global company, and therefore the the production technology of manufacturers, and therefore the Company selected and appointed him as Outside Director. Company selected and appointed him as Outside Director. Company selected and appointed him as Outside Director. Audit & Supervisory Board Members  Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Standing Standing Yuichi Narukiyo Hirotoshi Naka Date of Birth: March 18, 1962 Date of Birth: January 14, 1957 Outside Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board  Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Outside Outside Shuichi Sarasawa Yasushi Marumori Date of Birth: October 12, 1948 Date of Birth: September 19, 1957 Mr. Shuichi Sarasawa has been involved in the management of Mr. Yasushi Marumori was involved in the management of Central Glass Co., Ltd. for many years. He has experience and financial institutions for many years. He has experience and knowledge of the general management of a global corporation knowledge of finance and corporate governance developed and of corporate governance developed during his career, as during his career, as well as abundant experience and well as of a broad range of businesses from chemicals to knowledge as an Audit & Supervisory Board Member of listed semiconductors. companies. Based on the above, TOTO believes he is highly capable of Based on the above, TOTO believes that, based on his auditing the business execution of general management, and considerable knowledge of financing and accounting, he is therefore TOTO selected and appointed him as Outside Audit & highly capable of auditing the business execution of general Supervisory Board at the 153rd Ordinary general meeting of management, and therefore TOTO selected and appointed him shareholders. as Outside Audit & Supervisory Board at the 153rd Ordinary general meeting of shareholders. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 56 Corporate Information Participation in the UN Global Compact  TOTO announced its participation in the “Global Compact,” which is put forward by the United Nations, and registered as a participating company on November 8, 2011. In order to announce to the international community the company’s intent to further strengthen its CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) management, which TOTO has long been promoting, behave as a responsible corporate citizen on a global scale, and constructively carry out its social responsibilities, TOTO will uphold the 10 principles on “Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption” that are cited by the “Global Compact” and put them into practice through all its business activities. Evaluations of Our CSR Management Practices by External Parties  Notable Awards from 2018 Onward  Category Award Description Received the “Award for Chairman of Board of ARIB” at the Technology 29th Radio Achievement Award for the commercialization of micro-wave sensor for toilet seats Received the WorldStar Award for “uncrushed” cushioning Packaging partition using the springiness of cardboard at the WorldStar Competition 2019 held by the World Packaging Organisation “Uncrushed” cushioning partition using the springiness of cardboard Received the iF Product Design Award 2018 and Red Dot Design Award 2018 for the NEOREST NX WASHLET inteDesign grated toilet NEOREST NX Received the Gold Selection at the JIDA Design Museum Selection vol.20 Received the iF Product Design Award 2019 for the NEOREST AH/RH WASHLET integrated toilet, wall-hung RP toilet + Design WASHLET RX, and GM Series single lever faucet with washbasin NEOREST AH/RH Received the Red Dot Design Award 2019 for the GM series, Design ZA series, GE series, and GC series single lever faucets with washbasin ZA series single lever faucet with washbasin 57 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 Corporate Profile (As of March 31, 2019)  Company Name TOTO LTD. Fiscal Year End March 31 Headquarters 1-1, Nakashima 2-chome, Kokurakita-ku, Exchange Listings Tokyo, Nagoya, Fukuoka Kitakyushu, Fukuoka, Japan Securities Code 5332 Establishment May 15, 1917 Shareholder Registry Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Capital ¥35,579 million Administrator  4-5, Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Number of Employees Consolidated: 33,431 Tokyo, Japan Non-consolidated: 8,034 Group Companies and Main Affiliates (As of April 1, 2019)  Domestic Group Companies  Overseas Group Companies  TOTO SANITECHNO LTD. The Americas TOTO WASHLET TECHNO LTD. TOTO AMERICAS HOLDINGS, INC. TOTO Bath Create LTD. TOTO U.S.A., Inc. TOTO High Living LTD. TOTO MEXICO, S.A. DE C.V. TOTO AQUATECHNO LTD. Europe SUNAQUA TOTO LTD. TOTO Europe GmbH TOTO PLATECHNO LTD. TOTO Germany GmbH TOTO Maintenance LTD. Asia TOTO AQUAENG LTD. TOTO (CHINA) CO., LTD. TOTO MTEC LTD. BEIJING TOTO CO., LTD. TOTO Kansai Sales LTD. TOTO (BEIJING) CO., LTD. TOTO Hokkaido Sales LTD. NANJING TOTO CO., LTD. TOTO Tohoku Sales LTD. TOTO DALIAN CO., LTD. TOTO Chubu Sales LTD. TOTO (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD. TOTO Chugoku Sales LTD. TOTO EASTCHINA CO., LTD. TOTO Shikoku Sales LTD. TOTO (FUJIAN) CO., LTD. TOTO Kyushu Sales LTD. TOTO (GUANGZHOU) CO., LTD. CERA TRADING LTD. TOTO (H.K.) LTD. TOTO Remodel Service LTD. VORETO (XIAMEN) PLUMBING TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. TOTO Finance LTD. (Affiliate Company) TOTO INFOM LTD. TAIWAN TOTO CO., LTD. TOTO BUSINETZ LTD. TOTO ASIA OCEANIA PTE. LTD. TOTO LOGICOM LTD. TOTO VIETNAM CO., LTD. TOTO Fine Ceramics LTD. TOTO (THAILAND) CO., LTD. TOTO MATERIA LTD. TOTO India Industries Private Limited TOTO OKITSUMO Coatings LTD. TOTO MALAYSIA SDN. BHD. TOTO KOREA LTD. P.T.SURYA TOTO INDONESIA (Affiliate Company) Independent Assurance  To ensure the reliability of information contained in this report, TOTO has received independent assurance for environmental and social data indicated with in the TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2019 Financial and Non-Financial Data on its website. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2019 Financial and Non-Financial Data https://jp.toto.com/en/company/profile/library TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 019 58 TOTO LTD. 1-1, Nakashima 2-chome, Kokurakita-ku, Kitakyushu, Fukuoka, Japan URL: https://www.toto.com Published in August 2019 No.1 190
